12-10-2020||India||Bollywood stars, producers sue Republic TV and Times Now||In an unprecedented show of unity, major Bollywood producers, including the three Khans, Karan Johar and Akshay Kumar, on Monday approached the Delhi High Court against two TV channels and their editors for allegedly defaming the industry with terms such as scum and druggies . The lawsuit, by four industry associations and 34 producers, seeks the court's direction to Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar and unknown defendants as well as social media platforms to refrain from making or publishing allegedly irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against Bollywood. It also seeks to restrain them from interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with the Hindi film industry. The industry has been under a cloud since actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death in June and the pushback is the first time that the biggest names of the Hindi film industry have banded together in such a way, said industry insiders. The civil suit, which cites reportage of Rajput's death and the subsequent Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probe into the alleged role of some actors following allegations of drug abuse in the industry, is likely to come up for hearing later this week. Those who have approached the court include the Producers Guild of India, Cine and TV Artiste Association, Film and TV Producers Council, Shah Rukh Khan's Red Chillies Entertainment, Aamir Khan Productions, Ajay Devgn Films, Akshay Kumar's Cape of Good Films, Karan Johar's Dharma Productions, Yash Raj Films and Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani's Excel Entertainment. The producers said they are "not seeking a blanket gag order" but want the defendants to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules and to withdraw, recall and take down all the defamatory content published by them against the film industry. "This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as dirt', filth', scum', druggies' and expressions such as it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned', all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood', This is the dirtiest industry in the country', and cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood', the suit filed through DSK Legal firm said. The industry, the filmmakers said, is unique and dependent almost solely on the goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. It is also a big source of employment and the livelihood of persons associated with it is severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the defendants, the plea said. It pointed to the Covid-19 pandemic that has resulted in the loss of revenue and work. The producers also issued a statement that ended with the hashtag #Bollywood Strikes Back'. "The entire industry was pained by the malicious media trials going on for the past few months now We thought it was about time to unite and fight this and decided to go to the court, a member of the Screenwriters Association told PTI on condition of anonymity. The industry has more than five lakh people working in various capacities. The name calling was affecting even spot boys. This was the last resort and we aim to fight it out legally," he said. A prominent producer added that the idea was to take a dignified approach. This is an initiative championed by the Producers Guild and they have thought about it wisely and we are happy to support anything that is about promoting good and peaceful work in these uncertain times, the producer told PTI. The head of a prominent production house said a serious amount of baggage has been built around the industry by certain channels in the last three-four months. When we talk about Bollywood, it s not about 20 superstars, there are workers, producers, technicians and others who are also a part of the industry. They are killing the whole industry which provides livelihood to millions of people. You can't do a media trial, he said. To say that the entire industry is of drugs and mafia and people here only engaged in immoral activity is absolutely not right, the filmmaker said, expressing his happiness that the industry has come under one umbrella. CINTAA's senior joint secretary Amit Behl echoed his view. All of us stand united against attempts to defame the entire filmmaking community. The film industry is made up of lakhs of hard working individuals and we cannot accept being collectively labeled with all sorts of allegations. We would not like to comment any more as the matter is in court, Behl told PTI. The lawsuit is being seen as an unusual step from an industry, many of whose members are notoriously chary about being drawn into controversy. On Monday, the industry's decision to go after television and social media was hailed by actors and producers on social media. Welcoming the news, director Hansal Mehta wrote, About Time .  Actor-host Simi Garewal tweeted, Bollywood Strikes Back. About time too! These news media channels had crossed all limits. Using stars and abusing them for TRPs!! Why should it be tolerated? Filmmaker Onir said, Finally!!! They are doing what not the biggest of superstars but a bunch (of) brave actors and filmmakers have been doing every single day. He also tagged Mehta, filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, Swara Bhasker, Richa Chadha, Taapsee Pannu and Md Zeeshan Ayyub, lauding them for always speaking out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Party-hopper Kushboo joins BJP after quitting Congress ||Actor-turned-politician Kushboo Sundar joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Monday, hours after she quit the Congress. Speaking to reporters at the joining ceremony, the actor from Tamil Nadu said she had come to the understanding over a period of time that if the nation has to move forward, then someone like Prime Minister Narendra Modi is needed to take the country "in the right direction and to its glory". She said people have reposed their faith in Modi time and again. "You have 128 crore people actually believing in one man and that's our prime minister. I think they're doing something absolutely right," she added. Kushboo said that she was willing to discharge her responsibility as a BJP leader in whatever capacity the party deems fit for her. BJP general secretary C T Ravi and Tamil Nadu BJP president L Murugan were present at the ceremony. She later met BJP president J P Nadda who welcomed her. Assembly polls are due in Tamil Nadu in the first half of the next year, and the BJP hopes the her induction will boost their chances of doing well. The BJP has long been a marginal force in the southern state where two Dravidian parties, the AIADMK and the DMK, have been the main contenders for power. On the occasion, journalist Madan Ravichandran and former IRS officer Saravanan Kumaran from the state also joined the BJP. A national spokesperson of the Congress, Kushboo resigned from the party protesting against what she called some leaders' "dictating terms" and "suppressing" her. She was with the DMK before joining the Congress in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||SC notice to Centre on pleas against farm laws||The Supreme Court Monday sought the Centre's response on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the newly enacted three contentious farm laws. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, in a hearing conducted via video conferencing, issued notice to the central government and sought its reply within four weeks. The bench expressed surprised on seeing a battery of law officers, including Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing in the matter even before the issuance of the notice. "AG, SG, ASG all appear in a matter where there is no cause of action...This in common parlance is called an 'overkill'," it said. Venugopal told the court that the Centre would be filing a consolidated reply to the petitions. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was hearing pleas filed by RJD lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha and DMK Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and one by Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress. The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovid's assent. The petitions alleged that these laws would dismantle the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system intended to ensure fair prices for farm products. The bench seemed disinclined to entertain pleas against the farm laws and asked lawyer M L Sharma, who had filed a separate plea, to go a high court. Referring to its earlier verdict, it said that mere passing of a legislation does not give rise to a cause of action. "When you have got a cause of action then come before us. Don't come before us and go to a high court". This led Sharma to withdraw his PIL and the bench proceeded to hear other pleas on the issue. Lawyer K Parmeshwar, appearing for Vaishnav, said that the laws interfered with states power and needed examination by the top court. Jha, who filed the plea through lawyer Fauzia Shakil, said the laws would expose marginal farmers to the exploits of big corporates. Jha said: "The impugned legislations corporatise agriculture and ushers in an unregulated and exploitative regime. A farmer would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best terms with a private company. "This leads to unequal bargaining position in negotiating the farm agreement with corporates would lead to corporates monopolizing the agriculture sector." The plea said the laws have been passed by Parliament "in breach of the Parliamentary Rules and convention and the impugned acts are unconstitutional on the ground that it is discriminatory and manifestly arbitrary and further violates the Basic Structure of the Constitution." These laws encourage "corporatisation" of Indian agriculture which is the lifeline of the poor farmers and key to the survival of the nations agriculture sector, it said. They primarily intend to sacrifice the interest of the farmers and leave them at the mercy of the sponsors without any proper dispute resolution mechanism, it said. "The Acts provide for 'farming agreements' between the farmers (of whom 85% are marginal farmers owning up to 2 acres) and the Corporate entities". It is noteworthy that the farmers by way of these legislations are pitted against the corporates with disproportionate bargaining powers, its said. The price determination mechanism under new laws is only through the agreements between the corporate entities and farmers and do not stipulate that the price should not be below the minimum selling price (MSP) and does not even guarantee the price given by the APMC, it said. Instead of the ensuring MSP, the laws intend to corporatise peasant agriculture and erode the existing legal safeguards that prevent direct invasion of rural agriculture market by the monopoly corporate forces, it said. The laws enable the sponsors to deprive the market committees of their market fee on transaction within the specified Market Yards under the State Mandi Laws, the plea said. "The farmers currently have the freedom to sell their farm produce to anyone anywhere. The freedom however is not real but is bereft of any safety or guarantees, to protect them against the superior bargaining force of the buyers," the plea said. "The Acts have been passed in blatant breach of the principles of federal structure of Constitution as 'agriculture' is a state subject under Entry 14 of List II which does not grant competence to the central government to legislate on the issues relating to 'agriculture'. Only State Legislature have the legislative competence to pass laws dealing with the subject," it said. As per the government, the new law intends to provide a national framework for the farming agreements to protect and empower farmers as they engage with agri-business, food processing firms, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers. Some parts of the country have been witnessing farmer protests against the new laws. DMK MP Siva also raised similar issues against the farm laws and said they are prima facie unconstitutional, illegal and arbitrary. He contended that the Acts are anti-farmer, brought out during the COVID-19 pandemic to benefit few corporations who are close to the corridors of power. The plea of Congress Lok Sabha MP from Kerala, TN Prathapan was not listed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Centre announces host of measures for employees with an aim to spur demand||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a payment of cash in lieu of LTC and Rs 10,000 festival advance to government employees to stimulate consumer demand during the festival season and boost the economy. She also announced additional capital spending and Rs 12,000 crore, 50-year interest-free loan to states to boost the economy that has been battered by the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. At a news conference, she said the government will give its employees income-tax-exempt cash vouchers in lieu of their entitled travel allowances this year. This cash will have to be spent on buying goods that attract 12 per cent or more GST -- a condition which eliminates the possibility of the cash being spent on food items. Central public sector enterprises and banks will also follow the cue and give cash in place of leave travel concession (LTC) as travelling during the pandemic is near to impossible. Additionally, the government will as a one-time measure give Rs 10,000 salary loan to all its officers and employees as festival advance. These two measures are "expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore", she said. The government, which had in May announced a Rs 20 lakh crore 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' stimulus, is pushing ahead with a full opening to try to boost the economy ahead of the usually high-spending festival season. A tough lockdown imposed to stem the spread of coronavirus had resulted in the economy contracting by a record 23.9 per cent during April-June. Together with the loan to states and additional capital spending, Sitharaman said, "very rough estimate is that potential private sector spending through LTC tax benefit will be at least equal to the government employee-led demand of Rs 28,000 crore and the total additional demand estimated to exceed Rs 1 lakh crore". She further said that the measures by the government to stimulate demand must not burden the common citizen with future inflation and must not put government debt on an unsustainable path. "Today's solution should not cause tomorrow's problem," she added. Sitharaman said the central government employees get LTC in a block of 4 years (one to anywhere in India and one hometown; or two for the home town). Air or rail fare, as per scale/entitlement, is reimbursed and in addition, leave encashment of 10 days (pay plus DA) is paid. Due to COVID-19, employees are not in a position to avail LTC. In lieu of one LTC, a cash payment will be made -- full payment on leave encashment and payment of a fare in 3 flat-rate slabs depending on the class of entitlement. Fair payment will be tax-free. An employee, opting for this scheme, will be required to buy goods/services worth 3-times the fare and 1-time the leave encashment before March 31, 2021, she said adding money must be spent on goods attracting GST of 12 per cent or more from a GST registered vendor and through digital mode. If central government employees opt for it, the cost will be around Rs 5,675 crore. Employees of public sector banks and PSUs will also be allowed this facility and estimated cost for them will be Rs 1,900 crore. The tax concession will be allowed for state government/private sector too, for employees who currently are entitled to LTC, subject to following the guidelines of the central government scheme. Demand infusion in the economy by the central government and central PSE/PSB employees is estimated to be Rs 19,000 crore. Demand infusion by state government employees will be Rs 9,000 crore. She said festival advance along with other similar advances were abolished on the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. It is proposed to restore the festival advance with one-time interest-free advance of Rs 10,000 to be availed by March 31. The amount is supposed to be recovered in maximum 10 instalments. The outgo under the head is expected to be Rs 4,000 crore, she said adding if 50 per cent adoption by states is taken into account, another Rs 4,000 crore festival advances would be disbursed. Employees will get pre-loaded Rupay card of the advance value. The government will bear bank charges in this regard. The finance minister said Rs 25,000 crore additional budget will be provided towards capital expenditure on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment for defence. This is over and above the Rs 4.13 lakh crore capital expenditure announced in the Budget for 2020-21. Also, a special Rs 12,000 crore interest-free, 50-year loan will be given to states for capital expenditure. Of this, Rs 1,600 crore will be for the North-Eastern states and Rs 900 crore for Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Other states will get Rs 7,500 crore in proportion to their share in Finance Commission devolution -- 50 per cent initially and balance after use of the first instalment, she said adding the remaining Rs 2,000 crore will be given to states that implement pre-agreed reforms. Sitharaman said Rs 36,000 crore additional consumer demand will be created (Rs 28,000 crore through LTC voucher scheme plus Rs 8,000 crore through festival advance scheme). Also, Rs 37,000 crore of additional central and state capital expenditure will be incurred. Total boost to demand is estimated at Rs 73,000 crore by March 31, 2021, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Power outage in Mumbai due to technical failure ||Train services came to a halt, homes and businesses were without electricity and people sweltered in humid heat as a grid failure resulted in massive power outages across Mumbai Monday morning. As the day progressed, power restorations efforts began on war footing . Trains have started to resume operations, beginning with CR's Harbour Line. The trains are carrying only essential services workers at present, which helped minimise the passenger inconvenience. Railway services across city on the Western Railway and Central Railway came to a grinding halt at 1005 hrs as a result of the power outage, with both the networks blaming power cut from Tata Power (their power supplier) for it. State's Power Minister Nitin Raut said the trouble emanated from Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (MSETCL) facilities during a planned maintenance work. Tata Power, which is into both generation and distribution, attributed the power outage to a simultaneous substation tripping at 1010 hrs at state-run transmission company MSETCL's two substations in the suburbs of Kalwa and Kharghar. Raut said power supply will resume soon, as officials were working on it on a war footing. As the afternoon progressed, power at many pockets including the Bandra Kurla Complex business district, Lower Parel and South Mumbai started resuming. With work-from-home (WFH) becoming the norm across vital industries like banking, finance and information technology, employee output was also impacted as the residences do not have electricity backup in a city which generally has stable power. In some instances, the snapping of power came at the most unfortunate moment, which resulted in incidents like employees in an upscale business complex getting stuck in the elevator in the times of social distancing. After a few difficult minutes, the employees were safely evacuated, as per a video doing rounds on social media. With the number of COVID-19 infections still very high and many patients recovering in hospitals including specially-created facilities rendering services like oxygen supply, Municipal Commissioner of Mumbai I S Chahal instructed staff to bolster diesel supply to last up to eight hours and also scout for mobile diesel generator vans which are used at film shoots as a standby. An industry source said it took longer than expected for the power supply to resume because one of the two thermal power stations in the city and its vicinity, which have to act as a ready source as part of an islanding system to avert such situations, took longer to start generating power. Raut said maintenance work was on in MSETCL's 400 kv Kalwa-Padgha line when the technical fault happened in circuit number 2, which was taking the entire load at the time as circuit 1 was shut. MSETCL is responsible for getting power till the Kalwa substation from generating stations across the state, from where distribution companies like Tata Power and Adani Electricity take it to the consumers, the source said. As part of islanding system, a thermal based power plant each of Adani at Dahanu and Tata Power (Trombay) are expected to supply power. Restoration work in is in progress to bring supply from the three hydro units and Trombay units once the MSETCL transmission lines are connected, the Tata Power statement said. \Another official also said that it is a grid failure, and efforts are underway to restore power supply at the earliest with the help of Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company and Power Grid Corporation. Power outages were reported from suburbs like Thane, Panvel, Dombivili and Kalyan as well. It can be noted that economic activity is limping back to normal in many parts of the country as the COVID-19 unlock process is underway. However, there continue to be many restrictions due to the need for social distancing and avoiding further infections. BSE and NSE, the benchmark stock exchanges, which are based in the city, also reported power outages, but added that their operations were continuing normally. A spokesperson of the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport said operations were normal too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Congress national spokesperson Kushboo Sundar quits party||Congress national spokesperson Kushboo Sundar on Monday resigned from the primary membership of the party protesting against what she called some leaders 'dictating terms' and 'suppressing' her. The party, meanwhile, announced in Delhi that Sundar was removed from her post of All India Congress Committee spokesperson with "immediate effect" while Tamil Nadu Congress Committee said her decision was no loss to the party. Sundar, a popular Tamil actor, who was with the DMK before joining the national party in 2014 sent her resignation letter to Congress top leader Sonia Gandhi. "Few elements seated at higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms and people like me who wanted to work for the party sincerely are being pushed and suppressed," she claimed. Her resignation letter was made available to media outlets amid a buzz that she was all set to join the BJP. AICC Secretary In Charge of Communications, Pranav Jha in a statement said: "Kushboo Sundar is hereby dropped as AICC spokesperson with immediate effect." The party she intended to join would not gain anything and her resignation was no loss to the Congress party,TNCC president K S Alagiri said in a statement. Though the party gave her importance and appointed her to the key position of national spokesperson, her involvement in party work over the past few months was "pretty less," Alagiri said. Pointing to her participation in a party held protest over Hathras case days ago here and a press conference to oppose farm laws in addition to her recent denial over joining the BJP, the TNCC leader said only she needed to explain her decision. Kushboo however said in her letter that she decided to end her association with the Congress party only after a long and thorough "thought process" over a period of time. She joined the DMK in May 2010 and when she moved out,she had said that she was stressed when her dedication andhard work continued to be a one-way path. The 50-year old actor-politician had hit out at the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh in the Congress organised demonstration. On October 10, the actor, on her twitter handle, had given a hint of quitting Congress saying: "Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve n grow, learn n unlearn, perceptions change, likes n dislikes too, thoughts n ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between like n love, between right n wrong. Change is inevitable." Kushboo, wife of noted Tamil filmmaker Sundar C, became a household name in Tamil Nadu after the 1991 Tamil flick 'Chinna Thambi,' became a box-office hit in which she paired with actor Prabhu and she has been popular in television shows as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||More to Jagan Mohan Reddy’s letter ‘than meets the eye’||There is more to the letter Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written against Justice N.V. Ramana, the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India, than meets the eye, multiple judicial sources in the capital said on Sunday. Jagan had suggested in the letter addressed to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde that Justice Ramana had favoured the chief minister’s political rival and Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu and the judge’s daughters had purchased land under questionable circumstances in Amravati before the site was chosen for the new Andhra capital. Now the second senior-most judge in the Supreme Court, Justice Ramana is scheduled to become the next Chief Justice of India on April 24, 2021, and demit office on August 26, 2022. The judicial sources in New Delhi suspect that Justice Ramana was being targeted because he is heading a bench that has recently passed a series of orders to the Centre, states, Union Territories and all high courts to expedite the trial of criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country within a year. They suspect that attempts are underway to scuttle the initiative to expedite the cases. The issue had been pending with the apex court since 2017. The sources said Jagan himself was facing multiple cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act linked to alleged disproportionate assets and had been earlier arrested by the CBI. In the interest of transparency and propriety in public life, the chief minister should have mentioned these matters in his letter to the Chief Justice, they added. When he was in the Opposition, Jagan had spent nearly 16 months in jail over various cases before being granted bail. “Since the trial against Jagan is on the verge of completion before the special CBI court in Hyderabad, the timing of the letter suggests there is more to it than meets the eye,” said a source. A conviction and harsh sentencing in a corruption case can seal the fate of political careers for long. A convict can stand disqualified for six years from contesting elections from the date when the actual sentence ends. In short, if a public servant is sentenced to 10 years in jail, he or she will be shut out of electoral politics for 16 years. A coincidence also caught the eye of some judicial as well as political figures. Jagan’s letter to the Chief Justice was dated October 6 (although it was made public only on Saturday), the same day the chief minister had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the capital to discuss affairs of state. The meeting was associated with central funds for an irrigation project in Andhra and GST but political meanings were read into it then because the Akalis had pulled out of the NDA by then and it was assumed that the BJP was scouting for new allies to send a message. With Naidu, Jagan’s principal opponent, no longer being part of the NDA, “there could be a convergence of interests” with the BJP, a source said. Jagan’s YSRCP has 21 members in the Lok Sabha and six in the Rajya Sabha. Jagan’s party, despite being in the Opposition, so far has hardly opposed the government. The party had supported the Citizenship Amendment Bill in Parliament and the recent farm bills. The judicial sources saw a pattern. For the past six years, there has been a systematic effort to dent the image of judges who are in line to be the Chief Justice of India, they pointed out. Justice Ramana, who was initially part of the constitution bench headed by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi to deal with the Babri Masjid-Ayodhya land row, had recused himself from the hearing. He had also recused himself from the judges’ committee constituted by Justice Bobde to probe the sexual harassment allegations against Justice Gogoi levelled by a Supreme Court employee. Justice Ramana had recently passed a judgment directing the Union government to set up a committee to restore the Internet services curtailed in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5 last year following the abrogation of Article 370. Several judges this newspaper spoke to said they had never come across anything that cast any aspersion on Justice Ramana’s discharge of his responsibilities. On the land purchase by Justice Ramana’s daughters, one of the senior-most judges of the Supreme Court told The Telegraph: “They are entitled to buy land like any other citizen of the country. If purchasing land in the country is a criminal offence, then the judge’s daughters are guilty.” Several people had bought land in Amravati anticipating a construction boom and spike in prices after Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated. After Jagan came to power, he cancelled the plan to make Amravati the sole capital. The matter is in court. Now, Andhra has three capitals: Visakhapatnam (the executive capital), Amravati (the legislative capital) and Kurnool (the judicial capital).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Stan Swamy’s arrest ‘politically motivated’||The arrest of Fr Stan Lourduswamy, 83, is a violation of human rights. Arrested in Ranchi on October 8 and taken to Mumbai the next morning, he has been sent to judicial custody till October 23. We are distressed and troubled. We express our deep concern over the arrest and demand his immediate release considering his age. Fr Stan Swamy is a Jesuit of the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. A Tamilian by birth, he joined the Jesuits and committed his entire life for the uplift of the tribals and Dalits in India, particularly in Jharkhand. I have known Fr Stan Swamy for many years. He is a veteran fearless tribal rights activist who has worked for over five decades in Jharkhand, fighting for the rights of the Adivasi community. He was part of the Jharkhand Organisation against Uranium Radiation (JOAR), a campaign against Uranium Corporation India Ltd in 1996. Looking at the way this senior Jesuit priest has been arrested, I find myself failing to repeat the words of Christ on the Cross: “Father, forgive them; they do not know what they are doing.” The arrest is politically motivated. As a true Jesuit who follows Christ, Fr Stan Swamy is sharing in the sufferings of Christ for the sake of justice and truth. Fr Stan Swamy is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days before the arrest. “Now they want me to go to Mumbai…, I have said that I won’t go,” Fr Stan Swamy had said before his arrest, citing his advanced age and the pandemic. “I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused,” he said. He added that he had asked for questioning through videoconference and hoped that better “human sense” would prevail. “...What is happening to me is not something unique, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Fr Stan Swamy said in the video. Fr Stan Swamy said he was part of the process and, in a way, happy to be so because he was not a “silent spectator”. “I am ready to pay the price, whatever be it,” he said. Fr Stan Swamy has often raised his voice against alleged police excesses in Jharkhand, and what he describes as the government’s failure to properly implement the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution in the state. The Fifth Schedule stipulates that a “Tribes Advisory Council (TAC)”, composed solely of members from the Adivasi community, advise governors of tribal-inhabited states on their well-being and development. Fr Stan Swamy has claimed that none of the governors — the discretionary heads of these councils — has ever reached out to the Adivasis to understand and work on their problems. He has also taken exception to how the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA), 1996, has been “neatly ignored” and “deliberately… left unimplemented in all the nine states” with a tribal population. The Act, according to him, was the first to recognise the fact that the Adivasi communities in India have had a rich social and cultural tradition of self-governance through the gram sabha. In 2017, he mobilised the Adivasis to fight for the rights granted to them under PESA, and this lead to the Pathalgadi movement. Fr Stan Swamy and many others were booked for alleged sedition for the movement under the state’s erstwhile BJP government, but the cases have been revoked under the current JMM-Congress dispensation. Fr Stan Swamy has also been a vocal advocate for the release of undertrials. He says they have been unfairly lodged in jails and labelled Maoists. In 2010, he published a book about this, titled Jail Mein Band Qaidiyon ka Sach (The truth of undertrials).” In the book, he states that the family income of the youths arrested was less than Rs 5,000 in 97 per cent of the cases, and they could not afford lawyers to represent them. He claimed 98 per cent of those arrested were falsely implicated and had no links to the Naxalite movement. Fr Stan Swamy has sought to represent those who are yet to get rights to land under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, which seeks to recognise forest-dwelling communities’ claim to land they have inhabited for generations. It is time now for all academicians, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice. Our intervention at this juncture will definitely put the wheels of our country on the right track. What German Bishop Niemoler said about the situation under Hitler might teach us something: “When Nazis put communists in the concentration camp, I did not protest because I was not a communist; when they persecuted the social democrats, I did not protest because I was not a social democrat; when they massacred the Jews, I did not protest because I was not a Jew; When they banned all political parties and trade unions, I did not protest because I was not one of them; when they came for me, there was no one to speak for me.” Rev. Fr J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St. Xavier’s University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Covid: No God says ‘go to pandal’||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday exhorted people to avoid crowding during the coming festivals, cautioning about the risk of a Covid-19 surge and asserting that “no religion or God” asks people to observe practices that might endanger lives. His warning came against the backdrop of an infection spike in Kerala, blamed on the Onam festivities that concluded on September 2, and ahead of a series of festivals such as Durga Puja, Navratri, Dussehra, Karva Chauth, Diwali, Kali Puja, Bhai Phonta, Chhath and Christmas. Vardhan, responding via social media platforms to questions sent to him by members of the public, said he would encourage people to observe the festivals at home with their families and use masks and adhere to physical distancing if they go out. “We need to be very cautious,” the minister said. “No religion or God says that you have to celebrate in an ostentatious way; that you have to visit pandals and temples and mosques to pray. These are extraordinary circumstances and they must draw extraordinary responses.” Vardhan’s call came amid concern among health officials and medical experts that after a near-steady fall in daily new cases since September 16, crowding during festivals might trigger fresh surges. The seven-day average of daily new infections fell from 97,894 cases on September 16 to 72,062 on October 10, a downward trend that has lasted more than three weeks and prompted speculation in medical circles whether India has passed its epidemic peak. But Vardhan, echoing worries expressed by public health experts, cautioned that any deviation from appropriate Covid-season behaviour could push the infections upward again. “You can take this as my warning or my advice. This is the truth,” he said. “There is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion. If we do this, we may be heading for big trouble. Lord Krishna says, concentrate on your goal. Our goal is to finish this virus and save humanity.” Health experts said the minister’s call was timely and much-needed, keeping in mind the sharp rise in daily new cases seen in Kerala from about a week after Onam. Kerala’s seven-day average of daily new cases increased five-fold from 2,200 on September 8 to 11,755 on October 10. “What happened in Kerala has a lesson for the rest of India — the moment the virus gets opportunities to spread among susceptible people, it will spread quickly,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist in Lucknow. Reddy, who is also a member of an epidemiology and surveillance group for Covid-19 under the Indian Council of Medical Research, said that while the nationwide dip was “pleasing”, surveys suggested that large proportions of populations across India were still susceptible. A nationwide ICMR survey had suggested that 15 per cent of the people in urban slums, 8 per cent in non-slum urban areas, and 4 per cent in rural areas had been infected by August. Many experts believe that the percentages have risen significantly since then, while stressing that substantial proportions of people across the country remain susceptible. On October 10, the new cases detected in Kerala for the first time exceeded Maharashtra’s tally of 11,416. Maharashtra had till then consistently documented the highest numbers of daily new cases. Experts said it was still too early to determine whether Kerala would now take that position. “Increases and decreases over one or two days might keep happening; the seven-day average is a good measure of change,” Reddy said. “We have seen the seven-day average fall in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. But it is rising in Kerala. Nothing can protect people from this infection better than their own actions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Dalit lives don’t matter for many Indians: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human, articulating concern about the foremost structural problem of Indian society without mincing words or playing safe. “The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human. The (Uttar Pradesh) Chief Minister & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE,” the Congress leader tweeted, commenting on a BBC report about attempts to deny rape of the Dalit girl in Hathras in spite of her dying declaration. Few leaders in recent decades have addressed the evils of caste and religious hatred in such stark terms after the stalwarts of the freedom struggle gave a Constitution that guaranteed equality of every citizen. B.R. Ambedkar, who not only drafted the Constitution but forced the Congress leadership to adopt social justice as a critical responsibility, wrote: “No society (except India’s) has an official gradation laid down, fixed and permanent, with an ascending scale of reverence and a descending scale of contempt.” Although a national consensus exists — if only in words, not deed — about the immorality of inflicting atrocities on Dalits and tribal people, this concept of social justice does not cover Muslims. After an agonising period in which the minority community has suffered the worst hate attacks, including a spiral of lynchings, with barely an acknowledgement from the government, Rahul has told it like it is — without caring for the impact this might have in the Bihar elections this month or that in Uttar Pradesh next year. The capacity of the RSS-BJP to hijack the national discourse had terrorised the secular parties, including the Congress, so badly that they became wary of forcefully protesting against the persecution of Muslims. Although a tweet by itself means little, what Rahul said stands out because no other leader from a mainstream party has formally recorded this sentiment with such clarity. While atrocities against Dalits have become more pronounced under the Narendra Modi regime, the BJP has succeeded to a large extent in winning the support of Dalits and tribals over the past two decades. The RSS-BJP, which has completely ignored the lynching of Muslims, has often tried to assuage the feelings of Dalits because of electoral compulsions. Some Congress leaders were not very comfortable with Rahul’s blunt tweet. One of them told The Telegraph: “It is wrong to lay emphasis on Muslims as Rahul has always stood by the oppressed group. That has been his politics; he fights for the poor, the marginalised and the historically oppressed. He fights for equality and justice.” The Congress took a stand against CAA-NRC but moved very cautiously on the Ayodhya verdict and the foundation-laying ceremony of Ram temple. If Rahul sincerely decides to execute the spirit behind his tweet, he will have to demonstrate his intent through an action plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Covid: Reinfection survey plan||India’s health research agency plans to initiate an exercise to determine the true burden of reinfections among coronavirus disease survivors in the country amid genome sequence analyses confirming six anecdotal reports of such an occurrence. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a study to assess the burden of Covid-19 reinfections, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, asserting the need to distinguish between residual viral loads and true reinfections. Medical researchers say although reinfections with the new coronavirus thus far appear to be rare events, they need to be documented and studied as the rate of reinfections may have implications on the effectiveness of vaccines. The clinical diagnosis of Covid-19 is based on the highly sensitive RT-PCR test that looks for viral genetic material in either throat or nasal swabs and can detect even residual dead virus shed for weeks or even months after a patient has recovered from the infection. While sporadic reports of reinfection have emerged in various states, Vardhan said, an examination of the ICMR’s database has suggested that many of these cases have been “misclassified”. Patients who have recovered may have been labelled as positive through the detection of shed virus. “The ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of reinfected cases,” he said. A senior ICMR official said the primary objective of the exercise would be to determine the magnitude of the problem. “Reinfection is of course an important health issue for the affected patients, but we need to assess its actual magnitude to know if it is also a public health problem.” The official said a possible study on reinfections was under discussion. The ICMR maintains a database of the country’s Covid-19 infections which, researchers believe, would make it possible to quickly identify suspected reinfections that could be confirmed through viral genome sequence studies. Some studies have suggested that the levels of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can significantly fall within weeks after the infection. But other studies have shown that SARS-CoV-2 infections might also trigger another arm of the immune system called memory T cell responses that could play a role in preventing recurrent episodes of severe disease. Two independent studies from Sweden and the US in August this year indicated that although antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 may weaken over time, immune memory might still be possible through virus-specific memory T cells. “Given the available data, it appears that reinfections are rare occurrences,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Agrawal and his colleagues had last month collaborating with doctors in Mumbai and confirmed through genome sequencing analyses four reinfections among healthcare workers in Mumbai. Earlier, IGIB scientists had also confirmed two reinfections in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections: BJP cheer for Congress-RJD||The Congress-RJD-Left combine has suddenly become upbeat about the election result in Bihar because they believe the “dubious strategy” of the BJP aimed at hurting the prospects of Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United would damage the ruling alliance in entirety, multiplying the adverse effects of anti-incumbency factor. Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders intend to highlight the “hidden agenda” of the BJP to restrict the JDU’s tally to ensure that Nitish can be ousted from the chief minister’s office. While they believe Nitish had clearly lost the charisma that provided the decisive edge to any coalition because of the fatigue factor setting in after 15 years, they also insist the mismanagement of Covid-19 and lockdown demolished the myth of his administrative skills. Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Shakeel Ahmed told The Telegraph: “Nitish is definitely facing image crisis in this election. While the betrayal of the mandate given by the people in 2015 had already dented his moral authority, Nitish now holds no promise for the future. So is the case with Narendra Modi. “People have seen through his hollow promises. After all, Modi’s failures — from economy to unemployment — has hurt Hindus also. It will be difficult for him to fool the voters now.” Ahmed added: “Coupled with this negative sentiment is the bad strategy of the BJP. People realise the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) candidates are actually the BJP candidates. This will create a huge confusion and prove to be a self-defeatist strategy. “While the forward castes won’t vote for the LJP as aggressively the BJP would hope for, the JDU voters too will not take this dubious game kindly. They ultimately may not support the BJP if they realise this game of hurting Nitish Kumar. Such cunning strategies rarely succeed on the ground.” RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha said: “The BJP is definitely operating at two levels. There is a direct alliance with the JDU and there is an indirect alliance with the LJP. Voters of Bihar have never seen such Machiavellian tricks. This will show in results. While we know voters have made up their mind for change, it is also now clear that the BJP doesn’t want to see Nitish Kumar as chief minister again.” The emergence of a third front, which includes so called secular forces like Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), has also not rattled the RJD-Congress as they believe voters will see through this hidden agenda as well. Congress leaders insist that Mayawati and Owaisi both are working to help the BJP and their operations will fail here as Bihari voters are more political than other states where such strategies succeeded. While Owaisi damaged the Congress-NCP in Maharashtra, Mayawati has played this game in states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Mayawati has announced the BSP’s plan to contest all 28 seats in the Madhya Pradesh by-election. The BSP usually avoids contesting by-elections even in its native Uttar Pradesh. Their Grand Democratic Secular Front got some muscles as Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) also joined them after quitting the RJD-led alliance. Asked about Owaisi’s politics, Shakeel Ahmed said: “His intention is clear as he contested just eight seats in his home state Telangana to ensure that Muslim votes are not divided as that would help the BJP. But he contested 44 seats in Maharashtra and planned to contest over 40 in Bihar. “Also, he talks of Muslim unity and relies on religion to mobilise support. How can anybody question BJP’s Hindu politics if he or she supports politics in the name of Muslims? The Congress opposed the divisive politics of Jinnah and we still oppose the Owaisi brand politics. Even Muslims should ponder over this.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, who has been given the charge to look after media in Bihar election, said: “Be it Nitish Kumar, Modi, Mayawati or Owaisi… people now understand their reality and their dubious games. Voters have seen enough of them and now it will be difficult to fool the people.” “Bihar election will prove that insincerity and non-performance will be punished by the voters. We have no doubt that voters are itching to punish every leader who betrayed their trust,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: CBI keeps off ‘conspiracy’||The CBI has said it will probe only the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras and not the separate cases, lodged by the state administration, about an “international” conspiracy to trigger a caste conflagration and destabilise Yogi Adityanath’s government. This will allow the state government to investigate its own allegation about the “conspiracy” and target critics, opponents and favourite whipping boys, including the Opposition parties and “anti-nationals” whose involvement it has hinted at. “After taking over the probe, the agency today registered an FIR and booked the accused for murder, gang rape and violation of the SC/ST Atrocities Act,” CBI spokesperson R.K. Gaur said on Sunday. Asked about the “conspiracy” cases, lodged through 19 FIRs in 7 districts, he said: “The agency is only probing the alleged rape and murder of the Dalit girl.” The Uttar Pradesh government had in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on October 5 sought an apex-court monitored CBI inquiry into both the gang-rape-and-murder case and the conspiracy charges. However, it remains unclear whether, while writing to the Centre for a CBI investigation, the state had mentioned the conspiracy cases too. A senior official from the department of personnel and training, which administers the CBI and reports to the Prime Minister’s Office, declined to say whether Lucknow had recommended CBI investigations in both the matters. CBI sources said the Centre had issued a notification on Saturday night sanctioning the agency’s takeover of the Hathras probe. A team of officers from the Ghaziabad branch of the agency’s Lucknow zone will probe the case. “The sleuths will visit the crime scene along with forensic experts and recreate the crime. They will also look for fresh evidence. The case needs to be reinvestigated thoroughly,” an agency official said. Adityanath’s government had on October 4 filed the 19 FIRs alleging an “international” conspiracy by political groups and other organisations to incite caste violence. It named the Popular Front of India, an extremist Muslim organisation, and a website, justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co, which has since been taken down. Adityanath had told reporters without mentioning names that Opposition parties and “anti-nationals”, aided by foreign funding, were trying to destabilise his government. One of the 19 FIRs invokes the charge of sedition, under which a Kerala journalist and three others have been arrested while trying to visit Hathras. The rest of the FIRs carry charges such as promoting enmity between groups and criminal conspiracy. According to the state government, foreign residents were coordinating with local people and organisations through the website — justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co — to incite caste riots on the lines of race clashes in the US.The website was allegedly being used to post morphed photos, collect funds, target the police and administrative officials, and peddle hate speech. On Monday, the victim’s family members will be at Allahabad High Court to attend a hearing into allegations that the police had hijacked the girl’s body after her death at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital and cursorily cremated it without her family’s consent. The high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter after media reports quoted the family as saying the police had locked them inside their home and burnt the body with fuel from a jerry can. The court has summoned the victim’s family members along with top administration and police officials of the state and the district. The state government has told the apex court that the victim was given a proper cremation in the presence of family members, without specifying who they were. Adityanath’s government has faced widespread condemnation over the handling of the Hathras atrocity. According to the victim’s family, the police had waited eight days before invoking the gang-rape charges and denied the girl the best possible treatment. Four upper caste men allegedly gang-raped the victim on September 14 and broke her neck. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. According to the state’s October 5 affidavit in the Supreme Court, the girl had told the investigating officer on September 22 in an Aligarh hospital that the four accused had gang-raped her and tried to strangle her. A woman head constable was present when the statement was taken and the procedures were video-graphed. Police officers have, however, contested the rape complaint citing the absence of sperm in a forensic analysis of samples collected eight days after the incident. The police have explained the delay by saying the girl had first spoken of rape on September 22. However, the family members say they mentioned gang rape in their original complaint of September 14. The report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, has confirmed two deep injuries in the victim’s vagina.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Hathras atrocity reflects hatred against Dalits, says thinker and former UGC chairman||The Hathras atrocity reflects the deep hatred that many among the dominant castes harbour towards Dalits under the ideological influence of Brahmanism, Dalit thinker and former UGC chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat told The Telegraph in a recent interview. He says that despite Bhimrao Ambedkar’s expectation that the dominant castes would try to reform the caste system, the trend in recent years has been towards caste consolidation. Attacks on Dalits have been increasing since 2014. Thorat believes the only way forward is to provide separate rural settlements, as Ambedker had proposed, with little social or economic contact between Dalits and the socially privileged. Excerpts from the interview: Q: What underlying social dynamics do you see in the alleged Hathras gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman? Thorat: This incident reflects the growing influence of the social ideology of Brahmanism — not Brahmans as individuals — which directly and indirectly lends support to the caste system, and (the growing) antagonism and violence against the untouchables. These actions by people are the outcome of their faith in a system of castes. The dominant castes, as individuals, need not be blamed; what is to be blamed is the religious and social ideology that propagates contempt towards the untouchables. The growing tendency of sexual violence against Dalit women is part of this antagonistic attitude towards the untouchables (that has gained momentum) since the mid-2000s. In Uttar Pradesh, the number of cases of sexual violence against Scheduled Caste women increased from 1,188 in 2014 to 1,568 in 2019, with a high of 2,026 in 2016, which shows the trend. Q: Why do you feel the influence of the Brahmanical ideology is increasing? Thorat: Bhimrao Ambedkar advocated reforms to annihilate the caste system. Who should take the initiative to annihilate caste? The Dalits are doing their bit. But caste reforms have to be undertaken by those who practise it, because it is the dominant castes who have to change their behaviour towards the untouchables and bring it in tune with constitutional values. However, the trend in the recent past has been the opposite. Caste consolidation is happening in a big way among the dominant castes, through caste organisations. We can see the formation of caste organisations like the Brahman Sabha, Maratha Sabha, Rajput Sabha, Jat Sabha, and so on. They do not propagate caste (discrimination) openly, but by forming organisations based in the names of castes, (they) serve to preserve caste consciousness, rather than reforming the caste system. The growing influence of the social ideology of Brahmanism has given a boost to caste consciousness and to an attitude of antagonism towards the untouchables. The expectation that the majority among the dominant castes would undertake reforms to achieve social equality is now a distant dream. The happenings of the last six years have taken the agenda of caste reform in a reverse direction. Caste is increasingly becoming a factor in social and political action. Political parties galvanise support by appealing to caste during elections. Earlier, caste was not so openly used and talked about for political purposes. Q: The Constitution speaks about social and economic equality. Do you think large sections of the population are not abiding by constitutional values? Thorat: There is a contradiction between what the Constitution upholds and what the majority among dominant caste people practise as far as equality and non-discrimination are concerned, despite some improvement. In the rural areas there is some improvement but the practice of untouchability is still present in several public spheres. In 2019, a total of 41,793 cases were registered under the (SC and ST Prevention of) Atrocities Act, which indicates the denial of equal rights to them. In urban areas they have suffered from discrimination in housing. Q: What are the new forms that the caste system has assumed? Thorat: In 2010, Action Aid did a study of untouchability in rural areas, (across) about 500 villages, drawing samples from 11 states. (It found that) untouchability had reduced in some spheres but was present in many other spheres. The denial of access to public amenities and facilities was one of them. The traditional restrictions continue, which include the residential segregation of untouchables, about which we do not feel ashamed. Restrictions on inter-caste dining and marriages are most stringently practised. The new forms of discrimination include discrimination in panchayat offices, (in access to) tap water, in access to canal water, in access to government schemes, in schools and in voting rights. In urban areas the untouchables face discrimination in housing — in rentals or ownership of houses or flats — in employment, wages and occupation, and in business and trade. This means they are yet to become full citizens. Q: What role do you think the dominant castes should have in reducing caste discrimination? Do you think the dominant castes are doing enough to annihilate caste? Thorat: The minimum expectation from the organisations upholding traditional religious views is condemnation of the gruesome incident like this gang rape and murder in Hathras. But we do not see any condemnation from Hindu organisations or the heads of the Hindu faith — there seems virtual silence. It is the responsibility of the dominant castes to undertake reform of the caste system. But there is virtually no anti-caste or anti-untouchability movement within the high-caste civil society. On the contrary, there is growing consolidation of caste, which is reflected in the increasing number of caste organisations. This caste consolidation has induced caste consciousness in a new form. The new trend is about indirect support to the caste system. Some groups openly supporting the Manusmriti and placing a statue of Manu in front of Rajasthan High Court is one of many such examples. There is increasing propagation of Hindu religious books — which is the religious right of Hindus who believe in them — but this is done without realising that these texts also support caste and the varna system. No opinion is expressed against the provision of the caste system in the religious books. In preaching religious values from the religious books, Hindus need to draw a distinction between religious values and social values that support the caste system. Q: Now that caste consolidation, instead of reforms, is happening among the dominant castes, what is the way forward for Dalits? Thorat: Ambedkar proposed the destruction of Hindus’ faith in those principles of the Hindu religion that preach caste and inequality. However, while this goal will take a long time (to achieve), for immediate relief to the untouchables he proposed separate villages for them — in a way supporting the principle of “separate but equal”. In the villages, the Dalits are demographically in a minority and hopelessly dependent on the dominant castes for their livelihood. In such an unequal equation of demographic and economic power between the untouchables and the dominant castes in the villages, there is no hope of a discrimination-free and violence-free life for them. So Ambedkar proposed a disconnect, economic and demographic, between the untouchables and the dominant castes in the villages. This he said was possible by having separate settlements or villages of untouchables away from the high castes’ localities, with independent means of livelihood. We have the example of the resettlement of the Hindu population that crossed over from Pakistan during the Partition —we resettled them by giving them a certain amount of money and a plot of land. We can do the same for the untouchables. In any case, in all villages the untouchables are residentially separate and socially isolated. So this separation will not be altogether new and different. Q: There is a narrative that caste hierarchy exists among Dalits too, and that social reform should start from there. What would you say? Thorat: Yes, there are sub-castes within all castes — low, high or middle. This is the creation of, as one author put it, a masterstroke of Brahmanical scholarship. So, sub-castes are there among the untouchables too. This brings about some differences between them, including discrimination in some spheres, but they do not indulge in actual discrimination, or violence and atrocities among themselves the way high castes do towards the untouchables. The untouchables from all sub-castes have suffered from untouchability and atrocities. In any case, the presence of sub-castes among the untouchables does not justify the caste discrimination and violent attacks against Dalits. Q: Do you expect justice in the Hathras case? Thorat: If I go by past experience, I’m less optimistic. Studies on atrocities (including) the one I have done for Maharashtra indicate that the acquittal rate is too high and the conviction rate too low. Ambedkar had observed that the reason for the high acquittal rate was that the administration — from the lower levels in the police stations up to the judiciary — was biased against the untouchables. Studies show that crucial loopholes are left right from the beginning, during the filing of the cases, which are then used by lawyers in the courts to bring about the high acquittal rate. A high percentage of cases are disposed of on the ground of procedural lapses rather than the fact of the violence. We know how in Hathras the police and the district administration tried to bypass procedure and make the case weak. If social media is to be believed, the case was filed in a manner that left little hope of justice for the victim. If poor untouchable victims face discrimination and unfair treatment at each level of the administration, how will they succeed in seeking justice? The very high acquittal rate is proof of the low chances of justice in this case as well. Even in high-profile cases such as Gohana and others, the accused were acquitted. (A mob had burnt down dozens of Dalit homes in Gohana, Haryana, in 2005.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||MP birthday bash battle in Odisha||The Odisha government on Saturday sealed the office of Bhubaneswar MP and BJP national spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi for 15 days over her alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Soon after the closure of her office, Aparajita opened a makeshift office on the roadside and demanded that the office of the ruling Biju Janata Dal should be sealed immediately and alleged that double standard should not be adopted in following Covid-19 guidelines. Aparajita on Sunday began hearing  public grievances outside her office and announced that she would continue to work on her development agenda. “I have no ill feelings towards anyone. My sole objective is to continue development work.” She also sent a letter to the chief minister asking him eight questions to which she expects answers. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation sealed her office and asked her to submit the names of the persons who attended her birthday party on Wednesday in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The corporation said they need to undergo Covid-19 testing. Aparajita subsequently called a news conference and announced that she would continue to listen to the grievances of the people sitting on the roadside. She said, “I quit the IAS 11 years before my retirement to join politics so that I could work for the people. No one can stop me from doing that. Steps have been taken against me with a vindictive motive.” Making an oblique attack on chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Aparajita said, “I have to go and mix with the people adhering to the Covid guidelines. But here the administration is being run through virtual meetings from within the confines of the residence.” She pointed out that even school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was seen attending the funeral ceremony of a former minister allegedly without a mask. Aparajita also shared 17 photos and a video which allegedly show Covid-19 guidelines being violated in the BJD office. “The BJD office should be closed immediately for 15 days. Those who had attended various programmes there had violated the Covid-19 guidelines,” she said. She said she also had pictures of state home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra violating the norms in his district while attending a meeting. “I will soon write a letter to the Hon’ble chief minister on the issue and seek an answer from him,” she said and committed to following the Covid-19 guidelines. On Friday, Mishra had written a letter to Union minister of state for home Nityananda Rai alleging that Aparajita was not following Covid-19 guidelines and making a “mockery of the struggles and sufferings that ordinary people are going through”. “In this  backdrop Honourable MP celebrating her birthday in disregard of Covid guidelines makes a complete mockery of the struggles and sufferings that ordinary people are going through,” the letter said. Mishra also urged Rai to bring the issue to the notice of the Prime Minister and Union home minister and advise the MP not to endanger the lives of people in Bhubaneswar. After Aparajita raised the issue of double standards being adopted while dealing with cases of violation of Covid-19 guidelines, police lodged an FIR against BJD legislator Umakanta Samantray who had attended the funeral procession of former minister and BJD lawmaker Pradeep Maharathy despite testing positive for Covid-19. Samantray has, however, apologised for his conduct. “I tested positive for Covid-19  out of emotion, I turned up at the funeral procession,” he said. BJD spokesperson Sulata Deo said, “The decision to seal the Bhubaneswar MP’s office is an administrative decision. Even more buildings and hotels will be sealed. The BJD has nothing to say on the matter.” In another development, Jagannath Sena, a political outfit, lodged a complaint on Saturday against Dash and his ministerial colleague Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh land row attack on sadhu in temple||A sadhu has been shot and critically wounded on a village temple’s premises in Gonda district, allegedly by the panchayat chief and his henchmen who are accused of trying to grab the shrine’s land. Mahant Samrat Das alias Atul Baba, one of two sadhus who officiated as priests at the Ram Janaki temple in village Tirre Manorama, was attacked around 2am on Sunday while sleeping in a room at the temple. Doctors at the King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, where he is fighting for his life, said he had been shot in the left side of his chest. A case has been registered against panchayat chief Amar Singh and three others on a complaint from the temple’s other priest, Mahant Sitaram Das, who too is a sadhu. “The panchayat chief and three other members of his caste had been pressuring us for a long time to hand over the entire 120 bighas on which the temple stood,” Sitaram, the head priest, told reporters in Lucknow. A case had been filed in a local court laying claim to the temple land on behalf of the four accused. Sitaram said Amar and his men had for the past two years been preventing devotees from visiting the temple, which was now virtually defunct apart from the two sadhus performing daily rituals. “We filed a complaint two years ago but the local police did nothing,” Sitaram said. However, state police authorities in Lucknow did provide the sadhus with security after they complained of threats from the accused, Sitaram said. Sitaram got one armed and one unarmed constable and Samrat got an unarmed home guard. Sitaram said he, Samrat and the security personnel were sleeping in different rooms at the temple when, around 2am on Sunday, the sound of “commotion” woke him. “I then heard a gunshot and rushed to the spot,” he said. “Samrat Das lay blood-splattered. He told me on the way to the district hospital (from where he was later referred to King George’s) that Amar Singh and his men had been there and one of them had shot him point-blank from a pistol.”Gonda superintendent of police Shailendra Pandey said: “We have detained two people from the village and are interrogating them. The other two, including the panchayat chief, are in hiding.” The temple belongs to the Tapasvi Ki Chhawani math in Ayodhya. Its patron is senior Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader and former BJP parliamentarian Ram Vilas Vedanti.Vedanti said: “We knew there was a land dispute involving the temple. The matter is in court. I’m sure the government will not tolerate an attack on a sadhu.” At least four sadhus have been murdered in Uttar Pradesh in the past six months. Two unidentified sadhus were found drowned on September 24, one in a pond at village Tikri in Baghpat district and the other in a canal in Meerut. The police said the bodies bore injury marks. The case remains unsolved. On April 28, sadhus Sewa Das and Jagan Das were bludgeoned to death while asleep. A drug addict has been arrested in village Pagauna, Bulandshahar district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Blue Flag certification for Puri beach ||The golden beach at Puri has bagged the coveted blue flag certification from  the international jury for its effort to curb pollution, maintain cleanliness and provide sustainable amenities to tourists. The global eco-label “blue flag” certification is given to shorelines under the Beach Environment and Aesthetic Management System (BEAMS). Hailing this unique achievement of Puri beach, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Glad to share that the Golden Beach of Puri has received coveted Blue Flag certification by FEE Denmark by conforming to the stringent environmental norm and ensuring world class sustainable tourist amenities. The renowned eco-label will add to the charm of the World Heritage City.” President of Beach Protection Council, Jagannath Bastia said, “Puri sea beach and seven other beaches of country — Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod (Karnataka), Padubidri (Karnataka), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda ( Andhra) and Radhanagar ( Andaman) have bagged International Blue Flag certificate from Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE), Denmark. It will help attract more tourists, especially foreigners and also boost the development of beach tourism in Odisha. The state government should take steps for development of the entire stretch of 8km long golden beach of Puri and should not confine itself to promoting only a particular patch of the beach.” Earlier in September, the Centre had recommended the Puri breach for blue flag certification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
