13-10-2020||India||Modi govt betraying farmers, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again attacked the Centre over the recently enacted agriculture-related legislations, saying the farmers gave the country food security, but the Modi government just "betrayed" them. The three farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. Tagging a video which had snippets from his recent visits to Punjab and Haryana during which he held tractor rallies and public meetings against the laws, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "The farmers gave the country food security, and the Modi government only betrayed them. But not anymore." The 3.31-minute video also featured comments of farmers saying they will protest against and oppose these laws vehemently. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against these legislations, claiming these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Earlier in the day, Gandhi also tagged a video report by a media portal on caste discrimination prevailing in Hathras and said the video was for those who "were running away from reality". "We will change, the country will change," he said in a tweet in Hindi. In a tweet on Sunday, Gandhi had said the shameful truth is many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human. The Congress has been attacking the UP government over the Hathras incident in which a 19-year-old Dalit woman from the district was allegedly raped and attacked by four men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
13-10-2020||India||Nitish mocks RJD claims in his second virtual poll rally||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday mocked rivals claim of bringing qualitative changes in the health and other fields if voted to power, asking them to look back at their track record during 15 years they were in power in the state. After he took reins of the state in 2005 end, a survey was conducted in February 2006 in which it came to light that only 39 people used to visit a primary health centre in the state in a month before him, while the figure now stands at 10,000 visitors per month because of substantive improvement in the healthcare system, he said. Kumar was addressing a virtual poll rally in support of JD(U) candidates trying their luck in the first phase of voting on October 28. Kumar, who also heads the ruling JD(U), kicked off election campaign Monday. He has already announced that from Wednesday he would start touring constituencies to garner vote in favour of the NDA nominees. The JD(U) chief who has already made it clear that "15 years vs 15 years" would be the narrative for the present elections, reeled out comparative data during the two equal periods in different fields and urged voters to make a judgement and then vote. Without taking any name, Kumar sought to make light of the "tall claims" made by the rival RJD leaders of "bringing heaven on the earth" if voted to power. The Bihar chief minister had Monday ridiculed the RJD's claim of approving 10 lakh government jobs at the very first cabinet on coming to power and wondered whether cabinet meetings were held properly during the 15 years of its rule. "See our work. We know how to do a work and how to get it done from others. On the other hand there are people who don't have any experience...what is needed in Bihar they have neither any idea nor any experience to perform," the JD (U) star campaigner said wryly. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad's younger son Tejashwi Yadav has been declared as chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance which also comprises of Congress and the Left parties. Tejashwi, less than half the age of Kumar whom he addresses as "chacha" (uncle), is pitted against experienced Kumar who is seeking fourth straight term in power in the current elections. The RJD was in power in Bihar from 1990 to 2005. Kumar is at the helm of state affairs since then. Altogether 71 constituencies will be held in Bihar's first phase of Assembly election. The JD(U) president reiterated that if voters give him another chance, his government would unroll "Saat Nischay" (Seven resolves) part II, to take up more developmental programmes in the state. Seven resolves part I, launched by the Nitish Kumar administration for its 2015-20 term, comprised seven schemes to ensure basic necessities such as supply of piped drinking water, construction of toilets and concrete drains and electricity connection to every household. Most of the projects have been completed. Its second part will focus on enhancing skill of youths to brighten their jobs prospect, promoting entrepreneurship among women by providing them financial assistance, irrigation facility to every agriculture field and additional health facilities for people and animals. Seeking to puncture the opponents claim on job creation, he said, during their 15 years rule a total of 95,734 people got recruitment in the government when even Jharkhand was part of it for the first 10 years. "During our 15 years, over 6 lakh youth received jobs," Kumar said. Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000. In a bid to reach out to the minority muslim voters, Kumar, the CM face of the NDA, refered to 1989-90 commnunal riots in Bhagalpur in which over 1000 people were killed in the communal clashes. "They seek vote in the name of minorities but did they do anything for them?" when we came to power the victim families of Bhagalpur riots were given a monthly pension of Rs 2500 every month which was doubled to Rs 5000 in 2013," he said. Bihar has a GDP of Rs 4,14,977 crore now which was a meagre Rs 88,000 crore in 2006-07, he underscored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
13-10-2020||India||Farm reforms to help turn farmers into entrepreneurs, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government's 'historic' farm reforms will create opportunities to take farmers to entrepreneurship and added his regime is focused on increasing their income. Modi was speaking after releasing the autobiography of former Union Minister Balasaheb Vikhe Patil and renaming the Pravara Rural Education Society in Ahmednagar district after the Padma Bhushan recipient, via video conferencing. Terming the farm reforms as historic, the prime minister said, "Today opportunities are being created to take farming and farmers from the role of annadata (food provider) to entrepreneurship." Referring to high milk, sugar, and wheat production in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab, Modi said such models of local enterprise will take the country forward. He said there was a time after Independence when the country did not have sufficient food stock. "The governments priority then was to increase food production. So the entire focus was on increasing production.Farmers toiled hard to achieve the objective. "But the attention of the governments and policies, while being concerned about increasing productivity, did not go towards profitability of farmers," Modi said. "People forgot about income for farmers. But for the first time, this thinking has been changed," he said and listed steps the Centre has taken for the welfare of farmers. Modi listed measures taken by his government like implementing and increasing MSP, urea neem coating and better crop insurance for "doing away worries of farmers". He also spoke of direct transfer of Rs one lakh crore in the bank accounts of farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. "And there are no middlemen (involved). Not only this, there has been unprecedented work on setting up cold chains, mega food parks and agro processing infrastructure," he said. In Maharashtra, efforts were strengthened after 2014 (when the BJP came to power) to supply water for drinking and agriculture purposes, he said. Under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Yojana, 26 long-pending irrigation schemes from Maharashtra were expedited and work on nine of them was completed, Modi said. These schemes will help provide irrigation to five lakh hectare area, he said. "In July 2018, work on 90 irrigation schemes was initiated. Around four lakh hectare land will be provided irrigation facility when these schemes are completed in two- three years," he said. Modi said microfinance has a special role in the economy and social order of villages, adding that under the Centres Mudra Yojana, self-employment possibilities have gone up. Seven crore women of self-help groups have been given loans of over Rs three lakh crore in the country, he said. Noting that the Covid-19 threat still persists, Modi said people should not show dhilaai (laxity) towards COVID-19, observe social distancing norms and maintain personal hygiene till a vaccine is available. Modi said the concern is more in Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India. "I request people of Maharashtra that there should be no lax attitude towards wearing face masks, washing hands regularly, maintaining cleanliness and observing physical distance norms. "We have to always remember that there should be no laxity till there is a vaccine. We will definitely win this battle," he added. Modi eulogised Balasaheb Vikhe Patil for dedicating his life for the welfare of the poor, farmers and villagers and also lauded his work in education sector, adding his contribution in these areas and the cooperative movement will inspire generations. The 713-page Marathi autobiography is titled Deh Vechava Karani. Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, son of late Balasaheb Vikhe Patil, said Modi had agreed to come to Loni in Ahmednagar district in April to launch the book, but the event could not happen due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took part in the event via video conferencing. State BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil also spoke at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
13-10-2020||India||Wear masks, save 1.27 lakh Indians||The universal use of masks as advocated by health authorities could save over 127,000 lives in India by reducing coronavirus death counts by a third up to February, US researchers have predicted through a modelling exercise. The researchers have predicted that coronavirus disease deaths in India would reduce from their projections of 349,000 by February 1, 2021, to 222,000, if mask use increased to 95 per cent from the current estimated 70 per cent. The India calculations are part of a broader effort by the University of Washington researchers to forecast Covid-19 epidemic’s trajectories worldwide under universal use of masks that they say can reduce infections for mask-wearers by at least one-third. Although India has recorded a near-steady decline in daily new Covid-19 cases for over three weeks — from a seven-day average of 97,800 on September 16 to 70,960 on October 11 — public health experts remain apprehensive about a surge in infections. The UW model has forecast large increases in infections and deaths in many countries, including India, in the northern hemisphere, due to seasonal disease transmission patterns, declining use of masks and increasing people-to-people contact. The researchers used online social media platforms to estimate observed mask use across the world and estimated the average mask use in India was nearly 70 per cent. At this same level of mask use, the study predicts around 349,000 deaths by February 1 next year. But if mask use was to increase within a week to 95 per cent — meaning 95 per cent people would wear masks whenever they move out of their homes — the death counts fall to 222,000, a 36 per cent decline. “Masks are a low-cost intervention available and accessible to all people regardless of socio-economic status,” Emmanuela Gakidou, professor of global health and health metrics sciences at the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation at University of Washington who led the study, told The Telegraph via email. Gakidou and her colleagues have posted their study — which is not peer-reviewed yet — on medRxiv, an online archive for preprints. Their latest analysis — available online as an interactive visualisation tool — also predicts state-specific reductions in deaths in India through universal mask use. For instance, their current model analysis has predicted Delhi’s Covid-19 death counts would cross 13,000 by February 1 under default mask use of around 67 per cent, but drop to 10,000 under universal mask use. Similarly, universal mask use would reduce Bengal’s counts from 35,000 to 16,000, while Maharashtra’s counts would fall from 83,000 to 68,000. Some health experts have cautioned that such forecasts are based on numerous assumptions that might not reflect reality. Human behaviour, for instance, which determines mask use and physical distancing is hard to model into epidemiological forecasts, said a senior virologist. However, all health experts underscore the need to promote universal mask use. The UW analysis has found countries such as Argentina, Singapore and Spain have achieved over 90 per cent mask use, showing that 95 per cent is a tangible goal. The UW study’s projections of a sharp rise in the numbers of infections and deaths in India from mid-November onward is something many health experts in the country are already concerned about. “We should be anticipating more cases in the winter months and the possibility of super spreading during the festive season,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, an epidemiologist and director of the US-based research think tank Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy. Gakidou said the study highlights the potential of masks to significantly reduce death counts. “It is rare to encounter effective, low-cost and universally available interventions that can save lives immediately, equitably and safely,” she said. “Ensuring all individuals and local and national decision-makers are doing everything to achieve the highest rates of mask use is of the best strategies to mitigate the toll of the pandemic in the months to come.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Bollywood production houses, organisations sue Republic TV and Times now||Many of the biggest names in the Hindi film industry have closed ranks for an unparalleled initiative to file a petition in Delhi High Court seeking succour from a vicious “smear campaign” being pursued by two television channels and their studio spearheads. As many as four industry organisations and 34 production houses associated with the who’s who of Bollywood have filed the lawsuit seeking a restraining order on Republic TV, Times Now, their lead anchors and social media platforms that have been targeting the industry in the guise of seeking “justice” for the late actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. The plea seeks a court directive to Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar and unknown defendants to refrain from making or publishing irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against the film industry. The petition marks a milestone moment in showbiz that usually fights shy of stepping up and taking a collective stand on raging issues. Regardless of the outcome of the legal measure and the durability of the solidarity, the initiative is all the more remarkable because of a perception that the slander campaign has the tacit approval of the Centre that is eager to keep the diversionary pot boiling. Bollywood’s decision not to take it lying down anymore also comes at a time any sign of dissent or defiance is being crushed using the instruments of State. The production houses which have signed up include that of Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Anil Ambani, Ramesh Sippy and Karan Johar. (See chart) The petitioners include the Producers Guild of India, the Cine and TV Artistes Association, the Film and TV Producers Council and the Screenwriters Association. A standout name among the production houses is Cape of Good Hope Films, a subsidiary of Hari Om Entertainment that is owned by Akshay Kumar. The star had hit the headlines just before the last general election when he interviewed Narendra Modi and helped enlighten the nation on the mango-munching style of the Prime Minister. Industry sources suggested that not all who had lent their names necessarily share the same views but they had little option but to join the parade in the face of such a concerted drive that also mentioned how livelihoods are being put at risk because of the television campaign. Reacting to the petition, Suhas Palshikar, a Pune-based political scientist, tweeted: “Filing suit is fine. Real test will be whether the industry succumbs to pressures about what it should and should not place before the public. The war is over culture. And of course who it gives money to and what political stand it takes.’’ Some critics described the petition as an attack on freedom of expression. But the petition makes it clear that it is not seeking a gag order. The petitioners said they are “not seeking a blanket gag order” but want the defendants to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules and to recall and take down all the defamatory content published by them against the film industry. “This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as ‘dirt’, ‘filth’, ‘scum’, ‘druggies’ and expressions such as ‘it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned’, ‘all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood’, ‘this is the dirtiest industry in the country’, and ‘cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood’,” the suit filed through DSK Legal firm said. The industry, the filmmakers said, is unique and dependent almost solely on the goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. It is also a big source of employment and the livelihood of persons associated with it is “severely impacted” by the smear campaign being run by the defendants, the plea said. The producers also issued a statement that ended with the hashtag #Bollywood Strikes Back. “The entire industry was pained by the malicious media trials going on for the past few months now…. We thought it was about time to unite and fight this and decided to go to the court,” a member of the Screenwriters Association told PTI. “The industry has more than 5 lakh people working in various capacities. The name-calling was affecting even spot boys. This was the last resort and we aim to fight it out legally,” he said. A prominent producer added that the idea was to take a dignified approach. “This is an initiative championed by the Producers Guild and they have thought about it wisely and we are happy to support anything that is about promoting good and peaceful work in these uncertain times,” the producer said. The head of a prominent production house said:  “When we talk about Bollywood, it is not about 20 superstars, there are workers, producers, technicians and others who are also a part of the industry. They are killing the whole industry, which provides livelihood to millions of people. You can’t conduct a media trial.” Several filmmakers welcomed the initiative — the mood summed up by director Hansal Mehta’s tweet: “About Time”. Unsurprisingly, a contrarian was actress Kangana Ranaut who tweeted: “Bullywood the gutter of drugs, exploitation, nepotism and jihad….” Times Now group editor Navika Kumar responded to the petition by tweeting: “If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on. All the a-listers can come together but India will continue to fight for the truth. You can’t intimidate us…..” She tagged Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and Karan Johar, prompting many on Twitter to point out that she had not tagged Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn. Did she not think the two were A-listers, the Twitterati asked. Others joked that she had not dared to tag Bhai, possibly a reference to Salman Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Independent probe into Delhi riots||Several senior retired judges and bureaucrats have formed a committee headed by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur to probe the Delhi riots, in the light of “extensive critical commentary” of the investigations by Delhi police. Besides Justice Lokur, others in the committee include Justices A.P. Shah, former chief justice of the Madras and Delhi high courts and former chairman of the Law Commission of India; Justice R.S. Sodhi, former judge of Delhi High Court; Justice Anjana Prakash, former judge of Patna High Court; former Union home secretary G.K. Pillai and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, who retired as director-general, Bureau of Police Research and Development. All of them are part of the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), a collective that has spoken out against the harassment of anti-CAA activists on the pretext of investigation into the riots. A member of the panel told The Telegraph: “We cannot force anyone to testify, but notices will be issued to ask people to submit affidavits. We will also ask the authorities to explain what they are doing. We will examine information such as FIRs and chargesheets which are in the public domain.” The source added: “The objective is to bring correct facts in front of the public. It may not be admissible in a court of law… We will conduct the proceedings on the lines a commission of inquiry follows.” In 2018, Justice Lokur had addressed a news conference along with fellow apex court judges Ranjan Gogoi, Kurian Joseph and J. Chelameswar, to speak out against the functioning of then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra. Pillai had criticised the previous Congress-led government for giving two affidavits on the Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case, one of which omitted to mention that those killed were members of the Lashkar-e-Toiba. The collective said in a statement: “Considering the horrific nature of the riots in North-East Delhi in February 2020, the scale of violence, the loss of lives and the resulting communal divide between communities, we felt that an expert body should carry out a thorough examination of what transpired before, during and after the riots. This has become even more necessary as the investigation carried out into the riots by the Delhi police has evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times. We therefore conclude that a Committee with credible reputations in the higher judiciary, the civil service and the police would be best suited to contribute to an objective and fair understanding of the riots and their aftermath.” The terms of reference, stated by the group, are: “1. To inquire into the events that transpired before and during the riots, including the response of the state machinery in dealing with the violence, restoring law and order, and related matters; 2. To analyse and assess the response of the police in investigating the riots; 3. To examine the role of the mainstream and social media in spreading information, both genuine and fake, before, during and after the riots, and its impact on events, and 4. To assess the civic administration’s efforts at providing relief and extending reparations to the victims of riots.” In the recent past, the police had ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, of inciting the riots in February that killed 53 people. No “commission of inquiry” has been instituted for the riots so far. In Delhi, only the Centre has the powers to set up such a commission before whom witnesses can be compelled to depose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Congress: Govt does not understand economy||The Congress on Monday yet again questioned the Narendra Modi government’s basic understanding of the economy, asserting that wrong policies were more an outcome of “misguided thinking” than “misplaced priorities”. Responding to the fresh “stimulus package” announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “This government does not understand how the economy functions. When all the economists suggested measures to generate demand, the government offered loans. Now the wisdom has dawned on them that the demand side needs to be addressed, but they fail to offer anything substantive.” Vallabh added: “They played havoc with the economy because of their poor understanding. It all started with demonetisation, followed by a flawed GST. They talked of a stimulus package worth Rs 20 lakh crore, which turned out to be less than Rs 2 lakh crore. All their remedies ended up hurting the economy more. Initially, the global agencies estimated the Indian economy will contract by around 3 per cent. After the much hyped Rs 20 lakh crore package, they lowered the estimate to 6 per cent and now they say the contraction will be minus 10-14 per cent.” The party’s data analytics department chairman, Praveen Chakravarty, said: “The experts, the World Bank and the IMF are saying this is not the time to think about rating downgrade. But we are letting millions of people slip into poverty because some foreign rating agencies are blackmailing us. I thought we got independence in 1947.” On whether the government had misplaced priorities, Chakravarty said: “No it is misguided thinking. They have no idea. They gave tax relief to the corporates… what happened? It’s all confused and muddled. We saw this for six years now. Now they are telling government employees how to spend their own money. They have done nothing for the 40-crore poor people. The Rs 20 lakh crore package did nothing, this new package will do nothing. The economy is not Modi’s cabinet, which will get stimulated by one man’s words and headline management.” Vallabh and Chakravarty said in a joint statement: “The government employees already have leave travel allowance as part of their salary. Today, the finance minister told them that they should now spend this on goods with greater than 12 per cent GST at a GST-registered store in non-cash form. Essentially, the minister ordered government employees how to spend their own money and called it a stimulus for demand. We have been vouching for the NYAY scheme to be implemented. Only money in the hands of the people can stimulate demand.” Arguing that the package should truly be in the form of cash in hand and not diversion of cash from one area to another, like the government has announced in case of LTC cash voucher scheme and festival advance,the statement explained, “The finance minister forgot the most basic lesson about money — it is fungible. Whether it is called LTC or festival advance, money is money for the individual... Unless there is additional money, the individual is not going to spend more. So, where is the question of a demand stimulus?” They added, “How much more money was given to states? Rs 12,000 crore, which is a paltry 1.3 per cent of the states’ total capital expenditure budget for the financial year which is Rs 9 lakh crore. Overall, there was no extra spending to boost demand and the increase in states’ capital expenditure is paltry and untimely. A stimulus by definition means extra or additional. Did the announcements made today provide anything substantially extra or additional for the economy? The finance minister concluded by saying ‘today’s solutions should not become tomorrow’s problems’. We would like to conclude by saying — today’s problems could become tomorrow’s nightmares.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||DU caste certificate hurdle for OBC student ||A student from Uttar Pradesh got a big jolt on Monday when her application for admission into a Delhi University college under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) non-creamy layer category was rejected on the grounds of inadequate caste document. The girl belonging to the Halwai caste, traditionally in the sweet-making business, had obtained a caste certificate mentioning that Halwai is a caste on the OBC list in Uttar Pradesh. But DU, a central university, wanted a certificate that stated that the caste was on the central OBC list. “Halwai is a caste in the central OBC list too. But because of lockdown and corona fear, we did not go to the office of the tehsildar to correct the OBC certificate. Today DU rejected my application. If they give me two days, I will get it corrected,” the student said. Several OBC students had similar complaints about rejection of application by the university on the ground of deficiencies in their caste documents. The university rejected candidates who had certificates mentioning the caste on the central list if the certificates were issued in the last financial year. The university insisted that the students have to produce certificates issued in the current financial year. This is in violation of instructions issued by department of personnel and training (DoPT), the nodal ministry for issuing guidelines for implementation of reservation norms. The department had said candidates lacking latest documents may be given provisional admission and reasonable time to produce the required documents for confirmation. The National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) has also disapproved the DU’s admission criteria that requires submission of a non-creamy layer certificate issued after March 31, 2020. Sudhansu Kumar, a teacher, alleged that DU was insisting on a caste certificate for the latest year for OBC students while it was lenient for students under the economically weaker sections (EWS) who have to produce income certificates. Students from OBC non-creamy layer are entitled for 27 per cent reservation while EWS students from privileged castes get 10 per cent reservation. “DU is entertaining the certificates obtained by EWS students before March 31 but not considering the genuine grievances of OBC candidates. This is discrimination. We will challenge it in all forums, including the NCBC,” said Kumar. The NCBC on July 10 wrote to the University Grants Commission (UGC) that institutions should not insist on non-creamy layer certificates issued after March 31, 2020, for the 2019-20 financial year. It had received representations from students of various institutions on the discriminatory approach of universities towards OBC students seeking admission under 27 per cent reservation meant for non-creamy layer groups. The criterion for non-creamy layer status is annual parental income of Rs 8 lakh. The institutions usually ask for non-creamy layer certificate issued in the current financial year for the last financial year while giving admission. The DU prospectus states that students may register for admission without the latest creamy layer certificate but that they will have to produce the document at the time of admission. The commission ordered that the requirement as mentioned in the DU prospectus should be in line with the norms of DoPT, which is the nodal ministry for the reservation issue. “In the present corona situation asking for a certificate issued after 31st March 2020 or later is against any government’s repeated declaration of lockdown and precaution against spread of pandemic,” the NCBC order said. Hansraj Suman, another teacher, said that many seats meant for OBCs will remain vacant this year because of the rigid attitude of the university. Despite calls to the university’s dean (admissions), Prof. Shobha Bagai, no comments could be obtained. An email sent to the vice-chancellor was not answered. The DU started its first phase of admissions on Monday for 66,000 seats in 60 colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Sikkim paragliders wait in the wings||Doors to Sikkim were thrown open for tourists on Saturday, but it would take a little while before the skies, too, are opened up for thrill-seekers among the visitors. The Sikkim Paragliding Association (SPA) is still in preparation mode following seven months of not flying because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 50-odd commercial paragliders of the association are readying to take wings latest by November 1. “We had kept our equipment under locks for seven months. We are now in the process of unlocking them. It will take some more days before they are all tested and ready to be used for flying. We should be up and flying latest by November 1,” Arjun Rai, the technical head of SPA, told The Telegraph. Paragliding is one of the major attractions for tourists seeking adventure. The SPA carries out two categories of paid sorties for tourists. The short duration middle flight takes off from an altitude of 1450m and lands at an altitude of 1,100m and the longer high flight from 2,100m to 1,100m. During the tourist season, on an average, about 150 thrill-seekers enjoy paragliding every day. The tandem flights have a passenger besides the pilot. “We charge Rs 3,000 for the middle flight which is for five to ten minutes of duration and Rs 6,000 for the high flight which can extend from 15 to 30 minutes. During the tourist season, we conduct about 150 flights per day,” said Rai. Paragliding provides direct employment to about 100 youths. “Our association has about 100 members, but not all are into commercial flying. Only 50-odd of us are commercial pilots. However, there are boys who help us with packing and unpacking. There are flying marshals who help us at the take-off points. Then, there are drivers. In all, about 100 of us find gainful employment through paragliding,” said the SPA president. Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association (SHRA) would conduct a three-day training programme from Tuesday to familiarise the hotel operators with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and the official portal of the state tourism department. The SHRA has invited all hotels to attend the training programme which will be held at the Orange Village Resort in Gangtok. The first day’s programme would begin at 1pm and the subsequent two days at 11am. An SOP training completion certificate would be provided to all the participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in Bihar||A Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and her five-year-old son killed by five persons in Bihar’s Buxar district on Saturday, leading to an outcry from various sections of the society. The perpetrators, who were allegedly inebriated, tied the woman and her son with wire and threw them into a canal. The woman survived but the child drowned. According to the woman’s father, she had gone to withdraw money from a bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Khushbu joins BJP, hails Modi’s leadership||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar on Monday quit the Congress and joined the BJP, hailing the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have come to the understanding that if the nation has to move forward then we need somebody like Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the country in the right direction,” Khushbu, who had attacked Modi in the past, said. The BJP saw the joining as a big catch and hoped it would help the party expand wings in Tamil Nadu, due for elections next year. Khushbu joined the BJP hours after the Congress removed her from the post of spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Mumbai hit by power outage ||Millions went without power in India’s financial capital Mumbai and surrounding areas for hours on Monday after a grid failure triggered its first major blackout in more than two years. The outage stranded thousands of train passengers, disrupted online classes and affected mobile telephone services before power was restored to most parts of the city of some 20 million. The grid failure was caused by “technical problems” during maintenance work, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut said. In mid-2018, a fire at a transformer sparked similar power cuts in the city and its suburbs. Throughout Monday’s breakdown, Mumbai’s international airport and the country’s two main stock exchanges in the city, the NSE and the BSE, operated normally. “Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai, suburbs... have been restored. Non-essential services will also be restored shortly,” Raut said on Twitter. The government-run Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport agency, Adani Power and Tata Power — the three main suppliers to Mumbai — had all been affected by the outage that extended to hospitals, many of which are treating Covid patients. Mumbai municipal commissioner I.S. Chahal instructed the staff to bolster diesel supply to last up to eight hours and also scout for mobile diesel generator vans that are used at film shoots as a standby. Mumbai’s trains resumed operations after more than two hours of inactivity. Train services in the city have been curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and they are carrying far fewer passengers than usual. Still, social media was splashed with pictures of people stranded inside dark trains and in railway stations. The disruptions did not curb Mumbaikars’ sense of humour though. “Do you have ice-cream in your freezer, Mumbaikar? Eat it now,” tweeted a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Defence minister hints at Pakistan, China border threat ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday hinted at a collusive threat from Pakistan and China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh and stressed the need for better road connectivity along border areas with the two countries. “You are well aware of the situation created along our northern and eastern borders. First Pakistan, and now also by China, as if a border dispute is being created under a mission by the two countries. We have a border of about 7,000km with these countries,” Singh said during the inauguration of 44 bridges at an online event. The defence minister’s statement comes amid the latest intelligence report which has suggested that Chinese troops were conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region. Last week, the Indian Air Force chief, Air Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, had also highlighted how the Chinese and Pakistani armies were carrying out joint exercises. Inaugurating 44 bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, the defence minister said improved border infrastructure will significantly help armed forces in ensuring quick movement of troops and weapons. “These roads are not only for strategic needs, but they also reflect equal participation of all stakeholders in the development of the nation,” he said. Most of these bridges, including eight in Ladakh, enhance connectivity to areas leading up to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as a push to infrastructure amid the India-China standoff. Ten of these bridges are in Jammu and Kashmir and will improve road connectivity to the Line of Control with Pakistan. Rajnath also laid the foundation stone of the strategically important Nechiphu Tunnel on the road to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. This 450-metre-long, bi-lane tunnel will ensure all-weather connectivity across Nechiphu pass, besides providing safe and secure passage through accident-prone areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Allahabad HC begins hearing Hathras case||The Hathras victim’s family appeared before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday, which heard the matter for two hours before posting the next hearing for November 2. Taking suo motu cognisance of reports of police burning the body of the 19-year-old gangrape-and-murder victim on September 30 without the consent of her parents, the court had on October 1 issued summons to senior administrative and police officers of Uttar Pradesh and also asked the victim’s family to be present before it. The victim’s parents and officials appeared before the bench of Justice Pankaj Mittal and Justice Rajan Roy. Seema Kushwaha, counsel for the family, told reporters the bench was concerned about the burning of the girl’s body without the knowledge of her family. Kushwaha said the court rebuked Uttar Pradesh additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar for making a public statement that it was not a case of gangrape. “The court questioned the way the officer made the statement and asked him to see the changes brought in the act with regard to the definition of rape in 2013. The court asked the officers whether they would have treated the dead in a similar manner if she belonged to a rich family,” Kushwaha added. Vinod Rai, additional advocate-general of state government, said: “The court has to take a decision with regard to the cremation of the victim. The case has been listed for November 2.” Besides Prashant Kumar, additional chief secretary of the home department Avanish Awasthi, director-general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi, Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar and the then superintendent of police Vikram Veer, who was suspended on October 1, were present in the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
