14-10-2020||India||Security deployed to protect Hathras victim's family & witnesses, UP tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that a three-fold protection mechanism has been put in place for security of the victim's family members and witnesses in the Hathras case in which a Dalit girl was allegedly brutally raped and died due to injuries. The state government, which earlier said that probe into the case may be conducted by the CBI in a time-bound manner, has said that the court may direct CBI to submit fortnightly status reports on the investigation to the state government which can be filed by the DGP, UP, in the Supreme Court. The UP government had expressed willingness before the top court to refer the investigation to the CBI on the ground that fake narratives were being spread about the case with political motives. Later, the matter was transferred to the CBI which has already started its probe. In a compliance affidavit filed in the top court, Yogi Adityanath government has said the state is committed to provide complete security to the victim's family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation in the case and adequate forces have been deployed for this. The state government therefore seeks indulgence of this court to be pleased to keep the above petition pending allowing the investigation by the CBI to be conducted under the supervision of this court in a time bound manner, it said. Giving details of protection and security provided to victim's family members and the witnesses, the state government has said that adequate number of security personnel, including up to 15 personnel of armed constabulary, have been deployed near and outside her house and eight CCTV cameras have been installed in the outer surrounding of her residence. The compliance affidavit was filed in pursuance to the October 6 direction of the apex court which had termed the Hathras incident as "horrible" while hearing a plea related to the case and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform it about the steps taken to protect witnesses. The Government of Uttar Pradesh is committed to provide complete security to the victim's family and the witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation, the affidavit said. It said adequate forces have been deployed to ensure protection of the members of the victim's family members -- her parents, two brothers, one sister-in-law and her grandmother -- who are residing at Chandpa village in Hathras district. The affidavit said in order to ensure the security of victim's family/witnesses, three-fold protection mechanism has been devised -- armed constabulary component, civil police component comprising of guard, gunners and shadows and installation of CCTV cameras and lights to keep watch of outer surroundings of the victim's house. It said that at the entrance of victim's village and near her house, a total of 16 police personnel, including two inspectors and four lady constables, have been deployed. It said outside the victim's house, two sub-inspectors have been deployed round the clock shift-wise and 1.5 PAC section, comprising of up to 15 personnel, have been deployed outside her house. The affidavit said guards have been deployed on rotation basis in two shifts to ensure safety of victim's family members/witnesses when they are at their residences. It said personal security gunners/shadows have been deployed for security of family members of victim and a total of 12 constables have been deployed shift-wise for this. It said eight CCTV cameras have been installed in outer surrounding of the victim's house along with fire extinguisher/fire pressure pumps and 10-12 lights have been installed in surrounding of her house. The inspector (in-charge) of police station Chandpa has been made the in-charge of the aforesaid entire arrangements and also to deploy suitable police force for the same. He shall supervise the police force and oversee the security arrangement on a daily basis, it said. The circle officer, Sadabad, is to ensure robust security arrangement by holding regular clear briefings of the police force and in addition, he shall also inform the family members about the security arrangements provided to them, the affidavit said. Further, to deal with any emergency situation, an appropriate QRT team has also been deployed. In addition, the state government has also installed eight CCTVs to ensure 24 hours surveillance/observation of the premises, it said. The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion in the privacy of the victim's family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want, the affidavit said. It said that victim's brother has informed the police in writing that they have engaged advocates on behalf of the family. However, they have requested that the government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf, it said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
14-10-2020||India||Heavy downpour kills 15 in Telengana||Fifteen people have died in Hyderabad in rain related incidents, following incessant rainfall that lashed the city and different parts of Telangana, leading to waterlogging on roads and inundation of some low-lying areas. The deaths were reported since Tuesday night as downpour triggered wall and house collapse in different places here, officials said. The state government has declared a holiday on Wednesday and Thursday for all private institutions, offices, non- essential services within Outer Ring Road here in view of rains. People were advised to stay indoors for the next two days as more rains are expected in the state. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K T Rama Rao and Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav held an emergency meeting with senior officials and reviewed the rescue and relief operations in the city. Three members of a family, including a child died in a house collapse in Gaganpahad area of Shamshabad this morning, police said. Ten people, including a toddler died in two wall collapse incidents in Chandrayangutta police station limits. In another incident, a 40-year-old woman and her daughter died after the roof of their house fell on them at Ibrahimpatnam area here after downpour on Tuesday night. Several localities in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits received very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall leading to waterlogging on several roads and low lying areas. Rivulets and other water bodies were in spate in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in the state following heavy rains and the administration has advised people not to travel on or cross such rivulets and inundated roads. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has instructed the officials of all district administrations to remain on high alert. Police teams and personnel of Disaster Response Force (DRF) of GHMC and NDRF evacuated several families from different localities that were flooded, even as rescue efforts were on in many other areas. The GHMC Mayor, Deputy Mayor, MLAs, and other elected representatives and officials have been ordered to be available in the field and continuously monitor and coordinate relief measures. Rama Rao directed the Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy district collectors to coordinate with the police and Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) department to shift people residing in low-lying areas and on the banks of Nalas and Musi rivers to relief shelters. As several trees and electricity poles were uprooted due to the deluge Rama Rao asked the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) officials to coordinate with MAUD and police to ensure power was restored at the earliest. Power supply was suspended in most parts of the state capital on Tuesday as a precaution, the officials said adding the measure was taken for public safety. Traffic jam was witnessed along Vijayawada-Hyderabad highway and commuters were advised to take alternate routes while police personnel diverted vehicular movement on city outskirts. In its weather forecast, the Met department here said thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana on Wednesday. Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places including Hyderabad on Wednesday and Thursday, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
14-10-2020||India||Governor to Uddhav: have you suddenly turned ‘secular’?||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has bluntly asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “have you suddenly turned secular?” and appealed to his “Hindutva” credentials while seeking the reopening of places of worship. In response, Uddhav reminded Koshyari that secularism was an inalienable facet of the Constitution and asked whether the governor had forgotten it after taking oath as the constitutional head of the state. Sharad Pawar, whose NCP is part of the Maharashtra coalition government, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share his “pain” over the “intemperate language” used by the governor and laying stress on the importance of the word “secular” in the Preamble to the Constitution. The BJP sought to fish in the pandemic waters by staging protests outside temples in several cities in Maharashtra, demanding that the shrines be reopened. In Mumbai, BJP workers tried to enter the renowned Siddhivinayak temple. The BJP’s spiritual front, which included sages and mahants, protested outside the Saibaba temple in Shirdi. Governor Koshyari, who had started his career as an RSS pracharak and still sports the outfit’s black inverted boat cap, in his letter in English to Uddhav on Monday urged the chief minister to “announce forthwith” the reopening of places of worship by adhering to pandemic-time precautions. The governor said it was “ironical” that bars and restaurants had been allowed to reopen while “Gods and Goddesses have been condemned to stay in lockdown”. Places of worship in Maharashtra have remained closed since the announcement of the lockdown in March. Maharashtra is India’s worst-affected state, with over 15 lakh Covid cases and more than 40,000 deaths. The state has just begun to show a downward infection trend after months of struggle. The governor wrote to the chief minister on Monday: “You have been a strong votary of Hindutva. You had publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as chief minister. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of places of worship time and again or have you turned ‘secular’ yourselves, a term you hated?” Uddhav replied on Tuesday, saying in a letter in Marathi that his “Hindutva doesn’t need a certificate” from the governor or anyone else and stressed that a decision would be taken on reopening places of worship after careful consideration. “Isn’t secularism a key component of the Constitution you swore on while taking oath as the governor of the state?” Uddhav asked in his letter, adding: “Have you forgotten it?” The chief minister alluded to the governor’s meeting with actress Kangana Ranaut, who had abandoned all civility while publicly referring to Uddhav during a run-in with the Maharashtra government last month. “Inviting people who call Mumbai PoK with smiles does not fall in my definition of Hindutva,” Uddhav wrote. He also pointed out that all three representations the governor had forwarded to him, seeking the reopening of places of worship, were from the BJP. The governor’s letter had claimed he had received demands from various quarters. “While considering the sentiments and beliefs of the people, it is also important to take care of their lives and it’s wrong to impose and lift the lockdown suddenly,” Uddhav replied. In his letter to Modi, Pawar drew a distinction between political and constitutional office. “In the very Preamble of our Constitution the word ‘Secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution,” the former Union minister wrote. “Unfortunately Hon. Governor’s letter to the Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party,” he added. The NCP leader said that while free exchange of views between the governor and the chief minister was welcome, “the tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the Constitutional post occupied by the individuals”. “I must share my pain with you and the public at the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the Hon. Governor,” Pawar wrote to Modi. Koshyari, 78, who had for long been associated with the BJP and had also been the Uttarakhand chief minister, was seen to have played a key role in the party’s failed effort to wrest power in Maharashtra through a coup last year as part of which he had sworn in Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister early in the morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Tanishq pulls ad ||Tanishq, India’s biggest jewellery brand co-owned by the Tatas, withdrew an ad that showed an apparent Muslim family organising Hindu baby shower rituals for the Hindu daughter-in-law. The ad was pulled after a bigotry-fuelled backlash, suggesting that even the Tata name can no longer guarantee the execution of business decisions. The ad faced abusive comments that accused Titan, the Tata Group firm, of promoting “Love Jihad”. “Love Jihad” is an unsubstantiated notion that Muslim men are entrapping non-Muslim women through marriage as a form of proselytisation. A Tanishq spokesperson said: “The idea behind the Ekatvam campaign is to celebrate the coming together of people from different walks of life, local communities and families during these challenging times and celebrate the beauty of oneness. This film has stimulated divergent and severe reactions, contrary to its very objective.” The spokesperson added: “We are deeply saddened with the inadvertent stirring of emotions and withdraw this film keeping in mind the hurt sentiments and well being of our employees, partners and store staff.” Titan Company Ltd, a joint venture between the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation and the Tata Group, is the owner of the Tanishq jewellery brand. Even though the TIDCO holds a 27.88 per cent stake and the Tatas 25.03 per cent, the latter manages the joint venture and, in turn, the Tanishq brand. Tamil Nadu is now governed by the AIADMK, an ally of the BJP-led NDA. After Tanishq pulled the ad, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “So Hindutva bigots have called for a boycott of @TanishqJewelry for highlighting Hindu-Muslim unity through this beautiful ad. If Hindu-Muslim ‘ekatvam’ irks them so much, why don’t they boycott the longest surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity in the world — India?” Tanishq had first disabled comments on the brand’s YouTube channel after the trolling. Once hashtags calling for the boycott of the brand trended on Twitter, the ad was taken down from YouTube and other platforms. Actress Kangana Ranaut, a new rallying figure for fundamentalists, tweeted: “This advert is wrong on many levels, Hindu bahu is living with the family for a significant amount of time but acceptance happens only when she is carrying their heir. So what is she just a set of ovaries? This advert does not only promote love-jihad but also sexism.” Deepika Padukone, the actress who had been targeted by Ranaut, is a brand ambassador of Tanishq. Several others in the film industry, such as Konkona Sensharma, Richa Chadha, Swara Bhasker and director Onir have supported the ad. Communication expert N. Chandramouli warned that the withdrawal by a brand backed by the Tatas could set the trend for others to follow. “We can’t say what the reasons are for the pullback. It’s not just the troll impact. Today, you know about those discreet calls that go to the management,” Chandramouli told The Telegraph. Last month, Tata Projects won the bid to build the new Parliament building. Chandramouli added: “Now trolls know that brands will succumb and all brands will feel this forever now. They will quote the Tanishq example and say ‘please don’t make such controversial ads…. They have set a narrative where the people who are bigots have gotten stronger and those who could have taken a stand have actually gotten weaker.” Tanishq is not the first brand to face religious bigotry. Surf Excel was trolled last year for showing a girl dropping a boy to a mosque on Holi, and saving his spotless white kurta by taking the water balloons on herself. Just before this, another Hindustan Unilever brand, Brooke Bond Red Label tea, was trolled for an ad showing a son abandoning his father at the Kumbh fair. In response, the company had tweeted: “RedLabelChai encourages us to hold the hands of those who made us who we are. Watch the heart-warming video #ApnoKoApnao.” Titan’s capitulation comes at a time when others like Bajaj Auto and Parle-G biscuits have refused to advertise on TV channels that promote “aggression and toxicity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||UP govt cremation excuse falls flat||Allahabad High Court has said the Uttar Pradesh government’s hasty cremation of the Hathras teenager without her family’s consent is “prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family”. The court said the administration so far had failed to come up with a convincing reason to justify the urgency. Responding to the Hathras district magistrate’s claim that jerry cans near the pyre “probably” carried “Ganga jal”, and not kerosene, the court said the official “as of now, could not satisfy us about observance of last rites while cremating the victim’s body as per traditions and customs of the family”. The court reminded police that the “mere absence of semen during forensic examination, though a factor for consideration, would not by itself be conclusive as to whether rape had been committed or not, if there are other admissible evidence”. The administration has been trying to suggest the girl was not raped although she had said several times she was sexually assaulted. The high court warned against “character assassination” of the victim and urged restraint by officials, political parties and the media. Efforts had been made to malign the victim by planting reports in a section of the media. Justices Rajan Roy and Pankaj Mittal of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court said in its order on Monday, made public a day later: “We do not at this stage find any good reason on behalf of the administration as to why they could not hand over the body to the family members for some time, say for even half an hour, to enable them to perform their rituals at home and thereafter to cremate it either in the night or the next day. “Admittedly, though the administration may not have categorically refused the family members to see the face of the deceased but the fact remains that it was not shown to any of them in spite of their repeated requests. Thus, the expanded fundamental right to life, to live with dignity and to exist with dignity even after death as well as the right to decent burial/cremation appears to have been infringed, hurting the sentiments of not only the family members but of all persons and relatives assembled at the spot.” The bench added: “Facts and circumstances, as of now, ex facie, reveal that the decision to cremate the victim in the night without handing over the body to the family members or their consent was taken jointly by the administration at the local level and was implemented on the orders of the district magistrate, Hathras. This action of the state authorities, though in the name of law and order situation, is prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family.” The court had earlier taken suo motu cognisance of the allegation that the police burnt the body of the brutalised and murdered Dalit teen without the consent or presence of the family. Her family has alleged that the police burnt the body at 2.30am on September 30 after locking them up. The police and the Uttar Pradesh government have denied the allegation of forcible cremation, claimed that the victim’s family was present and explained the hurry by pointing to the possibility of violence. The high court, which has titled the case “Right To Decent and Dignified Last Rites/Cremation”, will hear the matter again on November 2. The court said that denying a decent cremation was a gross violation of the fundamental rights accorded to the deceased under Articles 21 and 25 of the Constitution. “If so, who is responsible for the same so as to fix their accountability and liability and how will the family of the victim be compensated for it?” the court asked. “The government should come out with appropriate procedures as guidance for district officials to deal with such situations,” the court added in its order. The order noted that the mother of the deceased had lamented that she wanted to see the face of her daughter, but was not allowed and the body bunt at night against her wishes. “She broke down while narrating the entire story starting from the date of the incident when the girl was allegedly raped,” the order said. It specifically pointed out that the sister-in-law of the victim had accused officials of misbehaving with the family. The court said about additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar in the order: “We asked Sri Kumar as to whether it was proper for anyone not directly connected with the investigation to comment on any evidence relating to the offence (and on whether there was) rape or to draw conclusions based thereon as to whether offence was committed or not, when the investigation was still pending and such person was not part of the investigation, he fairly agreed that it should not happen.” Prashant Kumar had told journalists that the girl had not been raped as no semen had been found. The Uttar Pradesh government has taken the same stand in the Supreme Court, citing reports of forensic labs in Aligarh and Agra. The Lucknow bench said in its order: “Without in any manner intending to interfere with the right of freedom of expression, we request the media as also the political parties to air their views in a manner which does not disturb social harmony and/or infringe upon rights of the victim’s family and that of the accused. No one should indulge in character assassination of the victim just as the accused should not be pronounced guilty before a fair trial. The investigating agency and the courts should be allowed to determine these issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||China firm, Kashmir-like festering zone looms||The seventh round of military talks between India and China failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone akin to Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground, an official said. A joint statement issued by the defence ministries on Tuesday night said: “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible.” The defence ministries’ statement added: “Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” In Beijing, the Chinese foreign ministry pinpointed India’s heightened infrastructure development and military deployment along the border as the “root cause” of tensions. China iterated that Beijing does not recognise the new Union Territory of Ladakh and also Arunachal Pradesh, where 16 of the 44 bridges commissioned by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday are located. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian identified the border infrastructure on the Indian side as the main reason for the face-off between the two countries since May while responding to a specific question at a routine media conference on India opening multiple bridges, many of them providing all-weather access to the disputed border with China. “For a while, the Indian side has been stepping up infrastructure building and military deployment along the border with China. This is the root cause of tensions. We urge the Indian side to earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two sides, refrain from taking actions that will complicate the situation, and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquillity along the border,” Zhao said. The question had specifically referred to eight of the bridges being located in Ladakh and another eight in Arunachal Pradesh, drawing a sharp iteration from Zhao. “China doesn’t recognise the so-called ‘Ladakh Union Territory’ illegally set up by India, or ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, and opposes infrastructure building aimed at military contention in disputed border areas,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||SC glare on reporting ||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to lay down guidelines to restrain the media from reporting on sub-judice matters, saying publishing such issues per se amounted to contempt of court and caused “great damage” to the judiciary. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari is dealing with a 2009 contempt petition against advocate Prashant Bhushan for an interview to Tehelka magazine in which he had alleged that half of the 16 former Chief Justices of India were corrupt. Bhushan had, however, said he had no evidence to prove the claim. “The issue of sub judice also needs to be considered by your Lordships as today both the print and electronic media are freely commenting on pending matters and are seeking to influence the judges and also public perception. This is actually causing great damage to the institution. It amounts to contempt of court,” the country’s highest law officer told the bench headed by Justice Khanwilkar. Venugopal, who had earlier argued against advocate Bhushan being punished for contempt of court over tweets on the judiciary, added: “…Another trend, for example, in a case like Rafale, on the day when the bench is taking up the case, there is an article commenting about the case…. The issue needs to be addressed.” Venugopal was referring to the Rafale chopper deal.The apex court had subsequently given the government the clean chit in the case. Venugopal has been asked to assist the court in the 2009 contempt matter as the bench is formulating questions on the right of citizens to make allegations such as those Bhushan has levelled against the judiciary. “Today, when I watch some of the TV channels, I see comments being made about bail applications in pending matters which are based on statements made to the police. It has now become a trend that when a bail matter comes up for hearing, these channels flash conversations between the accused and someone else. Such things can be very damaging to the accused and the case,” Venugopal told the court. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan intervened to say that a five-judge constitution bench had in the Sahara case already laid down guidelines for the media on sub-judice matters, and no fresh parameters were required. Dhavan, quoting Scottish politician turned judge Lord James Baron Reid, said: “When Shylock’s case is on, can we tell the press not to talk about it?” Dhavan said the media could not be restrained from reporting on pending matters. The court refrained from making any observations. The bench adjourned the matter to November 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||IIT chance for students who missed  test||The Indian Institutes of Technology on Tuesday decided to give an additional attempt next year to the candidates who could not appear in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Joint Admission Board (JAB), the body comprising directors of all IITs as members, held a meeting and decided to give this relaxation as a one-time measure, a press statement issued by IIT Delhi, the organising institute, said. This year, 1.6 lakh candidates had registered for Joint Entrance Examination Advanced, while 1.51 lakh appeared for the exam. JEE Advanced is the second round test conducted by the IITs for selecting candidates for admission into BTech courses. The top 2.5 lakh scorers in JEE Main are eligible to take the JEE Advanced. A student gets two chances to take the JEE Advanced and six chances to appear in JEE Main. “It has been decided to allow all the candidates, who had successfully registered to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020 but were absent in the exam, to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2021, as a one-time measure,” the release said. These 9,000 candidates will not be required to qualify for JEE Main next year. In addition, the usual 2.5 lakh top scorers in JEE Main will be eligible to take the JEE Advanced too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Covid eats into India’s workforce||Nearly half of India’s 1,09,000 coronavirus disease deaths have occurred among patients younger than 60 years, according to data released by the Union health ministry on Tuesday that also show over 1,000 deaths among children below 17 years. The health ministry’s mortality analysis has also found that Covid-19 patients with underlying health disorders such as cardiovascular, diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney disease or cancer have a 15-fold high risk of dying than patients without such so-called comorbidities. The first such analysis after India’s Covid-19 death counts crossed 1,00,000 have corroborated earlier indications that a significant proportion of these deaths have occurred among people aged between 26 and 60 years, representing the most productive workforce years. Ten per cent of the Covid-19 deaths have occurred among patients aged between 26 and 44 years and 35 per cent among patients aged between 45 and 60 years. And given India’s large absolute numbers, the 1 per cent mortality figure translates into more than 1,000 deaths each among children below 17 years and in young people between 18 and 25 years. The analysis has validated early signals that the Covid-19 epidemic is eating into India’s workforce, causing more premature deaths in working-age people in comparison with several other countries. Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated on October 7, for instance, shows that 42,069 (21 per cent) of 1,98,809 Covid-19 deaths across the US were among people below 65 years. In India, 47 per cent of deaths are among patients below 60 years. “The massive loss of people in the workforce is likely to have devastating social and economic consequences,” said Sanjay Mohanty, a public health researcher at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai. An independent mortality analysis by Mohanty and his colleagues in June this year — when India’s Covid-19 death toll was less than 15,000 — had found that roughly 58 per cent of deaths had occurred among patients between 30 and 65 years. The health ministry’s latest mortality analysis has also underlined the risk posed by comorbidities. The overall case fatality rate among patients with comorbidities was 17.9 per cent, or nearly 15-fold higher than the 1.2 per cent case fatality rate among patients without comorbidities. The risk of death increases with age and comorbidities. The case fatality rate among patients aged 60 years or older is 24 per cent, compared with 4.8 per cent in patients of this age group without any underlying health disorder. A giant detailed epidemiological study on over 84,000 Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, published last week, had found a relatively low incidence and mortality among people above 65  years, a contrast to patterns observed in Europe and the US. The researchers who had conducted the study had speculated that people in India aged above 65 years enjoy a “survivability bias” — good health, nutrition, and other socio-economic advantages — that likely shields them from the Covid-19 infection and mortality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Guidelines for treating dual infections||The Union health ministry on Tuesday released guidelines for treating coronavirus disease patients simultaneously infected with dengue, malaria or other infections, flagging the risk of seasonal epidemics and underscoring the medical challenges of treating double infections. The health ministry has pointed out that several seasonal epidemic-prone diseases can mimic some symptoms of Covid-19 and diagnostic tests for “co-infections” with dengue, malaria, H1N1 influenza, scrub typhus or bacterial infections must be undertaken whenever suspected. Bacterial co-infections must be suspected in moderate or severe cases of Covid-19 that do not respond to treatment, the ministry said in the guidelines that also recommend different sets of diagnostic tests for malaria, viral or bacterial infections. The guidelines recommend the use of the anti-viral oseltamivir under the prescribed dosage for patients co-infected with influenza. In case of an outbreak of seasonal influenza, oseltamivir “blanket therapy” should be considered for all patients with Covid-19, the ministry said. Infectious disease specialists say the guidelines that emphasise the need for appropriate diagnosis will become increasingly relevant as long-prevalent infections hit patients already infected by Covid-19 with or without symptoms. “This was bound to happen — we’ve been expecting this. Some patients will test positive for Covid-19 along with other infections,” said Anup Warrier, an infectious disease expert in Kochi who has seen Covid-19 patients with dengue, malaria, and leptospirosis, a bacterial infection. Leptospirosis is contracted through exposure to infected rodent urine, often during the monsoon or post-monsoon months. Scrub typhyus is also a bacterial infection contracted through the bites of certain mites. Both leptospirosis and scrub typhus are easily treated with antibiotics. Warrier said co-infections could be particularly challenging because up to 80 per cent of Covid-19 infected persons might have no symptoms. When such patients turn up with a co-infection and high fever, they might be mistakenly classified only as Covid-19 positive patients. “Our approach to fevers should be just as what it was before Covid-19. We have to look for the patterns of illness and symptoms of other possible infections and rule them out,” Warrier said. The ministry’s guidelines call on doctors to maintain a high degree of suspicion for infections that are common in their geographical locations. For instance, leptospirosis and dengue outbreaks have in the past occurred in post-monsoon months. “Sometimes, managing co-infections can be tricky because treatment goals are aimed at opposite directions,” Nitin Gupta, assistant professor of infectious diseases at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, told The Telegraph. Patients with severe Covid-19 are at risk of clotting for which treatment guidelines recommend low-molecular weight heparin (LMHW), a blood thinning medication. However, dengue increases the risk of platelet depletion and bleeding that makes the use of LMWH a challenge. While symptoms such as fever or headache are shared across these infections, Gupta said, there are, however, signs and symptoms that doctors could use to differentiate between them. He recalls a patient with fever who also had red eyes and jaundice which are not typical symptoms of Covid-19. The patient was found positive for both Covid-19 and leptospirosis. Another patient with high fever and a low platelet count was found Covid-19 negative but positive for dengue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Mehbooba freed, finally||Mehbooba Mufti, one of the three former chief ministers jailed last year ahead of the scrapping of Article 370, was freed on Tuesday night after 14 months in captivity. The 61-year-old mother of two daughters was the last of the three chief ministers to be released. Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released months earlier, in March. All the three were booked under the draconian Public Safety Act. They were among thousands detained to prevent unrest over the scrapping of Article 370. Government spokesman Rohit Kansal announced late on Tuesday evening that Mehbooba was being released. Minutes later, Mehbooba’s daughter Iltija Mufti, who has been handling her mother’s Twitter account all these months, announced her release. “As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, I’d like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May Allah protect you,” she tweeted. Mehbooba’s release comes just as the deadline set by the Supreme Court to the government to explain her detention was set to expire. Last month, the apex court had asked whether her detention under the PSA can be extended beyond a year. The bench had fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday. Mehbooba was detained for months at a government facility but was later shifted to her Gupkar home some months back after it was converted into a subordinate jail. People’s Democratic Party sources said she was informed about her release in the evening. Earlier, her detention under the PSA was quashed. “She continues to be at her home. The only difference is that she is free now,” a source said. Politicians of all hues have hailed her release. “I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” Omar tweeted. A PDP spokesman announced she will address a news conference on October 16. The PDP was facing a credibility crisis and its popularity had touched an all-time low for its alliance with the BJP. The alliance broke down in 2018 after the BJP withdrew its support. Before her arrest, Mehbooba was accused of resorting to anti-national activities by the BJP for statements like “no Kashmiri will hold the Tricolour in hand if the special status was scrapped”. The prolonged detention and hardline rhetoric is likely to restore her credibility. Late in the night, Mehbooba released an audio message, urging Kashmiris to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue and restoration of state’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Opposition states explore options on GST||A serious confrontation is brewing between the Opposition-ruled states and the Centre over the goods and services tax (GST) issue as some chief ministers are exploring legal options in case their concerns are not satisfactorily addressed. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday hinted at deep disappointment among Opposition-ruled states by saying: “I was told the states raised the issues of dispute settlement and setting up a group of ministers to examine the concerns. But finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman abruptly ended the meeting and left. She didn’t answer the questions. This is not the way to wind up meeting, I was astonished. Debate, come to a consensus.” “We wanted to raise the GST issue in Parliament but we were not allowed. I know some states are exploring options. I have advised patience… let us wait for a few days, give the finance minister a few days to take a decision. After that the states will decide what they want to do,” Chidambaram said. Asked about the Kerala finance minister’s indication of moving the Supreme Court, he said: “That’s a possible view.” Describing Monday’s grand announcement by Sitharaman, Chidambaram said: “It was another sly attempt to dazzle the people with exaggerated numbers and lead them to believe that the government is hands-on and responsive to the needs of the people and the economy. It is also a candid confession that the earlier so-called ‘Rs 20 lakh crore package’ was a massive failure. It was a failure because it was a hoax. The numbers claimed this time, too. are a hoax. The fiscal impact of these announcements is estimated to be a mere 0.1 per cent of the GDP.” Expressing amusement at the use of the phrase “demand infusion” by the finance minister, he said: “I wonder if such a phrase exists. I am not a trained economist as she (Sitharaman) is but I have not heard this phrase ‘demand infusion’. You can say generate demand or stimulate demand.” He took strong objection to the directions issued to government servants on how to spend their own money, describing it as a “retrograde interference” in people’s lives. Chidambaram said: “Just as the BJP has been telling people what to eat, what to wear, what language to speak, who to love, who to marry, etc, it is now trying to control people on their spending preferences. The offer of a tax concession to 35 lakh central government employees on LTC is a pathetic attempt to induce them to spend twice that amount out of their own money to gain a small benefit on tax. If the employee fulfils all the conditions, then he/she can expect a tax benefit of Rs 300 to Rs 7,200. Let us see how many government employees will avail of the minister’s generous gift. Let us also wait for the CAG’s audit report of the scheme after 2-3 years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||CBI takes Hathras kin ‘signature’||A CBI team that visited the village of the Hathras victim on Tuesday took away one of her two brothers for several hours. The brother returned after three hours and told reporters that he had been taken to the “CBI office” and that sleuths took his signature on packets of evidence collected during the investigation earlier in the day, such as blood-marked earth and footwear. He said the CBI did not ask him any questions after taking him to its office. Local police escorted the brother back home. After the five-member CBI team had left in the afternoon, taking him with them, his father had hoped the son would be back soon. “The CBI members said they were taking my son to Chandpa police station because they would ask him some questions about the complaint he had lodged there after the incident. They said he would also be required to be present when they ask the police about the allegation that there was a delay in recording the gang-rape charge,” the father said. The CBI sleuths on Tuesday were at the crime scene for about three hours, recreating the events of September 14. Villagers said that 20 minutes into the investigation, the CBI team on Tuesday sent for the other brother of the victim. The brother was told to return home after half an hour, after which the victim’s mother was called. The mother had been taken to hospital earlier in the day after she had complained of chest pain. She remained with the sleuths for about 30 minutes before being allowed to go home. According to the family of the victim, the mother is the only witness of the crime. She and her daughter had been working in two corners of a field when the 19-year-old was assaulted. The mother had told the police that she had heard her daughter’s cries and rushed to see the four men sexually assaulting her. The CBI team, having a woman officer and accompanied by two forensic experts and over 20 policemen, also visited the agricultural field where the girl’s body was burnt by the police around 2:30am on September 30 against the wishes of her family. The investigators spent around 25 minutes in the field before going to the house of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Acid attack on 3 Dalit sisters in UP||Three young Dalit sisters were attacked with acid in their sleep in the dead of the night in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district, at a time the Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to launch a mission to prevent crimes against women and girls. Police said the sisters, aged 19, 12 and eight, were sleeping at home in Paska village when someone threw acid at them through the open door around 1am. The father of the girls, an elected member of the local block development committee, said: “I heard them crying in pain. My eldest daughter came running into our room and buried her face into my chest while shouting that their bed had caught fire. I felt my vest burning and realised that she had acid on her face.” Ram Ashish, a local police officer, said the condition of the eldest sister was serious as she had acid burns on her face. The police later arrested suspect Ashish Kumar after shooting him in the leg when he tried to escape. A farmer who had turned to spirituality has been found dead with injury marks all over his body and a priest has been assaulted over a temple land dispute in the past 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh. In Aligarh, Kunwar Pal, 65, was found dead in a field on Tuesday. An uncle said Kunwar was a religious man and used to mostly wear saffron or white. In Agra, priest Chandramauleshwar Giri, 75, had been hospitalised with injuries after being assaulted by six people on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Bihar salvage bid by Congress||The Congress high command is livid with its Bihar leadership for wrong selection of candidates and yielding too much political space to ally Rashtriya Janata Dal and has intervened with full force to salvage the situation at this late stage. Sources revealed that a coterie of state leaders played mischief not only in selection of candidates but also mysteriously agreed to change some seats despite final agreement, giving up the Congress’s claim on favourable constituencies. The in-charge of Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, is said to have strongly registered his protest. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “We started very well and extracted a good bargain from the RJD with 70 seats. But we faltered all of a sudden as vested interests of a few state leaders came into play. It showed the leadership has learnt no lessons from past mistakes and showed undue reliance on state leaders who have survived through politics of networking and accommodation. The central intervention came at a very late stage when the damage had been done.” While some central leaders have started pacifying the strong contenders who were denied tickets, the role of three Bihar leaders — state unit chief Madan Mohan Jha, legislature party leader Sadanand Singh and Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh — has been significantly curtailed. Gohil, along with general secretary in-charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, and Rahul Gandhi’s aide K. Raju will now play a decisive role in both selection of constituencies and candidates for the later phases. The mood in the party is reflected in the constitution of the election management and coordination committee headed by Randeep Surjewala, an exceptional intervention at a stage when nominations for the first phase have already been done. This committee interestingly does not include either of the three — Jha, Sadanand and Akhilesh. Other senior leaders from Bihar, who were said to be upset over the mismanagement and malpractices, like Meira Kumar, Nikhil Kumar, Anil Sharma, Tariq Anwar, Shakeel Ahmed, Shatrughan Sinha and Chandan Bagchi, have been included in this key committee. What may have significant bearing on the electoral outcome is the differences within the party on the projection of Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial candidate. Some leaders felt the leadership issue should have been kept vague even as Tejashwi was the natural choice to lead the government as that would have helped the Congress in attracting a larger chunk of forward caste votes. The RJD’s theme song — Is baar Tejashwi tay hai — has also dismayed these leaders who would have preferred much sharper focus on issues and failures of the BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar, not leadership. These leaders believe a personality clash between Nitish and Tejashwi should have been avoided as the situational logic was anyway hostile towards the ruling alliance and the wiser strategy was to exploit the public resentment. Though work has already started on a common minimum programme, these leaders prefer keeping a safe distance from the RJD and won’t be happy with a joint rally by Rahul and Tejashwi. They even claim that the alliance between the two parties was saved by Priyanka Gandhi’s intervention after preparations were made to go alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Rakhi rider in bail challenged in top court||The Supreme Court will look into a Madhya Pradesh High Court order granting bail to a man charged with forcibly disrobing a woman on the condition that he approach the complainant with the request of tying a rakhi on his wrist. A group of women lawyers and activists has challenged in the apex court the September 30 order of the high court granting the reprieve with such a condition to Vikram, who stands accused of a crime that is punishable with imprisonment up to 10 years. The petitioners’ advocate, Aparna Bhat, and others have submitted that while they are not opposed to the grant of bail to the accused, they have taken exception to the high court trivialising the alleged crime. They have also contended that the high court had chosen to pass such an order despite the fact that Parliament had in the wake of the 2012 Delhi bus gang rape and murder brought in amendments to criminal law to enhance the punishment for offences against women such as rape, stalking and outraging modesty by disrobing a woman. Vikram has been charged under IPC Sections 452 (trespass), 354A (outraging a woman by disrobing her), 323 (causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Of these, Section 354A is the most serious offence, entailing a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. The high court directed Vikram’s release on the following conditions: ⚫The accused and his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a rakhi and a box of sweets and request her to tie the rakhi on his wrist. The accused shall promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. ⚫He shall pay Rs 11,000 to the complainant as part of the customary ritual of brothers offering gifts to sisters on Raksha Bandhan and also seek her blessings. ⚫The accused shall also give Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant to purchase clothes and sweets. ⚫The accused shall furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and a solvent surety of the same amount to the trial court on the condition that he shall remain present before it during trial. The prosecution had alleged that Vikram had barged into the house of his neighbour at 2.30am on April 20 and grabbed her by the hand in an attempt to outrage her modesty. The accused had denied the allegations, saying that he had been falsely implicated by the husband of the woman as the couple owed him money. Vikram had alleged when he went to the neighbour’s house to request the repayment of the loan, the husband levelled the false accusations. The petitioners before the apex court said they were challenging the bail condition on the rakhi “since it reflects the trivialisation of a heinous crime through a simplistic stereotypical solution”. “The impugned order has been passed by a constitutional court such as a high court of a state and there is a strong likelihood that such observations and directions may result in normalising what is essentially a crime and has been recognised to be so by the law. The petitioners herein are not concerned with the merits of the order granting bail and are not challenging the grant of bail to Respondent No. 2 (accused),” their petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Jalpaiguri man held over fake admissions||The Criminal Investigating Department of Sikkim police has arrested a man hailing from Mal Bazar in Jalpaiguri district of Bengal for allegedly duping many people of crores of rupees by promising them admissions to MBBS and postgraduate courses at the Sikkim Manipal Institute of Medical Sciences (SMIMS) in Gangtok. Sumanta Gupta, 41, was arrested from Siliguri on Sunday by a CID team with the help of Bengal police. He was brought to Gangtok and produced in a court on Sunday. The police have secured four-day custody of the accused, who faces charges under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act 2000 for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and impersonation. A senior CID official said Gupta had cheated more than 40 persons of over Rs 3 crore over five years beginning 2015. Three complaints, including one by the SMIMS authorities, had been registered against him at Gangtok Sadar police station in 2015 and many more in other states of the country. “He was a wanted criminal. His case came to us a year back, and we finally managed to arrest him yesterday (Sunday),” said the official. Gupta is a former student of SMIMS, but had failed to complete his Bachelor of Physiotherapy. “His modus operandi was to approach persons and introduce himself as the dean of SMIMS. After gaining their confidence, he used to promise admission to SMIMS against payment of hefty amount. He has duped persons from different parts of the country, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Bengal and Assam,” said the official. Brig. (Dr) V.K. Mehta, the dean of SMIMS, whom Gupta used to impersonate allegedly, expressed happiness at his arrest. “We had been facing the problem of fake admission by this man and his associate for almost five years. Once I took over as dean in February 2019, people started coming to me (saying) that I had spoken to them as dean Brig. V. K. Mehta and told them to deposit some money, a few lakh rupees in some account, and told them to come and report at SMIMS for admission of their wards,” he said. Mehta said Gupta used to contact people after the Medical Council of India (MCI)-set timeline for admission was over. “He used to contact people saying that one person has left the college and there is a seat and the MCI and the ministry of health have given permission to SMIMS to admit a person against the vacant seat. ‘So, I am contacting you’. And they (the victims) used to believe because people used to be desperate for admission,” he said. The SMIMS dean said even though complaints had been registered against Gupta in 2015, not much headway was made until he lodged a separate complaint with the CID in February 2019 at the advice of a senior Sikkim police officer. “I am grateful to them (Sikkim police), especially the CID and the investigating officer, additional SP Mr Rinzing (Chopel Rai), who have taken clear pains and done very hard work to go into the depth of the case and finally, the result is there in front of us,’ said a relieved Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Cry for admissions to Sikkim colleges||Former chief minister and Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling has demanded that all students who passed their Class XII examinations earlier this year be accommodated in different colleges of the state following reports that scores of them have failed to secure admissions despite securing good marks. The plight of the students was flagged by the Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) who alleged students were being left in the lurch by the state government. “Every student has the right to go for higher studies if they have passed Class 12 board examinations successfully. By denying them this fundamental right, the state is doing gross negligence to the lives and careers of the students,” the forum said. Taking up cudgels on behalf the students, Chamling said he was saddened to see so many students being deprived of their right to higher education. “It is the prime duty of the government to protect the rights of students to education. All students who passed out of Class 12 this year must get admission into colleges in Sikkim. There are numerous colleges and universities in Sikkim today,” he said. The forum and the SDF said they were informed that some students securing 70 and 80 per cents were also unable to find admission to any of the colleges in Sikkim. “There are 28 colleges, six private universities, one central university and one state university in Sikkim. All these institutions of higher education, barring two, were established during my government… Today, I am very disappointed to know that a number of students were unable to get admission into college. Let the future of our students not be jeopardised,” said Chamling. Some of the students The Telegraph spoke to said they were indeed frustrated at not being able to secure admission to any college in Sikkim. “I had first applied to study at the Sikkim Government Law College, Burtuk. After failing to get the admission there, I wanted to take up political science at Namchi Government College, but was not successful there either. I want to pursue higher education in any government college in our state,” said Melli-resident Dinesh Chhetri, who had secured close to 66 per cent in his Class XII exams. Prayash Rai, who passed Class XII from Tadong Senior Secondary School, Gangtok with 72 per cent in humanities, said he, too, had failed to secure admission to the undergraduate course. “I tried in both the government colleges based in Gangtok, but was unsuccessful. I am yet to apply to other colleges,” he said. The SPYF demanded immediate response from the state education department. “There are many options open for the department. We want quick decision in favour of the aggrieved students. We demand the education department to resolve this urgent issue of the students immediately,” it added. G.P. Upadhaya, additional chief secretary and secretary-in-charge of education department, said the Covid-19 pandemic was partly responsible for the upsurge in the number of applicants, but the government was in a position to accommodate all the students in colleges, both government and private, within Sikkim. ‘We have 12 colleges (government) and about 5,000 seats. The number of applicants is roughly about 6,000… I am very confident, more than 100 per cent, we will be able to adjust each and every student according to his or her choice of subject, but not according to the choice of college and we will support them through scholarships if they are not able to get admission to government colleges,” he told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Congress blocks Bihar list||The Congress high command has stopped the list of candidates for the second and third phases of the Bihar Assembly elections from being issued after gross irregularities came to light in the first list of the contestants. This has led to an inordinate delay and left the probable candidates on tenterhooks, as the last date for filing nominations for the second phase is on Friday. None of the party workers of the constituencies concerned know who is going to contest the polls. A fresh list is expected on Wednesday evening. The Congress is contesting 70 out of 243 seats in the state. It is in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties. The “grand old party” had released its first list last week towards the fag end of the nomination deadline. It contained 21 candidates for the first phase of the elections on October 28. The remaining two phases would be held on November 3 and 7, with counting of votes on November 10. The top leadership of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) came to learn about the problems after several veteran party leaders started protesting when the first list came out. “Social equations were completely ignored in the first list. Ours is a national party and truly cares about all sections of the society, but undue priority was given to a couple of castes. Not a single candidate hailed from the minority community. “The list reeked of the fiefdom of a few leaders who hold our party hostage in Bihar,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. Sources in the party pointed out how two tainted leaders were made candidates from Tekari and Jamalpur, but were withdrawn later after the AICC’s intervention following an outcry from the state Congress leaders. One of them is said to be an accused in crimes against women. “Senior and dedicated party leaders or workers were ignored in the list. Preference was given to those who had connections with the leaders screening the candidates. Some do not belong to the place from where they are contesting. “ At least three candidates are newcomers and had joined our party a couple of years ago with Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who came after a long stint with the RJD, and is considered close to Lalu Prasad,” a Congress source said. Congress leaders also said that an accused in a sex scandal that happened in a Patna hotel a few years ago has been made a candidate from one of the south Bihar seats. It was due to all these issues that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and others had to intervene. They would have changed the entire list but for the paucity of time as the last date for filing nominations was very close. Still, they recalled two of the candidates from the first list. The Congress’s central election committee would finalise the names of the remaining 49 candidates on Wednesday evening after consulting senior party leaders at the Centre and in the state. However, the Congress is facing problems in finalising candidates for several seats like Maharajganj where contestants from other areas want to fight after losing their constituencies to the Grand Alliance in the seat-sharing deal. Asked about the delay in the list of candidates for the second and third phases of polls, Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha denied that there were any problems within the party. “The delay has been caused because the names of a few constituencies on which our party is to contest are yet to be finalised in consultation with our alliance partner RJD. However, the needful would be done by tomorrow (Wednesday),” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
