15-10-2020||India||PM call to scale up Covid testing, sero-surveys||Calling for continued vigilance and a high state of preparedness against the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday directed health authorities to scale up Covid-19 testing and sero-surveys and said the facility to get tested regularly and speedily at a low cost must be available to all at the earliest. Chairing a review meeting of the research and vaccine deployment ecosystem against the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister also underscored the need for continuous and rigorous scientific testing and validation of traditional medicine treatments. He appreciated the efforts of Ministry of AYUSH for conducting evidence-based research and providing reliable solutions in this difficult time, an official statement said. "The prime minister reiterated the the country's resolve to provide cost-effective, easily available and scalable solutions for testing, vaccine and medication, not only for India but for the entire world," it said. At the meeting, also attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog Member (Health), Principal Scientific Advisor, senior scientists and other officials, Modi called for continued vigilance and a high state of preparedness against the pandemic. Modi also appreciated efforts made by Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers to rise to the COVID-19 challenge and committed to continue government facilitation and support for all such efforts. The prime minister said regulatory reform is a dynamic process and experts in every current and emerging domain should be used by the regulator proactively, as many new approaches have emerged. He also took stock of the Health Ministry's comprehensive distribution and delivery mechanism for vaccines, including mechanisms for adequate procurement, and technologies for bulk-stockpiling, filling vials for distribution and ensuring effective delivery. According to the statement, the prime minister directed that both sero-surveys and testing must be scaled up and he said that the facility to get tested regularly, speedily and inexpensively must be available to all at the earliest. India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 73.07 lakh on Thursday with 67,708 new cases in the last 24 hours, while 63,83,441 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 87.35 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 1,11,266 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 680 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has, however, further declined to 1.52 per cent. There are 812390 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 11.11 per cent of the total caseload. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 9,12,26,305 samples have been tested up to October 14 with 11,36,183 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||News channel ratings suspended for now due to TRP scam ||Following the fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday announced a temporary suspension of weekly ratings of news channels across languages. The council intends to review and augment the current standards of measurement to improve on "statistical robustness", and the exercise will result in a "pause" in the weekly ratings for up to 12 weeks, an official statement said. At least five people have been arrested by the city police which busted the scam earlier this month. Those arrested include news channel employees, while the police is also questioning executives of Arnab Goswami-led Republic Media Group with regard to the case. Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. The audience estimates given by BARC influence ad spends, and the total size of the ad placements was pegged at Rs 32,000 crore annually by the police. The police allege the ratings were being rigged by inducing the homes where the monitors were placed. "In the light of the recent developments, BARC Board has proposed that it's technical committee review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres, to improve their statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes," an official statement said. The exercise would cover all Hindi, Regional, English News and Business News channels with immediate effect, it added. "BARC will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise which will last between 8 to 12 weeks and include validation and testing." "A pause was necessitated to enable the industry and BARC to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness," BARC India chairman Punit Goenka said. The industry body's chief executive Sumil Lulla said besides augmenting current protocols and benchmarking them with global standards, BARC is also exploring several options to discourage unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers and further strengthening its codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Relief operations underway in rain-hit Telangana||Relief operations were underway on Thursday in Hyderabad and other places in Telangana in the wake of heavy rains thatcaused inundation of low-lying areas, damage to property and also standing agriculture crops. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would hold a meeting with ministers and officials on Thursday afternoon on the rain relief measures. State Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar told P T I that the relief teams were working on Thursday to pump out water from localities where water stagnation was reported, to help citizens there and to restore normal traffic. He said 61 relief centres were operational and that more were being added wherever required. About 1.5 lakh food packets were being supplied and Annapurna subsidised food canteens in the city were utilised in the areas where water stagnated, he said. The relief camps would continue for a couple of days, he added. The rainfall was unprecedented in and around Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and that the government machinery was successful in containing human loss and loss of property, he said. An official release said the Chief Minister has instructed officials to come to the meeting convened by him with details regarding the losses suffered in their respective departments. The meeting would discuss the rehabilitation measures taken, additional measures to be taken and the issues to be mentioned in a report to be submitted to the Centre, the release said. State Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavati Rathod held a meeting with officials on the rain relief measures in Warangal, official sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Modi govt confronted by 18th century wisdom||Little else is requisite to carry a state to the highest degree of opulence from the lowest barbarism, but peace, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice; all the rest being brought about by the natural course of things — Adam Smith The words of the Father of Economics from the 18th century were confronting the 21st-century government in India on Wednesday after an IMF report began drawing attention across the country. Quoting an IMF projection, Rahul Gandhi tweeted that Bangladesh was set to overtake India in 2020 in terms of per capita GDP — a measure of a country’s economic output per person. “Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India,” the Congress leader tweeted. By evening, it had been re-tweeted 11,500 times and had drawn over 34,000 likes. Later in the day, Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee too posted a tweet on the same topic before questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “5 trillion (economy) dream”. Going by the IMF report, released on Tuesday, India’s GDP is projected to shrink 10.3 per cent ending March 31, 2021, while that of Bangladesh is expected to grow 3.8 per cent. In terms of absolute numbers, this means India’s per capita GDP is likely to be $1,877, the lowest in four years, while that of Bangladesh will be $1,888. Although the comparison is not based on purchasing power parity, an economic term for measuring and comparing prices in different countries, Rahul’s tweet — accompanied by a graph that showed India was far ahead of Bangladesh on the same parameter in 1981 — made headlines both in India and Bangladesh. (The IMF’s World Economic Outlook does give the GDP figures at current prices in PPP basis for both countries in its database. Bangladesh: $1.39 trillion in 2025 and India: $13.91 trillion.) “The IMF report doesn’t come as a surprise as Bangladesh has been growing steadily since 2009-10,” said Ashikur Rahman, senior economist, Policy Research Institute of Bangladesh. Rahman said the Sheikh Hasina government’s success in bringing peace and stability, creating infrastructure and ensuring macroeconomic stability had helped Bangladesh achieve a steady growth path. “Our PM created the right environment for the country and it made all the difference. Today, our economy is resilient enough to absorb shocks,” the Bangladeshi economist said. The changes brought about by Hasina spurred export growth and a steady increase in the rates of savings and investment in the past decade or so. Rahman said Dhaka’s foreign exchange reserve was more than $40 billion -- enough to pay for six months’ import bill. In India, exports have fallen in recent years. Savings and investments, too, have declined. Although India is not worse off than the eastern neighbour on these two counts now, Bangladesh is projected to fare better than India in 2022 and 2023. Instead of making news on its economic performance, India has made headlines for the rise in communal strife (which undermined peace), chaos over the system of taxation (which curbed business activities) and regular complaints about the absence of justice (which stymied individual enterprise). The factors Smith had cited in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations as catalysts for a country’s transition to a state of opulence are indeed missing in India. According to IMF projections, India will be the third-poorest country in South Asia, after Pakistan and Nepal. Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and the Maldives are expected to be ahead of India. Left economist Prasenjit Bose said the most important projection by the IMF World Economic Outlook is that India’s GDP will contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, the sharpest fall among all emerging markets and developing economies. “This is quite a fall from being the ‘fastest-growing major economy in the world’,” he said. Comparing India’s per capita GDP with that of Bangladesh alone is somewhat arbitrary as South Asia as a whole continues to be among the world’s poorest regions, and the entire region is going to suffer a shock on account of the global recession, Bose said. “Instead of looking at per capita GDP, we should also look at human development indicators like health outcomes and gender development index, on which Bangladesh has been doing better than India for quite a few years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Test for President on non-existent ‘Muslim Regiment’||As many as 120 military veterans have written to the President seeking “firm and immediate action” against those spreading false propaganda about a non-existent “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army that had refused to fight during the 1965 war with Pakistan. The letter, which cites several instances of valour and selfless sacrifice by Muslim soldiers, has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that the “secular and apolitical character” of the army is preserved.  The President is the  supreme commander of the armed forces. The veterans have said the genesis of the campaign of falsehood lies in a May 2013 tweet by the account holder @120croreHindus-World Hindus United that claimed that “in 1965 there was a regiment in Indian Army called Muslim Regiment which refused to fight against Pakistan after which it was dismantled”. The letter points out that the tweet had been shared by hundreds since then and the false claim had again reared its head amid the border standoff with China. “The tweet was meant to show that Muslim soldiers had their loyalties to Pakistan rather than India. The ‘Muslim Regiment’ post has been re-tweeted many times thereafter, and its insidious surfacing during the ongoing Chinese aggression is certainly suspect,” the veterans have said in the letter. According to them, the post “questions the loyalty of all serving and retired Muslim soldiers”. The veterans said in the letter: “Further, it helps the enemy by striking at the morale of India’s soldiers to degrade their operational capability.” “These ‘Muslim Regiment’ posts are blatantly false, because the Indian Army did not have a Muslim Regiment in 1965 or since. Some senior-ranking veterans have unequivocally pointed out the false nature of these posts,” the letter says. Written by former navy chief, Admiral L. Ramdas, and endorsed by 119 other veterans, the letter is addressed also to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. The veterans have said that “Muslims fighting as part of multi-class regiments proved their absolute commitment to the cause of our nation” and cited the example of Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, who had been posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, India’s highest military award, for his courage in the Battle of Asal Uttar during the 1965 India-Pakistan war. “Also in the 1965 war, Major (later Lt Gen) Mohammad Zaki and Major Abdul Rafey Khan were both awarded the Vir Chakra, the latter posthumously, when he fought against the Pakistani division commanded by his own uncle, Maj Gen Sahibzada Yaqub Khan. Such are the legends of Muslim warriors,” the letter points out. Citing the instance of Brigadier Mohammad Usman who chose to remain in the Indian Army in spite of being approached personally by Muhammed Ali Jinnah to move to Pakistan, the letter says: “He fought the Pakistani invasion in Kashmir, was the senior-most officer killed in action in July 1948, and was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra for his gallantry. He lies buried in the Jamia Millia Islamia campus in Delhi.” The signatories have noted that such fake posts are an attack on India’s armed forces. “Remaining apolitical and secular has been an article of faith for every soldier, sailor and airman, both at the institutional and individual levels. Every soldier swears to protect the Constitution of India…,” the letter says. Appealing to the President to “ensure that the secular and apolitical character of our armed forces is preserved and to adhere unwaveringly to the vision and spirit of the Constitution of India, which spells out the framework for our nation and its people”, the signatories have sought the following actions: ⚫ Investigate the antecedents of the individuals who have made the social media posts on the “Muslim Regiment” ⚫  Identify and charge such individuals for anti-national activities ⚫ Issue warning to the social media platforms (Facebook and Twitter) that have not acted against the posts ⚫ Issue immediate instructions to all state governments to take immediate action against false and seditious messages on social media so that national security is not jeopardised. Last week the fact-checking portal Alt News had published a report on how social media was brimming with claims that a “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army had refused to fight in India’s 1965 war with Pakistan. Several users have referred to the posts to question the “loyalty” of Muslim candidates to be appointed as IAS and IPS officers. Recently, the Right-wing media outlet Sudarshan News had started a television series on a “conspiracy” by “Jihadi elements” to “infiltrate the government service”, before the Supreme Court halted the series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Scientists question agency’s ‘super dung’ claim||Sections of Indian scientists have questioned claims by a Union government agency tasked with the conservation and protection of cows that dung can shield people from radiation. The scientists have said if the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is unable to support its claims through scientific data, the assertion should be tantamount to propagating superstition and pseudoscience and against Article 51A(h) of the Constitution. The RKA, an agency established last year under the Union ministry for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy, had on Monday announced a nationwide campaign to promote candles, incense sticks, lamps and wallclocks, among other products made from cow dung. At a media conference, RKA chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria had also claimed cow dung could shield people from radiation. “Cow dung can protect everybody. It is anti-radiation. It prevents radiation. If it comes home, the entire home will be eco-friendly, free of radiation. This has been proven through science,” Kathiria said. He also held up a device that he claimed could be used to reduce radiation from mobile phones. More than 100 scientists from multiple academic institutions have signed on a public statement that calls on the RKA to share detailed information about the scientific experiments that Kathiria had claimed established the anti-radiation traits of cow dung. “Can the data and experimental details be provided? What experimental controls were used? Which instrument was used to measure radiation? Which type of radiation was measured? How many instruments of each type of phone and how many such phone types were used in the experiment?” they have asked. The scientists have requested Kathiria to make these details public. “If, in case you do not have valid data to support your claims, then your press conference is equivalent to propagating superstition and pseudoscience, which goes against Article 51A(h) of the Constitution,” they said. They have pointed out that Article 51A(h) says “it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to develop scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform”. The statement circulated in scientific circles on Wednesday evening drew more than 100 signatories within three hours of its release. The signatories include scientists and researchers at Delhi University; the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta; the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. Some signatories said they were not surprised by the claims and pointed to efforts by even the government’s science department to support research on cow-based science. Last year, scientists had questioned a plan by the Union science and technology ministry to fund research studies to identify ingredients in cow dung, urine and milk for use in medicines, toothpastes and shampoos. The ministry’s proposal had cited several ayurvedic texts and claimed that products from cows were prescribed for health disorders ranging from asthma and arthritis to cancer and high blood pressure. The scientists had described the proposal as “flawed” as it had presumed the efficacy of various cow products. Three years ago, the science and technology ministry had set up an expert panel to initiate an effort to validate research on panchgavya — a five-ingredient mixture of cow dung, urine, milk, ghee and curd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Tanishq predator followed by Modi||A Twitter user who flagged the Muslim identity of a manager with the jewellery brand Tanishq and linked him to the bigotry-derailed advertisement that promoted communal harmony is followed by both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Hardik Bhavsar’s post from the Twitter handle @bittu_tufani had triggered online threats against the Titan employee, and it’s this that prompted the company to pull the ad on Tuesday, industry news website Melt said citing unnamed sources. The ad promoting the Ekatvam line of Tanishq jewellery, owned by a joint venture between a Tamil Nadu PSU and the Tata group, showed a Muslim family organising Hindu baby shower rituals for its Hindu daughter-in-law. It triggered vicious trolling. On Tuesday, Tanishq pulled the ad, keeping in mind the hurt sentiments and well-being of employees, partners and store staff. The Advertising Standards Council of India, the industry’s self-regulatory panel, has said the ad contained nothing “indecent or vulgar or repulsive” enough to cause “grave and widespread offence”. The unanimous conclusion was reached after the council received a complaint against the ad. Melt said in a report on Tuesday: “An employee of Tanishq – and his family – was trolled mercilessly and threatened with his life. That one detail was provocation enough for the company to decide to pull the communication -– even if the company remained convinced that the ad was well-intentioned and not remotely disturbing. There was only one overriding reason for the decision: the safety of the employee in question.” Complaints about Twitter trolls being followed by the Prime Minister have arisen in the past too, only for the BJP to make light of it. In 2017, in response to outrage over people followed by the Prime Minister celebrating the assassination of Bangalore journalist Gauri Lankesh, the head of the BJP’s IT cell, Amit Malviya, had described Modi as “a rare leader who truly believes in free speech”. He had added: “(The) PM following someone is not a character certificate of a person and is not in any way a guarantee of how that person conducts himself.” On Monday, Bhavsar had shared a screenshot of the LinkedIn profile of a man with a Muslim-sounding name who described himself as a “Brand Manager - Tanishq (Media and Communications)” in Bangalore. Bhavsar, who boasts in his Twitter biography about being followed by the Prime Minister, tweeted about the manager: “He is the man behind this anti-Hindu ad and campaign. He is brand manager @TanishqJewelry now you all know what to do #BoycottTanishq.” After the manager appeared to have deleted his LinkedIn profile, Delhi-based Right-wing lawyer Prashant Patel Umrao tweeted the manager’s RocketReach profile where his mobile number and email address can be accessed. Several thousand people repeated the tweets by Bhavsar and Patel, and #BoycottTanishq was among the top trends in India for about two days. Queries from this newspaper to a spokesperson for the jewellery firm evoked no response. A source in Bangalore said the manager had changed his phone number after the controversy broke out. Both Patel and Bhavsar, who displays a purported image of himself with Modi and some others as his Twitter background, are followed by several BJP ministers and leaders. Bhavsar had targeted then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj in 2018 after she helped a Hindu woman who had complained of being denied a passport renewal as she had married a Muslim and still used her maiden name. Sushma’s intervention not only solved the woman’s problem but led to the transfer of an official who had allegedly taunted the woman with bigoted remarks, all of which left Bhavsar and his tribe fuming. On Tuesday night, the Advertising Standards Council of India said it had “received a complaint against the Tanishq advertisement, stating it to be objectionable since it promoted communal intermingling”. “The advertisement in question was viewed at ASCI by an independent multi-stakeholder panel -- the Consumer Complaints Council, which balances viewpoints from industry, civil society, lawyers, consumer activists as well as domain experts,” the statement said. “This panel was unanimous that nothing in the advertisement was indecent or vulgar or repulsive, which is likely in the light of generally prevailing standards of decency and propriety, to cause grave and widespread offence. “The complaint was not upheld, as the advertisement did not violate the ASCI codes of honesty, truthfulness and decency in advertising. Therefore ASCI has no objection to the airing of this advertisement, should the advertiser choose to do so.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Rap on Jagan for bid to ‘overawe judiciary’ ||The Bar associations of the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court have strongly condemned Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s allegation of judicial impropriety against Justice N.V. Ramana as an attempt to “scandalise” and “overawe the independence” of the judiciary. In addition, two advocates on Wednesday filed a joint petition in the Supreme Court seeking contempt proceedings against Jagan and his removal as chief minister for his “scandalous” remarks against Justice Ramana, the second senior-most judge of the apex court and the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India. In a letter to the CJI, Jagan has accused Justice Ramana of favouring the chief minister’s political rival and Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu. Jagan has also alleged that Justice Ramana’s daughters had purchased land under questionable circumstances in Amravati before the site was chosen for the new Andhra capital. “The SCAORA (Supreme Court Advocates on Records Association) notes with deep anguish the contents of the letter dated 06-10-2020 written by a Chief Minister to the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, concerning a sitting judge of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, next in line to become the Chief Justice of India,” the top court’s bar association secretary, S. Joseph Aristotle, said in a statement on Wednesday. “The SCAORA condemns the act of the unwanted release of the said letter on 10.10.2020 in a press conference… as it tends to scandalise and breach the independence of the judiciary,” the statement added. The Delhi High Court Bar Association said in a separate statement that the letter written by Jagan was highly contemptuous and an attempt to overawe the judiciary. “…The writing and circulation of the ill-founded letter dated 06.10.2020 written by Shri Jagan Mohan Reddy to Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, which unfairly and without reason casts serious aspersions on the alleged conduct of Hon’ble Mr Justice N.V. Ramana, judge Supreme Court, and Hon’ble judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh is an abject and uncalled for interference in the due administration of justice by the Honble High Court of Andhra Pradesh,” Abhijat, secretary of the association, said. The Bar association pointed out that Justice Ramana has been “one of the most virtuous judges with the highest level of integrity”.“The Delhi High Court Bar Association further unequivocally, categorically and in the strongest possible terms condemns the allegations cast upon Hon’ble Mr Justice N.V. Ramana,” the outfit added. Multiple judicial sources had told The Telegraph earlier this week that there was more to Jagan’s letter than meets the eye. Justice Ramana is scheduled to become the next CJI on April 24, 2021, and demit office on August 26, 2022. The judicial sources in New Delhi suspect that Justice Ramana is being targeted because he is heading a bench that has recently passed a series of orders to the Centre, states, Union Territories and all high courts to expedite the trial of criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country within a year. They suspect that attempts are underway to scuttle the initiative to expedite the cases. The issue had been pending with the apex court since 2017. Jagan himself is an accused in corruption cases and had served close to 16 months in jail as an Opposition leader in a disproportionate assets case. The trial against him is on the verge of completion. On October 6, the date mentioned on the letter, Jagan had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the stated purpose of discussing development projects. In the Supreme Court on Wednesday, advocates G.S. Mani and Pradeep Kumar Yadav drew attention to the cases against Jagan. According to the petition, which is yet to be formally listed, Jagan is “facing more than 30 criminal cases, including (those of) money laundering and corruption, in the court which are very serious in nature”. “In order to get personal gain or benefit from the court by abusing his power and post as the Chief Minister of AP State, (Jagan) is openly making false, vague, scandalised remarks and political allegations against a sitting judge of the Supreme Court only to tarnish the image of the judiciary in the public mind,” the petition said, seeking contempt of court proceedings against the YSR Congress politician. The advocates urged the apex court to take appropriate action against Jagan for his removal as chief minister and also order a CBI probe into the intention behind his allegations against Justice Ramana. A conviction and harsh sentencing in a corruption case can seal the fate of political careers for long. A convict can stand disqualified for six years from contesting elections from the date when the actual sentence ends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Cong seeks Yogi govt dismissal||The Congress on Wednesday asked the Centre to immediately dismiss the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh because of the alarming rise in crime in the state. “Criminals feel emboldened in Uttar Pradesh because of the government’s patronage. They know no harm can be done to them under the Yogi government. The intent of the government, more than its ability, is suspect. The Centre should send out a firm message by dismissing the government,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. Pointing out that the 2019 National Crime Records Bureau data showed Uttar Pradesh leading in heinous crimes such as murder, rape and kidnapping, Khera said, “The confidence of criminals is very high. Where do they derive their strength from? It is from the government’s attitude. We saw in the cases of Kuldeep Sengar and Chinmayanand and now in Hathras that the administration was trying to save the criminals.” Khera said after the horrific crime in Hathras that triggered a national outcry, a five-year-old girl was raped on Wednesday again. “This shows the criminals do not fear rule of law. Yesterday, acid was thrown on three sisters sleeping in their home. Priests are being killed. The criminals draw their strength from the government’s attitude. They have seen the government resorts to victim-shaming and character assassination of girls who faced violence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||India silent on Pak talks claim||The external affairs ministry is maintaining a studied silence on the claim by an adviser to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan that India has expressed a desire for “conversation”. If the claim of Imran’s adviser for national security and strategic policy planning, Moeed Yusuf, is true, it will mark a major departure from New Delhi’s stated position that talks and terror cannot go hand-in-hand. It also comes at a time India and China are locked in a border standoff and there have been allegations of cooperation between Beijing and Islamabad. The two countries have not had a structured dialogue for four years now; and diplomatic relations also stand downgraded since August 5, 2019, when Pakistan decided not to send a high commissioner to India in protest against the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and asked India to withdraw its senior-most diplomat in Islamabad. Yusuf made the claim during an interview with Karan Thapar for The Wire news portal. The interview was aired on Tuesday evening, but the external affairs ministry has neither confirmed nor denied the claim officially. There was no reaction unofficially either. Repeated questions by journalists on a WhatsApp group of reporters covering the external affairs ministry and officials remained unanswered through the day. “We have got a message for a desire for conversation,” Yusuf said in the interview but did not provide any details on when New Delhi had reached out to Islamabad or at what level. Asked how the two countries could improve their relations and move forward, the academic, who returned from the US a year ago to become part of Pakistan’s strategic establishment, said: “In the past year, we have got messages about the desire for conversation.” Yusuf went on to add that his assessment was that the outreach was made only to show to the world that Pakistan and India had talked and resolved issues. “We want real dialogue,” Yusuf added, listing the Kashmir issue and ending “India-sponsored terrorism” in Pakistan as the two key matters that needed to be addressed. His comments appeared to be an effort to turn the tables on New Delhi, which had called off dialogue with Pakistan because of repeated terror attacks emanating from Pakistani soil. “There has to be an enabling environment to talk.… Create that and you will find us willing the next day,” Yusuf said. Asked who had sent the message for talks, he denied it was through any back channel and brushed off attempts to pin him down by saying: “There are multiple ways to get messages across. You will be embarrassed if I tell you.…” As for dialogue on Kashmir, Yusuf said it had to involve the Kashmiris as there were three parties to the conflict — India, Pakistan and Kashmiris. Through the 75-minute interview, Yusuf’s refrain was that India had lost the plot in Kashmir and New Delhi was sponsoring terrorism in Pakistan through its diplomatic missions in Afghanistan. The adviser went to the extent of alleging that the Indian consulate in Jalalabad had been used by the handlers of the terror attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar in 2014 in which over 100 children were killed. Prior to moving back to Pakistan in September 2019 to be the chairperson of the country’s Strategic Policy Planning Cell under the National Security Division, Yusuf was vice-president of the Asia Centre at the Washington-based United States Institute of Peace, a federal institution. In December 2019, he was made the Pakistan Prime Minister’s special adviser on national security and strategic planning. American academic and a scholar of South Asian political-military affairs, Christine Fair, had accused Yusuf of being an asset of the Pakistani deep state in US academia, complaining about him to the FBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Ex-UDF ally joins Left||Kerala Congress (Mani), an influential regional party, on Wednesday joined the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in a significant political realignment in the southern state. The decision came more than three months after the Congress-led United Democratic Front ousted its alliance partner over differences with a rival Kerala Congress faction led by P.J. Joseph. Jose K. Mani, son of K.M. Mani who helmed the party for decades, announced the decision in Kottayam and informed that he would resign from the Rajya Sabha on “moral grounds” as he was elected by the UDF. Reacting to Joseph’s demand that Jose should also vacate the two Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat, Jose said by that logic even the UDF should quit several seats won with his party’s support.“We don’t have any precondition for joining the LDF and did not discuss anything with them as yet,” Jose said, adding that the Congress and the UDF had humiliated him and the party. “We faced severe humiliations and character assassination at the hands of some leaders in the UDF,” Jose said, blaming a section in the Congress-led front of trying to destroy his party. “The UDF leaders were not ready to sort out the issues, but instead gave tacit support to him (Joseph) to hijack our party,” Jose added. The Jose faction, with a considerable base among Christians in central Kerala, was ousted from the UDF in June over a tussle with the Joseph faction on helming the Kottayam panchayat president’s post. The UDF and Joseph had then maintained that according to the agreement, the Jose faction would hold the president’s post for eight months and let a nominee of the Joseph faction take over for the remaining six months. However, Jose had refused to budge citing lack of a written agreement, which snowballed into a huge uproar within the UDF. “Have you ever heard of any party being expelled like this over a local body? We were with the UDF for 38 years and yet they sacked us for this,” said Jose, whose father has been a mainstay in the alliance, barring two years when he too had sided with the LDF. Mani had switched over to the LDF in 2016, but returned when Congress offered a Rajya Sabha seat ignoring strong opposition in its own fold. But unity within Kerala Congress (Mani) became a mirage after Mani’s death in April last year that led to a power struggle between Jose and Joseph. In the ensuing Assembly polls for Pala constituency, which Mani represented for 54 years, the LDF had scored a big win by fielding Nationalist Congress Party’s Mani C. Kappan. While there were rumours in political circles that LDF would have to yield Pala to Jose, who would most likely return to state politics, Kappan had told a news conference that no such discussion was held within the alliance. Of the five MLAs who won on Kerala Congress (Mani) tickets, two belong to the Jose camp. They also have a member in the Lok Sabha. While the ruling LDF has 91 seats in the Assembly, UDF has 42, Kerala Congress (Mani) two, one Independent, a lone BJP member, and three vacancies. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed the decision taken by Kerala Congress (Mani) and said the LDF would hold discussions to work out an arrangement. State Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran likened Jose’s decision to “boarding a sinking ship.” “Jose should remember how the Titanic sank,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Valley politics back on feet||The release of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti from year-long detention on Tuesday has given a fillip to political activities in Kashmir with foe-turned-friend National Conference calling for an all-party meeting to devise a strategy to fight the scrapping of Article 370. If allowed, Thursday’s planned session will be the first all-party meeting in the Valley in more than a year. No political activities were allowed in the Valley for months following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year as the government enforced an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade. Thousands, including top politicians — both separatists and pro-India leaders — were arrested. Most of them have since been released. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba was the last of the three jailed former chief ministers to be released. NC president Farooq Abdullah and son Omar, the other two ex-chief ministers, were released in March. The father and son were among dozens of politicians who visited Mehbooba at her residence in Srinagar on Wednesday. Omar later told reporters that he had invited Mehbooba to a meeting of all major political parties of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. Sources said other parties, including the People’s Conference, have also been invited. Omar said all parties that were signatories to last year’s Gupkar Declaration had been invited. The declaration was a joint resolve of all major parties from the so-called pro-India camp to fight the proposed changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir. Despite opposition, the Centre went ahead with its decisions to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate the state into Union Territories. “My father and I called on Mehbooba Mufti Sahiba this afternoon to enquire about her well-being after her release from detention. She has kindly accepted Farooq Sb’s invitation to join a meeting of the Gupkar Declaration signatories tomorrow afternoon,” Omar tweeted after the meeting. Mehbooba thanked Farooq and Omar for the visit. “It was nice of you & Farooq sahab to come home. It gave me courage listening to him. I am sure together we all can change things for the better,” Mehbooba replied to Omar. The PDP president was dressed in her trademark green colour when she received the guests at her home. Omar said Wednesday’s meeting with Mehbooba was apolitical as the Abdullahs only wanted to know how she was doing. He said Thursday’s proposed meeting would review the political situation and discuss the future agenda. Sources, however, said the leaders spoke about the August 5 decisions and their consequences on Jammu and Kashmir’s polity. “There were no differences. There was only unanimity that parties should come together to fight the designs of the Hindutva forces that want to alter the demography of this place. There is a possibility of forging a formal alliance of major parties to fight their agenda,” a PDP source said. The NC and the PDP had been bitter rivals but the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status has brought them and many others together. Mehbooba on Tuesday made her intentions clear when she not only called for restoration of Article 370 but also pledged to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “I have been released after more than a year. All this time the black decision of the black day continued to haunt me. I believe it is how all Jammu and Kashmir residents felt. None of us can forget the daylight robbery of that day,” she said in an audio message. “We have to pledge to get back what was snatched through that illegal and unconstitutional decision. Also, we have to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue for which thousands sacrificed their lives. I know the road is not smooth but I hope our determination will show the way,” Mehbooba said in an audio message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Shamed by cops, easy meat for cyber bullies||What happens to some of those who become the butt of ridicule on social media because an unfortunate moment in their life gets recorded, criss-crosses the world in a matter of hours, entertains others and then refuses to go away? It has been close to seven months since a video clip of policemen in Kerala dragging 21-year-old S. Anandapadmanabhan out of his car for alleged violation of Covid-19 restrictions went viral and left him traumatised. An overzealous police inspector had literally pulled him out of his car on March 26 citing violation of the restrictions imposed as Kerala started its battle against Covid-19. In spite of the young man pleading that he was heading to buy some bananas and medicines, the officer had bundled him into a waiting police van and later booked him for the alleged offence. Around 7pm, less than nine hours after the incident, Anandapadmanabhan received a WhatsApp call from a friend abroad. “He got the video from his friend and was shocked to see me getting caught by the police,” Anandapadmanabhan told The Telegraph earlier this week, alluding to the speed with which the visual went viral. Seven months down the line, despite paying a penalty and closing the case, Anandapadmanabhan is a victim of aggressive cyber bullying and public scrutiny that forced him to quit his job and he even contemplated suicide. “I used to work as a customer relations executive with Airtel in Technopark (in Thiruvananthapuram). But I couldn’t take it anymore since everyone I meet identified me as that guy who violated Covid protocols from the video that is still doing rounds,” Anandapadmanabhan said. Within a month of the incident, the young man had thought of ending his life. “I was on the brink and thought of ending everything. So I called the police control room and told them I was going to hang myself. Calls from the police commissioner’s office and the control room stopped me from killing myself,” said the distraught man seeking justice. Soon after the harrowing incident of the police inspector yelling at him and dragging him out of his car and putting him into a waiting police van at Paripally in Kollam, Anandapadmanabhan had become popular for all the wrong reasons. The video filmed by a YouTube channel based in Kollam had instantly gone viral. Several YouTube channels featured the video clip glorifying the police action and castigating Anandapadmanabhan. Most of them basically made fun of the young man seen pleading with the police to let him go. While some channels appeared to have pulled them out, others are still available on YouTube. Soon after the incident, BJP Rajya Sabha member and popular actor Suresh Gopi had come out in support of the officer who faced criticism for trying to enact the title role in the 2005 action thriller Bharathchandran IPS, which was played by Gopi. “Those who criticise the police officer should be slapped,” Gopi had said. “People should realise that the army would be called if things go out of their (police’s) hands. The army does not distinguish between Malayalis and others,” Gopi had said in a terse warning to violators of Covid protocols. There were many who backed the police officer who offered to buy bananas and any essential commodities for Anandapadmanabhan. “I will give you my number. I am Paripally CI (circle inspector). Whenever you want to buy bananas and medicines you can call me. I will get them for you,” the officer later identified as circle inspector Rajesh Kumar could be heard saying in the video after stopping Anandapadmanabhan. Many lauded the inspector’s offer since Kerala policemen were already winning praise for running errands for households to make them stay at home. A day after the incident, the inspector visited Anandapadmanabhan at his home to sort out the issue. “He had promised me to get all the videos blocked. But my initial hopes were dashed as more people posted the video to make fun of me,” said the youngster who lives with his parents and younger brother. The inspector was later shifted to another district on a routine transfer. But nothing mattered to the young man more than dignity. “After that video went viral, even my neighbours see me as some criminal,” he said. “The other day I was in Thiruvananthapuram to repair my laptop. It was so painful when a guy in the shop was heard telling his colleague if he could identify me. Then the two of them had a good laugh saying that I was that guy caught for driving out to buy bananas,” he said. It was precisely this kind of public response that made him quit his job. “Client calls became very difficult since I was received with glares and jeers,” he claimed. All he wanted was justice so that he could lead a normal life. “I am ready to go to court to get justice. All I want is the removal of the offensive content that would otherwise haunt me for life,” he said. “I have sent several written complaints to the Kollam police commissioner, but there has been no action so far,” he claimed. But Kollam police commissioner T. Narayanan told this newspaper that his office had acted without delay on all the complaints filed by Anandapadmanabhan. “The first complaint was received within a week of the incident. So far we have received three or four complaints about the YouTube videos,” said the police chief. “Each of the complaints have been followed up with letters on our own letterpads to the authorities concerned to get the videos blocked. We had even sent reminders to each of the complaints,” he said. When told that some material had since then cropped up on Instagram, Narayanan said he was more than ready to help Anandapadmanabhan. K. Venkatesh Murthy, director of Data Security Council of India, an initiative of the IT sector trade body, Nasscom, told this newspaper that even the aggrieved party could approach the social media channels to block such content. “Under the law, as per Section 69A of Information Technology Act, 2000, a request can be submitted to the nodal officer designated by the state/central organisation for blocking of access to any content under question,” he said. The complaint is then intimated to the ministry of electronics and IT. “The designated officer will then try to identify the person concerned or intermediary that is hosting the problematic content to submit their reply and clarifications if any, before the committee set up for examination of offending information,” he said. He said court orders were sufficient to block offensive online content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Ministers absent, farmers walk out||Farmers’ organisations from Punjab, who had gone to Delhi on Wednesday after the Centre invited them for talks to address their concerns over the new farm laws, walked out of the meeting when they found that no minister was present. With neither agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar nor his junior present at the meeting convened by the ministry, the representatives of 29 farmers’ organisations left Krishi Bhavan and shouted slogans and tore copies of the bills on the lawns. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the bills that the Narendra Modi government steamrollered through Parliament. The protests have been the loudest in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana. Modi has insisted the bills favour farmers and his government invited them for talks. “No proper discussion took place. Neither Union agriculture minister nor junior ministers were present to hear our concerns. We asked why the minister is not meeting us…. There was no proper response,” Darshan Pal, member of the coordination committee of 29 farmers’ organisations, said later. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal was chairing the meeting, he said. Most of the participants were senior citizens who had arrived in Delhi by bus from Punjab amid the pandemic. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal termed the minister’s absence from the meeting an “insult” to “annadatas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Rap versus rap in Bihar poll battle||It is now rap versus rap in poll-bound Bihar. The BJP on Tuesday released a Bhojpuri song, Bihar main e ba (Bihar has got this), to counter Bambai main ka ba (What is there in Bombay) featuring actor Manoj Bajpayee and Bihar main ka ba (What is there in Bihar), which have emerged as the cult anthem among the Opposition and the people alike. The Bajpayee–starrer Bhojpuri rap video, made by director Anubhav Sinha, poignantly highlights the plight of migrant workers in the backdrop of the crisis that they faced amid the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. It also talks about unemployment, hunger, lawlessness, and lack of basic facilities in Bihar. The song was released around a month ago and quickly raked in around seven million views on YouTube; it was deemed as a sharp criticism of the Bihar government that has failed to safeguard the interest of the poor. Bihar main ka ba, a rap sung by Neha Singh Rathore is like a parody on Bambai main ka ba, but talks about the ills plaguing Bihar, which goes to polls in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The two songs have been sung, played and showcased across Bihar right from tea stalls to households and small functions organised under the Covid-19 regulations much to the chagrin of the ruling parties — chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the BJP. Both the parties kept downplaying the two songs while trying to showcase their achievements during their rule in the state. But the BJP thought it prudent to imitate the Bambai main ka ba to present the NDA’s works. The Bihar main e ba rap, released by the BJP, says it is “a reply to those who were asking what is there in Bihar. They are now seeing what is in Bihar”. The 2.35-minutes video song takes recourse to aerial shots of infrastructure in the state and talks about the presence of an IIT, IIM and AIIMS in Bihar, better healthcare facilities, education, easily available line of credit for entrepreneurs, rising opportunities, and welfare of women and workers during the NDA rule. Footages of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi are also present in the song, though Nitish is absent from it. It attempts to establish a changing and developing Bihar with a series of some beautifully chosen shots from different parts of the state and smiling faces, and pledges to make Delhi and Mumbai in the state itself. However, critics said it fails to show even a bit of the problems like massive unemployment, corruption, lack of basic amenities, and the suffering of the people just like those escapist, dazzling movies that show a different world altogether. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel told The Telegraph that the party’s election song has been “made to counter Bambai mein ka ba, which discredits Bihar as a doomed land with no opportunities for the people. We cannot allow the lie to be propagated. Its makers do not know what is in Bihar. They do not know about Lord Buddha, Mahavir, Guru Govind Singh, Nalanda University, Magadh and Mauryan Empire, and the culture that is praised across the world”. When pointed out that the BJP song does not show any poverty or unemployment in Bihar, Patel retorted: “Who has given them (poverty and unemployment) to the state? The same people who are now making songs to discredit the state have left these things for us. We are now working to remove them.” Patel did not know who composed and filmed the song. BJP’s art and culture cell president Varun Kumar Singh said that his team has not made it. “The song has been made by a team sent from Delhi. We have no hand in it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Plea to issue stamp to highlight rape||Odisha-based philatelist Anil Dhir has urged the Centre to issue a postal stamp highlighting the rising incidents of rape on National Philately Day, which was observed on Tuesday. In his letter to the minister for communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dhir has said that philately is a channel for the government to educate the populace and create social awareness. Postage stamps have always been used in educating citizens about social causes. The effectiveness of philatelic materials for educating the population and raising social awareness is established. India Post has issued stamps, special covers and slogan cancellations (a postal marking to prevent re-use of stamps) on Swachh Bharat, eye donation, environment, women’s emancipation, childcare and immunisation, among others. Dhir has requested the minister to include the topic of rape in the commemorative stamp issue programme this year. “Since Independence, India Post has represented women and children on many of its stamps. It is about time that this national shame too is represented on Indian stamps,” Dhir said. He said that India Post should also undertake writing slogans on prevention of rape on its pass books, stationery and postal items and introduce slogan cancellations too. The rising number of rapes in the nation has become a matter of grave concern. Repeated rape cases have angered many. New laws have been formulated with stringent punishments, including the death penalty. But rapes still happen and only two out of 10 such crimes are reported, he said. According to the latest data collated by the National Crime Records Bureau, rape is a more common than murder in India. The menace of rape is not just a legal issue; we cannot ignore its social aspect. Awareness and education are the most effective and meaningful ways to prevent rape. While Dhir agrees that this seems too extreme a subject to depict on a postage stamp, he has given examples of two earlier issues from Slovenia which depicted the subject of rape. The stamps were issued in the memory of the thousands of women who were allegedly raped in the Teharje concentration camp during the Nazi occupation of the region in 1943. Dhir says that he had sent this proposal earlier too, during the Nirbhaya case and this is the least the government can do to address the public anger and frustration. India Post will set an example if it issues a stamp on rape, he said. Kashinath Sahoo, another philatelist of Odisha, also supported the proposal. Gender rights activist Namrata Chadda said the Nirbhaya Fund, which is underutilised by many of the states, should be deployed for this campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||UP hospital form: Been to Tablighi event?||A government hospital in Uttar Pradesh was till two days ago making patients fill up a Covid screening form that included the question whether they or their family members had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, seven months after the gathering was vilified as a virus “super-spreader” and used to tarnish the minority community. The questionnaire, which patients seeking out-patient treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, needed to fill up had the question: “Have you or any of your family members attended the Tablighi Jamaat event or come in contact with anyone who did?” A hospital spokesperson said the Hindi form had been issued by the government. A health department official said the form had been envisioned by the “political leadership” and that it was still being used in many government hospitals. The Tablighi Jamaat gathering had been organised at a mosque in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. The event had fallen prey to a vicious slander campaign in the initial days of the pandemic by sections of the government, BJP and the media. The event, and by association Muslims, had been accused of deliberately spreading the virus in the country, prompting Bombay High Court to observe that the government had found a “scapegoat”. That the forms that had been issued in March had continued to be in circulation came into focus when a patient seeking treatment for gallstones at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences was asked to fill up the questionnaire, which also had the usual questions such as declaration of symptoms such as fever and cough and also history of foreign travel and contact with Covid-19 patients. Shakir Ali, a state government employee who had taken his 70-year-old mother, Amana Begum, to the hospital on October 8, alleged religious profiling and decided not to go back to the facility. “Asking about our contact with the Tablighi Jamaat event is religious profiling. To me this query is insulting,” Shakir told The Telegraph over the phone on Wednesday, adding that he had never attended any Tablighi Jamaat event. “It made me come to the conclusion that they treat patients according to their faith. A kind of distrust has developed and I decided not to continue my mother’s treatment at RMLIMS. The next day I took her to a private practitioner, who referred her to another doctor. The doctors have decided to go for a surgery and we will get it done at a private hospital,” Shakir said. He said he would get his mother admitted later on Wednesday and the surgery would be done after two days of tests. Nuzhat Husain, the officiating director of RMLIMS, said in response to a text message from this newspaper that the hospital had begun using a “new form” from October 12. The new form, a copy of which she shared, excludes the question on the Tablighi Jamaat. Dr Srikesh Singh, RMLIMS spokesperson, told reporters on Wednesday that the earlier form had been provided by the government. “We are not authorised to design a Covid-19 screening form, it is decided by the government,” he said. A health department official told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity that there had been “specific instructions” when the pandemic began to spread in March that “we would have to trace those who were from the Tablighi Jamaat or had come in contact with its members”. “We had been instructed to report the number of Covid-19-infected people everyday and specifically mention how many were Tablighi members,” the official said. “We are not into politics but we are easy instruments for politicians in the government. The format of the form had been given to us by the political leadership and our job was limited to getting it printed. Many hospitals in the state are using their own forms for the screening of Covid-19 patients and they don’t have any questions related to the Tablighi Jamaat. But many still have the old forms,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Sharad daughter joins Congress||The daughter of veteran socialist Sharad Yadav, the booming anti-Congress voice since the 70’s who changed his opinion of the party in recent years, on Wednesday joined the Congress. Subhasini Yadav will contest the Bihar Assembly election from a seat in Madhepura, the parliamentary constituency represented by her father several times. The Congress had approached the ailing Sharad Yadav with the offer. He has radically changed his perspective over the past few years, arguing that anti-Congressism has lost its relevance under the present political circumstances. Although he was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, he now sees the RSS-BJP politics as a threat to India’s polity and believes that the Opposition parties should rally behind the Congress to protect India’s liberal and secular democracy. Yadav snapped ties with his party Janata Dal United when Nitish Kumar chose to betray the people’s mandate and dump Lalu Prasad’s RJD and Congress — parties in alliance with whom he had fought the election and become chief minister — to team up with the BJP. He lost his Rajya Sabha membership, but openly argued that no secular democrat should have any association with the Narendra Modi-led BJP. He developed a strong rapport with Rahul Gandhi. Subhasini is married into a business family of Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
