16-10-2020||India||Shaurya Chakra awardee shot dead in Punjab||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu who fought terrorism in Punjab was shot dead by unknown assailants in Tarn Taran district on Friday, months after the government withdrew his security cover. The motorcycle-borne men pumped four bullets into 62-year-old Sandhu when he was at his office adjoining his home at Bhikhiwind in the district and escaped, police said. He was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead . Sandhu had fought against terrorism in the state for years, facing scores of terror attacks during the height of Khalistani militancy. Singh's security cover was withdrawn by the state government a year ago on the recommendation of Tarn Taran police, his brother Ranjit said, adding their entire family had remained on the hit list of terrorists. Balwinder's wife Jagdish Kaur said it was the handiwork of terrorists , maintaining that their family did not have any personal enmity with anyone. The family always fought against terrorists. As many as 62 attacks were made on my family by terrorists. We made numerous requests with DGP Dinkar Gupta for the security cover but all in vain, she said. Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale said the investigations were underway. He said those responsible for the murder would be nabbed soon. The entire incident was captured by the CCTV, he said adding the footage was being checked. The Tran Taran braveheart also featured in some documentaries. Inspired by Sandhu and his family, many people followed him and defended themselves from terror attacks. The Union government awarded him Shaurya Chakra in 1993. Balwinder Singh Sandhu and his brother Ranjit Singh Sandhu are opposed to the activities of terrorists. They were on the hit lists of terrorists. The terrorists so far have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu's family within in about 11 months, the citation for the gallantry award said. The terrorists attacked them in groups of 10 to 200, but every time Sandhu brothers with the help of their brave wives Jagdish Kaur Sandhu and Balraj Kaur Sandhu have successfully foiled the attempts of militants to kill them, it said. Militants had attacked the family on January 31, 1990 for the first time. The family had faced the deadliest attack on September 30, 1990 when around 200 terrorists surrounded their house from all sides and attacked them continuously for five hours with deadly weapons including rocket launchers. In this well-planned attack by terrorists, the approach road of the house was blocked by spreading underground mines so that no help from police could reach them, the citation said. Undaunted, Sandhu brothers and their wives fought terrorists with pistols and sten-guns provided by the government. The resistance shown by Sandhu brothers and their family members forced the terrorists to retreat, it said. All these persons have displayed courage and bravery of a high order in facing the attack of the terrorists and failing their repeated murderous attempts, it further says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||BJP distances itself from LJP in poll-bound Bihar||In its most direct attack on the Lok Janshakti Party, the BJP on Friday accused its president Chirag Paswan of trying to create a confusion by harping on his equations with senior leaders of the saffron party, and asserted that it had no relations with the LJP. Paswan has been lauding the BJP and its top leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, while attacking JD(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, giving rise to speculation that he has some tacit understanding with the saffron party. "We want to make it clear that we have no relations (with LJP), and we do not like this politics of spreading confusion," BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. Other senior BJP leaders, including party general secretary Bhupender Yadav, too hit out at Paswan, who walked out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance in Bihar and his party LJP is contesting the assembly polls on its own. Yadav accused Paswan of practising "politics of lies", saying he had been praising the Bihar government in February this year. "Chirag should not either live in illusion or nurse any illusion or spread illusion," Yadav tweeted. Javadekar said BJP's alliance in Bihar is with JD(U), Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party, asserting the NDA combine will win three-fourth majority in the state. The LJP is nothing more than "vote katua" (eating into votes of others) and it will not be able to make much impact, he said. The Bihar polls are scheduled in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The counting of votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Another Dalit woman raped and strangled in UP's Barbanki||An 18-year-old Dalit woman, who was found dead in an agricultural field in Barabanki district in Uttar Pradesh, was raped before being strangled, police said on Friday citing post-mortem report. Additional Superintendent of Police R S Gautam said the post-mortem examination has confirmed that the woman was raped before she was strangled. Charges related to rape will be included in the FIR registered at Satrikh police station, he said, adding that some suspects have been taken into custody for questioning. The father of the woman had informed police on Wednesday evening that she had gone to the fields but did not return home. Later, family members found her dead. A police team visited the village and collected evidence before lodging an FIR, the police officer said. The rape and murder of the woman in Barabanki came days after a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after she was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Hathras district. The Hathras woman died at a hospital in Delhi on September 29, a fortnight after her assault allegedly by four upper caste men of her village. The assault and death of the Hathras woman, and her cremation by the authorities in the dead of the night, triggered an outrage and protests in parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Kumar Sanu tests positive for Covid-19||Popular Bollywood singer Kumar Sanu has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The news was shared by the playback singer's team on social media on Thursday evening. "Unfortunately Sanuda has tested Corona positive, please pray for his good health. Thank you," Sanu's team posted on his Facebook page. Sanu was reportedly planning to leave for the US on October 14 to celebrate his 63rd birthday on October 20 in Los Angeles. But after his diagnosis, the plans have been pushed. The singer, popularly known as King of Melody, has thousands of songs in different languages to his credits. Some of his hit tracks include "Chura Ke Dil Mera", "Ek Ladki Ko Dekha", "Dheere Dheere Se Meri Zindagi Mein Aana" and "Saajanji Ghar Aaye". Sanu's son Jaan is one of the contestants of the ongoing "Bigg Boss 14", hosted by Salman Khan. On Thursday, Mumbai city reported 2,119 new cases, which pushed its overall count to 2,36,721, while its death toll rose to 9,601.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Vivek Oberoi’s home raided in kin drug probe||Bangalore police on Thursday raided Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi’s residence at Mumbai in search of his brother-in-law Aditya Alva, who is wanted in a drug case, police sources here said. Aditya was absconding in a drug case registered at Cottonpet police station, Bangalore joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil said. “Vivek Oberoi is his relative and we got some information that Alva is there....So a court warrant was obtained and the Central Crime Branch team has gone to his house in Mumbai,” the officer told PTI. Police felt that the actor might be aware of his whereabouts and so the searches were carried out. However, they did not divulge the outcome of the raid. Aditya is the son of former minister late Jeevaraj Alva. According to sources, he has been absent for the past one month ever since the police launched a crackdown against drug peddlers, suppliers and rave party organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Malayalam poet Akkitham no more||Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, who heralded modernism in Malayalam poetry, died at a private hospital here on Thursday. He was 94. A widower, the Mahakavi (great poet) leaves behind two sons and four daughters. Hospital sources said he was admitted for age-related ailments a couple of days ago and the end came at 8.10am. Popularly known as Akkitham, his Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam (Epic of the 20th Century) is considered as one of the first modernist poems in Malayalam literature. A popular verse, “Velicham dukhamanunni, thamasallo sukhapradam”, which roughly translates to “light brings sorrow, my child, darkness is bliss”, has achieved the status of a proverb in Kerala. It is also interpreted as “worldly knowledge is pain, my child, ignorance is bliss”. He penned around 45 books, including poetry anthologies, plays and short stories, including Balidarsanam (The Vision of Bali), Arangettam, Nimisha Kshetram, Idinju Polinja Lokam, Amrita Ghatika, Kalikkottilil and many more. Among the numerous awards which came his way are Padma Shri, Ezhuthachan Award and the Jnanpith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik to skip birthday celebrations||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has decided not to celebrate his birthday on Friday to express solidarity with the people hit by the Corona pandemic. He also appealed to people to be cautious during the ensuing Durga Puja festival and reminded them how Kerala, which was seen as a model state for Covid management, has witnessed a major surge in the Covid-19 cases following Onam celebration. He said Onam undid all the good work done by the Kerala government on Covid control front. Naveen, who turns 75 on Friday, has urged his followers not to visit Naveen Nivas to wish him on his birthday. “I am indebted to the people of Odisha. For the last eight months, people have been going through a hard time because of the Coronavirus,” he said. Last year, too, Naveen had skipped his birthday because of the cyclone Fani which had played havoc in the pilgrim city of Puri. During a meeting with officials, Naveen asked them not to show any laxity in Covid-19 management and to be extra careful during the Durga Puja festival. He also reminded them that there was need to be extra watchful as winter was approaching. “Kerala was performing well in the Covid management. But after the Onam festival, things have drastically changed. There has been a major spike in Covid-19 cases there,” he said. After the Onam festival that was observed on August 22 to September 2, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala have gone up by 200 per cent. Naveen also referred to the second wave of Covid-19 in European countries. “Even a little complacency will make the situation worse. It’s important for the administration to stay alert and create awareness among people during the ensuing Puja season,” Naveen said. The government also claimed that the recovery rate in the state has touched 91 per cent and Odisha is one among the top five states in terms of recovery. Similarly business has started picking up and 85 per cent MSME have started functioning. “We have given nod to investment proposals to the tune of more than 25 crore,” said officials. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in the state has reached 2,62,011 and the death toll stands at 1089 with 17 more casualties during the last 24 hours. As the number of death cases is constantly rising, the Odisha government has decided to set up another two more crematoriums in the state capital which has only one such facility so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Odisha teacher held over Rs 5cr properties||Vigilance officials on Thursday arrested a Hindi teacher of a high school in Odisha’s Ganjam district for allegedly amassing properties worth over Rs 5 crore. Bhubanananda Sahu, the Hindi teacher of Jashoda High School in Rangeiluda block of Ganjam district, has buildings in his native village, two flats in Bhubaneswar and a flat each in Puri and Berhampur, in southern Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray says attempts to malign Hindi film industry won't be tolerated||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said attempts to malign and “finish off” the Hindi film industry or “to shift it” would not be tolerated. Uddhav’s statement came against the backdrop of probes by multiple agencies into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and its media coverage that has been seen by many as a deliberate campaign to target Bollywood. The film industry was initially accused of forming powerful cliques to keep out real talent, indulging in “nepotism” and driving Sushant to his death, and then projected as a drug den. “Moves to finish off the film industry or shift it elsewhere will never be tolerated,” a statement from the chief minister’s office quoted Uddhav as saying at a meeting with multiplex and theatre owners. Mumbai is not only the country’s financial capital but also its entertainment capital, the chief minister said. “Bollywood enjoys a following across the globe. The film industry generates huge employment. In the last few days, attempts have been made to malign the image of the film industry by certain quarters which is painful,” Uddhav said. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh recently announced a plan to create a film city in that state. Uddhav told the cinema and multiplex owners at the meeting that the Maharashtra culture department had prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding the reopening of cinema halls, which have been closed for over six months due to the coronavirus pandemic. A decision on reopening cinemas will be taken at the earliest after the SOP is finalised, he said. “The government is positive about it. The entertainment industry is a means to boost the state’s economy and the government is keen to restart it,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Weekly TRPs suspended for review||The Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc) on Thursday announced a temporary suspension of weekly ratings of news channels across languages against the backdrop of allegations that some channels had manipulated television rating points (TRP). Barc intends to review and augment the standards of measurement to improve on “statistical robustness”, and the exercise will result in a “pause” in the weekly ratings for up to 12 weeks, an official statement said. At least five persons have been arrested by Mumbai police that have claimed to have busted a TRP scam earlier this month. Those arrested include news channel employees. The police are also questioning executives of Arnab Goswami’s Republic Media Group. The Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. The audience estimates given by Barc influence ad spends. The police have pegged the total size of annual ad placements at Rs 32,000 crore. The police allege that the ratings had been rigged by offering allurements to households where the monitors had been installed. “In the light of the recent developments, the Barc board has proposed that its technical committee review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres, to improve their statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes,” Barc said in the statement. The exercise will cover all Hindi, regional, English news and business news channels with immediate effect, it added. “Barc will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise,” the council said, adding that the process would continue for eight to 12 weeks and include validation and testing. “…A pause was necessitated to enable the industry and Barc to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness,” Barc India chairman Punit Goenka said. The industry body’s chief executive, Sunil Lulla, said that besides augmenting protocols and benchmarking them with global standards, Barc was also exploring several options to discourage unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers and further strengthening its codes. The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Republic Media Group to approach Bombay High Court in connection with the TRP manipulation case registered by Mumbai police. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee said the high court had been working amid the pandemic and the media group should approach it as Republic’s office was located at Worli in Mumbai. When senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the media house, expressed apprehension about the probe, the bench said: “Your client has an office at Worli? You may go to the Bombay HC.… Entertaining the petition like this without the HC hearing the matter sends a message also. The HC is working throughout the pandemic.” The apex court also expressed concern that of late there had been a tendency of police commissioners giving interviews. Salve withdrew the petition with liberty to approach the high court. Mumbai police have registered a case in the TRP case and summoned Republic TV’s chief financial officer, S. Sundaram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Kashmiri student allegedly assaulted, called ‘terrorist’||A Kashmiri student was allegedly assaulted and called a “terrorist” in the presence of a cop by her landlady and was later framed in a theft case in south Delhi’s posh Lajpat Nagar locality on Wednesday night. In her police complaint, Noor Bhat, who recently graduated from Amity University, alleged that the landlady had barged into her flat when she had gone to her cousin’s house and taken away her furniture, Rs 20,000 in cash and other belongings including her passport. Bhat, who hails from Srinagar, said she received a call from the landlady, Taruna Makhija, around 7.30pm asking her to return immediately When Bhat returned an hour later, she was shocked to find the door had been broken open and many of her belonging missing. She started video recording the scene when Makhija, accompanied by a man, came in and began verbally abusing her. Bhat alleged that a police constable, called by Makhija, was present when the landlady threatened to burn her face with a cigarette. “You are a terrorist, you spread terrorism. Your father is a terrorist,” Bhat quoted Makhija as telling her. The landlady also allegedly grabbed Bhat by her shoulder and scratched and pulled her by the hair. Bhat tweeted a photo of scratch marks below her neck. Late on Wednesday night, Bhat took to Twitter to narrate her predicament in a series of tweets. “So my landlady enters my house along with a man that I have never seen in my whole life and starts to call me and my friends ‘TERRORISTS’ just because we are from KASHMIR, that too, in front of a police official. They trespassed, broke in and (took away) our money, furniture,” she wrote. She said she was feeling scared and was staying with her cousin. Responding to Bhat’s tweets, Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal said: “This is shocking & shameful. DCW team is in touch. We’ll ensure action!” The DCW on Thursday issued a notice to the police and sought an action-taken report and a copy of the FIR and asked whether any arrests had been made. It also asked whether any police personnel were present during the assault and whether action had been taken against them. Personnel at the local Amar Colony police station initially downplayed the incident, saying the landlady and the tenant had been locked in a dispute over the past few days over non-payment of dues. Bhat, however, said she had cleared all dues. Later, an officer said: “Based on a written complaint given by the student, a case has been registered under IPC Section 448 (trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 457 (lurking house-trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) at Amar Colony police station and the matter is being investigated.” He said the landlady had also registered a complaint and it was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: dismay in Congress after candidate selection||The Congress appears to have once again pursued a self-defeatist attitude, this time while selecting candidates for the Bihar elections, triggering anger and dismay among party workers who lamented that a golden opportunity to send the BJP-JDU packing had been frittered away. Congress leaders said nepotism, networking, money and foolishness had dominated the process of ticket distribution, at time chief minister Nitish Kumar is said to be facing intense anti-incumbency and there seems to be tension in the ruling alliance. Although the Congress’s first list of 21 had caused much resentment and prompted the central leadership to try to take corrective steps, the final line-up of 70 candidates after the names of 59 were released on Thursday night only deepened the frustration. Many leaders concurred with the assessment that the party would be able to put up a fight in about 40 constituencies only as the remaining 30 candidates were so weak that their selection had amounted to giving a walkover to the opponents. Rahul Gandhi had publicly declared as Congress president that candidates would not be dropped from parachutes and that local party workers toiling at the grassroots would be given preference. The ticket distribution, however, indicates that there is an invisible lobby within the Congress that is hell bent on proving that Rahul’s lofty pronouncements mean little in realpolitik. One leader explained: “One Mithilesh Chaudhary has been given the ticket from Benipur. Nobody knew who he was, neither in the constituency, nor in the party. Frantic queries revealed that he is the brother-in-law of Kirti Azad, a former BJP leader who (unsuccessfully) contested the Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket from Dhanbad last year. Gunjan Patel, who had been working in Patna, has been fielded from Nalanda. Praveen Kushwaha, an accused in a kidnapping-and-murder case, wanted a ticket from Bhagalpur but was sent to Patna Sahib.” The leader added: “Dropping by parachute is the overriding principle, no matter what Rahul Gandhi says. At Chanpatia, Congress worker Sadhna Mishra worked hard for five years, but the candidate is Abhishek Ranjan. We don’t know who he is. There are many faces we had never seen in the party. We are sure they won’t be able to locate the party headquarters, Sadaqat Ashram in Patna. And if you work in area A, you are fielded from area X.” Another leader sarcastically said: “Sachin Tendulkar — chess; Vishwanathan Anand — football; P.T. Usha — cricket…. That’s how Congress managers will deploy their resources. And the parachute culture is so rampant that Luv Sinha, whose face won’t be recognised by even 1 per cent of the voters, has been fielded from Bankipur because he is Shatrughan Sinha’s son…. Sharad Yadav’s daughter has been fielded from Madhepura’s Bihariganj where she never lived or worked.” What is worse, the dominant feeling among the workers is that the criteria fixed by the central leadership for candidate selection was willfully violated and tickets were distributed considering extraneous factors. “One candidate’s selection happened only because he was collecting gifts and money for an AICC secretary. Another, a known criminal out on bail, bought a ticket. Some were preferred over strong local contenders because they were from important families. These tendencies have only intensified despite the shocking decline in the party’s fortunes,” the leader said. A leader of alliance partner RJD said they had asked the Congress to pick “winnable candidates” but the party kept insisting on numbers. “They took 70 seats although we knew they did not have good candidates. It is proven now,” the leader said. Congress workers are so angry that they want Rahul to drop the “moral posturing” of promoting hardworking party loyalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Jaishankar: China talks ‘confidential’||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Thursday said he was not in a position to speak in public about the ongoing discussions with China, for they were confidential and a “work in progress”. Asked repeatedly about the series of military and diplomatic-level talks since the border standoff began in May, the minister said: “What is going on obviously is something confidential between us and the Chinese.” He added: “We will wait to see how this plays out; where this will go. Hypothetical, speculative answer --- I wouldn’t give it. And whatever is my thinking, obviously, I will keep it to myself.” Jaishankar was responding to questions after addressing the Bloomberg India Economic Forum 2020. He refused to say anything more on the talks different from the opaque and often repetitive statements that are put out after every one of these meetings, as is the practice the world over during such negotiations. The minister, however, did provide his own assessment of the cause behind the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The issue is, really, can a rising China and a rising India find an equilibrium? What you are seeing on the border is an expression of that challenge and the inability to meet that challenge,” he said. Jaishankar said the Chinese actions along the LAC had disturbed the foundations of the bilateral relationship built over three decades. He refused to even indicate how the talks were progressing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Varavara Rao’s wife urges Supreme Court to grant him bail||Jailed poet P. Varavara Rao’s wife has urged the Supreme Court to grant him bail saying the 81-year-old is mentally unwell and has multiple ailments, including neurological disorders triggered presumably by Covid-19, and is being supported with diapers and urinary catheterisation. Pendyala Hemalatha’s petition, not yet listed for hearing, has underlined the “cruel, degrading and inhuman” treatment of her husband in a Maharashtra jail, alleging he is being denied medical tests and that his urine bag is not being changed, causing him infection. The Telugu revolutionary poet is in such a poor state of mind that in a recent letter to his wife he claimed that she (Hemalatha) was dead, the petition, filed on Thursday through advocate Sunil Fernandes, says. “The petitioner (Hemalatha) received a letter dated 31.08.2020 from her husband where he claims that the petitioner is dead and her body is at the morgue. Sadly, the letter is written to his wife, the petitioner,” the petition says. “This itself shows the mental status of the petitioner’s husband. None of these facts could be brought before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court as the matter was not being listed at all.” Varavara has been in jail for over two years in the Bhima Koregaon case, in which several rights activists, lawyers and writers have been arrested on the charge of Maoist links. Trial has not begun since the National Investigation Agency is yet to frame charges. According to Hemalatha, she received a letter on September 9 from Vernon Gonsalves, a co-accused and co-prisoner of her husband, that said Varavara was bedridden and lacked bowel or bladder control. So, he had been fitted out with a catheter and diapers while Gonsalves gave him swab baths. Varavara “has been suffering from urinary infection due to the urine bag which hasn’t been changed for the past 40 days”, the petition says, adding that he has been “forced to live in inhuman conditions”. “When the petitioner’s husband was arrested on August 28, 2018, he had no neurological problems. It is therefore highly likely that Covid-19 and the fall that he had in St George Hospital has led to neurological problems as reflected in the medical report filed by Nanavati Hospital dated 30.07.2020,” the petition says. It adds that Varavara was admitted to hospital on May 27 this year but was prematurely discharged on June 1 lest continued hospitalisation strengthen his case for bail, sought on the ground of illness and the Covid-19 threat. Although doctors had advised medical tests, the jail authorities failed to carry them out, the petition says, “as a result of which his condition continued to deteriorate and on 13.07.2020 he was again admitted to J.J. hospital”. “He tested positive for Covid-19 on 16.07.2020 and was shifted to St George Hospital, then to Nanavati Hospital. (He) sustained a head injury while he was in St George Hospital after a fall which required stitches,” the petition says. It accuses the authorities of violating Varavara’s right to dignity, enshrined under Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution, which “implies that no person can be treated in a cruel, degrading and inhuman manner”. “Article 7 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), which India has ratified and incorporated as a fundamental right, mandates that the State shall not treat anybody with cruel, degrading and inhuman treatment,” it says. “Article 10 of the ICCPR also mandates that the States treat all person with dignity and humanity.” Varavara is in no state to stand trial and needs critical medical care that the jail cannot provide, the petition argues. So, no useful purpose is being served by his continued imprisonment except to torture him beyond human endurance, the petition argues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Arrest shield for Kerala bureaucrat||Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Enforcement Directorate not to arrest former secretary in the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, till October 23 in the gold smuggling case. The suspended Sivasankar, questioned by multiple agencies over a money-laundering angle in the gold smuggling case and also for alleged connections with one of the prime accused, had sought anticipatory bail after receiving a non-cooperation notice and a fresh summons from the ED. Justice Ashok Menon issued the direction after Sivasankar’s counsel assured the court that his client would not flee. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for the bureaucrat, said Sivasankar would appear before the ED whenever summoned and also cooperate with the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi's Twitter question triggers speculation||Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter question about what is common between Pakistan, Iraq, Korea, Vietnam, Syria and Afghanistan on Thursday morning triggered wild speculation as thousands of people responded with varying interpretations according to their political persuasions. Rahul tweeted in the morning: “Can anyone guess what’s common between these countries: Pakistan Iraq Korea Vietnam Syria Afghanistan.” While some people tried to hunt for the hidden Narendra Modi link, others wondered if he was hinting at strained relations with the US with all these countries or the dictatorial regimes most of them suffered. Critics slammed him for vague quizzing and even flooded his timeline with Pappu jokes. Thousands of Congress supporters blindly chose to like and re-tweet instead of engaging in guesswork. In the evening, Rahul revealed what was in his mind, through another tweet: “Their leaders divided them internally and let their countries become battlegrounds between the dominant powers of their time. Their people paid for the leaders’ actions with blood and tears.” While he avoided directly dragging Modi in this discourse, his arguments about people suffering because of divisive politics subtly indicated his tweets were not completely delinked from domestic politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Asoka edicts re-imagined in musical form by T.M. Krishna ||Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna has breathed musical life into some of Asoka’s edicts urging sensitivity to human suffering and extolling the need for compassion and justice.  Part of the Edict Project in collaboration with Ashoka University, the first part that was released online on Wednesday has four edicts set to tune and sung by Krishna, also an author and Dalit rights activist. The edicts of Asoka (268-232BC), the Mauryan emperor who converted to Buddhism and spread the religion far and wide after being besieged by remorse on witnessing the death and destruction caused by the Kalinga War he had waged, are inscribed on rocks and pillars in several parts of India. Written in the Brahmi script, the inscriptions on natural rock faces and pillars disseminate Asoka’s ideas among his subjects. The significance of the release date of the Edict Project was not lost on many — it was on October 14, 1956, that Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar had converted along with tens of thousands of his Dalit followers to Buddhism at “Deekshabhoomi” in Nagpur, convinced that this was the only emancipation from the caste oppression of Hinduism. Krishna’s project may not be consciously political. But its political relevance is too profound to ignore against the backdrop of a spate of attacks on the dignity of Dalits in different parts of the country. Krishna brings a new aesthetic to ancient virtues like justice, peace and harmony by musically invoking the edicts. The English translation of one of the edicts says: “All my people are my children; I yearn for their welfare. Welfare how?… Good in this world.… There is no gift like the gift of justice (Dharma Daanam), like participation in justice.” Another one says: “Harmony is best. What is harmony? Listening to reflections on justice, each listening to that willingly.” Yet another goes: “After Kalinga was won, reflecting on justice, practising justice and enjoining justice.… Asoka is contrite and asks, did Asoka win Kalinga?” In an unusually creative team effort, Krishna, who has conceptualised, composed and sung the first set of four Asokan edicts and assimilated them from different places “in a garland of ragas drawn from the Carnatic tradition”, seeks to draw the people’s collective attention to the need for compassion and justice in a violent world. Krishna, in his deep sonorous voice accompanied by the tambura (tanpura), unravels the deeper significance of mankind’s quest for justice and harmony born during profound moments of self-reflection such as those of Asoka in the Kalinga battlefield. The English subtitles have helped bridge the gap between the ancient script and the wider modern audience. Its larger purpose also chimes with Krishna’s belief in the plurality of artistic traditions. Krishna said that through the Edit Project the participants hoped to re-imagine Asoka’s edicts in a musical form, to drive home the emperor’s profound transformation to a life of love and compassion towards all living beings. “The project aims at creating a vibrant, academic, socio-political and aesthetic conversation around the edicts,” Krishna said. “The songs were recorded during the Covid-19 lockdown. So, there were no instruments, just my tambura.… To my knowledge, this is the first time the emperor’s edicts are being sung,” he said. They have been rendered in a “raga-tala-malika” composition. Krishna said such creative re-interpretations of traditions were even more needed today as awakening healers. In his introductory text, former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has written: “Asoka, like his father Bimbisara and grandfather Chandragupta, believed in expanding, consolidating, ruling his empire centred around Pataliputra (modern-day Patna) through the traditional means of imperial kingships.… But the war he waged, successfully, to annex Kalinga caused him the very opposite of imperial satisfaction. It occasioned deep reflections and remorse… and induced him to study and propagate the teachings of Buddha.” Thus ‘Dharma’ or “Dhamma” became the pivot of Asoka’s royal policy, Gandhi writes. While the research and translation of the inscriptions for the Asoka Project have been done by Shravasti Dhammika and Dr Nareesh Keerthi, the sound and visuals are by Rithvik Raja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Pro-India political forces form 'People’s Alliance' in the Valley ||A “People’s Alliance” involving all major pro-India political forces took shape in the Valley on Thursday to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the resolution of the larger Kashmir issue. The formation of the political umbrella involving the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference, the CPM and other outfits is expected to pose a new headache for the BJP-led Centre, which scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories on August 5 last year and went on to crush all dissent through an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade. With the new political axis also calling for a resolution of the Kashmir issue, so far the preserve of separatists, it also showed how last year’s decisions had turned champions of the pro-Indian cause into potential adversaries. The alliance is a worrying development for New Delhi also because it has emerged at a time the country is battling an aggressive Chinese army on the Ladakh frontier. China accuses India of “unilaterally” creating the Union Territory of Ladakh, and the August 5 moves are seen as the main reason behind the Chinese offensive. The parties have pledged to uphold the Gupkar Declaration, passed last year by them to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The government, however, went ahead with the cancellation of Article 370 and the bifurcation. The alliance was floated two days after former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was released after 14 months in captivity. The PDP president and former chief minister was the last of the Valley political heavyweights to be released. On Thursday, Kashmir witnessed its first large-scale political meeting since August 5, 2019. It was also the first time in decades that major political parties from the pro-India camp had closed ranks to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “We feel the political issue of the state has to be resolved as quickly as possible and that can only be done through dialogue by peaceful means with all the stakeholders who are involved in the problem of Jammu and Kashmir,” former chief minister Farooq Abdullah told reporters after the meeting. Farooq, who is the NC president and Srinagar MP, appeared to be referring to India, Pakistan and Kashmiris when he spoke of stakeholders. He was flanked by his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba, Sajad Lone of the People’s Conference, the CPM’s Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and other leaders. The Congress, which was part of the Gupkar Declaration, did not turn up for the meeting. Farooq said theirs was a constitutional battle and they wanted the government of India to return to the people of Jammu and Kashmir the rights they enjoyed before August 5 last year. “All the rights snatched from us should be returned. (Also) Kashmir’s political issue is awaiting a solution for a long time. We want steps to be taken to ensure its immediate resolution,” he said. A leader privy to the conversations at the meeting said: “We want a structural response to last year’s assault on our identity. They (Centre) have humiliated the people of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly those who stood by the idea of India, by taking away our identity, dividing our state into two units and reducing them to Union Territories.” “Their next plan is to change the demography of our state but we will oppose the designs tooth and nail,” he added. With the separatist leadership in jail or under house arrest, the leaders of the pro-India camp are expected to take their battle to the streets, which might end up restoring their own credibility after appearing for months to have caved in under government pressure. As the leaders were busy with the meeting at Farooq’s residence, anger was writ large on faces of ordinary Kashmiris passing by. Many on motorcycles and cars swore under their breath at the leaders. Kashmiris in general have accused the leaders of strengthening India’s cause in Kashmir by betraying the dominant azadi struggle. The two-hour meeting at Farooq’s Gupkar residence also saw Mehbooba stepping out of her residence for the first time after her release. She first went to her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s grave at Anantnag’s Bijebehara. The PDP president had been scheduled to address on Friday her first media conference after her release but it was postponed in view of Thursday’s meeting.  Farooq said the leaders would meet again to chalk out the course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court: Estranged wife cannot be thrown out of home||An estranged daughter-in-law has the right to live in her in-laws’ home and can therefore not be thrown out by her husband or his family, the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday. The Domestic Violence Act, 2005, grants such a right to the woman whether or not she has legal rights over the property — which can even be rented premises — as long as the in-laws live there, a three-judge bench said. The judgment by the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah overrides a two-judge verdict in S.R. Batra vs Taruna Batra (2007) that denied such a right of residence to a woman in an estranged relationship. Petitioner Satish Chander Ahuja had challenged a Delhi High Court judgment of 2019 that had said his daughter-in-law Sneha had the right of residence despite a pending divorce dispute between her and husband Raveen. Ahuja’s contention was that even Raveen had no share in the house, which belonged to the petitioner. While passing Thursday’s judgment, based on interpretations of Sections 2 (shared household) and 17 (right of residence) of the Domestic Violence Act, the court dismissed Ahuja’s appeal. “The definition of shared household given in Section 2(s) cannot be read to mean that shared household can only be that household which is household of the joint family of which husband is a member or in which husband of the aggrieved person has a share,” the judgment, written by Justice Bhushan, said. “It is not requirement of law that aggrieved person (daughter-in-law) may either own the premises jointly or singly or by tenanting it jointly or singly.... The household may belong to a joint family of which the respondent (father-in-law in the present case) is a member irrespective of whether the respondent or the aggrieved person has any right, title or interest in the shared household; and the shared household may either be owned or tenanted by the respondent singly or jointly.” The bench said that under Section 17 of the Act, “every woman in a domestic relationship shall have the right to reside in the shared household, whether or not she has any right, title or beneficial interest in the same”. The judgment said that while the personal law (Hindu Marriage Act) gave the woman the right to maintenance, “the right of residence... recognised by sub-section (1) of Section 17 (of the Domestic Violence Act) is new and higher right conferred on every woman”. However, the court clarified that the woman’s “living” in a household had to have some permanency for the right of residence to apply. Fleeting or casual living at different places do not make for a shared household, it said. “The intention of the parties and the nature of living including the nature of household have to be looked into to find out whether the parties intended to treat the premises as shared household or not,” it said. On Ahuja’s claim that his son had no share in the property in Delhi’s upscale New Friends Colony, the court said: “Even if the house is in the name of the (father-in law) and even if we accept... (that) Raveen has no share in the house... whether the (daughter-in-law) is entitled to reside in the premises in question as shared household is the question to be answered.” The bench noted that despite domestic violence being rampant in the country, with many women facing violence in some shape almost every day, it was the least reported form of cruel behaviour. “A woman resigns her fate to the never-ending cycle of enduring violence and discrimination as a daughter, a sister, a wife, a mother, a partner or a single woman in her lifetime,” it said. “This non-retaliation by women coupled with the absence of laws addressing women’s issues, ignorance of the existing laws enacted for women and societal attitude makes the women vulnerable. The reason why most cases of domestic violence are never reported is the social stigma... and the attitude of the women themselves, where women are expected to be subservient, not just to their male counterparts but also to the male’s relatives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Alert over influenza and Covid in winter||Seasonal influenza viruses could aggravate simultaneous Covid-19 infections and cause severe illness, Chinese researchers said on Thursday after experiments on cells and mice that they say hold lessons for the coming winter months. Virologist Ke Xu and her colleagues at Wuhan University had found influenza A virus infections enhancing the infectivity of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, in laboratory cells and increasing viral loads and lung damage in mice. Health experts had been concerned about the possibility of simultaneous or “co-infections” with flu viruses and SARS-CoV-2, particularly because influenza was expected to rise during winter. But it had been unclear whether or how influenza infections might influence the course of Covid-19 superposed on the flu. The limited patient reports had been inconclusive. Doctors in Barcelona, Spain, had in May reported that the conditions of three of four patients co-infected with influenza and Covid-19 had deteriorated into severe respiratory illness. However, doctors in Wuhan had reported, also in May, that patients with Covid-19 and influenza had similar clinical disease as patients with only Covid-19. In the new experiments, the researchers at the State Key Laboratory of Virology, Wuhan University, co-infected cells and mice with the H1N1 influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2. The genetically engineered mice possessed the molecular gateways that the SARS-CoV-2 virus uses to enter human cells. They found that the influenza infection increased the SARS-CoV-2 infectivity in cells five-fold, and the viral load in mice six-fold to 12-fold. The co-infection also caused more severe pathological changes in the lungs than infection with only SARS-CoV-2. Their findings represent the first experimental evidence that pre-infection with an influenza virus such as H1N1 “strongly promotes” SARS-CoV-2 entry and infectivity in cells and animals, the researchers said in a paper not peer reviewed yet but posted on an online preprint archive. The scientists said their findings underscored the importance of mask use and physical distancing during the coming winter months when large proportions of people across the northern hemisphere are likely to be exposed to threats from both infections. A senior Indian medical virologist said the implications for co-infected patients were unclear. “A lot will hinge on the timing between the two exposures,” Shailendra Saxena, professor at the King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, told The Telegraph. A patient’s response, Saxena said, is likely to depend on how long after infection by the influenza virus they were exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. After infection, the immune system typically eliminates both viruses within a week to 10 days. “But the findings highlight the challenges ahead — the H1N1 season is starting now,” Saxena said. “If doctors encounter patients who are positive for both, they’ll face a dilemma of choosing the right treatment. For H1N1, oseltamivir is prescribed; for Covid-19 the line of treatment is different.” India on Thursday recorded 67,708 new Covid-19 infections, raising the total count to over 7.3 million patients, of whom 6.38 million have recovered, over 812,000 are under treatment while 111,266 have died. The country’s seven-day average of daily new cases has fallen over the past four weeks, from 97,894 on September 16 to 67,349 on October 14. But health officials and doctors are worried that the triad of the opening economy, festival weeks and winter months might trigger a fresh surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Centre does sharp U-turn on GST loans||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has had to eat crow after all. After adopting a tough, take-it-or-lump-it stand in the face of stiff opposition from at least 10 states to the borrowing options that were placed before them to recover their legitimate GST dues, the Narendra Modi government has backed down and decided to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore from a special window before passing it on to the states. The sharp U-turn after more than six weeks of drama over the contentious issue that had riven the GST Council came just a few hours after Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said the Opposition-ruled states were planning to move the Supreme Court against the Centre’s inflexible stand and its refusal to hammer out a consensus. The craven submission came in a late-evening announcement: “Under the special window, the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore (assuming all states join) will be borrowed by the Government of India in appropriate tranches…. The borrowed amount will be passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan in lieu of GST compensation cess releases.” Late at night, the Centre modified the loan issuance calendar from October 19 to March 31 next year to include the Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of the states. The Centre’s gross borrowings during this period will swell to Rs 4.88 lakh crore, which will include the loans to cover the shortfall in GST compensation. The government intends to raise three and five-year loans of Rs 55,000 crore to meet its obligation to the states. The Modi government tried to play down its acute embarrassment by trying to suggest that the move had been dictated by a desire to avoid a situation where the states might have to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India’s special loan window at differential rates of interest based on their creditworthiness — suddenly waking to a problem it had not apparently foreseen. “This will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India. The amounts will be reflected as the capital receipts of the state governments and as part of financing of its respective fiscal deficits. This will avoid differential rates of interest that individual states may be charged for their respective state development loans (SDLs) and will be an administratively easier arrangement,” the government added. The 10 Opposition -ruled states had all along insisted that the Centre should borrow the amount and pass it on to the states in line with a promise that the late Arun Jaitley -- Sitharaman's predecessor -- had unequivocally promised when persuading the states to implement the GST regime that aimed to transform India’s $2 trillion economy and 1.3 billion consumers into a unified common market from July 2017. At the end of a stormy five-and-a-half-hour meeting on August 27, the Centre had left the states with two disagreeable options: either borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from the RBI’s special window to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The borrowing Option 1 was raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore at a meeting earlier this month but the Centre steadfastly refused to borrow the sum and pass it on to the states. Besides Kerala, the states that had opposed both borrowing options included Bengal, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “If the Centre has decided to borrow the Rs 1.1 lakh crore and extend it to the states as back-to-back loans, I welcome the change in its position. I thank all the economists, academics and newspaper editors who had supported our position.” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra declined to comment on the development until he had seen the fine print. However, a state government official said: “They (the Centre) appear to have come halfway. The note indicates the loan will be serviced from the cess and the states will have to service neither the principal nor the interest. That is why it will sit as a capital receipt on the balance sheet of the states.” Earlier in the day, Isaac had tweeted: “Some of the States are likely to approach the SC against (the) discriminatory and illegal action of the Centre regarding GST Compensation. Kerala CM to chair a meeting of law, tax and finance departments and advocate-general to take final decision on Kerala’s stance tomorrow afternoon.” Finance ministry officials resorted to sophistry to suggest that the Centre had not buckled under pressure. “There is no change in stance.... The special window mentioned in the option is via the RBI and the loan is given to the Centre in the name of the state,” they said. Under the borrowing Option 1, the Centre “will endeavour to keep the cost at or close to the yield on the government securities”. If the cost is higher, the Centre will bear the margin between the G-Secs yield and the average of State Development Loan yields up to 0.5 per cent through a subsidy. “It may also be clarified that the general government (states + Centre) borrowings will not increase by this step. The states that get the benefit from the special window are likely to borrow a considerably lesser amount from the additional borrowing facility of 2 per cent of their gross state domestic product (from 3 to 5 per cent) under the Aatma Nirbhar Package,” the government said in its note. The Aatma Nirbhar package was unveiled in May as part of a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package that left many economists disappointed with the scale of the fiscal response to the Covid crisis. Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head, corporate sector ratings, ICRA, said: “This step will reduce the supply of state bonds in the second half of this fiscal from the level that was earlier being anticipated. Moreover, the cost of such borrowing would go down. In conjunction with the plan to conduct open market operations (OMOs) in SDLs that has been announced by the RBI, such measures should help ease SDL spreads.” Officials said: “The repayment mechanism will remain the same, as presented before the GST Council. The repayment will be done by the collections under the compensation kitty post-June 2022. The first charge will be used to pay interest; the second charge will be divided between paying the principal amount and the remaining compensation dues of the states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
