17-10-2020||India||Peace along LAC deeply disturbed: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday said peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “deeply disturbed” and this is obviously impacting the overall relationship between India and China. Jaishankar made the comment against the backdrop of the over five-month-long border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh where each side has deployed over 50,000 troops. The Sino-Indian boundary question is a very “complicated” and difficult issue, he said at a webinar on his book The India Way, giving a historical perspective to development of the relationship between the two neighbours in the last three decades. The external affairs minister said the relationship between India and China, which was “very difficult”, was normalised since late 1980s through a plethora of initiatives like trade, travel, tourism and societal activities on the premise of peace and tranquillity along the border. “It is not our position that we should solve the boundary question. We understand that it is a very complicated and difficult issue. There have been many negotiations at different levels… That is a very high bar for a relationship,” Jaishankar said. “I am talking about a much more basic bar which is that there must be peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas and that has been the case since the late 1980s,” he added. “Now, if peace and tranquillity is deeply disturbed, then obviously there will be an impact on the relationship and that is what we are seeing,” he said, referring to the border situation in eastern Ladakh. Jaishankar said both China and India are rising and assuming “bigger” roles in the world, but the “big question” is how the two countries find an “equilibrium”. “That is the basic case I addressed in my book,” the minister said, adding he completed the manuscript of the book in April, before the border row erupted in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Residential hockey academy set to come up in Chhattisgarh||The time is ripe for sportspersons of Chhattisgarh to turn dreams into reality. For the very first time after the formation of an independent state, a residential hockey academy is being set up in Raipur. Additionally, an 'Excellence Center' for Athletic, Wrestling and Swimming is also being launched in Bahtarai, Bilaspur. Credit for these two ventures goes to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who has added a new chapter in the development of sports in the state by taking the concept of "Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh" to playgrounds. He has enlivened the concept of holistic development, with the all-round development of children, especially the ones who share a special bond with sports. Under the Khelo India Scheme, a proposal for setting up these facilities were sent to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) by the Department of Sports and Youth Welfare, for which the approval has been received. Efforts are now being made to embark on the realization of 'Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh' in the field of sports to enhance the sporting talents across the state and provide them with appropriate training. Earlier, a proposal was sent to the SAI for archery by the Department of Sports and Youth Welfare, for which the approval has been received. At present, the archery training is being provided to the players in Raipur. Under the 'One State One Game', the development of archery in Raipur is also under process. Chief Minister Mr Bhupesh Baghel and Sports Minister Mr. Umesh Patel sent their best wishes to players, sports coaches, officials and employees of the State Sports and Youth Welfare Department after receiving the recognition from SAI. The Chhattisgarh Sports Development Authority has been constituted by the Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel for the maintenance of available sports infrastructure and operation of residential sports academies in the state. Games are being developed across the state through the authority. The selection program for the Residential Hockey Academy will start soon. All the facilities like hostel, school, kit and food will be made available to the trainee players selected for residential academy. Athletic, swimming and wrestling are the three major sports that have been selected for the Excellence Center to be started in Bahtarai, Bilaspur. Sports and Youth Welfare Department is on course to create new posts of trainers across the state. The Excellence Center will aid in further polishing the sporting talent of the state. Necessary resources will also be made available by the Central Government for these two major centres. The MoU for the hockey academy will soon be signed between the Sports Authority of India and the Sports and Youth Welfare Department. Mr. Bhupesh Baghel, while inaugurating the AstroTurf Hockey Stadium at Bahtarai in Bilaspur on June 17, 2019, named it after former Minister Late B.R. Yadav. The 9th Hockey India National Sub Junior Hockey Competition was launched by the Chief Minister in this stadium, with teams from 22 states participating. A well-equipped sports complex is ready in Bilaspur. Chhattisgarh Hockey Academy in Raipur and State Sports Training Center in Bilaspur will provide a good opportunity for sportspersons of the state to develop their sporting skills. Players will get better sports infrastructure with better facilities and training from good coaches. On the occasion of the launch of Yuva Mahotsav this year, the Chief Minister had encouraged the youth to move forward in the field of sports by giving a new slogan of 'Khelbo-Jeetbo-Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh'. It is noteworthy that after the formation of the state, no Sports Academy was established in Chhattisgarh. Two well-equipped hockey stadiums of international level have already been established in Raipur. The Sports Authority of India and the team of sports experts of Khelo India visited the Raipur Hockey Academy and availed information regarding the sports infrastructure and facilities available there||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Rape case on Mithun Chakraborty's son Mahaakshay||Mumbai Police have registered a case against veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty's son Mahaakshay and the former's wife Yogita Bali on a complaint of rape and cheating filed by a woman, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered at Oshiwara police station on Thursday night based on the complaint lodged by the 38-year- old woman, he said. "The complainant said she was in a relationship with Mahaakshay Chakraborty from 2015 to 2018 and during that period he had promised to marry her," the official said. "The woman said that during their relationship, she had gone to see Mahaakshay'sflat at Adarsh Nagar in Andheri West, which he had purchased in 2015. She said when she went there, the accused offered her a spiked soft drink and forced her to have physical relations with him," he added. "The woman alleged that when she became pregnant, Mahaakshay asked her to abort the baby and gave her pills," he said. "The woman said she used to ask Mahaakshay about their marriage. But in January 2018, he told her that he cannot marry her, which led to an altercation between them. She said when she called him, his mother Yogita Bali threatened her," the official said. The complainant later went to Delhi with her brother to stay with their family friend. There, she lodged a complaint against Mahaakshay and his mother Yogita Bali at Begumpur police station in June 2018, he added. The police had registered an offence under section 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman's consent) and others, and the probe was transferred to the crime branch there. A Delhi court later granted anticipatory bail to Mahaakshay and his mother in the case. In March 2020, the Delhi High Court had asked the woman to file her complaint in the court, where the offence had taken place. Following that, she filed a complaint at Oshiwara police station in July this year, the official said. "Accordingly, an offence under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 417 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) has been registered against the accused," he said, adding that a probe is on. Mahaakshay has featured in a few films like "Haunted 3D" and "Loot".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Covid caseload below eight lakh after almost two months||India's active COVID-19 caseload fell below eight lakh for the first time in one-and-a-half months and account for merely 10.70 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. There are 7,95,087 active cases of coronavirus infection as on date. The active caseload was below the 8 lakh mark (7,85,996) last on September 1, the ministry said. "With a high number of COVID-19 patients recovering every day, India's steady trend of registering dipping active cases continues," it underlined. The total recoveries have surged to 65,24,595 and exceed active infections by 57,29,508. A total of 70,816 patients have recovered and discharged in a span of 24 hours whereas 62,212 new COVID-19 cases were reported during the same period, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am. The national recovery rate has further risen to 87.78 per cent. Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre's standard treatment protocol by states and union territories, and total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with commensurate dip in the fatality rate, the ministry underscored. "India is the only country with the highest recoveries and continues to have one of the lowest fatality rates globally. The case fatality rate as on date stands at 1.52 per cent. These have in tandem resulted in consistent slide in the active cases," the ministry highlighted. It said that 78 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Seventy-nine per cent of the 62,212 new cases of COVID-19 recorded in a span of 24 hours are from 10 States and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, the ministry said. Maharashtra is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 11,000 infections, followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 7,000 cases each, it stated. A total of 837 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Maharashtra has reported the maximum single day deaths (306 deaths). Maharashtra contributes more than 13,000 to the single day recoveries, followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries. The Centre continues to support the state and UT governments in the collective fight against the global pandemic. The Ministry of Health has deputed high-level central teams to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal as these states have been reporting a surge in the number of new COVID-19 cases in the recent days. The teams will support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Delhi's air quality poor, say govt agencies||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the 'poor' category on Saturday morning but is likely to improve slightly due to favourable wind speed, according to government agencies. The air pollution level in Delhi had hit an eight-month high on Thursday but reduced slightly on Friday with favourable wind speed helping in dispersion of pollutants, even as the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose to 18 per cent. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 263 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 239 on Friday and 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 (AQI 320). An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. A senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the maximum wind speed was 10 kilometers per hour on Friday. It is likely to be 12 kmph on Saturday. Calm winds and cold temperatures are unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. The wind direction is expected to be north-north westerly on Saturday, which is likely to increase the impact of stubble burning on Delhi's air quality. However, the Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be 9,500 metre square per second on Saturday favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of farm fires to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose from around 6 per cent on Thursday to 18 percent on Friday. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday. Air quality is expected to improve further to the lower end of the poor category by Sunday, SAFAR said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since September as compared to last year. PM10 concentration between September 1 and October 14 this year has been more as compared to the corresponding period last year, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava. The average ventilation index has been 1,334 metre square per second in September and October this year as compared to 1,850 metre square per second during the corresponding period last year, the official said. With lesser area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, the CPCB member secretary hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year as compared to 2019. Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content so farmers burn it. Gargava also said that stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy. With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the COVID-19 situation. Severe air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Women media professionals express concern at rape-case gag fallout ||An association of women media professionals has expressed grave concern at the manner in which rape accused were being allowed the benefit of gag orders on the reporting of sexual assault and harassment cases, a precaution originally meant to protect the survivors. The Network of Women in Media, India, has said in a detailed note that in several instances the accused in rape cases were being allowed the privilege of gag orders. It made a special mention of the 2017 abduction and assault of a Kerala actress in which a leading actor named in the case had taken advantage of the provisions meant for the survivor. In February 2017, the popular actress had been waylaid by criminals who sexually assaulted her in a moving car and filmed the act, allegedly at the behest of a Malayalam superstar. “The trial commenced in-camera in January 2020. In March, the accused obtained a gag order from the court against the media’s coverage of the case. In September, he filed a petition in the same court against 10 media houses for allegedly violating the gag order — the hearings in this matter, too, are currently ongoing,” the statement, signed by 26 eminent personalities, said. The statement cited the petition filed by the accused that said that the “illegal act” of publishing proceedings from the in-camera trial was calculated to hurt his reputation and violate his fundamental rights. “The choice of words in the petition underlines the irony of the situation: Section 327(2) of the CrPC mandates that rape inquiries and trials should be conducted in-camera; and Section 327(3) mandates that it is unlawful to print or publish any matter related to in-camera proceedings without the court’s previous permission,” the NWMI said. The statement highlighted how these legal provisions had been introduced to protect the identity and privacy of the survivors, and not to accord the same privilege to the accused. It said: “…Time and again, it is the weight of public opinion and the role played by responsible media coverage that has helped sensitise and exert pressure on governments and the police to act against perpetrators of sexual assault and harassment. Clearly, there can be no public opinion if there is no information in the public realm. We believe this is why powerful accused are increasingly trying to suppress the social media and news media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Hathras whiff in UP murder||A Dalit teen has been gang-raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki with her family accusing police of forcing them to cremate the body and delaying the registration of a case under the relevant sections, in what appeared to be a rerun of the Hathras incident. The father of the 18-year-old Barabanki girl said her body, with no clothes on, was found with multiple injury marks in an agricultural field on Wednesday, her hands and feet tied. He alleged the police forced him to cremate the body and threatened to book him for murder if he insisted on adding the gang-rape charge. R.S. Gautam, the police chief, said: “We had registered a murder case against two suspects and arrested them. The gang-rape case was added after we got the autopsy report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Lawyer arrested for Sushant ‘fake news’||The cyber cell of Mumbai police on Friday arrested a lawyer from Delhi for allegedly spreading fake news and conspiracy theories on social media over the deaths of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his former manager Disha Salian. The accused, identified as Vibhor Anand, was taken to Mumbai where he was produced before a court and remanded in police custody till October 19. Sources in Mumbai police said Anand had been booked for defamation and other charges under the Information Technology Act. “Anand concocted several fake conspiracy theories and made false claims related to the circumstances surrounding the deaths of Sushant and Salian. He is accused of cooking up conspiracy theories that defamed some celebrities and the Maharashtra government,” a police officer said. Last month, actor-producer Arbaaz Khan, the brother of superstar Salman Khan, had lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of Mumbai police and also filed a case in a civil court against Anand. The court had directed Anand and some other unknown accused persons to take down the defamatory content published directly or indirectly by them. Anand is also accused of posting videos in which he had made defamatory statements and allegations against the Maharashtra government. Mumbai police have claimed to have identified 80,000 such fake social media accounts created on various platforms after Sushant’s death to discredit Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government. The police’s cyber cell has compiled a report in which it has said social media posts with hashtags such as “justiceforsushant” were uploaded to peddle conspiracy theories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||BJP leader shoots in UP, 1 dead||One person was killed and another injured when a BJP leader allegedly opened fire during a meeting to settle a dispute over the allotment of a ration shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district, with the deceased’s kin alleging that the politician was allowed to escape despite the presence of over 20 policemen and senior administrative officials. The police administration, which is yet to arrest Dhirendra Pratap Singh despite over 24 hours having passed since the crime, has admitted “laxity” and suspended nine cops and two administrative officials. Local BJP MLA Surendra Singh, to whom Dhirendra is said to be close, claimed that the accused had opened fire in self-defence. Video footage showed people running helter-skelter after the firing and a group of policemen surrounding a man resembling Dhirendra, a former soldier with a paramilitary force who is now the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell chief of the BJP. Tej Pratap Pal, the brother of Jai Prakash, 46, who died in the firing, alleged that the police had caught Dhirendra after the firing, but “took him to a nearby embankment and let him go”. Surendra, the MLA, said: “We need to know that Dhirendra and many more people would have died had he not fired in self-defence. Dhirendra is the president of the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell of our party. The kind of incident that took place in Durjanpur village can happen anywhere. Both sides had attacked each other.” On Friday morning, policemen were deployed in front of the palatial house of Dhirendra after some villagers allegedly damaged a car and some chairs in front of the building. The villagers also organised a dharna and chanted slogans against the Yogi Adityanath government for “protecting a killer”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Saibaba fast threat for books||G.N. Saibaba, the partially paralysed professor who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur prison for links with Maoists, has threatened to go on a hunger strike from October 21 if he is not allowed to receive letters, books and medicines. In a letter to the head of Maharashtra’s prisons, additional DGP Sunil Ramanand, Saibaba’s wife A.S. Vasantha Kumari has written that the jailed professor had decided to go on a hunger strike to protest “the inhuman behaviour and unfair restrictions laid down by authorities”. Saibaba has demanded that he be allowed to receive medicines, letters, books and newspaper clippings from his family, and also permission to make phone calls to them once a week. The 53-year-old professor, who taught English at Delhi University’s Ram Lal Anand College until his arrest in 2014, is paralysed below his waist due to polio and his family says his arms are getting paralysed because of irregular medical treatment by jail authorities. Vasantha Kumari has written in the letter to the additional DGP: “I have been informed that he is facing hardships and harassment in Nagpur Central Jail due to the inhuman behaviour and unfair restrictions laid down by authorities. He has taken a decision to go on hunger strike from 21st October 2020….” Referring to the restrictions, she said: “All these books supplied to him are in English, some of them are poetry books and some of them are either novels or literature-based books that are not banned under the law of the land…. “As a policy the jail authorities stopped the purchase of newspapers by him in the jail due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, some newspaper clippings and printouts sent by post are not given to him and are being held by the authorities along with the handwritten or typed personal letters addressed to him.” Calls have been restricted to one or two a month, she said. Vasantha Kumari has added: “Sometimes all the medicines given by his advocates are not being given to him. He has multiple health problems and needs to take prescribed medicines every day to save his life.” Asked about the letter, Ramanand told The Telegraph: “I am not well and am bed-ridden. Will speak later.” The Committee for the Defence and Release of Dr G.N. Saibaba has said: “He has spent the last several years suffering grave physical ailments including the gradual paralysis of his functional limbs due to neglect and continuous denial of adequate treatment by the jail authorities…. Previously, even parole to attend his mother’s funeral and last rites was denied (in August). “He has spent the last several years in an anda cell (a secluded egg-shaped high-security room) reading and translating texts and writing poetry. Books and letters are crucial for the well-being of every prisoner and the denial of access to them is a violation of their rights. Despite the family and advocates sending books to Dr G.N. Saibaba over the last several months, books that are in English and freely available in the markets, they are being unduly confiscated and retained by the jail authorities without reason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Supreme Court appoints one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday appointed Justice Madan B. Lokur, a retired judge and a trenchant critic of the State’s misuse of the sedition law, as a one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi. The court overruled objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the governments of two states where the BJP is in power. Mehta said his clients had not been heard before the panel was recommended. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has tasked Justice Lokur with ensuring the prevention of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, an age-old practice that aggravates air pollution in the National Capital Region in October-November every year. As a sitting judge, Justice Lokur had headed a bench that delivered an unpalatable verdict for the Narendra Modi government on extra-judicial killings and had condemned, after retirement, the use of the sedition law against “youngsters, students talking about doing something good for the country”. “(The charge of) sedition is being used with an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views,” he had said at a webinar last month, without mentioning names. Alluding to Dr Kafeel Khan, he had said that recently in Uttar Pradesh, a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. In 2018, dealing with a public interest plea on alleged extrajudicial killings of over 1,528 people in Manipur between 1985 and 2001, the bench headed by Justice Lokur had ordered a CBI inquiry despite the Modi government arguing this would demoralise the armed forces. Justice Lokur’s willingness to express dissent also showed in the way he had combined with three other apex court judges in January 2018 to hold a news conference and accuse then Chief Justice Dipak Misra of allocating key cases to certain favoured junior judges. Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments, had opposed Justice Lokur’s appointment to the committee on the ground that the states had not been heard on the matter. But the three-judge bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, held firm. “We heard the matter at length for more than half an hour. We heard everyone. The consent of the judge was taken. We passed the order in the open court. You can tell us what your reservation is,” Justice Bobde had asked. Mehta said: “The recommendations for the committee were made by the petitioner and the consent (of Justice Lokur) was obtained by them. We were not even put on notice. Hence we should be heard.” But Justice Bobde said: “We are only concerned that citizens of Delhi NCR are able to breathe fresh, clean air; and while the court is shut, we don’t want anything to happen during these nine days.” The apex court will be closed till October 25 on account of Dussehra. Post-harvest stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbourhood, mostly between mid-October and mid-November, induces a spike in air pollution during the festive season. A minor, Aditya Dubey, and his friends had moved a public interest petition seeking steps to prevent the practice, a project in which the state governments have only had partial success. Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, too requested the court not to pass any order as another bench was scheduled to hear a petition on environmental pollution on November 23. She added that the Environment Pollution Prevention Control Authority (EPCA) of the Union environment ministry was already monitoring the situation. But Justice Bobde clarified that the order was “not an indictment of any authority”. “It is necessary that there be some monitoring of stubble burning with a view to its prevention before it assumes abnormal proportions,” the court said. “We, accordingly, accept the suggestion (of the petitioners’ counsel, Vikas Singh) and appoint Hon’ble Mr Justice Madan Lokur, a former judge of this court, to act as the one-man monitoring committee to monitor the measures taken by the states to prevent stubble burning." Highlights of the order: *The chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi must assist Justice Lokur “and enable physical surveillance of fields where stubble is likely to be burnt”. *The National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides should assist the Lokur committee wherever possible. *The teams formed in the states to prevent stubble burning “shall report to and take instructions from” the Lokur committee. *The Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments must provide the committee with secretarial help, transport and security, if necessary. *The EPCA and other relevant authorities must provide any assistance and information the committee seeks. *The committee is to hand in fortnightly reports to the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Blow to two drugs used in India to fight Covid||The antiviral drug remdesivir widely prescribed for coronavirus disease neither prevents deaths nor reduces duration of hospital stay in patients, a clinical trial monitored by the World Health Organisation in 30 countries, including India, has found. Drug regimens containing remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir, and interferon have “little or no effect” on the 28-day mortality or the course of illness in hospitalised Covid-19 patients, the WHO said on Friday, announcing the interim results of the global trial. Health experts said the findings could come as a jolt to doctors across India who have been prescribing both remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine to Covid-19 patients under guidelines approved by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, who was not associated with the WHO trial, said: “The new results put a big question mark on what our policy makers have recommended.” Indian health authorities like their counterparts in other countries had approved remdesivir for emergency use on Covid-19 patients as an investigational therapy. Remdesivir is among medications that US President Donald Trump had received. The US-based Gilead Sciences had in May this year announced licencing pacts with four Indian drug-makers for local production and distribution of the drug that has been used across India. The trial recorded 301 deaths among 2,743 patients who received remdesivir and 303 deaths among 2,708 control patients who had received best standard care. The trial researchers have posted their findings, which are yet to be peer-reviewed, on an online preprint archive. “The results are unambiguous — there is no impact on mortality,” K. Srinath Reddy, president of the New Delhi-based Public Health Foundation of India and member of an international group of researchers who monitored the trial, told The Telegraph. Gilead appeared to challenge the findings. “The emerging data appear inconsistent with more robust evidence from multiple randomised controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals validating the drug’s benefit,” Gilead said in a statement. “We are concerned the data from this global trial have not undergone the rigorous review to allow for constructive scientific discussion.” But health experts say the strength of the WHO trial lies in its size — 11,000 patients across 405 hospitals in 30 countries, with over 5,000 patients in the remdesivir arm — and its worldwide applicability. In comparison, the experts said, a key US study that had influenced the regulatory decision to approve emergency authorisation use had involved 1,062 patients. Kalantri said it was time policy makers in India “learn from research and apply it at the point of care”. “Remdesivir is an expensive medicine — it costs nearly Rs 30,000 for a five-day course. Should our governments and the public squander their limited financial resources on a drug that has been shown not to work by this trial?” He said the trial should also hammer the last nail on hydroxychloroquine’s use for Covid-19. “Simple. Hydroxychloroquine did not work. It is time our policymakers and doctors and the national task force take off hydroxychloroquine for treating hospitalised Covid patients,” Kalantri told this newspaper. The findings, one senior critical care medicine specialist said, imply that inexpensive steroids such as dexamethasone and methylprednisolone, also approved for Covid-19 are the “only things proven to reduce mortality”. Reddy said the large and diverse nature of the participants in the trial help mimic real world conditions. “The results increase our confidence that they are valid across large populations,” he said. “Our results show no impact on mortality — if people believe remdesivir shortens stay in hospital, it is possible it will continue to be used.” A senior ICMR official declined to say what implications the findings would have on India’s current treatment policy that prescribes both remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine. Health authorities in many countries have withdrawn approvals for the use of hydroxychloroquine. The WHO had announced the inefficacy of hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir against Covid-19 earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Prasar Bharati to end PTI deal||The Prasar Bharati board on Thursday decided to end its subscription to the country’s largest news agency, Press Trust of India, a move that it said was a commercial decision but is widely believed to have been hastened by differences over the wire service’s handling of news. The United News of India too got the axe as part of the review of the public broadcaster’s relationship with the country’s oldest news agencies after differences arose over the annual subscriptions. According to Prasar Bharati officials, the board at its meeting on Thursday decided to call for fresh proposals for a digital subscription and related multimedia services from all domestic news agencies. Both PTI and UNI are “free to make fresh proposals to Prasar Bharati”, the public broadcaster’s CEO, Shashi S. Vempati, tweeted in response to the charge that ending PTI’s subscription was another attack on press freedom. This is the first time that the CEO has responded to such criticism, kicked off by Prasar Bharati’s June letter to PTI warning the agency with ending the subscription to its news feed for coverage that was “detrimental to national interest”. The June letter had been sent after PTI interviewed the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, and his Indian counterpart in Beijing, Vikram Misri. The interview with Sun apparently angered the government because it offered space to China in the media. As for the Misri interview, the agency’s initial tweets on it attributed a comment to the ambassador that contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that no one had intruded into Indian territory. While this purported comment by Misri was not included in the copy that was released for use, PTI did not withdraw the initial tweets. Nor did Misri or the external affairs ministry deny that he had said so. The warning letter to PTI was sent by the Prasar Bharati News Service — a recently formed unit of the public broadcaster — although the biggest consumers of the feed within the organisation are All India Radio and Doordarshan. The subscription fees were an issue with UNI too. After the expiry of the last three-year contract with the two agencies in 2015-16, Prasar Bharati had insisted on a service-based rationalisation of the subscription formula but both PTI and UNI wanted to continue with the years-old mechanism of a consolidated payment. Since then, Prasar Bharati has been holding back about 25 per cent of the subscription fees to either agency pending a resolution of the issue. There is no clarity now about how the subject of dues will be addressed or whether the two agencies will challenge the decision. Neither agency had commented on the developments till late Friday evening. Speculation has been rife that the government is targeting PTI in particular to make space for its preferred agency — Asia News International — and Hindustan Samachar, which has been revived since the Modi government came to power in 2014. That ANI, which specialises in audio-visual content, is the government’s favourite is evident from the way it gets to air the Prime Minister’s speeches in preference to Doordarshan. Ever since the lockdown began and news conferences went online, this feed has been available live on YouTube and ANI but not on Doordarshan, which used to have almost exclusive rights to such broadcasts from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||NEET absentees double in Covid year||Absenteeism in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test in Covid-hit 2020 is double last year’s despite the exam being held a second time this year for the benefit of those who had skipped the first edition. Of the 15.97 lakh registered candidates, 2.3 lakh or 14.4 per cent failed to appear in the test, held on September 13 and October 14. Last year, about 1.08 lakh among the 15.19 lakh registered candidates had stayed away, clocking an absenteeism figure of 7.1 per cent. Last year, the test was held just once. The Supreme Court had on Monday allowed the exam to be conducted a second time on Wednesday to help the students who could not take the test on September 13. Nearly 7.71 lakh candidates including a transgender student have cleared this year’s exam, scripting a success rate of 56.44 per cent among those who appeared in it. Last year’s success rate was 56.5 per cent. The NEET is the national entrance exam for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses, of which there are nearly 80,000 and 27,000 seats, respectively. Soyeb Aftab from Odisha scored 720 out of 720 to top the merit list. Akanksha Singh from Delhi too scored 720 but was placed second because she was older. A tie in aggregate score, individual subject scores and percentile score can be broken by considering the age of the candidates, the rules say. At 66.95 per cent, the success rate is highest among the Economically Weaker Sections candidates. The success rate among general-category students is 55.09 per cent and that among the OBCs, 59.19 per cent. The qualification cut-off for the general merit list was a percentile score of 50, compared with 45 for economically weaker candidates and 40 for the OBC, Dalit and tribal candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||BJP clarifies: No secret deal with Chirag Paswan||The BJP on Friday called the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party a “vote katua (vote-cutter)”and said it had no relations with it, seeking to dispel the growing perception that the BJP was making a covert bid to subjugate ally Nitish Kumar. Two central leaders of the BJP — Union minister Prakash Javadekar and general secretary Bhupendra Yadav — rushed to clarify that there was no secret deal with the LJP. “Chirag Paswan has gone his own way in the Bihar elections. The NDA has nothing to do with him. The BJP doesn’t have any B-team,” information and broadcasting minister Javadekar tweeted. Javadekar put out a video in which he called Chirag’s party nothing but a “vote katua” and said the LJP leader was trying to spread confusion by claiming closeness with senior BJP leaders. But both Javadekar and Yadav were silent on the fact that the LJP continues to be a part of the NDA at the Centre. Chirag has been going all out to hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah while slamming the NDA’s poll face, Nitish Kumar. The LJP has been fielding candidates only against the JDU and claiming that a BJP-LJP government would be formed in the state. “By using the Prime Minister’s name, Chirag Paswan wants to create confusion.… Neither do we have any alliance with the LJP nor is it part of the NDA,” BJP general secretary and the party’s Bihar minder, Yadav, tweeted. Yadav termed Chirag’s attack on Nitish “unfortunate”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Congress targets Nitish more than Modi in poll campaign||The Congress electoral campaign in Bihar targets Nitish Kumar more than Narendra Modi in an unmistakable shift in strategy, probably realising that the chief minister has become the face of anti-incumbency. With a catchphrase “ka kiye ho (what have you done?)”, the Congress theme song and jingles question Nitish on every aspect of governance — alarming unemployment to rising crime and mismanagement of the pandemic. Although there are references to the BJP-JDU alliance, as the double-engine government is branded as “Loot Express”, the BJP scarcely figures. The campaign taunts Nitish for political gymnastics, a vague reference to his betrayal of the 2015 mandate, 55 scams in 15 years, failure to speak up on crimes against women, corruption in welfare schemes and the pitiable state of health care and education. Nitish is accused of hollow rhetoric and fake claims of developing Bihar. The Congress underlines that Bihar had recorded the highest unemployment rate of 46 per cent in the country, with every second youth denied a gainful job. Nitish is also accused of favouring people from his home district of Nalanda in constable recruitments, with 4,500 out of the total 9,900 recruits coming from the district. Ordinary citizens have been filmed for the social media campaign that asks them what Nitish has done for the people in his 15 years as chief minister. Asked if Prime Minister Modi was deliberately not made the primary target, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “It is not that the Congress is wary of attacking the Prime Minister. Rahul Gandhi incessantly targets him, exposing his failures and misdeeds on a daily basis, more than any other Opposition leader. Rahulji will definitely talk about Modi’s politics in his speeches. But there was a realisation that Nitish is the weakest link. Surveys indicated he was the target of the disgruntled people.” The leader added: “Modi, too, has lost a lot of goodwill, but he is still popular among a large number of people and is not as discredited as the chief minister. Also, Nitish is the face of the ruling alliance in Bihar and it is his leadership that is being compared with that of the inexperienced Tejashwi Yadav. So we thought blaming Nitish for the failures and misdeeds will have far greater resonance among the people who have first-hand experience of his performance. Modi is still a distant figure whose image has been assiduously protected by the media despite such grievous failures on the economy and other fronts.” Referring to the absence of any mention of divisive politics, another leader said: “We consciously decided not to harp on communalism because people now know what Modi stands for. Communal polarisation unnecessarily creates opportunities for the BJP’s propaganda. We want to focus on issues such as unemployment, sufferings of the poor during the lockdown and agriculture. So we decided to keep the focus on the chief minister. Nitish anyway has lost his charisma; while his trustworthiness is finished because he embraced the BJP after publicly taking a vow to prefer death to rejoining them. His pointed critique of the RSS-BJP during the last election hasn’t been forgotten by the people.” While the forceful pitch by AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi has already given the BJP an opening to deploy communal rhetoric, it also pounced on the Congress on Friday for fielding Mashkoor Ahmed Usmani, a student leader from Aligarh Muslim University, who had been linked to the controversy over Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s portrait. In 2018, a BJP MP had objected to a Jinnah portrait at AMU and Usmani, as the student union leader, had pointed out that the portrait had been on the campus for many decades. Some television channels ran a campaign on Friday, saying the Congress had fielded a “Jinnah-lover” and portrayed it as a big election issue. This controversy has pushed the Congress into a corner as the local leaders are not willing to defend his candidature. The entire state leadership was opposed to his nomination as he was not a local of Jale, the constituency he has been fielded from.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
