18-10-2020||India||Kerala paying for gross negligence, says Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Kerala, which was witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections recently, was paying the "price for gross negligence" during Onam festivities when unlocking of services, along with an increase in travel for trade and tourism, led to the spread of COVID-19.
The minister said this ought to serve as a good lesson for all the state governments that were being negligent in planning for the festival season.
Kerala's COVID-19 tally has crossed 3.3 lakh while the toll climbed to 1,139 on Saturday. Prior to Onam (August 22), the state had reported around 54,000 cases, while the death toll was nearly 200.
During an interaction with  social media followers on the sixth episode of “Sunday Samvaad”, Vardhan reiterated his request to everyone to celebrate festivals at home with their loved ones in the traditional way to ward off the risk of coronavirus infection.
This festive season, charity must take precedence over celebrations, he said.
"My own celebrations too shall remain subdued due to the heart-rending impact of COVID-19 on lakhs of corona warriors across the world battling for us," the minister stated.
He said there was no shortage of medical oxygen in the country and that the government was ready to scale up production capacity to meet any further increase in demand arising due to the pandemic.
On Kerala, Vardhan said between January 30 and May 3, the state had reported just 499 cases and two deaths due to the disease. He regretted that "Kerala was paying the price of gross negligence" during the recent Onam festivities when state-wise unlocking of services, along with an increase in inter and intra-state travel for trade and tourism, led to the spread of COVID-19 across various districts.
“The epi curve of Kerala changed completely due to Onam festivities across the state. The daily new cases nearly doubled," Vardhan said.No mutation Vardhan also said that as of yet no mutation of coronavirus had been detected in India that is either more transmission efficient or more pathogenic.
Answering a question on the discrepancy in the COVID-19 death figures, Vardhan said that the Ministry of Health has taken up the issue of correct certification of COVID-19 deaths with all states and UTs on multiple instances. It has also shared a proper modality of reporting of deaths with them to ensure consistency in reporting of COVID-19 related deaths across India, the minister said.
Replying to a query, Vardhan said that community transmission of COVID-19 is limited to certain districts in a limited number of states. In different pockets across various states, including West Bengal, community transmission of COVID-19 is expected to occur, especially in the densely-populated areas, he said.
"However, this is not happening across the country. Community transmission is limited to certain districts, occurring in a limited number of states," Vardhan said.
The minister was responding after a participant, while citing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's remark that there are instances of community transmission in her state, asked which states have seen community transmission.Newspapers are safe Vardhan rekindled the joy of having morning tea with the daily newspaper in a respondent by reassuring him that there is no scientific evidence that proves that novel coronavirus transmission can happen via newspapers.
"Reading newspapers is completely safe even during the COVID-19 pandemic," he said.
On the availability of medical oxygen in the country, he said the current oxygen production capacity of India is around 6400 MT/Day.
The government is ready to scale up the production capacity to meet any further increase in demand arising due to the pandemic, he said.
“The Empowered Group constituted by the home ministry is monitoring the requirement of medical oxygen across India. The health ministry is also monitoring the availability and supply of medical oxygen at the field level through regular video conferencing with state nodal officers as well as with principal secretaries or mission directors,” he said.Intranasal Covid vaccine trials Vardhan remarked that although there are no intranasal COVID-19 vaccines under trial in India at the moment, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are expected to pursue clinical trials of such vaccines in the country in the coming months on receipt of regulatory approval.
In a follow-up to a question from the last episode, Vardhan was asked on phase 2 of the COVID-19 grants to states, to which he said Rs 1,352 crore have already been released as part of the second COVID Package to 33 states and UTs.
This phase 2 grant has been released in trenches during August, September and October this year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Mar Thoma church head passes away||Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, the primate of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, died early Sunday at a private hospital here after battling cancer, church sources said.

The 90-year old head of the Marthoma community was under treatment for pancreatic cancer and breathed his last around 2.30 AM, hospital sources said.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the spiritual leader, saying the Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives of the poor.

"His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives the poor and downtrodden.

He was blessed with abundance of empathy and humility. His noble ideals will always be remembered. RIP," Modi tweeted

The Prime Minister had on June 27 inaugurated the 90th birth anniversary celebrations of the Metropolitan.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the demise of the Metropolitan was not only a loss to the church but to the society as a whole.

"He worked for the liberation and welfare of the homeless and marginalised people in the society. His involvement in rehabilitating children from the Red Street in Mumbai and uplifting transgender persons into the mainstream shows how he battled for the downtrodden," Vijayan said in a statement.

Vijayan said Metropolitan fought fearlessly against social evils.

Born as P T Joseph to Alakunnathu T Lukose and Mariamma couple at Maramonin Pathanamthitta district, Joseph Mar Thoma became Mar Thoma metropolitan in October 2007 after the then Mar Thoma, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, expressed his desire to transfer responsibilities of the church to his successor due to his deteriorating health.

He was ordained as Ramban on January 11, 1975 and designated as suffragan metropolitan on 15 March 1999, when Philipose Mar Chrysostom, the suffragan metropolitan, was designated as the officiating metropolitan.

The mortal remains have been kept at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla where people from all walks of life paid their final respects to the Metropolitan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19: 61,871 new infections, 1,033 more fatalities in country||India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 74,94,551 with 61,871 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 65,97,209 pushing the recovery rate to 88.03 per cent, according to the Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.

The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,14,031 with the virus claiming 1,033 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.

The number of active cases of coronavirus infection remained below 8 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 7,83,311 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, comprising 10.45 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.

The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.52 per cent.

India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh cases on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh cases on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11.

According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 9,42,24,190 samples have been tested up to October 17 with 9,70,173 samples being tested on Saturday.

India stood second behind the US in terms of active cases of COVID-19 as well as total caseload, according to Worldometer, a website that publishes coronavirus statistics from across the globe.

India is in the number one position in terms of the number of recovered cases while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil.

The 1,033 new fatalities include 463 from Maharashtra, 95 from Uttarakhand, 71 from Karnataka, 61 from West Bengal, 57 from Tamil Nadu, 40 from Uttar Pradesh and 35 from Delhi.

Total 1,14,031 deaths reported so far in the country include 41,965 from Maharashtra followed by 10,586 from Tamil Nadu, 10,427 from Karnataka, 6,629 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,406 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,992 from West Bengal, 5,981 from Delhi, 3,999 from Punjab and 3,626 from Gujarat.

The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.

"Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Journalist’s face shows telltale sign of changed country||A young journalist covering a protest by students near Delhi University has complained of custodial assault by an assistant commissioner of police and said the cops asked those picked up “aap ko pata nahi hai ki desh badal gaya hai (don’t you know that the country has changed?)”. “Desh badal gaya hai” is a BJP refrain and “Mera desh badal raha hai (My country is changing)” was a song released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after completing two years in office in 2016. In a complaint to police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday, The Caravan magazine’s Ahan Penkar, 24, wrote ACP Ajay Kumar kicked and stamped on his face, back, shoulders and ankle after he was picked up while on assignment on Friday. The Caravan, some of whose journalists have been targeted by the police earlier, had reported extensively on the controversy surrounding the death of Judge B.H. Loya, who was hearing the Sohrabuddin Sheikh “encounter” case in which BJP leader Amit Shah was an accused, in 2014. Shah, now the Union home minister, was discharged from the case after Judge Loya passed away and a new judge took over. On Saturday, Penkar, the journalist, said the police assaulted the protesters with the ACP stamping on the neck of one of the persons. The journalist said the other cops at Model Town police station had supported Kumar’s actions on the ground that he had been deprived of sleep after night duty because of the protest. ACP Kumar had been in the news last December after a man resembling him was seen in a widely circulated video ordering students in paying guest accommodations near DU to vacate their rooms because of law-and-order problems amid the protests against the Centre’s citizenship thrusts. The police claimed that the video was fake. Penkar had been covering a demonstration outside Model Town police station by Left student groups and family members of a 17-year-old domestic help who was found hanging at her employer’s premises on October 4. The family, who are Dalits, suspects that she had been raped and murdered and has demanded that the police’s crime branch probe the case. The post-mortem report of the girl says she died due to hanging, and the police have denied foul play. In his complaint, Penkar has written that he was forcibly taken inside the police station by cops along with an aunt of the deceased whom he had been interviewing at the protest spot around 3.15pm. He wrote: “Despite seeing me hold my press card and despite me repeatedly telling them that I am a journalist, the police took me along with four other persons into a room on the ground floor of the police station and asked all of us to sit on the ground…. ACP Ajay Kumar kicked me in the face first and I fell… to the ground. When I was on the ground, the ACP kicked me on my back and my shoulders. When I sat back up, the ACP made me prostrate with my head nearly on the ground and then hit me on the back again. The ACP also stamped on my ankle.” The Caravan has released images of Penkar that show injuries to his nose and upper back. Penkar said in the complaint to the commissioner: “I saw the ACP slap one person twice, then made him lie on the ground and punched him in the liver repeatedly, and then put his foot on the man’s neck.” The journalist alleged that the police forced him to unlock his phone and deleted all pictures of the demonstration. “The police also said things like, ‘Aap ko pata nahi hai ki desh badal gaya hai (don’t you know that the country has changed?)’ and told us that the ACP had night duty the previous day and had to come to the station while he was resting and therefore it was natural that he would beat us up because of it,” Penkar has written in his complaint. A DU student who told this newspaper he was tortured in the same room as Penkar corroborated the journalist’s account of his ordeal described in the complaint. The student said some protesters had also told the police that Penkar was a journalist. “The ACP hit him so badly that he started crying,” the student — who was treated for bruises at a government hospital on Saturday — said. He added that they were allowed to leave around 8.30pm on Friday. Delhi police said Penkar had been summoned for questioning in connection with his allegations and claimed that he had been “seen protesting” in violation of pandemic-time rules. The police said in the statement that the post-mortem and the inquest had “conclusively” confirmed that the girl had died by suicide on October 4. “On 16.10.20, some protesters staged a dharna/ demonstration outside PS Model Town to put undue pressure on the police and tried to give the incident a different colour.… A case has also been registered for the violations under relevant sections of the IPC, Epidemic Act and the DDMA Act,” the statement said. “One Ahan Penkar, who was also seen protesting amongst the crowd of protesters, was also detained and subsequently released. He later claimed himself to be a press person and alleged misbehaviour. The police have issued notice to him for his statement and interrogation in the matter,” it added. In August, three journalists of The Caravan  had been roughed up by a mob in Northeast Delhi where they had gone to investigate reports of communal tension in the area, which had witnessed riots in February in which 53 people were killed. Back then, the police had said in a statement: “Today afternoon some journalists were taking photographs and interviews in the communally sensitive area to which local people objected. The police acted swiftly to pacify the situation.” In 2016, during a protest outside the Delhi office of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh against student Rohith Vemula’s suicide, Rahul Meesaraganda, a photographer freelancing for the magazine, had been chased and caned by the police, and his camera smashed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020, with a “serious” level of hunger that puts it behind every one of its neighbours. The hunger level is calculated on four indicators: undernourishment, child wasting (children under five who have low weight for their height), child stunting (children under five who have low height for their age), and mortality rate for children under five. According to the report published by Ireland’s humanitarian agency Concern Worldwide and Germany’s aid agency Welthungerhilfe, prevalence of wasting among children in India, which reflects acute undernutrition, has gone up in the period 2015-2019. Sudan scored the same as India on the hunger index: 27.2. Countries which have fared worse than India include North Korea, Rwanda, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Lesotho and Sierra Leone. A GHI score of less than 9.9 is considered to be low hunger, between 10 and 19.9 is moderate, between 20 and 34.9 is serious, between 35 and 49.9 is alarming, and a score over 50 is extremely alarming hunger. India’s score was 38.9 in 2000, 37.5 in 2006 and 29.3 in 2012. Last year, out of 117 countries that were ranked, India stood at 102. Only countries on whom sufficient data are available to calculate the score are ranked. In 2018, India stood at 103 among 119 countries. Every other country in the subcontinent has fared better in feeding their people than India. Nepal with a score of 19.5 faces moderate hunger and is ranked at 73 and Sri Lanka with a score of 16.3 is even higher at 64. Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan face serious hunger but were placed well above India, at 75, 78 and 88, respectively. Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University with specialisation on poverty and inequality, said the benefits of economic growth in India were not reaching the public. “Growth does not mean everybody is benefiting in India. There is huge inequality because the fruits of growth are enjoyed by selected sections of society,” he said. Himanshu said the benefits can reach more people if the government spends more to improve public education, health care, nutrition, social security and gender empowerment. There is no sign of increase in investment in these areas, he added. “The neighbouring countries are actually investing more in education, health care and so on for the last over two decades. This report has rightly pointed out the problem. But things are unlikely to change in India going by what we have been seeing,” Himanshu said. The report presented a case study on Nepal, pointing out that the landlocked country had alarming hunger levels as recently as 2000. Interventions to improve children’s health have done a great deal to reduce child mortality and raise children’s nutritional status. India in August 2019 had passed a law to ensure workers do not get wages less than a minimum threshold level notified by the Centre, but the rules are still to be finalised. The economic contraction associated with the pandemic could increase the number of children who experience wasting in low and middle-income countries by 6.7 million, the report said. The report has significance for India since its GDP for the first quarter of this financial year was minus 23 per cent. The mortality rate of children under age five in South Asia as of 2018 was 4.1 per cent. India experienced a decline in under-five mortality in this period, driven largely by decreases in deaths from birth asphyxia or trauma, neonatal infections, pneumonia and diarrhoea. However, child mortality caused by prematurity and low birthweight increased, particularly in poorer states and rural areas, the report said. According to the report released on Friday, 14 per cent of India’s population is undernourished, the rate of stunting among children under 5 is 37.4 per cent while the rate of wasting among children under 5 is 17.3 per cent. The under-five mortality rate is 3.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||MLA seeks ‘justice’ for Uttar Pradesh murder accused||A BJP lawmaker has demanded “justice” for an aide who is accused of shooting dead one person following a disagreement over bagging the contract for a ration shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district. Surendra Nath Singh, the MLA of Bairia, broke down while speaking to reporters on Saturday about the accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, his associate and the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell chief of the BJP. Surendra demanded that an FIR be registered against the supporters of Jai Prakash Pal, who was shot dead allegedly by Dhirendra. He claimed that Dhirendra had fired in self-defence and threatened to launch a massive protest. “Like me, Dhirendra Pratap Singh belonged to the Kshatriya caste. The police are denying justice to him. The bureaucracy is conspiring against the BJP. Dhirendra and his family members would have been killed had he not fired at his rivals in self-defence,” Surendra said. “I warn the police that I will organise a massive protest in front of Rewati police station if an FIR is not registered against the enemies of Dhirendra,” the MLA added. Dhirendra is accused of opening fire during a meeting on Thursday to settle a dispute over who would bag the contract to run a ration shop in the area. Villagers had claimed that after it was decided that the contractor would be chosen through voting, Dhirendra brought in outsiders and fired from his pistol when they were stopped from casting their ballots. Jai Prakash’s family members have accused the police of allowing Dhirendra to escape. Surendra, the MLA, on Saturday said he took six women to the district hospital and claimed that they had suffered injuries during Thursday’s clash. “These women are family members of Dhirendra and his friends, against whom the police have registered a case for killing a rival and leaving others injured. This is injustice and I will not let this happen,” Surendra said. Later, he escorted the women to Rewati police station and submitted an application urging the police to file a case “against those who wanted to kill Dhirendra and his followers”. “I am giving a week’s time to the police to register an FIR against the members of the rival group,” Surendra said. Azamgarh DIG Subhas Chandra Dubey did not answer questions from the media on the MLA’s threat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||BJP leader killed in Uttar Pradesh ‘over panchayat polls’||A BJP leader was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district late on Friday night allegedly following a dispute over contesting panchayat elections, lengthening the list of politicians from the party to have been murdered in the state in the past year. Dayashankar Gupta, 45, the divisional vice-president of the BJP unit of Tundla, was walking home after closing his building materials and grocery shops around 8pm when three motorbike-borne assailants fired at him. He suffered bullet injuries in his chest and died an hour later at a hospital in Agra. Police have arrested three persons belonging to one family on the basis of Gupta’s dying declaration. Among them are Viresh Tomar, a school owner, and his relative Devendra Singh Tomar, a medicine seller. Atul Gupta, the younger brother of the deceased, said: “The Tomar family had been mounting pressure on my brother not to seek a ticket for the upcoming panchayat election in the area as one of them wanted to contest. They had threatened my brother with consequences.” The Guptas said Viresh and Devendra wielded influence in multiple political parties. “They used to work for the Samajwadi Party earlier but began attending meetings of the BJP when it came to power in 2017 in Uttar Pradesh,” a family member of Gupta said on the condition of anonymity. The BJP denied having any links with the accused. Manvendra Pratap Singh Lodhi, the district BJP president, said: “The murder of Gupta is unfortunate. The police must take the harshest action against the killers.” Mukesh Chandra Mishra, the superintendent of police of Firozabad, said: “We are close to cracking the case as the arrested accused have provided some leads.” Earlier on September 17, Sanjay Singh, 45, a doctor who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was killed in his sleep by three men. Singh was the district vice-president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a private militia of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The police had arrested two persons and cited personal reasons for the murder. Sanjay Khokhar, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh member and former BJP president for Baghpat, was shot dead on August 11. Ranjeet Bachchan, a Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants in Lucknow on February 2. Kamlesh Tiwari, a leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was shot in his office at Lucknow on October 18 last year. His death spawned many conspiracy theories, including one with a communal and terrorist angle. Three suspects were arrested. Sandeep Nagar, a Hindu Yuva Vahini activist from Gautam Buddha Nagar, was stabbed to death and hung from a tree on November 27 last year. The police have yet to crack the case. Rakesh Sharma, divisional general secretary of the BJP’s Hapur unit, was shot dead on September 9, 2019. One arrest was made at that time. Kapoor Singh alias Kallu, a BJP leader in Kanpur, was shot dead on September 5 last year along with his friend Bachha Singh Gaur. Two persons were arrested. Sompal Saini, an RSS official from Habibpur area of Muzaffarnagar, was shot on August 29 last year. One arrest was made. Surendra Singh, a BJP leader from Amethi, was shot dead in front of his home in village Baraulia on May 26 last year. Three accused were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Go-ahead for Russia vaccine trial in India||India’s drug regulatory authority has approved a clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine candidate against the novel coronavirus disease on healthy Indian volunteers, setting the stage for the country’s fourth Covid-19 vaccine trial. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved “an adaptive phase 2/3 clinical trial” of Sputnik V, implying the vaccine will be assessed for its capacity to both generate an immune response and protect against the Covid-19 infection. The Hyderabad-based drug company, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, will conduct the trial in India under a pact it had signed last month with Russia Direct Investment Fund, the Russian government’s sovereign wealth fund which is promoting Sputnik V worldwide. Both DRL and RDIF on Saturday announced the trial’s approval but declined to specify the number of sites or the number of healthy volunteers set for the phase 2 component of the trial. A phase 2 trial typically involves a few hundred volunteers distributed across multiple locations. Sputnik V, which uses human adenoviruses as delivery vehicles, had become the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 on August 11 when Russian regulators approved its use after phase 1 safety and phase 2 immunogenicity trials in Russia. Around 40,000 volunteers are expected to receive Sputnik V during the phase 3 trial currently underway in Russia. A phase 3 trial of Sputnik V also began in the United Arab Emirates last week. “In addition to the Indian clinical trial data, we will provide safety and immunogenicity (data) from the Russian phase 3 clinical trial. This data will further strengthen clinical development of Sputnik V in India,” RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said in a statement on Saturday. India is already assessing three other vaccine candidates — two homegrown and one developed by Oxford researchers. The trials of the homegrown candidates had started in mid-July and scientists expect the outcome of the phase 2 or human immunogenicity analysis to emerge any time now. The phase 3 efficacy  trials are expected to take longer as researchers have to wait for sets of volunteers to develop the coronavirus disease and demonstrate that the proportion falling ill in the recipients’ group is significantly smaller than those in the non-recipients’ group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting to review India’s Covid-19 epidemic and vaccine efforts and stressed the need for advance planning for the efficient delivery and distribution of vaccines when they emerge. A National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has in consultation with state governments prepared a detailed blueprint for vaccine storage, distribution and administration. The NEGVAC is working with states to identify priority populations. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier this month said the Centre had set a rough estimate of vaccinating around 250 million people across India by July 2021. The health ministry has asked states to prepare lists of priority population groups to receive the vaccine first. These lists are expected to include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, health surveillance officers, sanitary staff and others involved in testing, tracing and treating Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Kashmir: Unlikely voice joins Article 370 chorus||A senior leader of Apni Party, which was floated with Delhi’s blessings last year to wean people away from Article 370-centric politics, has called for unity among all Jammu and Kashmir parties to fight for the restoration of the state’s special status. The call is a grim reminder of how the Centre’s attempts to create an alternative to traditional political parties are not working. Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party’s vice-president Choudhary Zulfikar Ali’s call for unity came two days after top Jammu and Kashmir parties, including National Conference and People’s Democratic Party, formed People’s Alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370 and resolution of the Kashmir issue. “All the political parties must unite to fight for the honour, dignity, status of the people of state including restoration of State irrespective of our political ideologies,” Choudhary, a former minister from Jammu, tweeted. In a related development, Jammu Muslim Front welcomed the formation of People’s Alliance and said the front supported restoration of Article 370. Choudhary later told The Telegraph these were his personal views and he strongly felt Article 370 should be restored. “We have lost everything, our identity, our state, our special status, which was a sovereign guarantee to us. We have lost everything that day (on August 5 last year),” he said. The leader of Apni Party — called King’s Party — said he was in favour of joining hands with the newly floated People’s Alliance for their rights although he had not discussed the issue with his party. “This matter has not been decided in my party platform, but I think if we want to achieve something we must unite together and fight for our rights... This is our struggle and we all should be part of the struggle,” he said. “We have a common goal, common issue. We must be together to fight for it. I don’t know whether other leaders in my party will agree with my opinion, but this is my personal opinion that whatever we lost was the dignity of our state. It is our responsibility as people’s representatives to fight for it.” Another party leader said last year’s decisions had hurt the people of the state and other leaders too shared Choudhary’s views. “There is disillusionment in our party as we have not been able to achieve our smallest demand of restoration of statehood to which the central leadership has already agreed,” a leader said. Bukhari was not available for comment, but his spokesman Javid Baig said these were the party vice-president’s personal views. “He is our vice-president and I respect his statement. It is not proper for me, as he is my senior, to comment on it,” he said. “In our meetings with the Prime Minister (and others), we have submitted memoranda and our agenda is clear that some issues (restoration of Article 370) are in court and we will abide by its decision. We are pursuing our goal of the restoration of statehood.” The spokesman said Kashmir was not in Delhi’s focus as the country was confronting two grave issues in the form of Chinese incursion and the faltering economy. “But that will not always be the case and we will achieve our goal,” he said. Apni Party was floated with much fanfare last year after Delhi succeeded to engineer a divide in PDP and woo leaders such as Bukhari, Choudhary and Baig — all former legislators — into its fold. But the party has failed to make inroads and the Centre, too, has not been forthcoming to concede to its demands. With Valley’s top leaders of major pro-India parties out of jail, Apni Party is likely to lose face a bit more. The party has been relentless in its criticism of rivals NC and PDP. Bukhari recently claimed they were “hoodwinking people” and “creating a smokescreen by demanding the restoration of Article 370.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Official axed in Kerala gold smuggling case in hospital||A top bureaucrat suspended for his alleged links with some of the key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case has landed in emergency medical care at Thiruvananthapuram after a purported attempt to arrest him. M. Sivasankar, former secretary in the chief minister’s office, took ill on Friday night after customs officials went to fetch him from his home. The officials rushed him to a private hospital after he complained of chest pain and uneasiness. After several tests, the hospital said in a bulletin that Sivasankar had suffered a disc prolapse and advised neurological care. The hospital said he did not have any cardiac issue although there were some variations in his ECG readings. Sivasankar was on Saturday moved to Government Medical College Hospital in the Kerala capital. The purported attempt by the customs department to arrest Sivasankar came two days after Kerala High Court directed the Enforcement Directorate not to arrest him till October 23. The ED is probing a money-laundering angle in the case while the National Investigating Agency is looking at a possible terror angle. Senior counsel S. Rajeev, who represents Sivasankar in the customs case, told The Telegraph that there was an attempt to arrest the bureaucrat on Friday. “Perhaps they thought they could keep him in custody for at least two days since no bail plea can be moved until Monday,” he said. The name of the IAS officer, who used to run the CMO before his suspension, cropped up after Thiruvananthapuram airport customs officials busted the attempted smuggling of 30kg gold ingots valued at Rs 14.82 crore concealed in what appeared to be diplomatic baggage addressed to the attaché of the UAE consul-general in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Sivasankar is suspected to have connections with some of the key accused, including former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh. The Opposition BJP and Congress in Kerala have been demanding the scalp of communist chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the alleged involvement of Sivasankar.Sources said the customs department was trying to link Sivasankar to the allegation that Swapna had tried to move $1.90 lakh out of the country. The money was suspected to be kickback received from the Kochi-based Unitac Builders and Developers that won a contract to build homes for 140 flood-affected families in Thrissur. The builder had allegedly paid Rs 4.25 crore to Swapna and some officials in the consulate as bribes for the contract funded by a UAE charity. The project costing close to Rs 20 crore was entirely funded by the Emirates Red Crescent Society, the UAE arm of Red Cross, and money had been channelled through the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The sources said the customs had claimed to have unearthed details of how Sivasankar had allegedly got a bank official to convert the kickback into US dollars at the behest of Swapna. Asked if the customs would record Sivasankar’s arrest, Rajeev said they wouldn’t be able to interrogate him while under medical care. “They can record his arrest but cannot question him considering his health condition,” the senior advocate said. Three central agencies probing the gold smuggling case — customs, the ED and the NIA — have so far questioned Sivasankar for 90 hours over 100 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||Nitish Kumar trains guns on Lalu Yadav, young leaders||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday took a swipe at his bete noire Lalu Prasad by questioning whether during the 15 years of RJD rule the government did anything for the upliftment of women except for anointing his wife on the chief ministerial chair. Nitish also took an apparent dig at RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan, without taking any names, saying that “those even having no knowledge of alphabets of politic are making statements against me day and night to gain publicity”. “Let them take publicity, I don’t bother because I believe in working and not making speeches for the sake of publicity,” he said at rallies in Nabinagar in Aurangabad and Dinara in neighbouring Rohtas district. On Saturday, he held public meetings at Nabinagar, Nokha, Karaghar and ended at Dinara in Rohtas district. Making special mention of condition of women during the two regimes, Nitish asked “while the leader at that time installed wife on the chair (of CM) but did he do anything for welfare of the females?” RJD president Lalu, who became chief minister in 1990, had made his wife Rabri Devi take the seat when he went to jail in 1997 in connection with the multi-crore fodder scam case. Her tenure even exceeds that of Lalu’s seven years. Highlighting work done for women during his 15 years at the helm, Nitish said while girls were inspired to pursue studies through bicycle yojana, 50 per cent of seats in the panchayats and urban local bodies were reserved for women. The state government has also earmarked 35 per cent of jobs for women in police and other state government services. “Does any state have more number of women in the police force than Bihar?” he asked the crowd. Nitish also made reference to the JEEVIKA programme which provides easy finance to women self-help groups. “We had planned to enrol 10 lakh women through SHGs but the number has increased to 1.2 crore now,” he said at a rally in Dinara in favour of state minister and JDU nominee Jai Kumar Singh. He also mentioned providing Rs 10,000 assistance to girls clearing plus Class XII exam and Rs 25,000 to those completing graduation. He said the assistance would be increased to Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively, if his government returns to power. Nitish highlighted the bad law and order situation during the RJD rule and cited latest figures of the National Crime Records Bureau which placed Bihar on 23rd position in terms of crime now. He said while they believe in working for the people, the history of the opponents makes it clear that they work only for their wife, sons and children. “Due to this greed of working only for self, they are behind the bars,” he said, adding that “some more will follow the suit”. Nitish heaped rich praise on the Centre for assisting the development of Bihar and caring for its people.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi government is providing free foodgrains to the poor from March to November in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. He also gave Rs 6,000 assistance to farmers,” he said. He said if voted to power, the state and the central government would further step up efforts to see Bihar stand among the frontline states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||15 jailed for Islamic State 'conspiracy'||A special National Investigation Agency court has sentenced 15 people to rigorous imprisonment for terms ranging between five and 10 years in connection with an Islamic State conspiracy. The IS, a proscribed terrorist organisation, had allegedly hatched a criminal conspiracy to establish its base in India by recruiting youths through social media platforms. In a statement, the NIA said on Saturday that the case had been registered in December 2015 and that the accused were arrested during country-wide searches. According to the NIA, the accused persons had formed an organisation named Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind, which sought to establish a Caliphate in India and pledged allegiance to the IS, to recruit youths and carry out terror activities in India at the behest of one Syria-based Yusuf Al Hindi. “After the arrest of (the) ISIS terrorists, their activities were minimised,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
