19-10-2020||India||Making necessary changes in all sectors for country's growth, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said necessary changes are being made in every sector to ensure growth and to make this decade India's. "In the last 6-7 months you might have seen the speed and the ambit of reforms are increasing. Whether it is agriculture, space, defence, aviation or labour. In every sector necessary changes are being made for growth," Modi said. Addressing the centenary convocation of the University of Mysore through video conferencing, he said it is being done for the sake of crores of youth in this country and to make this decade India's. "This decade can be India's only when we make our foundations strong. This decade has brought immense opportunity for the youth," he added. Modi greeted the people of the state on the occasion of "Nada Habba" (state festival) Dasara. Expressing sympathy towards those affected by floods in several parts of the state, the Prime Minister said the central and the Karnataka governments together were doing every bit to provide relief to all those affected. Speaking on the National Education Policy, he said, skilling, reskilling and upskilling were the need of the day and the policy focuses on it. He also said that efforts were being made at all levels to make India a global hub for higher education and our youth competitive. Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah quizzed by ED for alleged fraud in J&K Cricket Association  ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah in connection with a money laundering probe in a case related to the alleged embezzlement of Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association funds, officials said. They said the National Conference president's statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as in the past. The ED case is based on an FIR filed by the CBI, which booked former JKCA office-bearers, including general secretary Mohammed Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza. The CBI later filed a chargesheet against Abdullah, Khan, Mirza as well as Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali, Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh (former accountant of JKCA) for the "misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore" from grants given by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to promote the sport in the state between 2002-11. The ED said its probe found that JKCA received Rs 94.06 crore from BCCI in three different bank accounts during financial years 2005 2006 to 2011 2012 (up to December 2011). Abdullah's son Omar Abdullah tweeted that the National Conference would be responding to the ED summons shortly. "This is nothing less than political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight, no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib's residence," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Fired in 'self-defence', arrested BJP leader claims||Dhirendra Pratap Singh, a local BJP leader who was arrested for allegedly shooting a man during the allotment of ration shops here, has told police that he fired in self-defence and claimed the other side started the quarrel, officials said on Monday. He also assured police that he would help in the recovery of the weapon used in the crime, they said. Singh allegedly shot dead Jai Prakash Pal Gama (46) on Thursday following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area. Senior administration and police officials were present at the meeting when the incident took place. After evading arrest for days, Singh was arrested by the UP Special Task Force on Sunday from Lucknow. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 had been announced for his arrest. "DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey interrogated Dhirendra Pratap Singh for nearly an hour, and he gave the details of the incident. He assured the police that he would help in the recovery of the weapon (used in the crime), and said that he had fired in self-defence," said SHO of Kotwali police station Vipin Singh. He told police that around 2,000 people had gathered in the village on Thursday and there was a fracas over the allotment of ration shops, the SHO said. The accused claimed that the other side started the quarrel and opened fire, injuring his nephew and five-six women of his family. His nephew later succumbed to his injuries, he added. Singh also blamed the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and the circle officer for the incident, the police said. He alleged that the SDM colluded with the other side. He claimed that initially the SDM had announced that the allotment of shops will be done on the basis of majority. But later he said only those having identity cards can take part in the voting, according to the police. The Uttar Pradesh government has already suspended the SDM, the circle officer and other policemen present at the spot. Besides Singh, four others -- Santosh Yadav, Amarjeet Yadav, Ajay Singh and Dharmendra Singh -- were arrested in connection with the case from Ballia on Sunday. So far, police have arrested 10 people in the case, in which an FIR has been lodged against around 30 people, most of whom are yet to be identified. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on Saturday said it would invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangsters Act against the accused. Under the NSA, one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to national security or law and order. Under the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of property, whether movable or immovable, if there is a reason to believe that it has been acquired as a commission for an offence triable under this law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Musician's plea to Maharashtra govt for live concerts||A musician out of work due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions has appealed to the Maharashtra government to allow artists to hold live concerts and shows to sustain their livelihood. Amar Wankhede, who used to earn his living by playing synthesizer in orchestra shows, stood in a market place in Aurangabad city for 12 hours on Saturday carrying a placard with the message: 'Don't let us beg, save artist, save art'. Since the lockdown came into force, live concerts and musical performances are prohibited across the state. As Wankhede is left with no other means of earning, he came out on a road in Cannought area here to make people understand the plight of artists like him. "Live shows and musical events are not being held since the past seven months. Many people are dependent on this profession for their bread and butter," he told news agency PTI. "We dont want any incentives or aid from the government. We only need permission to resume our work," the artist said. Wankhede said he also came to know that an artist from Pune committed suicide 10 to 15 days ago. "The government is chalking out standard operating procedures (SOP) to resume activities in many sectors. We will also follow the norms and take all precautions if we are allowed to resume work," he said. Wankhede also appealed to people to run a online campaign to save artists like him. "We expect to get permission to resume work from next month, otherwise we will have to agitate for our demands," Wankhede said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||‘Every step in Hathras aimed at destroying evidence’ ||Protected by the authorities, the powerful have in recent years come to believe they can get away with all kinds of atrocities on the powerless, Malini Bhattacharya, activist, former professor of English at Jadavpur University, former chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Women and former member of the National Commission for Women, tells Subhoranjan Dasgupta in the context of the Hathras outrage. Q: The Hathras victim said without ambiguity that she had been raped. Why is the state authority so hell bent on proving that she had not been raped? Bhattacharya: Your question presupposes the answer. Initially the victim, also the principal witness, was not in a fit state even to utter a word. On September 14, as far as we know, she stated on video that "jabardasti", a word commonly used for rape, had been perpetrated on her. On September 22, she was able to make a statement to the Aligarh magistrate and there she deposed that she had been raped. She also mentioned the names of four persons who had attacked her. Legally, this was her dying statement and was to be given full importance as such in the investigation. The fact that even after that a UP police official said publicly that no evidence of rape could be found shows that it was their predisposition which made them give more credence to a botched forensic report than to the girl’s own dying statement. Q: The entire administration, which includes the police, is repeating ad nauseam that the family will receive Rs 25 lakh as compensation. The district magistrate had the temerity to say that this lucrative compensation should silence queries and doubts. Bhattacharya: The district magistrate of Hathras and the high-ups in the UP police have much to answer for. Even if half the objectionable statements the DM is seen making on video are true, legal proceedings must be taken against him. It is, however, unfortunate that many people seem to think that the compensation legally due to the victim/her family is the price paid to them to ensure their silence. Compensation, which relates to the damage done to the aggrieved (for instance, the disruption of their lives and livelihood), cannot affect the course of justice and due punishment of the culprits. Q: Isn’t the state apparatus aware that any forensic examination conducted one week after the outrage would carry no evidence of rape? Bhattacharya: The delay in sending the materials for forensic examination is deliberate and of a piece with the delay in taking the FIR, the neglect in ensuring proper medical attention to and treatment of the victim, the delay in preparing the medical-legal certificate and, worst of all, the cremation of the body in the dead of night by police personnel without the permission of the family and in defiance of all legal and humanitarian norms. Each and every step seems to have been taken with the precise intention of destroying evidence and subverting the course of justice. Now that the case has been handed over to the CBI, there still seems to be cause for concern because their website is at present showing that their investigation will proceed on the basis of the Hathras FIR, which has no mention of gang rape and murder. The people apparently being sought to be protected by the administration must be very powerful people indeed! Q: What is most dreadful is that the act of rape was followed by the battering of the rape victim to death. Why this malignant violence, this merciless act of killing? Bhattacharya: The horrific nature of the violence is no longer unique these days. I can immediately think of half-a-dozen recent cases in UP and elsewhere which are unparalleled in sheer brutality and vindictiveness. It proves what many activists have been saying over the years, that rape has less to do with the sexual urge and more to do with power that seeks absolute subjugation. In the last few years, cases of caste-based and communal violence and violence against the economically deprived have increased greatly, even as the powerful have felt that it is their privilege to gang up and inflict all kinds of torture on the powerless and get away with it. It has become much more difficult in recent years to bring such people to justice because the tentacles of their political influence have gone deep down into the police and administrative system, and even sometimes the judiciary. That more rapes are being followed by murder could have another factor behind it: activists had warned the then government of it when it was decided to introduce an additional provision in the IPC prescribing capital punishment for rape and murder. Far from being a deterrent, this measure might instigate the culprit to silence the victim, who is also the main witness. It is not by making the penalties harsher but by demonstrating that unbiased and timely implementation of laws is possible even when the victim is poor and helpless that more culprits can be brought to book and violence may be checked. But in the last few years, whatever administrative and judicial infrastructures had been set up for that purpose have been reduced to a shambles in the interests of the powerful. I think this answers your other question too regarding the situation in Bangladesh. I am sure that among my sisters in Bangladesh there are many seasoned activists who would agree with me and instead of finding a panacea for rape in capital punishment would focus more on seeking improvement of the justice delivery system in their country to combat sexual violence. Q: Would you endorse Rahul Gandhi’s contention that Dalits, tribal people and Muslims are not considered human beings by many Indians (read upper caste Hindus)? Bhattacharya: I have already partially answered the question. Caste has always been an important dimension in sexual violence. In Hathras, the administration and the police are of course working for the powerful and rich Thakur community while the girl comes from a poor Valmiki family. Besides, the Modi-Shah regime seems to have encouraged "upper caste groups" to gang up unconstitutionally as in so-called "honour crimes" to protect culprits from the same caste. Still, caste is but one of the aspects of illicit power we have to consider. The real question all of us, including Rahul Gandhi, should be trying to answer is: How can we stop the powerful from their arrogant destruction of democracy, which endangers not just the lives but the rights of women, of Dalits, of religious minorities and the poor?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Defections that mock law and morality||A Gujarat bypoll candidate’s claim that he had been offered Rs 52 crore four months ago to vacate his seat has reignited the debate on a new tactic to subvert the people’s mandate by asking MLAs to resign en masse. Congress MLA Akshay Patel, who is contesting the Karjan seat on a BJP ticket after resigning from the Assembly in June just before the Rajya Sabha elections, has now told a TV channel: “Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani (of the Congress) says I was bought for Rs 16 crore. He has no knowledge. I was offered Rs 52 crore at a meeting in a farm house in the past. But I rejected that offer. I am not into this dhanda (business). Whatever I have earned is through my business. I have sugar mills.” Of the eight Congress MLAs who resigned in Gujarat to gift the BJP the third Rajya Sabha seat that the ruling party didn’t have the strength to win, five are contesting bypolls. Although Patel did not specify who made the offer, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “Who else can make such a mind-boggling offer of Rs 52 crore to one MLA other than the party which is ruling Gujarat and the country? We have seen what happened in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. “We have seen how Rajya Sabha elections were manipulated in Gujarat by luring away MLAs to whittle down the Congress’s strength. Narendra Modi says na khaoonga, na khane dunga (neither will I accept bribes, nor will I allow anyone to take money). But the BJP has reduced democracy to a saleable commodity.” Singhvi alleged that MLAs were being treated like “seth ka galla (trader’s stuff)”. “Modi has blurred the difference between politics and trade. Two other former Congress MLAs who resigned before the Rajya Sabha elections to ensure the victory of an additional BJP candidate are heard on tape saying that money and ticket to contest are assured. They hail the BJP for fulfilling its commitment, not running away from its promise after the task is fulfilled,” the Congress spokesperson said. Like in Gujarat, the plot is playing out on a larger scale in Madhya Pradesh where all the 25 Congress MLAs who resigned to facilitate the BJP’s return to power have been fielded in by-elections. In Karnataka, 15 of the 17 Congress-JDS lawmakers who resigned to topple the government have been given tickets by the BJP. In each of these states, the BJP had claimed that it had played no role in the defections and blamed the fall of governments on Congress infighting. The defectors from Karnataka had been kept in Maharashtra, then ruled by the BJP, and the rebels from Madhya Pradesh had been given shelter in BJP-ruled Karnataka. The courts refused to see these operations as a threat to democracy. Both beneficiary chief ministers — B.S. Yediyurappa of Karnataka and Shivraj Singh Chouhan of Madhya Pradesh — publicly proclaimed that they had returned to power because of the “sacrifices” of the Congress MLAs and so these lawmakers needed to be looked after. Many of these MLAs were immediately made ministers in the BJP governments. The Congress had then quoted conservative figures — Rs 20-25 crore for each such MLA — much less than the Rs 52-crore claim floated by Patel. Former chief minister Kamal Nath, a victim of this technique of changing the colour of the people’s mandate, on Sunday told a Congress rally in Madhya Pradesh: “People say election is a festival of democracy. But these bypolls are a festival of saudebaazi (bargaining). This is a celebration of the bikau (saleable). The Constitution-makers didn’t anticipate politicians to stoop so low, they didn’t provide legal remedy for this amorality.” The former chief minister added: “This act of inducing defections using money has darkened the face of Madhya Pradesh. People outside suspect everything is on sale in the state. Chambal-Gwalior was known for valour. Now MLAs have given a bad name to this region. This is not loktantra (democracy), this is dhan-tantra (money power). The people sent the BJP packing after 15 years; money power sent us packing in 15 months. This BJP government is made of notes, not votes.” As if this discourse itself is not a blot on India’s democracy, Congress spokesperson and top lawyer Singhvi lamented that no remedy was possible. “Who will make the law to nullify this shameful technique, those who use it to their advantage? If your mindset is to violate the law come what may, you will find some loophole to exploit it. It is not about law, it is about morality,” he pointed out. Singhvi said it was not about Gujarat, Karnataka or Madhya Pradesh, but about the credibility of Indian democracy. “Constitutional issues are involved. Governments are elected for five years. But now it depends on the BJP’s will. They can artificially reduce the majority into minority and change the government. Not less than 100 MLAs of Opposition parties have resigned without a reason in the past six years. This is nullification of the democratic mandate,” Singhvi said. He added: “The anti-defection law, known as the Tenth Schedule, is reduced to a mockery. The Supreme Court has ruled in at least 10 cases that such defections are constitutional sin. Now any mandate can be manipulated. An ordinary MLA is given the allurement of ministership and money and he resigns. This will have to be addressed. To begin with, a sitting Supreme Court judge should be asked to investigate the Rs 52-crore claim of the BJP candidate and an FIR should be registered forthwith. But we know nothing will be done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Head of  Mar Thoma Syrian Church dead||Metropolitan His Grace the Most Rev. Dr Joseph Mar Thoma, the primate of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, passed away early on Sunday at a private hospital in this Kerala town following a battle with cancer, church sources said. The 90-year-old head of the Mar Thoma community had been under treatment for pancreatic cancer. He breathed his last around 2.30am, hospital sources said. Born as P.T. Joseph at Maramon in Pathanamthitta district, Joseph Mar Thoma became the Mar Thoma Metropolitan in October 2007 after the then Mar Thoma Metropolitan, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, expressed his desire to transfer responsibilities of the Church to his successor due to his deteriorating health. Joseph Mar Thoma was ordained as Ramban on January 11, 1975, and designated as Suffragan Metropolitan on March 15, 1999, when Philipose Mar Chrysostom, the Suffragan Metropolitan, was designated as the officiating Metropolitan. The mortal remains of Metropolitan His Grace the Most Rev. Dr Joseph Mar Thoma have been kept at the Church headquarters in Thiruvalla where people from all walks of life paid their final respects to him. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the spiritual leader, saying the Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives of the poor. The Prime Minister had on June 27 inaugurated the 90th birthday celebrations of the Metropolitan. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the demise of the Metropolitan was not only a loss to the Church but to the society as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi tells Congress: Fight for citizens ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s "mismanagement" and intent to serve the interests of crony capitalists had created crisis on every front, from the economy to agriculture to safety of citizens. Asking the party’s newly appointed office-bearers to wage a relentless struggle against injustice and discrimination in every sphere of national life, Sonia said at a meeting called to review the political scenario: "Your responsibility is even more onerous and important as our democracy is passing through its most tumultuous times. There is a designed attack on our Constitution and our democratic traditions. Our country is ruled by a government that is systematically bartering the interests of our citizens at the altar of profiteering by a handful of crony capitalists." She added: "The current government has attacked the very foundation of our resilient agrarian economy by bringing in three anti-agriculture black laws. A conspiracy has been hatched to defeat the gains of the Green Revolution. The lives and livelihoods of crores of farm labourers, leasehold farmers, small and marginal farmers, toiling labourers and small shopkeepers are under attack." Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, announced that the meeting decided to intensify the agitation over the farm reforms and the atrocities against Dalits and women. The Congress will organise demonstrations throughout the country on November 5 against the attacks on farmers and Dalits, and mark October 31 — the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Indira Gandhi — as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. Day-long fasts will be organised by party leader and workers at every district headquarters. Between November 1 and 10, tractor rallies will be taken out in every state. On November 19, the Congress will submit 2 crore signatures collected from farmers all over the country to the President. Sonia also criticised the government over its handling of the pandemic. "The country was pushed into the abyss of the pandemic by the sheer ineptitude and mismanagement of the Modi government. All this happened as we witnessed the biggest unplanned, unmanaged and cruel migration of crores of migrant labourers as the government remained a mute spectator to their miseries," the Congress chief said. "The stark truth is that a Prime Minster who promised to defeat corona within 21 days has abdicated his and his government’s responsibility towards the citizens," she added. On the economy, Sonia said: "The government has simultaneously demolished our economy.... Never has the country witnessed such a free fall in GDP…. "Today, the young have no jobs. Nearly 14 crore jobs have been lost. Small and medium businesses, small shopkeepers and other small enterprises are shutting at an unprecedented pace, yet an uncaring government remains a mute spectator. So much so, the government is now failing to honour even its constitutional responsibilities. "The share of GST compensation is being denied to the states. How will the state governments help our people if the Centre is to renege on its constitutional obligations? This must be the first example of economic anarchy being spread by the central government."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Keep Covid guard up at least till February||India’s Covid-19 epidemic will end by February 2021 after three million more lab-diagnosed cases, a government panel of scientists predicted on Sunday, underscoring the need for rigorous adherence to mask norms, physical distancing and the no-crowding appeals. The panel of mathematicians and medical experts said the epidemic had peaked in mid-September but new infections would continue to emerge until India’s cumulative case counts crossed 10 million by February-end, after which the epidemic would stop. But the scientists also warned that the infections could spike to over 2.5 million new cases within a month if people abandoned personal protective measures such as masks, physical distancing and no-crowding. Some scientists, however, said the study appeared handicapped by a lack of appropriate data. Mathukumalli Vidyasagar, distinguished professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, who led the effort, said: “We’re not saying that the infections will go to zero after February-end, but we should expect only minimal infections after that.” Public health experts too have long predicted that at some point, the epidemic would cease and the infection enter an endemic phase during which a trickle of new infections would continue to emerge but no longer threaten to overwhelm hospitals. While health experts have already recognised the downtrend in daily new infections since the mid-September peak of one million active patients, the new study is the first to forecast the numbers and a month for the end of the epidemic. The study has estimated that the proportion of people already infected with the virus was about 14 per cent in August and has currently grown to around 30 per cent. People infected by the virus are viewed as not susceptible to infections in the near future and thus pose barriers to the spread of the virus. “This mix of already infected and thus non-susceptible pool of people along with precautions such as masks and physical distancing over time makes it harder and harder for the virus to spread,” said Manindra Agrawal, professor of computer science at IIT Kanpur and a study team member. The researchers have stressed that the epidemic’s end would not mean that any vaccines that might emerge would be redundant. “We do not know how long people are protected after becoming infected — and even after the infection has become endemic, there would be a need for vaccines,” a medical expert involved in the study said. The study has also predicted how India’s coronavirus disease counts, nearly 7.5 million on Sunday, would increase under various degrees of precautionary measures: from 17.6 million under no precautions at all, to 10.5 million under current restrictions to 8.3 million under stronger restrictions such as lockdowns. “Lockdowns are now undesirable. Our data suggest that district or higher-level lockdowns will not be much effective now,” Vidyasagar said. “However, localised lockdowns might be necessary in some areas if the increase in infections threatens to overwhelm the health facilities there.” The modelling effort involved top experts from the IITs, the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, and the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government. But the experts had to rely on crowd-sourced infection data instead of actual data from the Indian Council of Medical Research. Two researchers involved in the effort said the study group had no access to ICMR data. A senior ICMR official declined to comment on the findings. Other officials were not immediately available to explain why ICMR data were not available to the research group. An infectious disease specialist familiar with the research who requested not to be named said: “This is just another model. It is not clear what exactly it is telling us that we can act upon. An effort like this should have been done with reliable data six months ago.” In line with earlier forecasts, this model too has suggested that the lockdown, which started on March 25, averted a sharp rise in infections that would have quickly overwhelmed India’s healthcare infrastructure. The study has estimated a peak load of over 14 million cases by mid-June had the lockdown not happened at all. Had India waited till May to impose the lockdown, the peak load of active cases would have been about five million by June, according to the study that, the researchers said, has been accepted for publication in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. “The emphasis on the lives saved by the lockdown is unusual since the comparisons are to a relatively unrealistic situation where no interventions happened at all,” said Gautam Menon, an infectious disease modelling expert at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who was not associated with this effort. “But the message about increased precautions to prevent spread in the festive season is important. I’m glad they have stressed this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||V.J. Emmanuel, uncommon crusader for free speech, is no more||When 78-year-old V.J. Emmanuel died of old age on Wednesday evening, his passing received scant attention even in his village of Koodalloor in Kerala. To most of the villagers, the retired English professor from Kuriakose Elias College at Mannanam, near Kottayam, was little more than an ardent preacher for the Christian sect Jehovah’s Witnesses. Only a handful remembered him as the petitioner who won a landmark judgment from the Supreme Court on August 11, 1986, that defended the Constitution’s Article 19(1)(a), which guarantees free speech and expression, and Article 25(1), which upholds the right to practise and propagate one’s religion. The judgment had upheld Emmanuel’s claim that forcing someone to sing the national anthem infringes on certain fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The court had granted protection to three of Emmanuel’s children who had not joined in the singing of the national anthem at their school at Kidangoor in Kottayam. Thirty-four years on, the Bijoe Emmanuel vs State of Kerala judgment, delivered by the bench of Justices O. Chinnappa Reddy and M.M. Dutt, continues to be cited in legal and political circles whenever the freedom of expression or religion faces a threat. To jurists, the verdict remains one of the pillars of free speech in India. Four years ago in 2016, the case and the verdict had become part of the larger discussion when the apex court directed all cinemas to play the national anthem before the start of screening, and ruled that those present “must stand up in respect” to “instil a... sense of committed patriotism and nationalism”. However, in 2018, the top court, after a similar submission by the Centre, made playing the national anthem in cinemas optional and exempted disabled persons from standing up. The 1986 judgment, while ruling that joining in the singing of the national anthem was not compulsory, had noted that standing for the anthem was appropriately respectful but refrained from making it mandatory. After winning the legal battle, Emmanuel had sent the three children to school for just a day. After that, he decided that none of his seven children – the eldest a college student and the youngest not yet in school – would have anything to do with formal education. “At the morning assembly, the students sang the national anthem Jana Gana Mana daily. We used to stand respectfully but preferred not to sing the anthem. For us, singing the anthem of any country is against the tenets of our religious faith,” Emmanuel’s daughter Bindu said. “Our faith permits prayers only to God Jehovah. The national anthem is a prayer and there started our objection. We used to stand in respect while others sang. The school management, teachers and other students never objected to our refusal to sing,” Bindu’s brother Bijoe said. In the beginning, there was no compulsion from the school to sing the anthem. But in 1985, a local MLA found the behaviour of Bindu, her elder sister Binu Mol and Bijoe unpatriotic and raised the issue in the Assembly. A commission of inquiry was formed and it visited the school to collect evidence. The commission reported that the children were “law-abiding” and had shown no disrespect to the national anthem. However, the headmistress expelled the three children on July 26, 1985, under instructions from the deputy inspector of schools. Emmanuel moved a writ petition in the high court seeking an order restraining the authorities from preventing the children from attending school. A single bench rejected his plea and a division bench threw out his appeal, prompting him to approach the top court. “My father treated it as an opportunity to ensure clarity on the freedom of worship guaranteed by the Constitution. Education rights were only a second priority with him,” Bijoe said. Bijoe was 15 and studying in Class X while sisters Binu and Bindu were 14 and 10, students of Class IX and V, when their school expelled them. The school, managed by the Hindu caste organisation Nair Service Society, had 11 students from the Jehovah’s Witnesses sect at the time. The Supreme Court ruled: “We may at once say that there is no provision of law which obliges anyone to sing the national anthem nor do we think that it is disrespectful to the national anthem if a person who stands up respectfully when the national anthem is sung does not join the singing.… Proper respect is shown to the national anthem by standing up when the national anthem is sung. It will not be right to say that disrespect is shown by not joining in the singing….” By the time the judgment arrived, the three children had lost one academic year. Anyway, the professor pulled all his seven children out of educational institutions, he and wife Lillikutty preferring to provide them with home education. One of Bijoe’s two elder siblings was in college and the other in Class XII at the time. Bisny, the youngest of the seven, never went to school. All of them are now involved with evangelical initiatives. Emmanuel’s eight grandchildren do not sing the national anthem at their schools but have faced no problems. While getting them admitted to school, the family had each time furnished copies of the verdict. “The unique case and its petitioner must be remembered for ever as the country is facing the tough challenges posed by religious intolerance, hate and wrong notions of nationality. The verdict is matchless in its broader and inclusive approach,” said Dr K.M. Sheeba, writer, thinker and a teacher at the Sri Sankara Sanskrit University at Kaladi in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||NEET result reply  to merit sniggers||Nearly 82 per cent of the successful Dalit, tribal and OBC candidates in this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) have cleared the cut-off set for their general category peers, debunking the “lack-of-merit” slur that makes campus life miserable for many quota students. Of the 492,104 Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes students who have cracked the all-India medical and dental undergraduate entrance test, 403,430 or 81.98 per cent have a percentile score of at least 50 — the qualification criterion for general candidates. Only 88,674, or 18 per cent, have got through with percentile scores less than 50 but above 40 — the relaxed cut-off for Dalit, tribal and OBC students — the results announced on Friday show. (See chart) With 771,500 of the 1,366,945 students who took the exam having qualified — and only 80,000 medical college seats and 27,000 dental college seats available — only a small fraction of the successful candidates will actually secure admission. All the 4.03 lakh SC, ST and OBC students with percentile scores of 50 or above will be eligible for general category seats, and those that succeed in bagging such seats will have freed up reserved seats for their less successful brethren. The trend isn’t new: last year, too, more than 80 per cent of the Dalit, tribal and OBC students had made it to the general merit list. Sudesh Ghoderao, Ambedkarite scholar and a teacher at Bytco College, Nashik, attributed the trend to increased awareness about the importance of education among the deprived communities. This has increased the pool of students aspiring to higher education, he said. “Parental priorities have changed. There’s an increased realisation of the value of education. School dropout rates have fallen among SC, ST and OBC students,” Ghoderao said. Many Dalit, tribal and OBC students have been known to face systematic humiliation from their peers and professors on campus over their presumed “lack of merit”. Some have been driven to suicide by the caste-shaming. Dr Payal Tadvi, a PG gynaecology student at Mumbai’s Topiwala National Medical College, hanged herself last year after allegedly facing caste taunts from three senior students. Tadvi was from the Bhil tribal community of Jalgaon district, Maharashtra. Rohith Vemula, a PhD student at Hyderabad University, committed suicide in January 2016 amid accusations of the victimisation of Dalit students by campus authorities after a prod from a central ministry. Ghoderao did not feel that the success of examinees from the marginalised castes would reduce discrimination on the campuses. “The discrimination is linked directly to the caste consciousness of the people from the dominant castes. Many of the well-educated among them, even some who go abroad, fail to shed their caste identity. Rather, they consolidate on the basis of their caste,” he said. Recently, California regulators sued tech firm Cisco Systems after a Dalit engineer faced discrimination from higher-caste Indian members of his team at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. However, Ghoderao said, the reserved-category students’ increasing success in competitive exams will enhance their communities’ “social capital” — that is, young aspirants from these castes will have successful, older peers to turn to for help, guidance and inspiration. Kancha Ilaiah, author and researcher, said that most of the students from the marginalised communities who were cracking competitive exams had been educated in English-medium schools. “Good-quality English-medium education will bring social change. In my opinion, the states keen on social change should introduce English-medium schooling from Class I,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Pangolin smuggling racket busted in Odisha||The Odisha crime branch has busted a pangolin smuggling racket and rescued a pangolin near Rajakothi in Subarnapur district, around 280km from here. Two people were arrested in this connection. The Indian pangolin species has been listed as “endangered” by the International Union of Conservation of Nature. Its scales are used in some traditional medicines. A team of the special task force raided the hideout and seized pangolin scales weighing 5.65kg from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Bhubaneswar BJP MP suit threat over office sealing ||Bhubaneswar BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi has threatened to file a defamation case against municipal corporation authorities for sealing her office after accusing her of violating Covid-19 guidelines during her birthday celebrations on its premises on October 7. The IAS-turned-politician’s threat came soon after the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), which had shut down her office on October 10 and said it would remain closed for 15 days, re-opened it on Saturday. The municipal body’s decision to lift the curbs against the MP earlier is being seen as a moral victory for Sarangi who quit the Indian Administrative Service to join the BJP ahead of the last elections. She won the Bhubaneswar seat, widely perceived to be a Biju Janata Dal bastion, against all odds. The BMC had cracked down on her, saying that norms such as compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing were not followed during her birthday celebration on the office premises. Unfazed by the civic body’s action, Sarangi had accused the ruling BJD led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik of violating Covid guidelines and demanded closure of its city office. She wrote a long letter to the chief minister citing instances of Covid guideline violations by BJD leaders and attached 17 photographs as proof. Her aggressive posture pushed the government on the back foot. The MP also continued with her mass-contact programme, hearing the grievances of the people on the roadside with her supporters. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, the municipal authorities decided reopen her office as a damage-control exercise. “This has been done with a malicious intent, contrary to the spirit of law, and is in clear violation of the provisions contained in the law. This has caused me pecuniary hardship, mental agony and has been done with the intent to malign my image before the society. I reserve my right to claim adequate compensation from BMC for such excessive use of authority beyond its jurisdiction, to initiate defamation proceeding and to initiate such other legal proceeding as may be suitable,” Sarangi said in her letter. Sarangi also cited an order of the health and family welfare department, which states that there is no need to close an office building or halt work in other areas of an office after the detection of a Covid case and that work can resume after disinfection according to the laid-down protocol. However, if there is a large-scale outbreak, an entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. All the staff attached to the office will be asked to work from home till the building is disinfected. “When the health and family welfare guideline itself suggests a maximum closure period of 48 hours in case of a large outbreak of coronavirus cases, I am wondering about the authority and provision under which the BMC decided to seal my office premises for 15 days when there has not been a single case of Covid in my office-cum-residence,” said the MP. Sarangi added that she had checked the penal provisions under the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Act and Section 188 of the IPC. “Neither the Act nor any regulation made under this Act empowers BMC to seal a private person’s office-cum-residence for 15 days,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||BJP leader arrested while jogging in Lucknow||A BJP leader accused of shooting dead one person at a meeting in Ballia was on Sunday morning arrested apparently while he was jogging in a park in Lucknow 400km away and three days after the murder. The special task force in Lucknow arrested Dhirendra Pratap Singh, the president of the Ballia unit of the BJP’s ex-servicemen cell, around 7am at Janeshwar Mishra Park. Dhirendra is accused of shooting dead fellow villager Jai Prakash Pal during a meeting on Thursday in Ballia’s Durjanpur after opening fire to settle a dispute over bagging the contract for a ration shop. Jai Prakash’s family had accused the police of allowing Dhirendra to escape. The local BJP MLA, Surendra Nath Singh, had demanded “justice” for Dhirendra, threatened to begin an agitation if Jai Prakash’s supporters were not booked and claimed that Dhirendra had opened fire in self-defence. “The main accused in the unfortunate incident of murder at Durjanpur village in Ballia district was arrested by the special task force in Lucknow on Sunday. Ballia police are bringing him back from Lucknow for interrogation,” said Subhas Chandra Dubey, the deputy inspector-general of police of Azamgarh. A police officer in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity: “Dhirendra was arrested while he was jogging.” An eyewitness claimed that he saw two police jeeps stopping in front of the park and Dhirendra trotting out of the gate and getting into one of the vehicles. BJP sources said the leadership had sought an explanation from Surendra, the Bairia MLA, for threatening an agitation and backing Dhirendra, an aide. “The party will take action against the MLA if he has done something wrong,” said Naveen Srivastava, a spokesperson for the Uttar Pradesh BJP. DIG Dubey, who had on Friday announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to those who would help the police trace eight absconding accused, said: “Before Dhirendra’s arrest in Lucknow, Ballia police had nabbed two co-accused, Santosh Yadav and Amarjeet Yadav, from the Kotwali area of Ballia city. Two more were arrested from Ballia on Friday. We hope to arrest the remaining three identified accused soon.” A total of 20 people — eight named and 12 unidentified — have been named in the FIR. The DIG said the government would take action against Dhirendra under the stringent National Security Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
