20-10-2020||India||The lockdown may be over, but coronavirus is not, warns PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a short, pointed televised message to all Indians that Covid-19 still needs to be defeated and that they shouldn’t relax on safety measures like wearing masks and social distancing during the upcoming festival season. Speaking unusually early at 6pm, well before prime time, Modi kept his appeal brief, speaking only for 12 minutes, and he stuck to his Covid awareness theme, hammering home the message that even though the festival season is here, “this is not a time to be careless. Don’t think corona has gone.” He referred to videos of people across the country thronging malls and markets to load up on festival shopping as examples of what shouldn’t be done. “People aren’t being careful anymore. This isn’t right. If you step out without a mask, you put your families at risk,” Modi said in his address to the nation. “In this festive season, markets are bright again but we need to remember that the lockdown might have ended but the virus still persists,” he said. Modi’s speech came at a time when new infections are zooming worldwide, especially in the US and in Europe; and one country, Ireland, has just announced a tough, six-week lockdown till December 1. In France, President Emmanuel Macron has enforced a curfew starting at 9pm every night. Said Modi: “The numbers are rising abroad and there is a second wave in Europe. We shouldn’t think we have won the battle.” In his latest televised broadcast on the coronavirus since the pandemic erupted, the Prime Minister was sporting a new look, with a much longer, but shaped beard and hair combed back. He looked somewhat more fatigued than in previous broadcasts. Modi referred to the fact that people have been worn down by the eight-month-long anti-virus battle but warned bluntly that there wasn’t room for the slightest complacency, saying: “It has been a long journey. But the virus has not gone and we must not let it come back.”  He said that India was in a “stable situation. We must not let it deteriorate… Remember, whether it is America or Europe, cases declined and then there was a sudden spike.” Modi’s message came a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan referred to Covid-19 cases shooting up in Kerala in the weeks after Onam, the state’s biggest festival, saying the state was “paying the price for gross negligence.”  Initially, it was thought Vardhan was taking a potshot at an Opposition-run state, but he clarified that wasn’t his intention and that he was only seeking to impress on other states the need to observe health protocols during the Dussehra and Diwali festival season. In Bengal, where the Mamata Banerjee government has been encouraging organisers to hold Durga Puja festivities amid strict Covid safety guidelines, the high court had to intervene once crowds began to appear in streets amid fears of a post-festival spike in the number of coronavirus cases. The Calcutta High Court’s ruling on Monday banning the entry of visitors inside Puja pandals this year managed to spread a degree of relief among those bracing for a sudden explosion in Covid-19 cases like in Kerala after Onam. A  more positive note in Modi’s address came when he pointed out that the healthcare system – doctors, nurses and care workers -- has learned better how to tackle the virus and that fatality rates are down and recovery rates are looking good. He added that we have fewer infections than the US and that our death rates are better than in many European countries. Modi also spoke about the many Indian companies racing to develop an anti-Covid vaccine and promised that “when the vaccine is ready, we will ensure every Indian gets it.” In the meantime, he repeated the mantra that it was necessary to maintain distance, wash hands and wear a mask. India is still battling the first wave of the pandemic but countries like Ireland are facing a severe second wave with record numbers of infections being hit in the last two weeks. Ireland imposed its six-week lockdown after health authorities warned there that a three-week lockdown would be insufficient to stop infections. Numbers are also rising steeply in Spain too and in the UK the government is battling city and other local governments about imposing a new, limited lockdown in the wake of infections rising to the highest level since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Testing times for Kerala’s Covid-19 fight||Is Kerala fumbling its fight against the novel coronavirus? The state was the star performer in India’s anti-Covid-19 drive but now daily infection numbers have soared. Was it the million people who returned from the Gulf and other parts of India who brought the virus with them or the huge Onam festival crowds that triggered the huge rise? Or has Kerala’s campaign to suppress the virus been undermined by the state government failure to test enough? Whatever may be the causes of the mounting caseload, Kerala government officials insist they’re not worried. “Don’t look at the Covid case numbers, look at deaths. We’ve focused on reducing the deaths,” says Dr Mohammed Asheel, a top state government official. Asheel, who’s executive director of the Kerala Social Security Mission, argues that the government has got its control strategy right and that the virus numbers were bound to rise.  “We delayed the peak. In fact, we have not peaked yet even after eight months,” he says. He adds that other nations are going into a second and even third wave of infections during the same timeframe. Most crucially, Asheel argues that the actual number crucial to look at is not the number of cases, but the “number of fatalities per million”. On that score, he points out, Kerala is still way out in front. After eight months, the death toll is now a remarkably low 1,161 on October 18. By comparison, Karnataka had 9,666 deaths till October 11. And Tamil Nadu had 10,371 up to October 13. And deaths all over India have crossed 110,000. Even if the government may have fumbled in other areas, “we have kept the case fatality ratio low,” Asheel says. And how has the state done that? “Through careful clinical management,” says Asheel.  Even with its failings on testing, on case fatalities, Kerala still appears to be doing exceptionally well. Kerala’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at around 0.36 per cent or 36 per million in October. That compares with Karnataka’s 160 per million and Tamil Nadu’s 140. But internal medicine specialist Dr Arun N M, who collects material at the ground level from a variety of sources, alleges that Kerala state authorities are undercounting the number of fatalities by around 40 per cent. Says Arun: “A lot of secrecy is there, and a lot of doctors are complaining” about causes of deaths of patients being ascribed to comorbidities rather than the virus. But even using the 40 per cent undercounting estimate, mortality rates don’t come anywhere near neighbouring states. State officials reject any suggestion that the death figures have been manipulated. State health secretary K.K Shailaja says all that counts is how many lives Kerala’s doctors save and that “the mortality rate of 0.36 is among the best in the world.” Nationally, the government says the country’s case mortality rate is 1.8 per cent, just over half the global average of 3.2 per cent, something government doctors attribute to the fact that the strict nationwide lockdown in March gave doctors here time to learn treatment protocols from other countries. Also, there’s the fact that India has a younger population. Even though Kerala is doing exceptionally well in keeping down fatalities now, there are concerns that it may not be able to maintain its success if infections keep rising. There are serious questions about Kerala’s Covid positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of those overall who’ve been tested.  Those numbers are bad.  Kerala’s Test Positivity Rate or TPR stands at 18.16 per cent which is more than double the national average of 8.4 percent. The World Health Organization suggests a desirable positivity rate that would indicate an epidemic is being reined in would be less 5 per cent so Kerala’s double-digit positivity rate may be a sign state authorities are losing control of the spread of the virus. In the past week, the state added 50,000 cases to its numbers, the most rapid caseload increase nationwide. Here’s why testing matters:  without sufficient testing, there’s no way of assessing the true scale of the pandemic and it becomes extremely difficult to figure out the healthcare resources and infrastructure needed. Also, testing is a vital means of infection control because with more testing, more positive cases can be isolated along with their contacts, helping avert the spread of the illness. But when tests are in short supply, they’re only performed on those who have a higher probability of being sick and when the positivity rate rises sharply it’s a clear sign that testing is lagging. Kerala’s government which reported the state and the country’s first Covid case on January 30 used its solid healthcare system and experience from fighting swine flu in 2009 and the Nipah virus in 2018 to hold back the virus. The daily new infections which were in single digits in mid-May but then the Great Wall of Kerala seemed to develop a breach as infection numbers began climbing steadily. With Onam, the state’s only really big festival that brought shoppers out on the streets, the figures zoomed. On one day, daily infections spiked to 11,755 and the state’s total number of infections since it reported its first case in January stands at over 3.03 lakh. Kerala’s cumulative case load took until September 11 to hit one lakh, it reached one lakh in October and it racked up a further one lakh in only 12 days.  Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said at the weekend the state was paying “the price for gross negligence” during the Onam festival when services were unlocked. With the caseload surging, the anti-Covid battle is taking its toll on Kerala’s medical fraternity. Doctors and nurses in the state who don’t want to be named say they are “tired and frustrated”. Also, the state is so short of money that government salaries – including doctors and nurses – have been cut at a time when everyone is working longer hours and in very difficult conditions. Asheel, himself, says he has gone home only occasionally in the last eight months and has mostly slept in his office. His wife, who’s also a doctor, has also been going on 10-day shifts and they’ve mostly sent their daughter to stay with a neighbour. Couldn’t the virus have continued to be suppressed as indeed Kerala managed to do for several months? Asheel points to the population density to defend the state’s performance. Kerala’s population density is 859 per square kilometre which is close to twice the national average of 467. Sweden, one of the few countries which hasn’t had a lockdown, has a population density of 26 per square kilometre which has enabled it to stay relatively unaffected by the pandemic -- though its “corona-light” measures are not without controversy as its Covid-19 death rate per person is one of the highest in Europe, and 10 times the rates of neighbouring Norway and Finland. Italy, which was in a desperate state early in the year, has a population density of 216 and is recording daily infection rates of close to 9,000. In Kerala where the villages and towns merge into one another into what’s called one great rural-urban continuum, keeping the coronavirus at bay was always going to be a tough proposition to say the least. Says Asheel: “Even if I lock up nine out of 10 people in a district, I will still have a higher population density than in Sweden.” Incidentally, at one point, Italy had a death rate of around 20 per cent. Italy was one of the first countries to be hit by Covid-19 and the doctors were just learning how to tackle the illness. Turning to the most serious concern of insufficient testing, in late June the state was doing only around 5,000 tests daily and it pushed that figure up to a peak number of over 73,000 tests in early October. But that number has since fallen to just over 50,000, a fall attributed to problems in the state’s new Lab Diagnosis and Management System. By comparison, Tamil Nadu, next door, has been conducting around 90,000 daily. Asheel says Kerala had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 3 per cent or even 2 per cent in the early days of the outbreak so there was no indication more tests were needed. I’s only with the TPR hitting more than 18 per cent that it is clear more testing is needed.  “That does indeed indicate we’re testing less than is required,” says Asheel. And there is another problem with Kerala’s testing. The testing shortfall combines with the fact that Kerala has mostly used the less reliable Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) rather than the far more reliable RT-PCR tests. The Union Health Ministry, in fact, had sent out a directive to states to only use the RT-PCR tests. Asheel defends using the RAT tests, saying the results from those crucially come back within a few hours. RT-PCR tests, by comparison, take a day at the earliest. If large numbers are being tested by the state, then the results are likely to take even longer. “When you are going for containment and when the spread happens rapidly, you need the results at the earliest. Otherwise, the infected people will be going around normally for three or four days and they will keep spreading the infection,” says Asheel. But one virologist points to a flaw in this argument. “If the RAT tests are coming up with wrong results, then infected people will be walking around without being detected,” he says. Arun, however, suggests that the state could have purchased larger capacity PCR machines that could have processed a far higher number of tests very swiftly. He points out that Tamil Nadu has consistently done more tests. He notes, however, that Kerala is one of the few states that tests people in hospital before releasing them rather than relying on the number of days elapsed since the initial test. Even now, Asheel maintains that the situation is under control. Deaths have risen very slightly to about 20 per day. Most importantly, the ICUs have about 60 per cent occupancy. He reckons that case numbers will fall by December. But he warns that there could be a second wave of infections early next year. Kerala also has its own singular problems. It has a large elderly population and also over 600 old-age homes. There are reckoned to be 4.3 lakh elderly people and, of those, 2.5 lakh are in the most vulnerable category. About 20,000 of these people live in old age homes. These people were asked to stay at home and, in some cases, food was taken to them. Also, mobile units with doctors and nurses did the rounds looking after these people. Dr Dileep Raman, who’s director and co-founder of cloud-based critical care start-up Cloudphysician, argues that nationwide it’s impossible to keep the virus down forever. “It’s viral kinetics. Either you completely lock down till the vaccine has been found. But that’s not practical,” he says. Raman agrees that a second wave this winter is almost inevitable around the country. “What’s going to happen when the Mumbai trains are fully open? The virus is not going to change its behaviour.” Kerala now seems to have accepted this inevitability and is no longer screening those arriving by road for Covid and it opened on Saturday the Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala. But there’s been no let-up in the effort to prevent deaths. The state’s using a tiered care system under which mildly symptomatic Covid patients are monitored in nurse-run establishments while just those in serious condition are admitted to hospital. Only the young or those who are infected but display no symptoms can home quarantine.  At the end of the day, keeping the virus under control comes down to being a “disciplined population,” says Raman.  “Unless we’re all model citizens, keeping the virus away is a pipedream,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Covid blow to private hospitals this year ||The pandemic will eat up around 40 percent of the operational profit of private hospitals this fiscal, as billing has plunged drastically due to the virus outbreak and the resultant proclivity of people to avoid hospitals for non-emergency situations, says a report. The Crisil report released on Tuesday, however, noted that a large number of pandemic cases, which though is low-margin, will get these hospitals an additional revenue to the tune of 15-20 per cent. Further, with the relaxation in lockdown and travel restrictions, footfalls have started improving from July, helping bed-occupancy levels. The report also expects bed-occupancy levels to stabilise 65-70 per cent of the pre-lockdown levels in the second half of the fiscal. This, along with additional revenue from the pandemic treatment will help limit overall decline in revenue to 16-18 per cent, as against 17 per cent annual growth logged in the two preceding fiscals, it said. Since the pandemic-driven lockdowns that began late March, hospitals have been on a crisis path as people began to avoid going to hospitals for regular consultations and began to postpone elective surgeries, which have been the most lucrative procedures for any hospital, especially organ transplants among others. "A triple whammy of postponement in elective surgeries, revenue loss from the highly profitable medical tourism segment, and increasing costs will lead to 35-40 per cent reduction in operating profit of private hospitals this fiscal," Crisil said. The report is based on the analysis of 40 hospitals, including 36 rated by the agency, which account for over Rs 36,000 crore of the sector's revenue. Even though the trauma and emergency treatment account for 28-30 per cent of revenue continued, but at a much lower level, given the fewer accidents during the lockdowns. On top of these, medical tourism, which accounts for 10-12 per cent of revenue but gets the highest margins, especially for large hospitals, came to a complete standstill, due to travel restrictions imposed as part of the lockdowns. However, the pandemic is set to bring them around 20 per cent of the revenue despite low margin. "Treating COVID-19 patients is expected to provide an additional revenue stream and may contribute 15-20 per cent to revenue this fiscal. But it is not as profitable as other revenue streams. Additionally, given the high fixed cost structure of hospitals, lower overall occupancy will result in lesser absorption of overheads. "This, coupled with the increased cost of safety and sanitation will lead to 35-40 per cent decline in operating profit this fiscal," the report said. Weakened operating performance accentuated cash-flow challenges in the first half and to manage the situation, hospitals have deferred 35-40 per cent of planned capex for this fiscal, and are now resorting to short-term debt funding. About a third of the agency-rated hospitals also availed moratorium for loan repayments which supported their liquidity during the first half. Nonetheless, the credit outlook for the sector remains moderately negative, with credit metrics being impacted primarily by lower profit, the report said adding that the deterioration in performance is expected to be only temporary, and a strong bounce-back is likely in the next fiscal supported by pent up demand. "Elective surgeries cannot be postponed indefinitely and medical tourism is also expected to recoup as travel restrictions ease. We expect a healthy 25 per cent revenue growth in fiscal 2022, and operating profitability to recover to pre-pandemic levels, including due to lower share of less-profitable treatment for the pandemic patients," the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Chinese soldier ‘strays’ across LAC in search of a 'wayward' yak||The standoff on the eastern Ladakh border has been dragging on for so long that it was a matter of time before the yak entered the picture. The yak appears to have done so on Monday by getting lost, apparently setting the stage for a Chinese soldier to “stray” across the contested Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in search of the animal. The Chinese soldier was “apprehended”, the Indian Army said. It added that the soldier would be returned. China remained silent through the day. At night, CGTN, the Chinese state-controlled media outlet, said: “China border troop informed India for helping to search a PLA soldier, who was getting lost near border. He was helping herders to find lost yak. India side agreed & promised to find & return him.” CGTN said that Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, People’s Liberation Army, West Theatre Command, had confirmed the incident. Earlier, the Indian Army had said it had received a request on the whereabouts of the missing soldier from the Chinese army. It was not disclosed whether the yak had been found. “A PLA soldier identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long was apprehended in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh on October 19 after he had strayed across the LAC,” the Indian Army said in a statement. The Chinese soldier, the statement said, was provided medical assistance including oxygen, as well as food and warm clothes, to protect him from the effects of the extreme altitude and the harsh climate. “As per established protocols, he will be returned back to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after completion of formalities,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||WHO: Count down but shouldn’t be complacent||The World Health Organisation on Monday cautioned against any relaxation of precautions or response actions after the slight decline in coronavirus disease cases across South Asia, including India, where daily cases are still rising in some states. The upcoming festival season and the approaching winter could aggravate the situation if people let their guard down, a top WHO official in New Delhi warned amid a near-steady decline in India’s daily new Covid-19 cases for over four weeks. “There should be no complacency in view of the declining numbers in recent weeks,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the WHO’s regional director for Southeast Asia, said in a statement. “The pandemic continues unabated and the region still reports large numbers of Covid-19 cases. We need to continue to do our very best. Our response needs to be strengthened further to curtail the pandemic,” she said. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has declined steadily from around 97,000 in mid-September to 61,000 in mid-October. Over this period, the daily count has declined in most of the states but increased since Onam in Kerala and now in Bengal. Bengal’s seven-day average has increased from 3,206 on September 18 to 3,747 on October 18, a steady rise that public health experts have attributed to greater mingling of people ahead of the coming festival weeks. A Chennai-based scientist, who has been tracking Covid-19 across the states, said Bengal’s R value — a measure of how quickly the virus is spreading — has shown a marginal increase over the past four weeks from 1.01 to 1.03 to 1.05 to 1.07. “Even a marginal increase like that, if sustained over many weeks, could result in large increases in the numbers of active cases,” said Sitabhra Sinha, the scientist from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Kerala, for instance, experienced a sharp rise in cases in the weeks after Onam, its seven-day average of daily cases climbing from around 2,000 in early September to more than 8,400 by mid-October. Kerala now has the third-largest number of active patients (over 87,000) after Maharashtra’s 247,000 and Karnataka’s 115,000. The falling nationwide numbers look good for now but epidemiologists have cautioned that any relaxation in precautions such as the wearing of masks or physical distancing could quickly send the Covid-19 counts rising. “We know from experience that health systems can get overwhelmed quickly,” an epidemiologist said. India on Monday had over 772,055 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision. The country’s total count has crossed 7.5 million, with over 6.6 million patients having recovered and 114,610 having died. Southeast Asia has registered a 6 to 8 per cent decline in Covid-19 cases, mainly thanks to a decrease in reported cases from India and Bangladesh. The region has reported over 8 million of the nearly 40 million Covid-19 cases worldwide. The WHO, reaffirming messages already issued by health authorities in India, cautioned that the co-circulation of seasonal influenza and Covid-19 in winter might present challenges to the health facilities since both diseases feature similar symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||CR Park to give pandals a miss||The pandals of south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park will be missing this year after their organisers told civic authorities on Monday that there wouldn’t be any public festivities because of the coronavirus pandemic. After steering a meeting between organisers of several Durga Puja pandals in the area and the district administration, police and municipal authorities, local MLA and spokesperson of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, Saurabh Bharadwaj, said over a dozen committees of C.R. Park, Greater Kailash, Alaknanda and Kalkaji were unanimous in their decision to eschew large gatherings and pandals. “Most of the population of C.R. Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important that they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj said. “Only for religious reasons, a small Kalash Puja or Ghot Puja will be attended by 10-15 committee members. This will ensure continuity of puja by those committees.” C.R. Park is a major settlement for people from East Bengal who were displaced because of the Partition. This will be the first time since 1970 that there will be no pandals this year. Major pandals in other parts of the National Capital Region are also not being erected this year. Many puja committees are offering online streaming of the pujas. One pandal in Gurgaon has collected money to be sent to dhakis (drummers) who usually come from Bengal to play here. C.R. Park’s Kali Mandir is offering home delivery of bhog via online booking with Rs 1,500 a plate. A source said cooks would be tested for Covid-19 before the festival begins and would be required to stay on the temple premises until the festivities end. Cable channel DEN and Tata Sky are also expected to broadcast the morning pujas and evening aartis.In the meeting with authorities in Delhi, puja committees and local representatives have asked police to put barricades on roads to restrict visitors entering C.R. Park who may not know that there are no pandals this year. In contrast, crowds have locked pandals in Bengal until Calcutta High Court banned the entry of public on Monday. Delhi’s iconic Ramleela’s and symbolic igniting of effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna for Dussehra will also not take place. Mughal emperor Shah Jahan began the burning of effigies and fireworks around 350 years ago. The only year it did not take place was in 1965 when then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri asked people to donate the corpus for festivities to families of troops killed in the war with Pakistan. This year, all major Ramleela committees — including the ones where the President, Prime Minister and other political leaders go to symbolically fire an arrow to set Ravana ablaze — have declared that they are unable to implement the stringent Covid-19 guidelines put in place by the Delhi government, only last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Court breather for Sivasankar||Kerala High Court on Monday ordered the customs department not to arrest senior bureaucrat M. Sivasankar until Friday pending hearing of his anticipatory bail plea. Sivasankar, the former secretary to the chief minister’s office, is under suspension over his alleged links with the key accused in a gold-smuggling case. Earlier in the day, his counsel had moved an anticipatory bail plea citing his health condition. He was under treatment for a disc prolapse at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. In the evening, the hospital discharged Sivasankar based on the decision taken by a medical board that studied his case. He has been advised to take rest at home. Sivasankar had to be rushed to a private hospital on Friday evening when customs officials picked him up from his home in Thiruvananthapuram. He had then complained of chest pain and discomfort. On Saturday, the private hospital ruled out any cardiac issues, but confirmed a disc prolapse that needed specialised care. He was then moved to the medical college hospital. In his bail plea, Sivasankar cited that the customs department, Enforcement Directorate and National Investigation Agency had subjected him to over 90 hours of interrogation in 100 days, but could find nothing incriminating against him. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for the bureaucrat, argued that more than 600 hours of travelling to appear for interrogation had taken a toll on his client’s health. The counsel informed the court that his client was cooperating with the agencies and had honoured the summons to appear before it. Senior lawyer K. Ramkumar, who appeared for the customs department, opposed the anticipatory bail plea, but the court ordered him to file a counter affidavit by Friday. Friday has been set as the next date of hearing. Last week, the high court had granted Sivasankar interim bail till Friday in a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate that was probing the money-laundering angle in the gold-smuggling case. Sivasankar was under the lens because of his links with Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair —three key suspects behind the attempt to smuggle gold in a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of the Consulate General of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The Thiruvananthapuram airport customs had busted the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold worth Rs14.82 crore on July 5. The government suspended Sivasankar, who was also the principal secretary in the IT department, over his close links with Swapna and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Decision on Chirag berth after polls ||The outcome of the Bihar election will decide whether the Lok Janshakti Party gets a place in the Narendra Modi government to fill up the vacancy created by the death of Ram Vilas Paswan, sources said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, the largest constituent in the NDA after the BJP, has lodged a strong opposition against the inclusion of LJP but the BJP wants to wait for the poll results to take a final call, sources said. At present, the JDU has 15 MPs in the Lok Sabha and the LJP 6. Chirag Paswan-led LJP’s decision to contest outside the NDA and go all out against Nitish has led an angry JDU to lodge a strong protest with the BJP. According to sources, the JDU has told the BJP that the LJP should not get a place in the central government and also refused to lend its support in case the LJP is asked to fill the vacancy in the Rajya Sabha created by the death of Ram Vilas. The BJP leadership, however, has maintained silence, waiting for the results of the Bihar polls to decide on the LJP’s utility. The LJP’s role has led many to believe that the party is acting like a BJP proxy to end Nitish’s stature as the big brother of the NDA in Bihar. “We are slamming the LJP for spreading confusion in the polls, but at the same time we may need its support if the NDA falls short of majority,” a BJP leader said. The leader pointed out that home minister Amit Shah, too, had indicated this by not closing the door on the LJP despite pressure from the JDU. In an interview last Saturday, Shah said the LJP decided to go it alone despite being offered a reasonable number of seats to contest, but didn’t rule out the possibility of the party being back in the NDA after the election. “We will see after elections on whether the LJP joins the NDA. We are opponents now and will contest accordingly,” Shah had said. While Shah’s statement added to the perception that the LJP was indeed in a covert relationship with the BJP, party leaders said it was also driven by feedback from the ground. Periodical assessments by the BJP have generated a fear that the JDU-BJP combine along with two other allies, Hindustan Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party, may fall short of the majority mark in the 243-member Assembly. “In that case, if the LJP manages to win a substantial number of seats, then it can fill the gap,” a BJP leader said. “If we start saying that there is no place for the LJP in the NDA, then it could join our opponents,” the leader added. On the LJP’s firm refusal to accept Nitish as the chief minister, the BJP leader said. “That will be resolved post-elections.” Many believe the BJP, despite promising to stick with Nitish, may hoist its own chief minister with the help of the LJP if the JDU’s tally dips substantially. However, if the JDU-BJP combine manages to return to power comfortably and the LJP fails to make a mark, then the BJP could be compelled to slam the door on the LJP. In that case, Chirag may find it difficult to fill his father’s shoes in the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: HC says TV channel can't publish confessional statements||The media cannot access or publish confessional statements of accused that are not in the public domain, Delhi High Court observed on Monday while questioning a news channel’s act of broadcasting the alleged confession of a Delhi riots suspect. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said that journalists do not have the right to take out police case diaries and publish them. “These are documents which you cannot take out and publish. There is no doubt about it,” he said. Accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia student, has in his petition accused the police of forcing him to sign certain papers in custody and then leaking the statement with malicious intent. The high court directed Zee News Media Corporation Ltd to file an affidavit revealing the name of the source from whom the journalist received the purported statement. It refused the media house’s request that it be allowed to reveal the name in a sealed cover to avert any risk to the person or his family, and set the next hearing for October 23. “Police have already initiated a vigilance inquiry into the matter. You (Zee News) have got access to documents which even the accused does not have. You file the counter reply disclosing the source from where you got the document,” the judge said. The police have told the court that none of their officers leaked the statement. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, representing Zee News, said the journalist had requested not to be pressed to reveal his source. He argued that pressing for disclosure of the source would amount to interfering with media freedom, as guaranteed under the Constitution. Besides, he said, the source was not under protection. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, said: “One has to determine from where the document is coming. The accused were not being given copies of remand applications in which there are details about their case, but journalists are given everything.” Tanha’s petition said he was aggrieved by various publications reporting he had confessed to orchestrating the Delhi riots and sought a direction to them to take down content leaked by the police. Refusing to pass an ex-parte order, the high court directed media houses Zee News and OpIndia and social networking platforms Facebook and YouTube to respond to the plea, saying it would hear all the parties. Tanha, arrested in May, is in judicial custody. The third-year BA student of Persian had earlier been arrested in connection with the December 15 violence near Jamia during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots,” the police have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Political pot hot, ED spoils Farooq lunch||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah was questioned on Monday by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the 2012 cricket scam, kicking up a political storm as parties called it a vendetta against the formation of an alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370. Abdullah, the National Conference president and Srinagar Lok Sabha MP, was summoned and questioned from 11am by ED officials at its Srinagar office in connection with his alleged role in the Rs 113-crore Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association scam that had rocked the state in 2012. Abdullah, after daylong grilling, vowed not to give up his struggle for the restoration of Article 370, although he refused to link his questioning with the recent developments. “We have a long way to go. We have a long political battle. That fight will continue whether Farooq Abdullah is alive or whether Farooq Abdullah is dead,” Abdullah told reporters. “Our resolve has never changed, our resolve will never change even if am to be handed. It is the struggle of people of Jammu and Kashmir, not Farooq Abdullah’s.” The NC leader said he is not scared of the ED and mocked his only concern was that he could not have his lunch on Monday. “My only regret is that I could not have my lunch today. I could not bring my lunch here,” he said. The former chief minister’s questioning triggered an outcry as the NC, the People’s Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference and other parties called it a political vendetta. These parties floated the People’s Alliance last week to fight for restoration of Article 370 and resolution of the Kashmir issue. The NC, in a statement, said: “We knew it was coming” and claimed the BJP has unleashed the agencies after failing to politically fight Abdullah. “The ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity that Dr (Farooq) Sahib has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in J&K,” the statement said. “This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how BJP has been employing coercive and intimidative measures through various departments to target Opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is a case in point.” An NC spokesman said the “timing of the recent summon is very clear” as his “previous summons were just before August 5 last year and today’s summon comes within days of forming the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration of which Dr Farooq Abdullah has taken a lead”. “Dr Farooq Abdullah continues to maintain his innocence and will cooperate with the authorities in what is nothing but a witch-hunt,” he said. The Gupkar Declaration, signed by major J&K political parties, is a pledge for restoration of the state’s special status. Abdullah’s son Omar condemned the summons but denied some media reports that the raids were conducted at his residence. Former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to censure the central government and vowed to fight on. “ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” she tweeted. The scam surfaced in 2012 over allegations of misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 113 crore in the JKCA, then headed by Abdullah. The money was sent by the BCCI to the JKCA. Jammu and Kashmir High Court officially handed over the case to the CBI in September 2015 and the ED too chipped in with the filing of an FIR. The ED actions have in the past coincided with major political developments, raising eyebrows. The ED filed a chargesheet in July last year against Abdullah and three others for allegedly misappropriating Rs 43 crore, amid unprecedented uncertainty ahead of the August 5 abrogation of Article 370. Abdullah then claimed he had done no wrong and was open to investigations. BJP spokesman and former Brigadier Anil Gupta rejected the claims and said the party has nothing to do with the ED investigations. He said the timing of investigation is decided by the agencies, which are “autonomous”, and not by the BJP. “Blaming the BJP for all their woes has become a political compulsion for the National Conference. Dr Farooq Abdullah did not consult the BJP when it created the scam. At that time he used both hands to muster the money and today when he is being questioned for that he is blaming the BJP and its ideology,” he said. “The case was already going on. The timing of the investigation, when they want to investigate or question, is decided by the agency. They are not BJP agencies, they are agencies of the government of India. They ate autonomous bodies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Urgent appeal to SC on RTI  vacancies||RTI activist Anjali Bharadwaj on Monday applied to the Supreme Court for an “urgent” hearing of a petition that seeks the immediate filling of all the vacancies at the Central Information Commission, where six of the 11 posts are currently unoccupied. The vacant posts include that of the chief information commissioner, the application underscored, adding that the commission faced a backlog of over 36,000 complaints and appeals filed under the Right to Information Act. It accused the Centre of not just deliberately failing to fill the vacancies but of having misled the apex court in April by saying it had complied with its December 2019 order to fill all the vacant posts. It alleged that some of the vacancies had persisted for the past two years. The application for urgent hearing, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, is expected to be heard only next week after the Dussehra vacation ends on October 25. “With the retirement of the chief (information commissioner) on 26.8.2020 and another commissioner demitting office (at) the end of September, 2020, currently 6 posts... are lying vacant and the pendency of appeals/ complaints has risen to over 36,600,” the application said. It alleged the Centre had on April 24 falsely claimed to have complied with the apex court’s December 16, 2019, directive — which came on a petition from Bharadwaj — to fill within three months all the four posts that were vacant then. “It is submitted that this assertion is patently false and misleading as the respondent was to fill all the vacancies which were advertised on 12.12.2019,” the application said. What the Centre did, the application alleged, was to fill just one of the four posts and elevate an existing commissioner as the chief information commissioner. By April 24, when the Centre filed its affidavit, one more post had fallen vacant, restoring the number of vacancies to four, it added. “The affidavit notes that 250 applications were received pursuant to the advertisement for 4 posts of information commissioners. However, no reason is given as to why only one vacant post was filled,” the application said. It alleged that “it appears the (Centre) is resorting to issuing fresh advertisements instead of filling all the advertised vacant posts in a bid to cause undue delay in the appointments, thereby frustrating people’s right to information”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Australia to join Malabar drill ||India on Monday announced that Australia would join the upcoming Malabar naval exercise, which effectively means that all the four member countries of the Quadrilateral coalition (Quad), would participate in the mega drill next month-end, a move seen as a snub to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh. The exercise will bring together militaries of the Indo-Pacific nations — the US, Japan, India and Australia — in the Bay of Bengal in the backdrop of China’s aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” said a statement from Indian defence ministry. The participants of Exercise Malabar 2020 are engaging to enhance safety and security in the maritime domain. They collectively support free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and remain committed to a rules-based international order, the statement added. Sources in the defence ministry said India was expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region with an effort to contain China’s growing clout there. The drill has been conducted off the coast of Guam in the Philippine Sea in 2018 and off the coast of Japan in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Government to collect data on migrant workers ||The Centre is poised to launch three surveys to collect data relating to the wages and social security of, respectively, migrant labourers, domestic workers and those like lawyers’ or doctors’  assistants or receptionists. The government had faced severe criticism from Opposition parties and civil society groups last month after it told Parliament, in reply to MPs’ questions, that it had no data on the migrant workers who had died during the lockdown. Shortly after the MPs had submitted the written questions, the labour and employment ministry had on September 9 set up a 15-member committee chaired by S.P. Mukherjee, a professor emeritus with Calcutta University, to design the surveys and their methodology. Government sources said the surveys were expected to begin in November and would take six to seven months to complete. Labour economists said there were no credible, up-to-date data on any aspect of migrant workers’ lives and livelihoods — such as their number, wages or state-wise and sector-wise distribution. A 40-year-old law says that migrant workers must be registered both in their home state and workplace state. But several committees, including a parliamentary standing committee, have found that most of the states never implemented this law. So, the government had no data on them during the lockdown, which left millions of migrant workers jobless and stranded. Many perished while attempting to walk hundreds of miles home virtually on empty stomachs. Enumerators of the labour bureau, a government body, will conduct the surveys. The surveys will tap households, employers and the government agencies that register commercial establishments or keep records about them, said Amitabh Kundu, labour economist and committee co-chairperson. “There aren’t much data on domestic workers or the people engaged (as helpers) by (unregistered) professional firms or individual professionals (such as lawyers, architects or doctors),” Kundu said. “The government wants to know about the remunerations and social security of these categories of workers.” Kundu said the survey data would help devise policies to implement the labour laws passed recently. Parliament last month passed three labour laws — on the workers’ occupational safety and health, right to strike and form trade unions, and social security, respectively — after having passed a wage code last year. The law on occupational safety and health mandates the creation of a database of migrant workers, and the wage code allows domestic workers to seek the minimum wage. Kundu said the committee had a three-year tenure and would, whenever required, oversee the conduct of similar surveys to generate data for policymaking. Although the government has no data on deaths among the migrant workers, public database Thejesh GN has found that at least 972 migrant workers died from lockdown-related causes between March 25, when the lockdown was enforced, and August end. The causes of death included starvation, financial distress, exhaustion while travelling home under primitive conditions, road and train accidents, lack of medical care, suicide, and withdrawal symptoms brought on by the unavailability of alcohol. Among the other causes were brutality by police, who often targeted home-bound migrant workers for violating the lockdown restrictions, and attacks by criminals on the way home. Forty-nine of the deaths occurred at the quarantine centres, known to be overcrowded and bereft of amenities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Kerala Covid lapse worry||Two alleged lapses by Covid-19 healthcare workers have shaken Kerala’s health department, once toasted for its initial handling of the outbreak but now facing censure over a recent surge in infections in the state. One of the charges is that a Covid-19 patient died because his ventilator tube was not properly fitted. The other is that a hospital mixed up the identities of two Covid-19 patients and allowed the family of one of them to go on believing he was alive for three days after his death. The allegations surfaced on Monday, a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan blamed Kerala authorities’ “negligence” during the Onam festival in August for the spike in Covid-19 cases. One of the allegations owes to a leaked audio message, purportedly from a nursing officer, that had been shared within a WhatsApp group of nurses, government officials said. The speaker in the audio warns the nurses against any lapses and cites how a poorly fitted ventilator tube had cost Harris, a patient, his life on July 20. “Harris was ready to be moved to the ward. His family complained about his death but we somehow escaped blame. The doctors didn’t blame us,” the speaker says. State health minister K.K. Shailaja on Monday ordered an inquiry into the death of a patient named Harris at the Government Medical College in Kalamassery, Ernakulam. A nursing officer at the hospital, Jalaja Devi, has been suspended. In the audio, the speaker admits to multiple instances of negligence. “Several patients have died because of such lapses. Doctors have reported them, but not taken any action against us because we are working hard. Yet such small lapses on our part have cost the lives of several patients,” the speaker says. “They (doctors) have told us about these issues and asked us to tell the staff to be extra careful. In case we get caught there will be problems.” The Congress and the BJP protested outside the hospital on Monday. Zainaba, elder sister of Harris, told reporters that “no one should go through this”. The family said it had sought an explanation from the hospital how a patient who seemed to be recovering well could die so suddenly, but had received no response. “Our 85-year-old mother is distraught. His (Harris’s) wife is a mental wreck. He has two children,” Zainaba said, adding that the family had lodged a police complaint of medical negligence. In the second instance, a family from Kollam has alleged they were kept in the dark about the death of a member, whose body was eventually found in the morgue of the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram after a hunt. A Covid-19 team had taken Sulaiman Kunju, 85, to a private hospital and then a Covid treatment centre, before moving him to the government medical college in the district. From there he was shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram hospital, but the family was not told. The family said they regularly left food packets and fresh clothes for Kunju at the security desk of the Kollam hospital, believing he was there and recovering. “I regularly checked on my father’s health condition by calling the security desk. On Thursday I got a call saying my father had been moved to the non-Covid ward. When I went to meet him on Friday, I realised there had been a mess-up,” Kunju’s son Naushad said. Apparently, the health updates Naushad was receiving were those of a namesake of his father, admitted to the Kollam hospital. “We sought the help of the local panchayat officials, who traced my father to the morgue in Thiruvananthapuram three days after he had died on October 13,” Naushad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
