21-10-2020||India||Row over NCW chief’s ‘love-jihad’ comment||NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has stirred a controversy with her comment that there was a “rise in love-jihad cases” in Maharashtra, drawing the ire of netizens, politicians and activists who demanded her resignation for giving credence to such a term.  Sharma had on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to discuss women’s safety-related issues in the state, including the alleged “rising cases of love jihad” in the state. Her comments drew flak people who termed it "unbecoming of her position".  No immediate response was available from Sharma but people close to her said she raised with the governor the case of one inter-religion marriage in Maharashtra which was facing issues and had even clarified to him that she was not against inter-faith marriages.  Soon after her comments on love-jihad, netizens dug out her old tweets in which she allegedly made controversial remarks against women and politicians. Sharma, however, claimed that her Twitter account was hacked. The tweets are dated before she became the NCW chairperson.  Following the public outrage, she deleted her tweets and locked her Twitter account. "I have protected my tweets since last evening after receiving a message from Twitter that suspicious activity was detected on my account. My profile was also blocked for a while by Twitter," Sharma tweeted.  "...I have reached out to the platform to investigate some unauthorized tweets made from my account. The investigations are on and I hope some resolution can be found," she said in another tweet.  The government had told Parliament that the term "love jihad" was not defined under existing laws and no case had been reported by any central agency. The term is often used by right wing groups for defining inter-faith marriages.  She was criticised by netizens, women rights activists and political parties who termed her tweets "foul, contemptible and cheap".  Addressing reporters, AAP spokesperson Atishi said the party seeks immediate removal of Sharma from her post at the National Commission for Women. "How can a woman with a foul, contemptible and anti-feminist mindset preside over an institution established to protect the rights of women? We demand the removal of Rekha Sharma from the post of chairman of NCW with immediate effect," Atishi said.  Ragini Nayak, a Congress spokesperson, tweeted, "Every second this vile, sexist, venom spewing @sharmarekha spends as chairperson of @NCWIndia is a fresh assault on the integrity and dignity of women in this country. Only Modi ji could have entrusted such a misogynist with protection of women's rights #SackRekhaSharma".  "Why hide your cheap and misogynistic tweets now @sharmarekha? The BJP government should hang its head in shame. The rapists supporting govt also endorses a misogynist as the head of the @NCWIndia. Under BJP, India truly has become no country for women. #SackRekhaSharma," the Indian Youth Congress tweeted.  Kavita Krishnan, women rights activist and All India Progressive Women's Association Secretary, claimed that Sharma brings shame to NCW.  "Hey @sharmarekha - what on earth is a "love jehad" case? Any case in which a Muslim man and Hindu woman are in love? How dare you remain in your chair as @NCWIndia chief & use a term that a) treats women as property of communities b) hates Muslims? You bring shame to NCW," Krishnan tweeted.  Renowned lawyer Karuna Nundy said this shows that the government does not care about women rights. "Having installed a deeply misogynist, bigoted and downright sleazy NCW chief, the Modi government clearly doesn't care two hoots about women's rights. #sackrekhasharma," Nundy tweeted.  Netizens on Twitter demanded the resignation of Sharma, using the hashtag #sackrekhasharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Rajnath on BJP-JD(U) alliance: like Sachin-Sehwag pair||Calling the BJP-JD(U) partnership as "superhit" as the opening pair of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag in cricket, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said one can debate on the quantum of development done by the alliance government in Bihar, but no one can point a finger at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on corruption. Attacking the opposition RJD, Singh said the people had witnessed its 15-year tenure and can see the difference between its "misrule" and the good governance of the Nitish Kumar-led alliance government. Addressing a rally here in Bhagalpur district ahead of the Assembly polls beginning October 28, Singh said, "The alliance of the BJP and the JD(U) is as superhit as the opening pair of Sachin and Sehwag of Indian cricket team." He said the alliance government has provided basic facilities of electricity, road and water, which Bihar lacked for decades. "People have seen the 15-year rule of 'lalten' (RJD's poll symbol lantern) and they have also seen the development of Bihar during the BJP-JD(U) alliance government. The performance of these two governments cannot be compared. The state transformed under the NDA government," Singh said. Praising Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy and BJP leader Sushil Modi, Singh said there are no charges of corruption against them. "I am not making this claim that Nitish Kumar has done everything for Bihar. It could be debated whether he has done enough work or less work or more was required to be done, but there can be no debate on their integrity," Singh said. Singh said no one can point a finger at Kumar on the issue of corruption. Taking potshots at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Singh, speaking in local Bhojpuri language, said 'lalten' has cracked and its oil has leaked and nothing will work now. He also spoke at length about various welfare schemes of the Modi government such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Singh said welfare schemes of the Modi government not only empowered the poor and the downtrodden but also raised their standard of living. Speaking about the soldiers of the Bihar Regiment who sacrificed their lives during a violent standoff with Chinese soldiers at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Singh said he is thankful to the people of the state for their bravery. "You all know what happened at Galwan Valley, it was Bihar Regiment soldiers who saved the pride of our motherland. They sacrificed their lives and I thank all of you for their sacrifice," Singh said. Polls for the 243-member Bihar assembly will be held in three phases -- October 28, November 3 and November 7 -- and the counting of votes will take place on November 10. The BJP-JD(U) combine is pitted against the grand alliance of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties. Some other smaller parties are also in the fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Police forces being modernised to tackle new challenges, says Amit Shah||The government is undertaking a comprehensive modernisation programme to prepare the police and paramilitary forces of the country for newer challenges of terrorism, cyber crime and border security, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Wednesday. Shah made the remarks while addressing a joint column of police and Central Armed Police Forces jawans and officers at the National Police Memorial in Chanakyapuri here on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The day is observed to pay homage to 10 policemen (of the CRPF) killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Spring area. Armies of both the countries are currently locked in a military standoff in the Ladakh area. "The work of police is witnessing new challenges and new dimensions in the areas of terrorism, fake currency, narcotics control, cyber crime, arms smuggling, human trafficking. It is a challenge to prepare the police forces for the new dimensions that have emerged in the last 2-3 decades," Shah said. "We have prepared a comprehensive modernisation programme for the police and I am hopeful that in the coming days the Modi government will prepare them to meet these challenges," he said. He said the government is bringing in technology to make the country's borders "impregnable" and detailed preparations are being made. The technology and promptness of troops will go hand-in-hand and "we will be able to better secure our borders", he said. Shah also said that the government was "going to do many things" so that the deficiency in availability of police personnel per one lakh population is addressed. He lauded the police personnel for ensuring internal and border security in the country with their vigilance. He said a total of 35,398 police and CAPF personnel have laid down their lives in the line of duty till now with 264 making the supreme sacrifice in the past year. Shah also remembered the 343 personnel who were killed due to COVID-19 and said these personnel continued on duty to help people, donate blood and plasma. He added "many changes" will soon be visible in the context of Police housing satisfaction ratio and training and that his ministry was working on these issues. A ceremonial guard of honour by a joint squad of the CAPFs was presented during the event that was attended by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of the Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar and chiefs of various CAPFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Aw! China bullies Best-Boy Modi||China, the land of proverbs, must be familiar with the sage advice for the garrulous as well as the practitioners of statecraft although its source is disputed: “Don’t speak unless you can improve the silence.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the proverb to heart, suppressing the flames of fury that neighbours like Pakistan ignite in him and deploying the cerebral skills of statesmanship and high diplomacy ever since China squatted on Indian territory from May. Look what that sagacious strategy has reduced China to: a bully that picks on the best-behaved boy in class for no reason whatsoever. On Tuesday, Beijing declared: “The Indian side should earnestly abide by the one-China principle and handle the Taiwan question prudently and properly.” China was responding to a question about a report that said “support is growing within India’s government to formally start talks on a trade deal with Taiwan as both democracies see relations with China deteriorate”. The Bloomberg report attributed the information to an unnamed Indian official who was quoted as saying “the hawks in India who want to start trade talks are getting the upper hand”. The official added that it’s unclear when a final decision would be made on whether to start talks. The report said neither the Indian commerce ministry spokesperson nor Taiwan’s top trade negotiator responded immediately to requests seeking comment. Yet, asked about the report on Tuesday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular media conference in Beijing: “There is only one China, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. The one-China principle is the common consensus of the international community, including India, and also serves as the political foundation for China to develop relations with any other country.” Zhao said: “China is firmly opposed to any official exchanges of any form and the signing of any agreement of official nature between Taiwan and any country having diplomatic relations with China.” Zhao then told India to “handle the Taiwan question prudently and properly”. Like a jealous lover, China is usually prickly about even a whisper or a wink at Taiwan. But Bloomberg had merely reported a wish of the Indian hawks who are apparently gaining the upper hand. If China seeks to respond to the full wish-list of what the so-called hawks in India want to do to the neighbour, it will have no time to do anything else. Moreover, it is a big mystery in India where these hawks are fluttering about. Not many hawks audacious enough to directly name China as the transgressor on the border have been spotted in public till now. On Tuesday, China could have easily replied that it does not respond to speculation — which is what it does with a straight face when asked about its casualties in the Galwan Valley. India does not have diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Both governments have representatives in each other’s capitals to facilitate cultural and business relations. So far, New Delhi has approached the issue with great sensitivity towards China’s concerns. As for the Prime Minister, he has treated China with extreme courtesy and decorum, going to the extent of declaring a few days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley that no one had intruded into Indian territory. Earlier this month, the Modi government studiously avoided greeting Taiwan on its National Day even though there was a domestic clamour for doing so to get back at China in the face of Chinese aggression. Modi’s best behaviour continued on Tuesday, too, in the face of the insolent statement by the Chinese and extreme provocation by Rahul Gandhi who asked the Prime Minister to reveal during his 6pm address “the date by which Chinese soldiers are going to be kicked out of India”. Refusing to be swayed by such distractions, Modi struck to the business at hand, warning the country to keep up the Covid guard. The Prime Minister quoted Kabir and Tulsidas, not Confucius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Blow to Kashmir daily||The Jammu and Kashmir government has sealed the Srinagar office of the Kashmir Times, the leading English newspaper that swam against the tide to speak out after the abrogation of Article 370 and challenged in the Supreme Court a communication blockade. The estates department of the administration sealed the office at Srinagar’s Press Enclave on Monday. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is now administered by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. The newspaper, the oldest English daily in Jammu and Kashmir, is headquartered in Jammu but ran an edition from Srinagar. The print edition from Srinagar was suspended recently because of a financial crunch but the online edition was being published from the office. The office operated from government space allotted to the newspaper in 1993, along with some other newspapers and journalists. Anuradha Bhasin, the owner and executive editor of the Kashmir Times, said no due process was followed. “They came yesterday around 5, the office was working and they asked the staff to come out. There was an argument and my staff asked where the order was but they told them to talk to the higher-ups. They put a lock outside and all our infrastructure is inside,” Bhasin told The Telegraph. “No eviction order was served on us. They were first supposed to give a cancellation order, then publicise it, ensure the occupant receives it and give time to file objections…. No such thing was followed.” A government official said they had not taken possession of the office of the Kashmir Times but that of the building allotted to Ved Bhasin, the founding editor of the newspaper and Anuradha Bhasin’s father, who died some years ago. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, claimed the space was being used for residential purposes and another quarter nearby was being used as an office. Anuradha Bhasin said rumours started floating about the eviction some six weeks ago, after which they approached the estates department. “They were not giving a clear picture. It was all bizarre. We approached the court of the deputy commissioner. The hearings happened. The judgment was reserved. The order (of eviction) is out now but it has not been served,” she said. “It is vendetta…. They did it because we went to the Supreme Court and also for constantly talking about lack of civil liberties, lack of democratic space in Kashmir. We were critical of a lot of government policies and actions,” Bhasin added. The newspaper had borne the brunt of alleged government reprisal for filing the case in the Supreme Court against the blockade. Since November, the daily has received no government advertisements — a major source of revenue for the region’s dailies. The sealing of the Srinagar office was condemned by politicians and several individuals but major associations of journalists took their time to react. The Kashmir Editors Guild said in a statement on Tuesday night: “The Guild sees the sealing as the continuation of an abnormality being enforced on Kashmir media for a long time, especially since 2010. In the last 10 years, the successive regimes have created a very unpleasant history as far as operations of the media in Kashmir are concerned. “Preventing circulation of newspapers, blacklisting the newspapers from getting government advertisements in Srinagar and Delhi, and interrupting negatively in the routine operations have adversely impacted the media. These are in addition to the issues that reporters face on a daily basis while gathering information.” Bhasin had hit out at other publications for their coverage of the events after Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and statehood were revoked. Most of these publications are accused of turning into government mouthpieces as they feared reprisals or a squeeze in advertisement revenues. “The Valley’s leading newspapers have chosen to keep their publications alive by killing news stories and burying all morals of journalism,” Bhasin had written last month. On Tuesday, Bhasin said she received expressions of solidarity from individuals. “There is overwhelming solidarity. I had not expected this much. People I don’t know, not just journalists, but strangers who are sending me messages offering their houses to be used as the office till I get the space,” she said. The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a media watchdog, condemned the sealing and asked authorities to “stop trying to silence independent and critical voices” and “respect press freedom”. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah mocked other publications for turning into government mouthpieces. “This (action against the Kashmir Times) explains why some of our ‘esteemed’ publications have decided to become government mouthpieces, printing only government press handouts. The price of independent reportage is to be evicted without due process,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Punjab farm bill challenge ||The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday passed three bills to negate the farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government and adopted a resolution against them, demonstrating its resolve to fight a political and legal battle with the Centre on an issue that has brought farmers out on the streets and railway tracks. The bills, adopted unanimously by the 117-member Assembly where the two BJP MLAs were not present, create a safety net for the farmers by making trading below the minimum support price (MSP) punishable by law. Any corporate house or trader who violates the MSP will have to pay a fine and face imprisonment up to three years. Traders are barred from operating in Punjab without a licence issued by the state government, and the power to fix foodgrain stock limits is vested in the state rather than the Centre. Chief minister Amarinder Singh, accompanied by MLAs of all parties except the BJP, met governor V.P. Singh Badnore to request him to give his assent to the bills. Anticipating that the governor would refer the bills to the President, Amarinder said he has sought time from Ram Nath Kovind between November 2 and 5 when all the MLAs will go to meet him to press the state’s case. The chief minister declared he was ready to sacrifice his government but would not bow to the Centre’s “injustice”. “I fail to understand what they are thinking, why are they hell bent on destroying farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh who gave their blood and toil to make India self-reliant in food?” he said. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been at the forefront of countrywide protests against the Centre’s three laws, which the Modi government claims will reform agriculture but which the Opposition contends will enslave farmers and threaten food security. Farmers have been blocking roads and rail tracks in Punjab since the bills were forced through Parliament last month. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi joined the protests for three days in Punjab earlier this month before going to Haryana. While the final battle could be fought in the Supreme Court if both the governor and the President refuse assent, Tuesday’s move sets the stage for a political confrontation because the BJP has so far not given any hint of withdrawal. The party has instead launched a massive campaign to hail the Prime Minister for the farm sector “reform”, and BJP-ruled Haryana has dealt with the protesting farmers with an iron hand. The Congress will earn goodwill among farmers by stepping up to take on the Centre. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said: “States like Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Telangana have consulted us and sought the draft bill. Punjab holds very little land but produces 38 per cent of foodgrain in India. On agriculture, other states look up to Punjab.” Congress spokesperson and top lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who drafted the model legislation to override the central laws, hinted that states like Maharashtra and Bengal could also follow suit. Amarinder warned the Centre against playing with fire as Punjab is a border state and social unrest here would encourage anti-India forces to become active. The chief minister also requested the farmer unions to lift their blockade as the rail-roko agitation was bleeding Punjab. Foodgrain stocks lying in godowns can be cleared only if train services resume, he said. Industry has already lost Rs 40,000 crore because of the ongoing agitation, Amarinder added. Asked about the legal validity of the laws passed by Punjab as they are in conflict with the central laws, Singhvi said: “The Centre should thank Punjab for providing them another opportunity to reverse their great blunder. If the President doesn’t give assent to a law ensuring the basic demand of our food providers, they will compound the felony.” The Opposition parties had petitioned the President not to sign the bills steamrollered by the Modi government through Parliament, but he still went ahead. Singhvi said: “The Centre passed the laws in hubris. They murdered the federal principle as agriculture is on the state list. They misused a listing about inter-state trade and commerce. We will fight it in court. What was the problem in making the MSP the benchmark?” Badal added: “States were given constitutional guarantee on GST and that is not being honoured. How can we trust verbal assurances (on MSP)?” A bill was also passed in the Assembly on Tuesday to bar farmland less than 2.5 acres from attachment proceedings in Punjab. The finance minister said: “We really don’t understand why Modiji is doing this except for the reason that the Centre does not have money to subsidise the operations of the Food Corporation of India. But if you tinker with food safety, money can’t save you in times of crisis.” Badal quoted an Urdu couplet to reflect the mood in Punjab: “Falak ko zid hai jahan bijliyan girane ki/Hamen bhi zid hai wahin aashiyan banane ki.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Official hints at plasma therapy rollback||India is likely to remove convalescent plasma therapy from its standard treatment guidelines for the coronavirus disease, the head of the country’s apex health research agency signalled on Tuesday, citing its study that found no benefits from plasma. Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, cited the council’s study on 464 patients in 39 hospitals across the country earlier this year that had suggested that plasma did not reduce mortality or severe illness in Covid-19 patients. “We’ve had discussions in the national task force and we are discussing this further… this may be deleted from the national guidelines,” Bhargava said at a briefing by the Union health ministry. “This is the ongoing discussion and, more or less, we’re reaching towards that.” Bhargava’s statement is the first official hint that the government is rethinking the presence of plasma as a therapeutic option for Covid-19. Ever since the council posted the study’s findings on a research archive on September 9, there has been speculation in medical circles whether the national task force and an expert medical panel that recommend the treatment guidelines would take into account its negative findings. Although the health ministry had cautioned that plasma is experimental and needs to be used with caution, many doctors have been concerned about unjustified enthusiasm and the sale of plasma in the black market at exorbitant prices across the country. Anecdotal accounts suggest that members of the public across India have even sought plasma donations for Covid-19 patients through social media platforms. Convalescent plasma, which is extracted from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Clinical trials worldwide have aimed at assessing the efficacy of plasma in preventing deaths and severe disease. In August, the US Food and Drug Administration had issued an emergency use authorisation for plasma therapy in the treatment of hospitalised patients. However, the FDA had also cautioned that “adequate and well-controlled randomised trials remain necessary for a definitive demonstration” of the plasma’s efficacy in Covid-19 patients. Bhargava said India’s trial on 464 patients is the largest in the world. The study describing the findings, he said, has been accepted for publication in The British Medical Journal. Bhargava also said the expert medical panel is also examining the findings of the World Health Organisation study that has suggested that remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine do not prevent deaths in Covid-19 patients. “We’ll take into cognisance and issue advisories accordingly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Oxygen guard  up, cases ebb||India’s near-steady decline in new coronavirus disease cases for over four weeks has reduced medical oxygen consumption in hospitals, but the Centre has initiated a process to import oxygen to address any surge in Covid-19 cases. The number of Covid-19 patients on medical oxygen — through oxygen-supported beds, intensive care unit beds, or ventilators — rose from around 43,000 on September 1 to a peak of 75,000 on September 25. It fell to 57,000 patients on October 19. A top Union health ministry official released data on Tuesday showing that India has never been short of medical oxygen. Although hospital requirement of medical oxygen peaked to 2,791 metric tonnes per day during the September 9-15 week, end-of-week stocks have always exceeded 13,000MT. However, the Centre has now initiated a process to import 100,000MT of liquid medical oxygen to ensure adequate stock and address any surge in Covid-19 cases that might occur in the post-festival weeks and the winter months. A senior government official explained to The Telegraph that an import was considered as prudent because the epidemic’s trajectory remains uncertain and the country’s demand for industrial oxygen is expected to rise. “In normal pre-Covid time, industry used to consume about 4,500MT oxygen per day. This declined drastically from March to September and is now picking up and may eventually cross pre-Covid-19 levels. In such scenarios, there will be no surplus left,” the official said. India’s daily additions of new coronavirus disease cases fell below 50,000 for the first time in 84 days on Tuesday. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded 46,790 fresh Covid-19 cases, the first time this number is below 50,000 since July 29 when India had recorded 52,123 cases. Despite the nationwide fall in numbers, new cases continue to rise in some states, including Bengal. Bengal’s seven-day average of daily new cases, for instance, has increased from 3,225 on October 2 to 3,806 on October 19. In Kerala, the seven-day average climbed from 7,509 on October 2 to 8,601 on October 12. It fell to 7,393 on October 19. The number of active patients nationwide has declined from a peak of over one million cases in mid-September to around 748,000 on Monday. But “we’re not in a position to sit back and relax,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary said. “We have to do more of what we have been doing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Modi caution but silence on rallies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to follow Covid-related precautions during the festive season and not let their guard down, warning of a resurgence at a time his own party leaders have flagrantly violated precautionary measures on the campaign trail. Modi sounded the caution in a 15-minute address to the nation at 6pm during which he hailed his government’s achievements in stabilising the pandemic crisis. Through the day, however, “Boycott Modi Bhashan” trended on Twitter with users highlighting his government’s failures and accusing him of making false promises. “In this festival season, brightness is returning to the markets. But we should remember that the lockdown may be over but the virus has not gone yet,” the Prime Minister said. “This is not the time to be careless. Don’t think the danger is over and corona is gone,” Modi added, citing the examples of developed countries and those badly hit by the pandemic and highlighting how India had fared better than them. The Prime Minister warned against actions that could cause a deterioration. He said the Covid recovery rate had improved and the markets were returning to normal owing to the festive season. He warned people against any laxity before a vaccine is found. Cautioning people who have stopped taking precautions of late, Modi said, according to a translation of his speech uploaded on his official website: “If you are negligent and are going out without a mask, you are exposing yourself, your family, your children, the elderly to the same amount of risk.” “Festivals are a time for joy and celebrations. At the same time we are coming out of a tough time and carelessness could render our fight useless,” the Prime Minister added. He, however, did not mention the political campaigns of BJP leaders where pandemic precautions are being violated at will. On Monday, leaders jostled outside Bagdogra airport to welcome BJP president J.P. Nadda. Many of them were not even wearing masks. In poll-bound Bihar, BJP leaders, as also leaders of other parties, have been addressing public rallies where masks are being shunned and physical-distancing norms flouted. In the latest unlock guidelines, the government has not specified any attendance limits for public gatherings in the open, with many viewing this as being aimed at the Bihar elections. During his address, Modi did refer to some recent videos where “we have seen that people are not careful anymore. This isn’t right.” Modi is scheduled to campaign extensively in Bihar, addressing a dozen rallies beginning Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Medha Patkar alleges Hathras plot||Social activist Medha Patkar has alleged that supporters of the four men arrested for the Hathras gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen have resolved to sell their land to pay for the legal expenses of the accused and ensure that the victim’s family is driven out of the village. “We came to know earlier today that the supporters of the gang-rape accused have decided to sell four bighas of land to fight the case of the four accused youths and also drag the victim’s family out of the village soon,” Patkar told an online media conference at Nandurbar in Maharashtra on Tuesday. She also released the report of a fact-finding team from the National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) that visited Hathras. The report refers to the girl as Dasya, or slave. The father of the victim later told reporters in his village that caste brethren of the accused persons — Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar Singh, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar Singh — had declared that they would also spend the money raised to force the Dalit girl’s family out of the area. “I have heard they have said they will throw us out of the village when the police security is withdrawn by the government. We know they will do whatever they have been saying. We have requested the central and Uttar Pradesh governments to make arrangements for us in Delhi so that we can live safely there,” the father said. Ramu’s father Rakesh Singh said his son was not involved in the September 14 crime. “My son was at home when the incident took place. His name has been dragged into the case unnecessarily. We will try for the release of our children. However, the allegation of the girl’s family that we want to force them out of the village is baseless,” Rakesh said. The report by the fact-finding team, titled “Brutal gang rape, assault, and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl by upper caste Thakur men”, describes what has happened since the crime on September 14. Besides Patkar, the eight other members of the fact-finding team that visited Hathras on October 9 and met the victim’s family and relatives, are Mani Mala, activist and writer; Sandeep Pandey, leader of the Socialist Party (India); Ehtesham Hashmi, a Supreme Court advocate; Faisal Khan, an NAPM activist; Joe Athialy and Amit Kumar of the Delhi Solidarity Group; Hansraj of the Narmada Bachao Andolan, and Anand Athialy, a student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||‘Fit’ Amit Shah sets up Bihar date ||A “fully fit” Amit Shah has announced that he will campaign for the Bihar Assembly elections, preparing to make his first major public appearance at a time there has been speculation about his health. Home minister Shah, who had tested positive for the coronavirus in August and was hospitalised twice, had earlier been scheduled to visit Bengal ahead of the Pujas and “sound the poll bugle” but the trip was cancelled. “I will go to Bihar after October 25,” Shah told Zee News on Monday. “I’m fully fit now,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Stay home for festivals: Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday urged people not to venture out during Durga Puja and Diwali and celebrate the festive season within the confines of their homes. He requested the people not to be even slightly negligent in observing Covid-19 guidelines while celebrating the festivals. He cited the example of Kerala, where cases have gone up three-fold after Onam. “Even a little complacency will make the situation worse.” “It has been a tough seven months for us, but our sacrifices have borne fruits,” he added. The chief minister also referred to the second wave of Covid-19 in European countries like the United Kingdom, France and Spain. “Daily cases in the UK on September 1 were 1,200-plus but the number jumped to more than 17,000 on October 8. Similarly, the number of cases in France have jumped from 3,000 to 26,000 between August 31 and October 10,” he said. He also asserted that Odisha was fighting well against Covid-19 and the number of positive cases had come down significantly in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Ventilator charge gains voice||A doctor has corroborated a claim attributed to a nurse that negligence had led to the death of a Covid-19 patient at a medical college hospital in Kerala. Dr Najma Saleem, who works at the Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam, on Tuesday said an on-duty doctor had told her what had happened before the death of the Covid patient named Harris on July 20. In a leaked audio message on Monday, nursing officer Jalaja Devi is purportedly heard warning other nurses against any lapses and citing how a poorly fitted ventilator tube had cost Harris his life on July 20. The speaker in the audio message, originally circulated in a WhatsApp group of nurses, had claimed that superiors had hushed up the matter to protect the on-duty nurses. The health department has suspended Jalaja pending an inquiry led by the director of health education. On Tuesday, doctor Najma told reporters that she was not on duty when Harris died but was told about the incident by a duty doctor. “The duty doctor had told me that the patient died in bed. Although he had an oxygen mask, the tube was not connected to the ventilator. She (the duty doctor) had informed the superiors, who took no action,” Najma said. While insisting there was negligence on the part of the duty nurses who were supposed to keep an eye on every patient, Najma cited two possibilities that might have led to the death of Harris. “He had the mask on but the tube was not connected. Or the tube got disconnected when the patient moved in the bed,” the doctor said. “Whatever the case maybe, the nurse on duty should have attended to him,” Najma said, adding that there had been other instances that were rectified immediately. While the speaker in the audio clip had said that Harris was ready to be discharged, a claim supported by his family, Najma had a different take on his health. “His condition was such that he would have needed oxygen support even if he were to be discharged and sent home. Even after a month and a half of hospitalisation, we could not wean him off oxygen. Apart from being Covid positive, he was obese and had related issues,” she said. The doctor also backed the audio message’s claim about similar incidents at the hospital. “During my duty I once heard a Covid patient named Jameela breathing rapidly. When I rushed in, I saw she had the oxygen mask on but the ventilator was on standby mode. The patient recovered quickly when I switched on the ventilator,” Najma said. On another occasion the ventilator aiding a Covid patient had stopped working. “When I saw this I told a sister to bring a new ventilator. But there was no response even after two minutes. Then I asked a nursing intern who came into the room. When I went to the nursing station and checked I found none of them had even moved from there,” recalled the doctor. “I shouted at them and managed to get a new ventilator and helped the patient,” Najma said, adding that things have improved of late. “I believe things have definitely improved since then. Now, each set of nurses and doctors works in four-hour shifts (in medical ICUs). I am not generalising the deficiencies since lots of doctors and nurses work really hard in these hospitals,” she said. Dr Joseph Chacko, president of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association, told a news channel that finding the reason for lapses was important. “We need to plug any loopholes and not end the matter with suspending someone,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||CBI takes up TRP probe||The CBI has registered an FIR in connection with alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP) on the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation, officials said on Tuesday. The state government handed over to the CBI a case initially registered at Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station on a complaint from an ad agency, the officials said. The CBI FIR is against unknown persons. The development comes at a time Mumbai police is already investigating a TRP manipulation case, in which it has summoned officials of Republic TV and two Marathi channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. Republic TV, which did not get protection from arrest for its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from Bombay High Court on Monday, has been demanding that the case be transferred to the CBI. The TRP case appears to be following the pattern of the Sushant Singh Rajput case where too Mumbai police had begun a probe, but later Patna police filed an FIR and then the Bihar government recommended the case be transferred to the CBI. The Centre backed the Bihar government’s recommendation and the CBI took over the case. The agency has not reached any conclusion on the death of Sushant, it had said recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Sikkim status cry after China threat||An article in China’s state-run Global Times on Sunday threatening to support “separatist forces in Northeast” and “the resurrection of Sikkim” has prompted proponents of the Himalayan state’s special status under Article 371F of the Constitution to urge the Centre to resolve some of the pending political issues at the earliest to keep Beijing at bay. Following growing bonhomie between India and Taiwan, which China claims as its territory, an article in the Global Times on Sunday warned: “If India plays the Taiwan card, it should be aware that China can also play the Indian separatist card… China has every reason to support separatist forces in Northeast Indian states such as Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur, Assam and Nagaland. China could even support the resurrection of Sikkim.’ Sikkim merged with India in 1975 but this was acknowledged by Beijing only in 2003. Against this backdrop, IAM371F Campaign, an organisation that espouses the cause of special constitutional status enjoyed by Sikkim, has urged the Centre to resolve the political issues of Sikkim. Passang Sherpa, coordinator, IAM371F Campaign, said fundamental to resolving the issues was to uphold the sanctity of both the May 8, 1973, agreement, which had been signed before the erstwhile kingdom’s merger with India on May 16, 1975, and Article 371F, which provides special status to Sikkim. “The promises made under 8th May Agreement and Article 371F of the Constitution of India were misused and manipulated by New Delhi time and again,” said Sherpa. According to him, there may be no takers in Sikkim for China’s separatist card, but the continued denial of the Sikkimese people’s political security by successive governments at the Centre was unfortunate as it gave Beijing the chance to raise the issue. “Such insensitive approach of the Indian governments towards the Sikkimese people for the past 45 years could be the reason for emboldening foreign powers like China to rethink their strategy on Sikkim,” said Sherpa. Under Article 371F, protection is provided to Sikkim to continue with old laws of the state before its merger with India and some of them have allegedly been diluted by the Centre over the years. Sherpa listed some of the many alleged acts of omission and commission. They include the removal of the political rights of the majority Nepali-speaking Sikkimese people, the extension of Income Tax Act in Sikkim, the failure to grant Assembly quota for Limboos and Tamangs, who were declared Schedule Tribes in 2003. Until 1979, there were equal seat reservations of 15 seats each for Bhutia Lepcha (BL) and Nepali community. However, following subsequent amendments, there are no specific reservation for the Nepali community. The Campaign proponents are also against implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act and one nation, one ration card scheme in Sikkim. China is known to raise the Sikkim bogey every time there is tension with India. Both during the Doklam standoff in 2017 and the ongoing border tension, Global Times played to the non-existent secessionist sentiments in Sikkim. Sherpa said in light of China’s sinister designs, New Delhi should be serious in resolving the various political issues of the past 45 years to enable the Sikkimese people to contribute towards national security, integrity and development. “Since the state government of Sikkim has become a mere stooge of the Central government, the ball now is in New Delhi’s court to resolve the issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
