22-10-2020||India||Govt restores all existing visas barring electronic, tourist and medical categories||The government on Thursday decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical categories, almost eight months after their suspension following the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent imposition of a nationwide lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also announced giving permission to all Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders and all other foreign nationals to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa. The move will enable foreign nationals to come to India for various purposes such as business, conferences, employment, studies and research. The ministry said in a statement that in view of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government had taken a series of steps to curtail the inward and outward movement of international passengers since February, 2020. The government has now decided to make a graded relaxation in visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals and Indian nationals who wish to enter or leave India. Under this graded relaxation, the government has decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas, except electronic visa, tourist visa and medical visa, the statement said. If the validity of such visas has expired, fresh visas of appropriate categories can be obtained from Indian mission or post concerned. Foreign nationals intending to visit India for medical treatment can apply afresh for a medical visa, including for their medical attendants. The government has also decided to permit all OCI and PIO card holders and all other foreign nationals intending to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa, to enter by air or water routes through authorised airports and seaport immigration check posts. This includes flights operated under 'Vande Bharat' mission, air transport bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. All such travellers will, however, have to strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regarding quarantine and other health/COVID-19 matters. While the restrictions on visas were imposed following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in February, commercial flight operations were suspended when the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25. However, the government has been allowing limited operations of Air India flights under the 'Vande Bharat' mission for certain categories of OCI and PIO card holders and those Indians who were stuck due to COVID-19 outbreak since June. The number of coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as India's caseload went past 77 lakh, while recoveries have crossed 68 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below eight lakh for the sixth consecutive day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
22-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh moving towards becoming unemployment-free||The Chhattisgarh government has shown that way by creating several employment opportunities for the young and old in the time of a pandemic. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s government says it has been able to reduce the unemployment rate to 2 per cent in Chhattisgarh. “This has been possible due to a record rise in employment opportunities due to visionary decisions of the government,” a state government communique said. Baghel, said officials, believed in the motto of “service-care-empathy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Modi invokes Durga to reaffirm commitment to women's empowerment||Invoking Goddess Durga, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reaffirmed his government's irrevocable commitment to women's empowerment and safety. Reaching out to the people of Bengal during the state's biggest festival Durga Puja, the prime minister said though it was being celebrated on a limited scale due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the "enthusiasm is still unlimited". Noting that Goddess Durga was worshipped as a symbol of 'Shakti' (strength), Modi said his government was consistently working for the empowerment of women. "From opening Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women, giving soft loans to them under the Mudra Yojana, to launching Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao initiative, granting permanent commission to women in the armed forces and extending maternity leave from 12 to 26 weeks, we have taken a number of steps for their empowerment," he told a gathering at Durga Puja celebration organised by the BJP. He also said anti-rape laws were made more stringent to include death penalty. "We are alert towards the security of women. We have strengthened laws against rape. Now, there is even provision for death penalty to the perpetrators," he said in his virtual address to the people of the state. In Bengal, Goddess Durga was also worshipped as a daughter, he said, adding women must be treated with respect. The prime minister's remark came in the backdrop of a string of incidents of rape and murder of women, including the Hathras incident that shocked the nation and triggered outrage against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. The prime minister recalled the contributions of reformers from Bengal like Ram Mohun Roy and Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, spiritual leaders Ramkrishna Paramhans and Swami Vivekananda, cultural giant Rabindranath Tagore, and revolutionaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Khudiram Bose in shaping India's national identity. Durga Puja, he said, was the epitome of pluralism and reflected the collective strength of India. "I feel blessed to be a part of Durga puja celebration on Mahashashti...This time we are all celebrating Durga Puja amid the coronavirus crisis. Devotees of Maa Durga, organisers of pandals, all have shown amazing restraint. The numbers may have been affected, but the grandeur is the same, the divinity is the same," Modi said. Beginning his address in Bengali, PM Modi shared his puja greetings and appealed to the people to adhere to social distancing norms (do gaz ki duri) and wear face masks while taking part in the festivities. "There is so much power in the devotion to Goddess Durga here that it seems I am not in Delhi but amongst you in Bengal", Modi said. Speaking about the development schemes of his government for the people of the state, Modi said under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana pucca dwellings were built for about 30 lakh poor families. "About 90 lakh poor women have been given free gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme. Bank accounts of about four crore poor of Bengal have been opened through Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission Scheme, clean piped water will be delivered to about 4 lakh households," he said. Listing out various developmental projects for the state, Modi said, Rs 8,500 crore has been approved for Kolkatas East-West Metro project. Noting that the union government has adopted the mantra of Purvodaya for the development of eastern India, the prime minister said Bengal has to play an important role in its success and reach the objective of Sonar Bangla (Bengal made of gold). "Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat is a key component of the government's growth plans", he said. "For Bengal's infrastructure, continuous work is being done to improve connectivity. The Centre has adopted the mantra of Purvodaya- the rise of east. We have been taking decisions for the development of eastern India. "Bengal has to play an important role in Mission Purvodaya. I am confident that the state will soon become the the hub of this mission," he said. We have to move forward with the mantra of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Viswas, the prime minister asserted. The BJP had made elaborate arrangements for live viewing of the prime minister's virtual address from the national capital. Apart from the event venue in Salt Lake, where the Bengal BJP has organised Durga puja for the first time, his speech was streamed live across 10 selected pandals spread across districts. The event was televised live at over 78,000 polling booths across the state's 294 assembly constituencies. Assembly polls are likely in Bengal around April-May next year. After decades of its limited presence in the politically polarised state, BJP emerged as the main rival to the ruling Trinamool Congress winning 18 of the state's 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP's political clout growing manifold in the last few years in the state, where it has never been in power, its leaders have expressed confidence that the saffron party will end Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||New Covid cases below 60,000 for fourth consecutive day||The number of coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as India's caseload went past 77 lakh, while recoveries have crossed 68 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry. The COVID-19 caseload mounted to 77,06,946 with 55,839 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,16,616 with 702 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 68,74,518 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 89.20 per cent, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.51 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below eight lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 7,15,812 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which accounts for 9.29 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 9,86,70,363 samples have been tested up to October 21, of which 14,69,984 were tested on Wednesday. The 702 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra, 88 from Karnataka, 64 from West Bengal, 47 from Delhi, 44 from Chhattisgarh, 41 from Uttar Pradesh, and 39 from Tamil Nadu. Total 1,16,616 deaths reported so far in the country include 42,633 from Maharashtra, followed by 10,780 from Tamil Nadu, 10,696 from Karnataka, 6,755 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,508 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,244 from West Bengal, 6,128 from Delhi, 4,060 from Punjab, and 3,660 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Blow to wish to topple Uddhav govt||Senior Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse on Wednesday quit the BJP, dealing a blow to the party’s efforts to destabilise the Uddhav Thackeray government. Khadse, a prominent OBC leader and widely acknowledged to have made significant contribution to the BJP’s growth in Maharashtra, is all set to formally join the Sharad Pawar-led NCP on Friday. Khadse hit out at former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and held him responsible for his exit from the BJP. Fadnavis, a Brahmin and the leader of the Opposition, was promoted by the BJP in the Maratha-dominated politics of the state. “Devendra Fadnavis destroyed my life. I spent four years in mental tension... I feel sad about quitting the BJP, but I had no choice,” Khadse told reporters after quitting the party. Khadse, 68, was a senior minister in the earlier Fadnavis government and was made to resign in 2016 on charges of corruption. Many had then felt that Khadse had been framed in a bid to sideline him. He was denied a ticket to contest in the 2019 Assembly polls. His daughter was fielded in his place, but she lost and since then he had been sulking. “Eknath Khadse will join the NCP at 2pm on Friday. This will strengthen the NCP,” state NCP chief Jayant Patil told reporters. The development came at a time Fadnavis is busy in Bihar after gaining prominence as the state election in-charge. He was given the post to reap political benefits out of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death that was blown out of proportion with an eye on the polls. The issue, however, is seen to have lost steam. Fadnavis and the BJP had been using the actor’s death to launch an all-out attack on the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra led by Uddhav. A CBI probe was instituted in the actor’s death, seeking to target the state government, but so far the agency is learnt to have found no proof of foul play. Khadse’s resignation will deal a blow to the BJP’s effort to gun for the Uddhav government and instead boost the morale of the ruling alliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||HD eyes Yedi tie-up with quit-BJP rider||JDS leader H.D. Kumaraswamy is said to be in touch with BJP veteran and his successor as chief minister, B.S. Yediyurappa, for a possible alliance if the incumbent is replaced, but on the condition that he quit the BJP and side with “secular politics”. Just over a year after Yediyurappa led a coup by weaning away 17 lawmakers from the Congress-Janata Dal Secular (JDS) coalition, the two leaders, who have had a tumultuous past together, are said to have been in talks for about a month now. “Definitely. Kumaraswamy will support Yediyurappa if he can walk out of the BJP with his supporters,” a senior JDS leader and close associate of Kumaraswamy told The Telegraph on Wednesday, referring to reports of a power struggle within the Karnataka BJP and alleged efforts to upstage Yediyurappa. The optimism belied the fact that the previous Kumaraswamy-Yediyurappa courtship, with the JDS leader as chief minister, ended in disarray in 2007. Kumaraswamy had refused to hand over the chief minister’s post to Yediyurappa after reaching the halfway mark of the government’s tenure, as had been agreed upon as part of a power-sharing deal, leading to the government’s collapse. The JDS leader who declined to be named insisted on Wednesday that Kumaraswamy and Yediyurappa had been in touch for sometime. “The only condition is that Yediyurappa will have to exit the BJP and return to secular politics with his group of MLAs. In that case, Kumaraswamy will extend support to him to form an alternative government,” the JDS leader, a former minister, said. The JDS is believed to be counting on Yediyurappa’s past since he had quit the BJP in 2012 and proved too much of a headache for his former party by forming the Karnataka Janata Paksha. While he didn’t gain much, Yediyurappa cut into the BJP’s vote bank in the 2013 state polls, facilitating an easy win for the Congress. A BJP lawmaker’s outburst against the Karnataka chief minister has indicated the full extent of the intra-party chasms over power politics in the state. Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who belongs to Yediyurappa's Lingayat community, had on Monday warned the chief minister of a leadership change, at a time Yediyurappa is already said to be facing discontent within the party ever since he formed the government last year. While this is not the first time that there have been the stirrings of a rebellion in the Karnataka BJP — many old-timers are said to be unhappy after being passed over for ministerial assignments, especially in favour of Congress-JDS turncoats — it is certainly unusual for a party leader to speak out so openly and literally telling Yediyurappa that his time is up. A minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, Yatnal had complained that he was not receiving funds for developing his constituency. A Hindutva hardliner, Yatnal also happens to be among the Lingayat leaders who have for long been trying to find their way up in the party ladder. Asked if Yediyurappa still enjoyed the kind of support required to pull off another coup, the JDS leader who spoke to this newspaper replied in the affirmative. “He has enough numbers since most of the BJP MLAs won thanks to Yediyurappa’s political clout and the caste factor. So I don’t think there is any issue there,” he said. The JDS has 34 seats in the House of 223 with bypolls set for two vacant seats on November 3. To form a government with the JDS’s support, Yediyurappa will need a minimum of 80 of the 117 BJP lawmakers to back him. The BJP has sprung a tight defence around Yediyurappa and downplayed Yatnal’s utterances. Newly appointed national general secretary of the BJP, C.T. Ravi, has warned those who speak out against the chief minister. “The central leadership will take action against anyone making such statements,” he told reporters in Hubli. “Whatever maybe the reason for Yatnal’s statements, I can say Yediyurappa is our leader chosen by the party,” Ravi added. A senior Congress office-bearer said it wouldn’t be possible for Yediyurappa to stay in power without the BJP. “Can he chip away 80 MLAs? It’s impossible. Going by our current stand, we will not support a corrupt leader like him,” said the Congress leader, who declined to be named. But the Congress is ready to face mid-term polls. “We are ready to seek the people’s mandate anytime as the BJP governments have been a total failure in the states and at the Centre,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||India frees China soldier||India on Wednesday released the Chinese soldier who had strayed across the Line of Actual Control in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh two days ago, before military commanders of the two countries meet for the eighth round of talks to discuss disengagement from multiple friction points. Sources in the Indian Army said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldier was handed over at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after the completion of all formalities as per established protocols. The soldier, a corporal, had inadvertently crossed over on Monday morning while helping local herdsmen search for a missing yak, Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili of the People’s Liberation Army, West Theatre Command, had said that night. “The soldier was provided medical assistance, including oxygen, as well as food and warm clothes, to protect him from the effects of the extreme altitude and the harsh climate. During questioning, the army could not find any espionage angle,” said an Indian Army official. He, however, declined to comment when asked whether the yak had been found. The Chinese tabloid Global Times, which functions under the Chinese Communist Party’s People’s Daily newspaper, on Wednesday confirmed the release of the Chinese soldier “who went missing while helping herdsmen find a yak near China-India border”. “The Indian Army’s decision to return the Chinese soldier is viewed as a positive sign ahead of the eighth round of China-India commander-level talks this week. However, many believe that India should show more sincerity in the upcoming talks and less provocative moves,” the Global Times said. The seventh round of military talks between the two armies on October 10 had failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone akin to Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Bhushan tweets about CJI Bobde’s visit to Kanha park by MP govt chopper||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday tweeted that Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had travelled by a chopper provided by the Madhya Pradesh government to visit the Kanha National Park and his hometown at a time the judge was hearing a case on which the fate of the BJP government in the state hinged. “The CJI avails a special chopper provided by the MP Govt (authorised by the CM) for a visit to Kanha National Park & then to his home town in Nagpur, while an important case of disqualification of defecting MLAs of MP is pending before him. Survival of MP govt depends on this case,” Bhushan tweeted. Justice Bobde reached Kanha, known for its tigers, on Sunday (a holiday for the court) and left on Tuesday. The court had closed for Dussehra holidays from Monday and will reopen next week. A source familiar with the Chief Justice said no undue step was taken. The source said the Chief Justice was “entitled to a chopper, a car, an aircraft and other special facilities in view of his constitutional status”. The source added that Bhushan’s tweet was mala fide and motivated to denigrate the highest judiciary as part of an orchestrated campaign. Earlier this year, Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets against the judiciary, including one about Justice Bobde on a Harley-Davidson bike. A bench headed by CJI Bobde is hearing a case filed by a Congress MLA against the Madhya Pradesh pro-tem Speaker’s decision to dismiss a disqualification petition he had moved against 22 lawmakers from the party. The Congress MLAs had defected to the BJP to bring down the Kamal Nath government and prop up that of Shivraj Singh Chouhan. On October 6, a Supreme Court bench headed by CJI Bobde and including Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian had agreed to examine Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Vinay Saxena’s appeal challenging the pro-tem Speaker’s decision to dismiss the disqualification application moved by him against the 22 Congress legislators. According to official sources, Chief Justices of India enjoy a unique constitutional status and have access to such privileges. It’s up to the incumbent to decide on using the facilities. “Moreover, the CJI has Z-plus security, and for security reasons he has a right to such facilities. Supposing he travels in a state government car, will it also be questioned?” a source asked. “If the CJI can travel by government car, then why not a chopper for security reasons?” The source added: “I don’t see what’s wrong with it. MP (Madhya Pradesh) is also infested with Maoists and the CJI has a threat perception. Every state, Union Territory and the Centre is a litigant in the Supreme Court. By that yardstick, neither the CJI nor any of the judges can utilise any government facilities.” The government of the state that the CJI is visiting has the responsibility of making travel and logistical arrangements. The sources said “appropriate action would be considered against Bhushan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Court to Republic TV: #ArrestRhea, is that news?||Bombay High Court on Wednesday demanded to know from Republic TV if asking viewers who all should be arrested in a case that is being investigated and infringing upon a person’s rights qualified as “investigative journalism”. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was referring to the channel “#ArrestRhea” campaign and its reports on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The court also asked the channel’s lawyer, Malvika Trivedi, why Republic TV broadcast photos of Sushant’s body and speculated on whether the actor’s death was a case of suicide or homicide. “The grievance is regarding #ArrestRhea. Why is this part of your channel news?” the bench said. “When a case is under investigation and the issue is whether it’s a homicide or a suicide and a channel is saying it is murder, is all this investigative journalism?” it asked. “We are referring to the basic journalism norms, where a basic etiquette has to be maintained for suicide reporting. No sensational headlines, no constant repeating. You did not even leave the deceased... forget the witnesses,” the bench said. “You have depicted a lady in such a way that infringes on her rights. This is our prima facie view,” it added. Sections of the media have been running independent India’s most vitriolic and longest-continuing smear campaign against an individual — actress and Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty — in an apparent attempt to divert attention from the pandemic and the economic mess and also to aid the BJP’s political agenda against its rivals. The bench was on Wednesday hearing the final arguments on a bunch of PILs seeking that the media be restrained in the reporting on Sushant’s death. The pleas had also sought that TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial. The bench had asked all parties to clarify if a statutory mechanism was required to regulate the content broadcast by the news channels. During the hearing on Wednesday, additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the government, said the Centre was in favour of a self-regulatory mechanism for the print and TV media. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued an order withdrawing consent accorded to the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment to exercise the powers and jurisdiction under an act in the state. According to sources, the move implies that the CBI will not have general consent, accorded by the Maharashtra government by an order on February 22, 1989, to exercise its powers and jurisdiction in the state and will have to get the state government’s permission to probe any matter. Earlier, the CBI had taken over the Sushant probe from Mumbai police on a recommendation from the Bihar government. Now, the Uttar Pradesh government has advised a CBI investigation into a case of TRP manipulation, another issue Mumbai police are looking into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Birthday ‘gift’: grilling by ED ||Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday faced Enforcement Directorate grilling for the second time in three days, and this time coinciding with his 84th birthday, prompting his party to ask if the Centre was “comfortable being seen as a bully by the nation”. Farooq’s questioning comes days after he led an initiative to form an alliance to press for the restoration of Article 370, which granted a special status to Jammu and Kashmir but was scrapped on August 5 last year. Political parties here termed the ED action a “vendetta”. The former chief minister, National Conference president and Srinagar MP is being questioned in connection with a purported scam in 2012 at the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association, which he then headed. “This on a day when my father turns 84!” son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. Farooq was in jail on his previous birthday, arrested on August 4 last year — on the eve of the revocation of Article 370 — amid a crackdown on politicians and activists to pre-empt protests. He was released in March this year. Omar, who too was arrested that day, turned 50 in jail in March. Farooq’s younger brother Mustafa Kamal accused the government of playing with the veteran politician’s health. “He was not served even lunch (during questioning despite the government) knowing full well that he is diabetic. They want to break his resolve and vilify him, but they won’t be able to do so,” Kamal told The Telegraph. “Even my elder sister (Khalida Shah), who is 86, was incarcerated (put under house arrest) for months last year.” Asserting that the ED had grilled Farooq for six hours on Monday, National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar questioned the need to summon him again. “What is it that the ED forgot to ask during the six hours?” Dar said. Farooq was questioned for five hours on Wednesday and drove off from the ED office without talking to reporters. “The government and its agencies have no consideration for a law-abiding citizen who is severely immuno-compromised and diabetic,” Dar said. “(Farooq) being treated like this is proof that the BJP is not even interested in a face-saving act and is completely comfortable with being seen as a bully by the nation.” Dar added: “How many times will the BJP use the CBI, ED, anti-corruption bureau and its other agencies to browbeat Opposition (politicians)? The plot has become predictable. Anyone who speaks against the government or musters courage against its divisive politics will be hounded and summoned.” Dar said the only way to get a clean chit these days was to surrender one’s ideology and join the BJP. “We’ve seen this story play out from Assam to Karnataka, from Bengal to Andhra Pradesh, but Dr Abdullah is not going to surrender to the BJP, come what may,” he said. BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta denied the ED had done anything wrong, and insisted that the agency was an autonomous body. He said Farooq was involved in the cricket association scam and had “used both hands to gather the money”. “The case was going on. The timing -- when they want to investigate or question --- is decided by the agency. They are not BJP agencies; they are agencies of the Indian government. They are autonomous bodies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Odisha engineer held over Rs 6.5-crore properties||Vigilance officials on Wednesday arrested an assistant executive engineer for allegedly acquiring properties worth Rs 6.53 crore in what is being described as the biggest seizure of ill-gotten wealth from a public servant. The engineer, Rabindra Nath Pradhan, is currently working in the General Health Public Division–II in Bhubaneswar. He has allegedly been found to be in possession of three-storey buildings, houses and market complexes in Bhubaneswar and other parts of the state. “He and his family members have 48 one-bedroom flats worth Rs.4.04 crore at Balianta on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar,” the vigilance department said. He also owns eight plots of land in Bhubaneswar and different areas of Ganjam district. Superintendent of police (vigilance cell), M. Radhakrishna said, “This is the highest ever seizure of property amassed by a public servant by the vigilance department. The investigation is on and the value of the properties might go up further.” Pradhan’s son is a builder. Vigilance sources said Pradhan was putting all his illegally earned money in the projects of his builder son. There are three companies registered in the name of his son. Two of them deal in real estate while the third one is engaged in food processing and preservation business. Pradhan’s son is also a partner in a firm dealing in agricultural products. His company has constructed the 48 flats that belong to the family. “How can an assistant executive engineer with a salary of just Rs 60,000 accumulate such vast property? We had some complaints about his illegal activities and raided his house and that of his relatives after watching his activities for some time. The amount of his wealth has surprised us. We will check all the income tax returns as well,” a senior official said. Vigilance sleuths are also conducting a raid against another engineer in connection with a disproportionate assets case. Significantly, most government servants landing in the vigilance net have either made money by acting as a land broker or through the construction business. On Monday, vigilance officials had arrested a lecturer in Gajapati district for accumulating properties worth more than Rs 2 crore. G. Nageswar Rao, a lecturer of education at Minaketan Degree College at Gurundi, has buildings in his native village and several other places in Odisha. Vigilance sleuths also recovered Rs 31 lakh in cash from his possession. He had amassed the wealth through land-brokerage business. On October 15, vigilance officials had nabbed a schoolteacher who had accumulated properties worth over Rs 1.5 crore “The teacher used to skip classes and spend time dealing in land,” said vigilance superintendent of police (Berhampur), Anil Kumar Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Congress promises loan waivers in 'Badlav Patra'||The Congress on Wednesday released its manifesto for the Bihar Assembly elections promising loan waivers and wide ranging sops to farmers. The party also vowed to check the implementation of the three “anti-farm laws” brought in by the Centre. The manifesto, referred as “Badlav Patra” (document of change), mentioned development schemes for almost every sector in the state, an unemployment allowance of Rs 1,500 per month and inclusion of Maithili language in the school syllabus. It also promised a 50 per cent rebate to all domestic power consumers for the first 100 units. The manifesto was released at party’s state headquarters at Sadaquat Ashram in the presence of national general secretaries Randeep Singh Surjewala and Tariq Anwar and AICC Bihar incharge Shakti Singh Gohil, actor-turned-politician Raj Babbar, former Kerala governor Nikhil Kumar and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. “Our government will waive loans of all the farmers with small and medium land holdings if we come to power. We will provide financial help under Rajiv Gandhi Krishi Nyaya Yojana on the lines of Chhattisgarh to farmers having less than two acres, and provide 50 per cent discount on the electricity bills of all farmers,” Gohil said. “We will also bring legislation to check the implementation of the ‘three black farm laws’ in the state just like we have done in Punjab,” he said. Chhattisgarh and Punjab have Congress-led governments. Bihar is primarily an agrarian state, with over 75 per cent of its population engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Over 98 per cent farmers have marginal, small and medium landholdings ranging between zero and 10 hectares. The manifesto promises free education to girl children from kindergarten to the postgraduate, filling up 2.42 lakh vacancies of teachers in schools within 18 months of coming to power, similar pay for similar work for contractual teachers, and scooters for girls who score 90 per cent in Class XII board examinations. “We will include Maithili once again as a compulsory subject in the school syllabus. Though it figures in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, it is not taught in the schools. This has led to erosion in its higher studies. Students become unable to take the UPSC exam in the language due to this,” Mishra said. For a state that has lagged behind in sports for decades since the separation of Jharkhand, the manifesto promises government jobs to sportspersons who win medals at international levels. It also talks about encouraging regular sports competitions. Since employment is a major issue in the state in this poll season, the Congress echoed the promises made by ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of giving 10 lakh jobs, including filling up 4.5 lakh vacancies within 18 months. “The four-time chief minister (read Nitish Kumar) has cheated the youths in the state and made a new record of not giving jobs. Our party will ensure that area-specific surveys are conducted and employment is made available accordingly. We will also provide Rs 1,500 per month unemployment allowance,” Babbar said while releasing the manifesto. Surjewala said the Congress would bring the “right to health” and “right to water” in the state. He said the party would focus on creating employment opportunities in the rural areas. Surjewala came down heavily on prohibition in Bihar. He said the liquor ban  was “limited only to paper and a parallel economy is running with the nexus of the mafia, police and the state government”. “Around 3.5 lakh people have been arrested in liquor-related cases and their families have been ruined. The liquor mafia is being patronised by Nitish. A parallel liquor industry is flourishing and the JDU and the BJP are making money from it,” Surjewala said. The Congress is contesting 70 out of the 243 Assembly seats in alliance with the RJD, and three Left parties. The RJD will contest 144 seats, the CPI-ML 19, the CPI six and the CPM four. Bihar will go to polls on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be out on November 10. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) also released its manifesto on Wednesday, called as “Bihar first, Bihari first vision document”. Party chief Chirag Paswan said that his father Ram Vilas got it prepared while in hospital. It promises a separate department for migrant workers, a large number of medical and engineering colleges to ensure that the youth do not have to go to other states for studies, and better health facilities. Chirag used the occasion to attack Nitish and said: “Bihar will lose if Nitish wins. He calls the schemes of the central government as his own. He first opposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but now stands with him. He talks about development but encourages casteism in the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Women’s panel chief sparks ‘love jihad’ furore||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma has been roasted online after the NCW announced that she had discussed a “rise in love jihad cases” with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday. The Narendra Modi government had earlier this year told Parliament that the term “love jihad” is not defined under extant laws, but its propagators have had a free run, the latest example being the furore over a jewellery brand ad on a Hindu girl married into what appears to be a Muslim household. Tanishq, a brand associated with the Tatas, had to withdraw the ad in the face of vicious trolling. Trouble began for Sharma after the NCW posted on social media a synopsis of her meeting with Koshiyari: “Our Chairperson @sharmarekha met with Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari, His Excellency, Governor of Maharashtra, & discussed issues related to #womensafety in the state including defunct One Stop Centres, molestation & rape of women patients at #COVID centres & rise in love jihad cases.” Sharma’s host, Koshiyari, himself had recently got into a tangle after asking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray if he had turned “secular” and also appeared to taunt his “Hindutva” credentials while demanding the reopening of places of worship. While many on Twitter called Sharma out for using her office to legitimise a political slogan of the ruling party, others trawled her account to dig out previous posts to show that she was not suitable for her job. Armed with the reply given by the Union home ministry in the Lok Sabha in February, Twitterati took Sharma to task for giving credence to a term that the Modi government itself has not found valid enough to define in law. Others dug out some of her old tweets that many said bordered on misogynyand even invited rape on a family to avenge their participation in a khap panchayat. The critics questioned Sharma’s credentials to head the statutory body set up to address women’s issues and demanded that she be sacked. As the clamour for her removal intensified, Sharma claimed that her Twitter account had been compromised and turned it into “protected” mode, stopping others from viewing or commenting on her posts without her permission. Pratik Sinha of the fact-finding website AltNews, however, pointed out that many tweets had also been removed in the process. The Telegraph tried to reach Sharma but she did not respond. NCW officials pointed to her tweet in which she said: “I have protected my tweets since last evening after receiving a message from Twitter that suspicious activity was detected on my account. My profile was also blocked for a while by Twitter.” Using screenshots from before and after her handle was protected, Sinha flagged the drop in the number of tweets from Sharma’s account. “From 16,937 tweets before she protected her account, the NCW Chairperson is down to 16,727 tweets. At least 210 tweets deleted by @NCWIndia chairperson @sharmarekha.“The chairperson or someone on her behalf is busy doing a cleanup of her Twitter account for hours now. 338 tweets deleted since she protected her account. From 16,937 down to 16,599,” Sinha tweeted again, with links to Sharma’s archived tweets. Given her association with the BJP — Sharma had been the party’s district secretary and media in-charge in Haryana before being appointed to the helm of the NCW in 2015 — the discussion on “love jihad” became the subject of a political slugfest. The AAP, Congress and the CPI(ML) demanded her removal. Demanding her immediate removal for her “derogatory and shameful tweets against women”, AAP leader Aatishi Marlena said: “If the chairperson of the NCW uses such cheap language against women, then how can a woman expect justice from the central institution headed by her? ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ was not a slogan for any positive campaign but a caution to the nation to protect the girls from the grip of BJP leaders.” Posting screenshots of some of the objectionable tweets that were posted from Sharma’s handle between 2012 and 2014, Congress spokesperson Ragini Nayak said: “Every second this vile, sexist, venom spewing @sharmarekha spends as chairperson of @NCWIndia is a fresh assault on the integrity and dignity of women in this country. Only Modiji could have entrusted such a misogynist with protection of women’s rights #SackRekhaSharma.” CPI(ML) politburo member Kavita Krishnan tweeted: “Hey @sharmarekha — what on earth is a ‘love jihad’ case? Any case in which a Muslim man and a Hindu woman are in love? How dare you remain in your chair as @NCWIndia chief & use a term that (a) treats women as property of communities (b) hates Muslims? You bring shame to NCW.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Election Commission talks tough on Covid rule flout at election rallies||The Election Commission on Wednesday took a serious view of “utter violation” of social distancing norms during poll campaigning and leaders addressing public meetings without wearing masks in complete disregard of its guidelines. In an advisory issued to presidents and general secretaries of all recognised national and state parties, the poll panel said chief electoral officers and the district machinery would be expected to invoke appropriate and relevant penal provisions against candidates concerned as well as organisers responsible for such violations. Separate instructions for strict compliance of guidelines are being issued to chief electoral officers and governments of poll-bound states, it said. “It has come to the notice of the commission instances of such public meetings where large crowds assembled in utter violation of social distancing, and the political leaders and campaigners addressing the gatherings without wearing masks in complete disregard of the guidelines and instructions issued by the Election Commission,” the poll panel said. By not following the norms, the political parties and candidates are not only flouting its guidelines “with impunity but exposing themselves as well as the public attending the rallies or meetings to the danger of infection during the pandemic”, the poll panel said. As the most important stakeholders in the electoral process, the parties are duty-bound to observe the norms determined by the commission for electioneering, it noted. Non-compliance of instructions during the period of public interface will attract actions as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides invocation of the provisions of the IPC and other legal provisions, the EC warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Office grab in Delhi University power tussle||A Delhi University professor marched into campus with a letter “appointing” him acting registrar hours before the executive council was to approve the official pick for regular registrar, triggering an embarrassing power struggle that many teachers said was bringing the “institution of eminence” into disrepute. P.C. Jha, who had come and occupied the registrar’s chamber at 9am, was still there at 10.30pm despite an afternoon resolution by the executive council terming his appointment illegal and asking him to leave. Members of the council, whose meeting too was continuing, unanimously blamed the “mess” on vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi who has been absent from the campus for more than a month now, apparently because of illness. The appointment letter, issued by joint registrar (non-teaching) C.P. Raghav, claimed the approval of the “competent authority”. It appointed Jha as acting registrar as well as acting director of the South Campus. According to the Delhi University (DU) Act, the executive council alone can appoint either official: the vice-chancellor, who heads council, cannot do so by himself. Executive council member J.L. Gupta termed Tyagi’s actions arbitrary and unconstitutional. “What he has done has brought disrepute to the prestigious university,” Gupta said. Rajib Ray, president of the university teachers’ association, said: “Professor Yogesh Tyagi should take responsibility or else allow the university to be governed by other officials as mandated by the DU Act. The university cannot be pushed into further mess.” In Tyagi’s absence, acting pro-vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi has been doubling as acting vice-chancellor, and Suman Kundu as acting registrar and acting director of the South Campus. Joshi had begun the process of appointing a regular registrar and a regular finance officer. The selections were over and Wednesday’s executive council meeting, scheduled from 11am, was to discuss and approve the two successful candidates. But Tyagi and Jha pre-empted the council. “The council resolved that Prof Suman Kundu, department of biochemistry, will act as director, South Campus, and will also act as acting registrar till the permanent/ new(ly) appointed registrar joins the duty,” a resolution passed by the council said. Around 10pm, the council approved the new selections —Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as regular finance officer. A formal order will be issued soon, two council members said. Delhi University has been granted the status of “institution of eminence” (IoE) by the education ministry on the strength of the quality of its teaching and research. Inder Mohan Kapahi, a retired DU professor and till recently a member of the University Grants Commission, said he had never seen such “degradation in the moral fabric of the university” and demanded government intervention. “The occupation of the high office of registrar, when the EC (executive council) was to approve the recommendation of the selection committee for registrar, reminds (one) of illegal occupation of land by professional goons,” he wrote on Facebook. “One sincerely hopes the DU, a university with IoE tag, shall be spared such dishonour. The education minister of India and the Visitor (President of India) should take immediate remedial action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
