23-10-2020||India||Rahul calls out Modi for 'insulting' soldiers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Friday again accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having "insulted" the soldiers with his comment that nobody had intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh, and demanded that he tell the country when will the Chinese "be thrown out". Addressing his first rally during the Bihar assembly elections, Gandhi insisted the Chinese army had indeed intruded into Indian territory. "They have seized 1,200 km of our land. But when the Chinese army intruded, why did our prime minister insult our soldiers by saying that nobody entered into the Indian side?" he said. Earlier in the day, Modi also addressed his first poll rally in Bihar and referred to the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops and said the sons of Bihar laid down their lives for the tricolour but did not let "Mother India bow her head". "The question is, Modi ji, when will you throw out the Chinese soldiers sitting in our territory?" Gandhi asked. He also attacked the Centre over the migrant crisis triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown, alleging when workers from Bihar were being "chased away" from other states the prime minister did nothing to help them. "He bows before the labourers but does not help them when they need it," he said. He demanded that the prime minister tell Biharis how many jobs he gave them and when. Congress's Neetu Singh is contesting from Nawada district's Hisua seat where she taking on sitting BJP MLA Anil Singh. A huge gathering was seen at the Hisua rally venue, with people also crowding the roof a college building where it was held. RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial candidate of the Mahagathbandhan, said the elections that were under way will not be fought on the issue of caste or religion but unemployment and poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Modi takes a dig at RJD in his second poll rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a stinging attack on the RJD-led opposition in poll-bound Bihar, blaming the "anarchy and bad governance of the 1990s" for most of the ills that plagued the state even now. Addressing an election rally here, Modi said the "Mahagathbandhan" (Grand Alliance) was a "pitara" (basket) comprising elements wary of the "governments crackdown on anti-national activities", and stressed that the state must vote to power the NDA led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar so that "Bihar does not fall ill (Bimar) again". "The state now has electricity. The days of lantern are over," said Modi in a reference to the election symbol of the Rashtriya Janata Dal founded and headed by Lalu Prasad. "Most of the ills that plague the state today are the result of the years of anarchy and bad governance it had to suffer in the 1990s. The new generation ought to know that Bihar has been witness to times when people alighting from trains in the night used to stay back at the station since anti-social elements used to maraud freely, he alleged. He claimed people used to avoid buying a new car out of fear that a particular political party might get to know about their prosperity and they might end up getting kidnapped for ransom. It was an obvious reference to the RJD, which was often accused by adversaries of patronising criminals. He also said that the assembly elections in the state were crucial because of the sheer number of people who are going to cast their votes amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Modi said it was a chance to the people to vote the NDA back to power and ensure unhindered growth. Taking potshots at the opposition Grand Alliance, which also includes the Congress and Left parties, Modi charged the coalition partners with "promoting naxalism" and intending to "keep the people poor as they fear that prosperity will make them politically irrelevant".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Modi slams opposition alliance in his first Bihar rally||Launching his campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invoked the alleged reign of "crime" and 'loot" during the 15-year rule of the RJD, as he sought people's vote for the NDA to ensure the state's continuous journey towards "development". In his first rally in the state, Modi sought votes for another term of the NDA government under Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying he had been working with the JD(U) president only for the last three-four years and that the state had seen much speedier development in this period. Kumar had returned to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in 2017 after fighting against it in the last assembly polls in 2015. A "double-engine" government, he said referring to the NDA ruling at the Centre and the state as well, will ensure Bihar's development at a fast pace. The Congress-led UPA government at the Centre between 2004 and 2014 put "roadblocks" in the state's development as Kumar was a member of the NDA for most of the time, Modi said. While the RJD ruled Bihar for 15 years from 1990, Kumar has been the state's chief minister since 2005, barring a brief period when he installed Jitan Ram Manjhi in his place in 2014 for over nine months. Modi also accused the opposition of siding with forces which are conspiring to weaken India by promising to restore Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir if it comes to power. Without naming any opposition party, he said their protests against the recent farm reform laws are in fact aimed at "saving" middlemen and brokers while being couched as support for the Minimum Support Price and agriculture 'mandis'. They had spoken the language of middlemen and brokers even when the Rafale fighter aircraft were bought, he said, asserting that India will not back off from the decisions it has taken. While speaking of various development initiatives of the NDA governments at the Centre and in the state, he spoke of frequent heinous crimes like "murders, dacoity and extortion" under the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad Yadav's RJD and said people can now live without any fear. "The people of Bihar cannot forget the era when life would come to a standstill after sunset. Today, roads, electricity and lights are there. The biggest thing is that a common man in the state can live without any fear," he said. The RJD-led opposition alliance is the principal challenger to the NDA in the state polls which begin from October 28. People have decided that those who have a history of making Bihar 'Bimaru' and looted it when in power will not be allowed to rule it again, Modi said. 'BIMARU' is an acronym for Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It was used to refer to the 'poor economic conditions' of these states. Modi began his first Bihar poll rally here by paying tributes to LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan and former RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who passed away recently. Even before the polls, people of Bihar have given their message and all surveys show that the NDA government will retain power in the state, he said. Kumar and BJP ally Mukesh Sahni shared the stage with the prime minister. Referring to the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops, Modi said the sons of Bihar laid down their lives for the tricolour but did not let 'Mother' India's head bow. The soldiers of Bihar were also martyred in the Pulwama attack, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Khalid: Locked  up alone  in cell||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the February Delhi riots, told a court here on Thursday that he was not being allowed to step out of his cell and it was akin to “solitary confinement”. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat directed the Tihar jail superintendent to be present before the court on Friday. Khalid made his submissions directly through videoconference when he was produced before the court on the expiry of his judicial custody. The court also pulled up the assistant jail superintendent of Tihar for not unmuting the microphone when Khalid told him that he wanted to speak to the judge. Khalid said the officer had told him the microphone would be unmuted if the judge gave permission for it. “If an undertrial wants to say something, then unmute and let him speak, or you tell us that he wants to say something,” the judge told the jail officer. Khalid alleged that he was alone in his cell and not allowed to step out or talk to anyone. “I have not been allowed to step outside at all. I am alone in my cell. No one is allowed to meet me. It is practically a sort of solitary confinement. I am not well for the past three days. I am feeling discomfort. This is like a punishment. Why am I given this punishment? I reiterate that I need security but it cannot be that I have to be in my cell all day,” the rights activist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||A chosen bunny in the making||Chief minister Nitish Kumar has become the hare of the Bihar campaign, the BJP its hound. The two are running together; it doesn’t test imagination to tell how hare and hound tandems usually end. Bihar has turned into a teeming melee, thick with the kicked-up dust of battle that defies clear deciphering, just as it also defies cognition of a rampant and killer pandemic. But the verdict on Nitish Kumar already lies inscribed in bold letters on the unintelligible skirmishing for Bihar’s honours: he is headed to drastic diminishment. Should Nitish manage to secure — as Union home minister Amit Shah has publicly promised — a record fourth term as chief minister, it will be as chosen bunny of the BJP. The Nitish who used to dictate terms to the BJP is long history; the Nitish now in the making — or unmaking —  is one who will take dictation. Amit Shah’s guarantee on Nitish becoming chief minister again “regardless” of who gets how many in the alliance must be read as just that — a chief minister on Amit Shah’s guarantee, an office granted at his pleasure. The one clear message ringing out from Bihar is that Nitish’s public image has nosedived — “sushasan babu” has become a thing of ridicule. He has been mocked and taunted during election outings, angrily motioned to go back where he came from, called, among other things, a “chor”. Nitish is visibly riled; footage from the campaign trail is peppered with a chief minister in episodic outbursts of public anger. He is staring at the price he might have to pay for taking his eye off the governance ball to play survival games. It can be of little comfort to Nitish that many of those chanting “Nitish hatao” are also chanting “BJP lao”; not all the anti-Nitish sentiment translates into anti-NDA sentiment. The BJP, on the contrary, cannot be unhappy to sip the juicy paradox that this is —  it has been spared palpable public annoyance, the blame is all for Nitish to hog. As one state BJP leader said, no words minced, “If Nitish has been taking all the credit as ‘sushasan babu’, he must now also take all the blame for what has gone wrong.” Could it be a mere accident that Nitish, the anointed face of the NDA in Bihar, finds no mention on the BJP’s campaign menu for another “NDA sarkar”? He is not in the promotional clips, he is not on the posters, he was nowhere around when the BJP released its manifesto. For the BJP, it is all Narendra Modi and him alone. The BJP is clearly relying on another spell of the Modi talisman over Bihar and employing its war chest and wares to upscale its performance to the exclusion of Nitish. It often even appears a strategy —  a risk-ridden one — working at Nitish’s expense. Here is where the hounding of the hare comes. For all the chortled protestations over the rebellion of Chirag Paswan of the LJP, the fact remains he is still an NDA ally. He is contesting all non-BJP seats on a strident anti-Nitish platform and could cause maverick damage. There is nothing to suggest that if required, Chirag will not become intrinsic to the BJP’s game plan post-election. There is also the other “grand alliance” the BJP has nudged to formation, the coming together of marginal players like Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP and Mayawati’s BSP, now joined by Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which enjoys some heft in Bihar’s Seemanchal region. This is the region the BJP has largely left for Nitish to contest. Hares usually scamper alone, hounds hunt in packs; the BJP has ensured Nitish has more biting to fight off than just from the churning challenge of Tejashwi. Where they gnash and how deep they cut remains an imponderable, but it is a risk the BJP appears ready to run in order to secure a dictating hand over Nitish. That said, it remains a risk whose logarithm isn’t easy to calculate. Electoral spins can often spin out of control; voter equations are algebraic, seldom arithmetical. Two and two do make four but in adding them you may lose sight of what might be adding up to six elsewhere in reaction. As the BJP manifesto revealed on Thursday, the party senses the threat Tejashwi has overnight conjured out of widespread voter concern over unemployment, especially among the youth. Its redoubled promises over providing jobs are a knee-jerk response to the sentiment Tejashwi has triggered. It’s early in the campaign yet; it hasn’t been fired by its dominant themes. Tejashwi has lit a flame, a novel enunciation of distress and redress at a remove from beaten themes of caste and creed. His chief opponent, Prime Minister Modi, intends his first outing on Friday and what he says will probably provide a better sense of where this could head. Nitish, meantime, must mull the best utilities of a rubbed-out reputation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Vaccine-for-vote virus infects poll ||The BJP promised free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone in Bihar as it released its Assembly poll manifesto on Thursday, prompting the Opposition to accuse it of playing politics with the deadly pandemic and assert that any vaccine would belong to the nation and not a party. Health experts, one of whom described the announcement as “selling dreams”, said such promises were premature given the lack of clarity over which candidate vaccine might clear the tests and when, and how much of it could be produced and how fast. “At least three coronavirus vaccines are now on the verge of production in our country. When scientists clear it (the vaccine), our country will have the capacity to produce sufficient vaccines to enable what we are promising here — in Bihar, everyone will get a free vaccine,” Nirmala Sitharaman, Union finance minister, said while releasing the manifesto in Patna. “This is our first promise in our sankalp patra (vision document),” she added. Opposition parties castigated the BJP for its “cynical exploitation” of people’s fear of the coronavirus and wondered whether the “politicisation of the vaccine” meant that states where polls weren’t due anytime soon would be denied priority in access to the vaccine. Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders accused the BJP of being in “the business of death for votes” and of “trading vaccines for votes after allowing Covid-19 to spread across the country”. “The coronavirus vaccine is of the country and not of the BJP. The political use of the vaccine shows that it (the BJP) has no other option than to sell the fear of disease and death. The people of Bihar have too much self-respect to sell the future of their children for a few paise,” the RJD tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi posted a sarcastic tweet: “The Government of India just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise elections schedule to know when you will get it, along with a hoard of false promises.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor urged the Election Commission to act. “Tum mujhe vote do, main tumhein vaccine… what appalling cynicism. Will the Election Commission rap her (Sitharaman) and her shameless government on the knuckles?” he tweeted. Bhupendra Yadav, the BJP general secretary in charge of Bihar, defended the poll promise, saying: “Vaccines will be made available to all Indians at a nominal cost. The states can make it free. In Bihar, we will (if voted to power).” Health experts stressed the uncertainty about when and how fast a successful vaccine could be produced, which implies that promises about vaccinating an entire state like Bihar, whose population in the 2011 census was 10.4 crore, amounted to jumping the gun. Members of an expert panel tracking the vaccine development efforts have said that until a candidate vaccine is approved, it will be difficult to predict how many vaccine doses will be available or to set a budget for a vaccine. “How much of vaccine doses will be available will depend on which vaccine is successful,” a member of the panel had told this newspaper earlier this month. Different companies have different production capacities — although efforts are on to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology to make Covid-19 vaccines. The availability will also depend on whether a two-dose vaccine or a three-dose vaccine makes it. Health experts emphasised that it’s too early to even predict which among the 44 candidates under clinical trials worldwide, including three in India, might be successful. Scientists said that none of the vaccines had yet been proved through large-scale Phase 3 efficacy studies to protect people from Covid-19. India’s home-grown vaccines are still undergoing Phase 2 studies to determine their capacity to generate an immune response. A medical researcher familiar with the status of the vaccine trials appeared amused at the BJP poll promise. “Health is a state subject. If the BJP and the state have the access to and the resources for a vaccine and they want to give it free to everyone... I shall also go and take it,” he said. “There is a thing called selling dreams,” the researcher added. The BJP manifesto also spoke of creating 19 lakh jobs, making 1 crore women self-reliant through self-help groups, providing 30 lakh houses to the homeless, making medical and technical education available in Hindi, and stipulating minimum support prices for various kinds of pulses. Ally Janata Dal United too released its poll manifesto on Thursday, basing it on the “Seven Resolves for a Developed Bihar — Part II” announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar around a month ago. Bihar’s 243 Assembly seats will vote on October 28, November 3 and November 7, with counting on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Covid takes job, collector gives ||Baishnab Beria had scrimped and saved to send son Ananta to engineering college so that the boy need not become a labourer like him. He had not reckoned with the coronavirus. Two years after Ananta had earned a BTech degree from a Bhubaneswar college and gone on to secure an assistant engineer’s job with a Chennai company, the 23-year-old was back in Odisha, working as a labourer alongside his father. The pandemic-induced lockdown had cost him his job — as it had done to millions of old and young across the country — forcing a youth who earned Rs 15,000 a month to work for Rs 207 a day. Unlike many of his fellow sufferers, Ananta can hope for a happy ending. His lucky break came when Bolangir collector Chanchal Rana arrived in Jurlakani village on Tuesday to inspect the work being done under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Rana told The Telegraph on Thursday: “When I examined the muster roll to find out the number of workers engaged, I found a young man working there. When I talked to him, I was quite impressed.” “I enquired about his qualification and was surprised to learn that he had a BTech degree. I called him to my office in Bolangir the next day.” On Wednesday, when Ananta visited the collector in the district headquarters town of Bolangir, 320km from Bhubaneswar, he was offered a government job. “We have decided to absorb him in the MGNREGA cell (which maintains ledgers and records of all the rural job scheme projects and workers in the district) at the district headquarters. He will get between Rs 10,000 and Rs 12,000 a month,” Rana said. “But we’ll make it clear that it’s a temporary arrangement to tide him over his present financial problems. He should now work to realise his dreams. He can go in for higher studies or wait for things to change so he can land a good job. I shall do whatever I can to help him.” Ananta’s family is overjoyed. “We have no words to thank Collector Sahab,” father Baishnab said. But trade union activist and CPM leader Janardan Pati underlined that there were millions of others in the same boat as Ananta for whom the authorities needed to do more. “We must also think of those 16 crore other people who have lost their jobs to the lockdown. Among them are nearly 2.3 lakh engineers and technicians. The Centre and the state government have failed to come to their rescue,” he said. Ananta, who was first employed with the Bhopal Municipal Corporation before moving to Chennai, said the loss of his job had come like a thunderbolt. “My father had toiled as a labourer to send me to college. All his hopes were pinned on me. Before the lockdown I used to send him Rs 10,000 every month,” he told this newspaper. Ananta, who has a 17-year-old brother and two married sisters, said he had come home on leave in the first week of March. Just as he was about to set off for Chennai after the holiday, the lockdown was announced on March 24. His colleagues in Chennai told Ananta not to undertake the journey as things had gone horribly wrong there. “Friends who worked with me told me not to return as all their jobs had gone,” Ananta said. Soon, his savings were exhausted. “My father began working under the rural job scheme as a labourer and I decided to join him two months ago,” the young engineer said. Deogaon block development officer Navin Kishore Padhi said: “The boy worked on a canal project. He was paid Rs 207 a day. Earlier, his father and mother Binodini had worked under the scheme.” He added: “Under the MGNREGA, a skilled labourer gets Rs 453, a semi-skilled labourer Rs 338 and an unskilled labour Rs 207.” On Thursday, Ananta reported informally at his new office in Bolangir to learn the ropes at his new job. He will join formally on November 1, officials said. Bolangir being just 20km from his village, Ananta plans to commute every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Uniform marriage age plea||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a uniform marriageable age for men and women. The petitioner, who has sought the transfer of all related appeals to the Supreme Court from the high courts in Delhi and Rajasthan, has argued that the current thresholds of 18 years for girls and 21 years for boys are discriminatory and panders to the “stereotype” of women being subservient to men. Advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the petitioner, had earlier filed a writ petition on the matter, following which the court had issued notice to the government. A uniform marriageable age is being hotly debated on social media for the past few days. Upadhyay said on Thursday that as different petitions were pending in various courts, they should be clubbed and transferred to the Supreme Court for an authoritative pronouncement. “The petitioner is compelled to approach this Hon’ble Court as more PILs may be filed in other high courts seeking ‘uniform minimum age of marriage for men and women’. Therefore, in order to avoid multiplicity of litigation and conflicting views on interpretations of Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and liberty) and judgments on gender justice and gender equality, the court may be pleased to transfer these PILs and decide them collectively,” the petition said. The minimum age of 21 for men and 18 for women are stipulated in Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; Section 60(1) of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872; Section 3(1)(c) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 4(c) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954; and Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Assailing the different age criteria for men and women, the transfer petition said: “While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married (off) when they are just 18. The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against the global trends.” Upadhyay pointed out that the Law Commission had earlier observed that there was no scientific basis for such a distinction and that differential limits “simply contributes to the stereotype that wives must be younger than their husbands”. The Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women had also noted that some countries provide for different minimum ages for marriage for men and women. As such provisions assume incorrectly that women have a different rate of intellectual development from men, or that their stage of physical and intellectual development at marriage is immaterial, these provisions should be abolished, the petitioner said. “The differential limit causes de facto discrimination. It is a social reality that women in a married relationship are expected to perform a subordinate role vis-à-vis the husband. Hence, there exists a power imbalance between the husband and wife in most marital relationships. This power imbalance is deeply aggravated by the age differential, because age itself constitutes a hierarchy of power. A younger spouse is therefore expected to respect and be servile to her elder partner, which aggravates the pre-existing gender-based hierarchy in the marital relationship,” the petition said. According to the petitioner, more than 125 countries have a uniform age of marriage for men and women. Noting this fact, the National Human Rights Commission, pursuant to the National Conference on Child Marriage held in New Delhi on August 29 and 30, 2018, had also recommended that India follow suit and bring uniformity in minimum age limits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Hathras pain turns Dalits towards Buddhism||More than 200 Dalits in Ghaziabad have converted to Buddhism in protest against the Uttar Pradesh government’s treatment of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim who belonged to their Valmiki caste, several Dalits from the area said. However, the police on Thursday registered an FIR against unidentified people for “spreading false rumours about religious conversions”, and Ghaziabad additional district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters the “rumour” was being probed. Rajratna Ambedkar, Bhimrao Ambedkar’s great-grandnephew and president of the Buddhist Society of India, had on October 16 tweeted pictures of the purported October 14 event. He had written in Hindi: “A historic moment for the Valmiki community as they receive diksha (initiation) in Buddhism and the 22 vows (prescribed by Babasaheb Ambedkar for his followers).” Accounts of the purported event, however, became widely known only on October 20 when a video was circulated on WhatsApp. It appeared to show people receiving diksha and then holding up a certificate from the Buddhist Society of India. A member of the Valmiki caste who claimed to have adopted Buddhism at the event told reporters the way the state government had tried to protect the Rajput accused and bullied the Hathras victim’s family “made us feel that we don’t belong to the Hindu community”. He said Rajratna had imparted diksha to the converts. Another avowed convert was quoted as saying: “We held a meeting on October 14 at village Karhera in the Sahibabad area of Ghaziabad that was attended by 236 members of 50 Valmiki families from the neighbourhood. They were hurt that the police had initially refused to register a gang-rape case in Hathras and later burnt the victim’s body without the presence of her family. We embraced Buddhism at the meeting.” While Indian law permits religious conversions, governments and the police have been known to harass converts and proselytisers by using the bogey of “forced conversion”. A 19-year-old Valmiki girl was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised by four Thakur youths at her village in Hathras on September 14. She died at a Delhi hospital on September 29 amid allegations that the police had refused to file rape charges for eight days and made no effort to get her the best possible treatment. The police then allegedly hijacked her body, took it to her village, locked the family up at their home and burnt the body after dousing it with a liquid from a jerry can, the forced and perfunctory “cremation” triggering outrage. The police have claimed in a court affidavit that the girl was cremated in the presence of her family, without specifying who these family members were. “Police and administrative officials bullied the family and journalists when they tried to tell the truth. It couldn’t have happened without the state government’s support,” one of the purported converts said. He stressed, as the girl’s father had done, that the police’s act was “un-Hindu” since tradition requires unmarried Hindus to be buried rather than cremated after death. “The entire episode made us feel that we don’t belong to the Hindu community. There was no point staying in the religion; so we decided to embrace Buddhism.” He added: “The Thakurs of Hathras and adjoining areas kept holding panchayats in support of the rapists and killers for many days while Section 144 (which bans the assembly of five or more people) was in force. However, the police beat up those protesting the atrocity on the girl.” The police said they had registered the FIR against “rumour mongers” on Thursday on a complaint from Montu Valmiki, a Sahibabad resident. Nand Kishore Gurjar, local MLA from the BJP, said: “I have sent a complaint to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to probe the rumour of religious conversions. I believe that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Pakistan’s intelligence agency are behind this rumour.” Resident doctors at Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College have demanded the reinstatement of two colleagues, who were allegedly sacked for speaking to reporters about the Hathras atrocity, PTI reported. AMU authorities have denied any sackings and said the two doctors had been engaged “on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9”, and the period had now ended. The order ending the two doctors’ contracts was issued on October 20, a day after the CBI team probing the Hathras case visited the hospital, where the victim had been treated for a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||‘Vaccine for vote’ offer sparks outrage||The BJP’s promise in its poll manifesto to provide the Covid-19 vaccine free to everyone in Bihar has prompted its rivals to condemn the announcement as immoral and illegal. While some questioned the opportunistic use of a yet-undeveloped vaccine as an election bait, others raised concerns about federal principles, wondering whether states where elections aren’t due anytime soon would be denied priority in accessing the vaccine. Rahul Gandhi expressed the concern through a sarcastic tweet: “The Government of India just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises.” Expressing surprise that such a promise could be made, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi told The Telegraph: “It is criminally irresponsible, morally indefensible and legally condemnable. If true, this is the most flagrant and egregious form of bribery. Worse, whereas bribers at least keep their promise, this is ex facie false and dishonest.” Bihar’s principal opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, was livid. “A vaccine for the coronavirus will be a national asset, (it’s) not owned by the BJP. The politicisation of the vaccine shows they have nothing else to sell other than fear and disease,” it tweeted in Hindi. “Biharis have self-esteem; they don’t sell the future of their children for a few bucks. The BJP has nothing constructive to offer for education, healthcare and employment. They are trading in death for votes.” RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha tweeted: “Making a vaccine for a global pandemic an electoral issue in a welfare state is a measure of the fall in the level of discourse. Electoral bargaining for saving lives? Shame. Hey Ram!” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Tum mujhe vote do, main tumhe vaccine… what appalling cynicism! Will the Election Commission rap her (Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who released the manifesto and articulated the free vaccine promise) and her shameless government on the knuckles?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||UP cop benched for beard||A police officer in Uttar Pradesh has been suspended on the charge of “indiscipline” for keeping a beard without taking “formal permission” from the department. Sub-inspector Intsar Ali, 50, however, said his request for permission to keep a beard had been pending with the department for almost a year now and that he had never faced any problem or resistance to sporting facial hair during his 25-year service in Uttar Pradesh police. Baghpat police chief Abhishek Singh, who has issued the suspension order, said Ali, attached to Ramala police station, 580km west of Lucknow, had disregarded instructions to seek formal permission. “As per the dress code of the police manual, all policemen, except members of the Sikh community, are expected to take formal permission from the department for keeping a long beard. However, they can keep a long moustache. The SI had been asked twice in the past to take formal permission but he ignored the instructions. He has been suspended for indiscipline,” Singh said. “Ali has ignored the dress code in the past also. The notice was served to him after an inquiry,” the SP added. Ali said he had submitted an application with the police department in November 2019 for permission to grow a beard. “But the department has yet to respond to it. I will soon complete the departmental process,” the sub-inspector said. “I have served UP police for 25 years, and until now nobody had stopped me from keeping a beard,” added Ali, who joined the force in 1994 and has been posted in Baghpat for the past three years. Ali, a native of Saharanpur, said his beard at present was around 6 inches long. The Baghpat SP’s office, however, denied that Ali had submitted any application seeking permission to grow a beard and that he had been served a notice earlier “for not following uniform protocol and trimming his beard”. Although the police have quoted chapter and verse of the rules and discipline is undeniably the abiding principle of the security forces, keeping a beard has been a symbol of faith and culture for Muslims and instances of suspension for sporting facial hair have been rare. A senior official in the Union home ministry said policemen were not permitted to keep a beard “to maintain uniformity in service and a smart look”, but a minority community member could seek and receive permission to grow facial hair. Publicly sporting religious symbols have led to harassment, and even turned fatal sometimes, for the minority community in the past few years. The country’s Prime Minister himself had insinuated that rioters could be identified by their clothes, and donning articles of faith have sometimes invited consequences as dire as lynching. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, the saffron-robed Yogi Adityanath, has often made inflammatory comments such as spotting a “green virus” and gone on a spree to rechristen places with Muslim names. After the February riots in Delhi in which 53 people had lost their lives, many Muslims had shaved off their beard and avoided wearing skullcaps for fear of being singled out for attacks. The Supreme Court had in 2003 ordered the reinstatement of Assam Rifles jawan Hyder Ali and the payment of his dues since his sacking in 1997 for keeping a beard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Guild speaks up for Kashmir daily ||The sealing of the Srinagar office of the Kashmir Times is reprehensible and has disturbing implications for the media of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the Editors Guild of India has said. The Guild calls upon the government of Jammu and Kashmir to restore status quo and create circumstances in which media can function without hindrance and without fear, said a statement issued by the Guild’s president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath. “Newspapers and magazines in the undivided state of Jammu and Kashmir were already ravaged by conflict, with editors and correspondents working against difficult odds. Publications have steadily lost advertising over the last decade. Jammu and Kashmir’s communication shutdowns, followed by the pandemic lockdown, have totally stopped the trickle of revenue. The online editions are crippled by the slow internet speed imposed by the government,” the Guild pointed out. The Kashmir Times, a 55-year-old publication, was forced to shut down its Srinagar edition in March. Instead of assisting the media, which was most needed in these dark times, the administration without any notice took control of the office of the Kashmir Times, putting its lock on the door,” the Guild said. The newspaper editor,  Anuradha Bhasin, and the staff have been denied access to records, computers, furniture and equipment in the office. The Guild considers the action of state administration vindictive and injurious not just to the Kashmir Times, but also to the entire free media in the Union Territory, the Guild added in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Govt quells Delhi University crisis||The education ministry has stepped in to quell the leadership crisis at Delhi University, upholding the decisions of the acting vice-chancellor while annulling the steps taken by the vice-chancellor who is on leave. After the DU Executive Council presided over by acting VC and acting pro-VC P.C. Joshi appointed Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as finance officer late on Wednesday night, VC Yogesh K. Tyagi had on Thursday morning appointed Geeta Bhatt, an associate professor of Bhaskaracharya College, as the acting pro-VC replacing Joshi. Tyagi, who has not been coming to office for almost two months apparently because of illness, himself signed the letter. In Tyagi’s absence, acting pro-VC Joshi has been also operating as the acting VC. The education ministry, however, endorsed Joshi’s decisions. In a letter issued in the evening and signed by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the education ministry, the government also annulled all decisions taken by Tyagi. The ministry held that Tyagi was absent on medical grounds and could not issue orders without formally rejoining after submitting a medical certificate. Joshi shall continue as the acting VC, the letter stated, also implying that the appointments made by him would be official. Calls, mails and text messages to Tyagi and Joshi for comments on the crisis went unanswered on Thursday. On Wednesday, Joshi began the process of appointing a regular registrar and a finance officer by calling the Executive Council meeting. Tyagi did not approve of this as he had earlier in the day appointed Prof P.C. Jha as acting registrar. As a mark of protest, Jha on Wednesday sat in the registrar’s office in the VC’s building for several hours and locked the room before leaving. On Thursday morning, Joshi responded by locking up the entire premises of the VC’s office and continued to remain inside till late in the night to send the message that he still held his posts. Gupta took charge as registrar after meeting Joshi. Bhatt, too, took charge after meeting Tyagi at his residence. In the evening Bhatt issued an order stating that the appointment orders issued by Joshi were “without any jurisdiction” and declaring them “null and void”. The chaos had begun affecting the functioning of the institutions. The chemistry department of DU had to cancel scheduled interviews for guest faculty members on Thursday as there was no nominee from the VC in the selection panel. “The university is saved from whimsical decisions,” Prof. Inder Mohan Kapahi posted on Facebook after the government’s intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||President prod on ‘Muslim Regiment’ lie||Rashtrapati Bhavan has forwarded to the defence ministry a petition by military veterans seeking “immediate action” against those spreading false propaganda about a non-existent “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army that had “refused to fight during the 1965 war with Pakistan”. It has asked the ministry to directly inform the petitioners about the action taken. Last week, 120 military veterans had written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking action against those spreading the propaganda and urging him to ensure that the “secular and apolitical character” of the army is preserved. The letter pointed out that no such regiment existed and cited several instances of valour and selfless sacrifice by Muslim soldiers. The President is the supreme commander of the armed forces. “Please find attached/forwarded, for appropriate attention, an email petition addressed to the President/President’s secretariat which is self-explanatory. Action taken on the petition may please be communicated to the petitioner directly,” said a communication from Rashtrapati Bhavan to the defence secretary. Sources in Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President had taken cognisance of the veterans’ petition. In the letter the veterans had said the genesis of the campaign of falsehood lay in a May 2013 tweet from the handle @120croreHindus-World Hindus United that claimed that “in 1965 there was a regiment in Indian Army called Muslim Regiment which refused to fight against Pakistan after which it was dismantled”. “The tweet was meant to show that Muslim soldiers had their loyalties to Pakistan rather than India. The ‘Muslim Regiment’ post has been re-tweeted many times thereafter, and its insidious surfacing during the ongoing Chinese aggression is certainly suspect,” the veterans said. According to them, the post “questions the loyalty of all serving and retired Muslim soldiers”. “These ‘Muslim Regiment’ posts are blatantly false, because the Indian Army did not have a Muslim Regiment in 1965 or since. Some senior-ranking veterans have unequivocally pointed out the false nature of these posts,” the letter said. Written by former navy chief, Admiral L. Ramdas, and endorsed by 119 other veterans, the letter was addressed also to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. The signatories had sought the following actions: ⚫ Investigate the antecedents of the individuals who have made the social media posts on the “Muslim Regiment” ⚫ Identify and charge such individuals for anti-national activities ⚫ Issue warning to the social media platforms (Facebook and Twitter) that have not acted against the posts ⚫ Issue immediate instructions to all state governments to take immediate action against false and seditious messages on social media so that national security is not jeopardised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
