24-10-2020||India||Molesters shoot dead Dalit teen at home ||A Dalit teen was shot five times in the head and killed allegedly by three youths who she had stood up to for molesting her in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. The Class XI student, a resident of Premnagar in Firozabad district, was returning from school when the three youths — identified as Manish Yadav, Sopali Yadav and Gaurav Chak — allegedly molested her. “She had told us about the incident after returning home. At night, we were walking on the terrace after dinner when the youths came on a motorbike, entered our house and shot my daughter. We rushed downstairs and found her lying in a pool of blood. The trio ran away on seeing us,” the father of the 16-year-old girl told police on Saturday. “These youths have been molesting and harassing girls in the area for the past several months. Residents know these are criminals, so they avoid lodging a police complaint,” the father said. His daughter had protested when the trio attacked her, the father said. “They had misbehaved with my daughter in the past also and I had told the police about it. But I had never imagined that they would kill my daughter for standing up to them.” Sachindra Patel, the senior superintendent of police, said Manish and Sopali had been arrested. The officer said the killers had pumped five bullets into the girl’s head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||Valley alliance raises its flag ||The People’s Alliance, forged to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, on Saturday adopted the erstwhile state’s scrapped flag as its symbol, seen as a rallying cry to force Delhi to reverse last year’s decisions. The fledgling alliance also got a formal structure with the National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and the People’s Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti being unanimously chosen as its president and vice-president, respectively. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone was made the chief spokesman of the seven-party alliance. CPM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi of the National Conference have been selected convener and coordinator. “The biggest thing to happen (on Saturday) was that we searched for what should be our symbol. We all thought the best tribute… will be to adopt the symbol (flag) that would unfurl atop the secretariat in Jammu and Kashmir,” Lone said after a meeting where the decision was taken. Jammu and Kashmir had its own constitution, flag and penal code, all of which were scrapped after the abrogation of key provisions of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. The state lost its special status and was split into Union Territories. The flag was removed from the civil secretariat offices in Srinagar and Jammu last year. The decision to adopt it as the symbol of the alliance came a day after Mehbooba ruffled feathers in the BJP by vowing not to hold the Tricolour until the state flag was reinstated. BJP activists on Saturday hit the streets in Jammu and elsewhere, accusing her of insulting the national flag. Mehbooba countered that it was the BJP that had insulted the Tricolour. “(The national) flag stands for diversity and peaceful coexistence amongst all. If anyone has insulted the Tiranga, it is the BJP that persecutes minorities and sows division and hatred. The flag of India was disrespected the day BJP leaders carried it to justify rapists of a nine-year-old,” she tweeted. The PDP president was referring to the protests in Jammu’s Kathua in support of the men who had raped and murdered a child. Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday urged lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to take cognisance of Mehbooba’s remarks and book her for sedition. Abdullah said the BJP had launched a false propaganda, painting the Valley’s leaders as anti-national. “The People’s Alliance is not anti-national. We want to tell them we are certainly anti-BJP, there is no doubt about that. They have tried to destroy the Constitution of the country, divide the nation and destroy its federal structure through what they did last year,” the former chief minister said. “But I want to tell them, we are not anti-national. We want the rights of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh to be restored. Our fight is for that and we want nothing more,” he added. Abdullah said efforts to divide Jammu and Kashmir in the name of religion would fail. “This is not a religious fight. This is for the identity of our watan (homeland,” he said. Earlier in the day, the National Conference chief visited Durga Nag temple in Srinagar to join Pandits in Ram Navami celebrations. Almost all the leaders of the alliance had been arrested or put under house arrest before August 5, 2019. Following their staggered release, they have joined hands to fight for the restoration of the special status, resisting pressure from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||Sitharaman backs party's poll promise of free Covid vaccines in Bihar||Amid the opposition's criticism of the BJP's Bihar poll promise of free Covid vaccines, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted on Saturday that the announcement was perfectly in order and a party can announce what it wants to do when it comes to power. Sitharaman had released the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) manifesto for the Bihar polls on Thursday. A highlight of the promises made in the document was free Covid vaccines for the state's people if the saffron party comes back to power. Opposition parties had slammed the BJP for the promise and demanded action by the Election Commission (EC), while alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political gains. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Sitharaman, a senior BJP leader, said, "It is a manifesto announcement. A party can announce what it wants to do when it comes to power. That is exactly what is announced. Health is a state subject. It is perfectly in order." Every party in its manifesto states what it wants to do when it comes to power, she added. The Bihar Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in three phases, starting October 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||India's Covid tally past 78 lakh after more than 50,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 78.14 lakh with 53,370 fresh cases in a day, while 70,16,046 people have so far recuperated pushing the national recovery rate to 89.78 per cent on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 78,14,682 and the death toll to 1,17,956, with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 650 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.51 per cent. There are 6,80,680 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 8.71 per cent of the total caseload, the ministry data said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,13,82,564 samples have been tested up to October 23, with 12,69,479 samples tested on Friday. The country's infection tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past the 50 lakh-mark on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. The 650 latest fatalities include 184 from Maharashtra, 60 from Bengal, 58 from Chhattisgarh, 51 from Karnataka, 40 from Uttar Pradesh, 33 from Tamil Nadu and 26 each from Delhi and Kerala. The total 1,17,956 deaths reported so far in the country include 43,015 from Maharashtra followed by 10,858 from Tamil Nadu, 10,821 from Karnataka, 6,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,544 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,368 from Bengal, 6,189 from Delhi, 4,095 from Punjab and 3,673 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||Judicial probe cry into firing on tribals||Social organisations have demanded a judicial inquiry into the firing at tribals in Bihar’s Kaimur on September 11 for protesting eviction from forests. The All India Union of Forest Working People, Citizens for Justice & Peace and the Delhi Solidarity Group had sent a fact-finding team to probe the incident and the report was released by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat on Friday. According to the report of the fact-finding team, Bihar police had fired at peaceful Adivasi protesters at Adhaura block, injured seven activists, lathicharged them and then picked them up on “trumped-up charges”. They were released on bail after over a month, on October 16. “Two days later, in response to a ‘boycott election call’ given by the Kaimur Mukti Morcha, an organisation formed in the 1990s to democratically struggle for the land rights of the people of Kaimur, political heavyweights including the central minister of state for home, Nityanand Rai, air-dropped into the far reaches of Kaimur, pleading with the protesters to lift the boycott call,” the organisations said in a statement. “The KMM’s demand to cancel all the decisions to earmark the Kaimur Forest Wildlife Sanctuary and Tiger Reserve in the area is a long-standing one. In the guise of the sanctuary and the reserve, the long-overdue land rights of the Adivasis were being further endangered,” the statement added. The fact-finding team had Amir Sherwani Khan and Matadayal of the All India Union of Forest Working People, Raja Rabbi Hussain of the Delhi Solidarity Group and Aman Khan, a Supreme Court advocate.It has demanded the quashing of the FIR filed against all the activists, the setting up of a judicial commission of inquiry by the government to investigate the police firing and lathicharge and the prosecution of the police officers who had opened “illegal and unwarranted” fire. The team has also recommended compensation for those injured and implicated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||Neglected shepherds ask: Kuchh milega kya?||Away from the cacophony of highways and the Assembly elections in Jehanabad district of Bihar, a small group of shepherds, locally known as gareria, was having an early lunch. Their flock of around 300 sheep was ruminating nearby after grazing the entire morning on fields sporting a fresh coat of monsoon green. It is a part of their lifestyle to cook on the go and camp under the open sky or a tree, or beneath a shelter of polythene sheets. They could return to their villages only after a gap of several days while moving with the herd. As we approach, they stop eating for a while. One of them, Raj Kishore Pal, eagerly asks, “Kuchh milega kya? (Will we get something?)” He guffaws when the answer is negative. “Actually we never get anything from the government, but the hope is always there that someday some official will come to us, ask about our problems, and give us something to make us happy. Our sheep die without treatment, but no official or doctor ever bothers,” said Raj Kishore. These shepherds are from Ainma and Nizamdipur villages in Kako and Jehanabad blocks, respectively. They team up while going out to graze the sheep. Theirs is a hard life for they have to take out the flock every single day of the year, be it rain, shine, or winter — living on the fringes of the society. Raj Kishore’s comments opened a Pandora’s box of complaints. The shepherds rued their fate and life. “When these animals fall ill, the veterinary doctors do not come despite sending messages. We just use some medicines adopting a trial and error method. The sheep survive if the medicines suit them or else they die. The number of stray dogs has increased phenomenally over the last couple of decades. They attack and kill sheep, especially lambs,” Pramod Kumar Pal, 56, told The Telegraph. “The polls have no meaning for us, but the hope for betterment encourages us to vote. Governments have come and gone, but our problems kept on increasing. When the RJD was in power and Lalu Prasad was the chief minister, some people used to say that he was from our caste. But he did not do anything for us. Then Nitish Kumar came and nothing improved. We are slipping behind every passing day,” said Munna Pal. Jehanabad and Ghosi constituencies vote on October 28. But Munna or the shepherds in his group have no idea about who all are contesting from the constituencies. The Jehanabad seat is going to witness a fight between Nitish’s Janata Dal United MLA and minister K.N. Verma and Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Suday Yadav. Rambali Yadav of the CPI-ML and Rahul Kumar of the JDU are pitted against each other on the Ghosi seat. However, Munna has a point. The economic system in which the shepherds survived has collapsed, leaving limited avenues of income. Till a couple of decades ago, farmers all over Bihar used to invite the shepherds to rest their flocks in their fields before the sowing season in lieu of foodgrains or some money. Sheep manure is rich in phosphorus and potassium, and serves as an excellent organic, slow-release fertiliser. It is also low in odour. However, this custom is over because of inorganic, synthetic fertilisers and their easy to use method. The system of wool collection is over and blanket weaving is also plummeting. Earlier, traders from different parts of Bihar and other states would come to buy wool, but they have vanished now. “We used to sell wool at Rs 50 per kg till around 15 years ago. But with no buyers, we now just shear the sheep and leave the wool on the ground. Each grown-up sheep can yield up to 200-250 grams of wool every time it is sheared,” said Chandrika Prasad, a shepherd from Sarthua Sarai village in Nalanda district. He and his mates were cutting the wool in a low-lying grass field near Ekangarsarai. Earlier, the shepherds used to weave blankets on rudimentary looms kept at home, and sell them at fairs or in the market. But the demand is gone. “People prefer synthetic blankets because they are soft and colourful. Moreover, weaving blankets has become unprofitable for us. It takes a person five to six days to weave a pure wool blanket, but it fetches just Rs 500-700 in the market. If the same person works as a labourer, he could earn Rs 300-400 in a day,” Chandrika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
24-10-2020||India||Dharna to lift Sikkim transport restrictions||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) has been on a dharna at Tashiling, the Sikkim government’s secretariat in Gangtok, since Thursday night to demand the restoration of the pre-Covid-19 public and private transportation arrangements. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place to deal with the raging pandemic, both shared taxis and government-run buses are allowed to operate at 50 per cent of capacities, but at double the cost in terms of fares. Besides, two-wheelers are not allowed to carry pillion riders. The SPYF, which espouses various political and social issues, wants the restrictions to be lifted because it feels the new arrangement hurts the common people and is fundamentally not in sync with scientific advice on ways to contain the contagion. “Science says 6ft distance should be maintained between persons. But, for instance, if two persons sit in the back in a small cab, the stipulated distance cannot be maintained. Same is the case with all types of public transport whether they are buses or SUVs. But commuters are being forced to pay double the fare because of the 50 per cent restriction when the risk to their health is no way minimised,” said Shankar Sharma, a member of the SPYF, which as an organisation doesn’t have a hierarchy. Sharma was among five SPYF members who sat on the dharna at Tashiling. “We will continue to protest till our demands are met. We want the carrying restrictions on all modes of public transport to be lifted and old fares restored, pillion riding on two-wheelers to be allowed and more state-operated buses to be run between various places,” he said. A senior Sikkim transport department official said the restrictions were in keeping with the larger Covid-19 SOPs in place in the state. “We will be guided by the directives of the state government,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Delhi University ‘meddling’ finger at ministry ||The faction of the Delhi University (DU) administration led by indisposed vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi has questioned the education ministry’s stand on the power dispute at the institution. Several faculty members also decried the government’s letter on Thursday supporting the group led by acting VC and acting pro-VC P.C. Joshi that is claiming to have legal authority to appoint a regular registrar and a finance officer. The faculty members are of the opinion that the ministry had no business interfering in DU’s affairs and the government had encroached upon the autonomy of the premier institution. A meeting of the Executive Council (EC) presided over by Joshi had on Wednesday approved the appointments of Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as regular finance officer. Tyagi, who is unwell, has not been attending office for about two months. He had appointed Prof P.C. Jha as acting registrar on Wednesday and replaced Joshi with professor Geeta Bhatt on Thursday as pro-VC. Joshi, who like education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal hails from Uttarakhand, has not accepted Tyagi’s decisions, citing his continued absence. Late on Thursday, the government ratified Joshi’s decisions and overturned those of Tyagi. A letter issued by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the education ministry, said the orders issued by Tyagi were not valid and that Joshi would continue as acting VC. Jha, who has been appointed by Tyagi as acting registrar, shot off a letter to Singh in the education ministry on Friday. “The honourable vice-chancellor, Prof Yogesh K. Tyagi, has taken decisions in due compliance with the Act, Statute and Ordinances of DU,” the letter by Jha said. Jha objected to the ministry letter. “The university would like to submit the following with reference to your letter…. The letter has been addressed to Shri Vikash Gupta as registrar, DU. Attention is drawn to office order dated 22 October 2020 issued in this regard by the university. It is informed that Prof. P.C. Jha in addition to his responsibilities as director South Campus is acting registrar, DU, as an interim arrangement. It is also informed that Geeta Bhatt has been appointed as pro-vice-chancellor in place of P.C. Joshi,” Jha has written. Hansraj Suman and two other teachers said the government’s actions amounted to encroachment. “The ministry has no scope of interfering in DU’s affairs. This is encroachment into the autonomy of a premier university. The university runs by its acts, statute and ordinance, which do not allow any scope for government interference,” Suman said. The camps of Tyagi and Joshi have remained adamant. Jha has set up a working group to expedite the process of promotion and recruitment of teachers at the university and its affiliated colleges. Gupta issued a media release on Thursday night stating that Joshi would act as VC and would be the only competent authority to issue orders on administrative matters. Another letter, from an official in the VC’s department to the varsity’s IT department, also surfaced suggesting that the Joshi camp had changed the password of the official email ID of the pro-VC, thereby denying Bhatt access. The education ministry had till late on Friday night not replied to this newspaper’s email asking for comment on the criticism that has come its way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Garment workers compensate for lockdown aid with work, pay ||From unpaid overtime to wage cuts, garment workers say they are being made to compensate their bosses for the food, shelter and salary provided in the coronavirus lockdown. But it is a steep price for a workforce that was already juggling low pay and poor conditions before the pandemic shuttered their factories and strangulated orders. Workers say they are being offered the choice of less money or working extra shifts for free to pay back their bosses, who dangle the threat of unemployment if employees refuse. “Workers were absolutely not expecting these Covid cuts when they returned to work,” said Mahesh Gajera, programme manager with labour rights charity Aajeevika Bureau. “They thought their employers were providing humanitarian relief during the crisis and no one was told that they would have to compensate for every meal and the money given when factories were closed.” The “Covid cuts” have left tens of thousands of garment and textile workers across the country in deep debt,forcing many to pull children out of school, pawn jewellery and cut meals to survive, unions and labour right campaigners said. The lockdown announced in March badly hit the manufacturing, services and retail sectors, squeezing millions out of jobs. Despite state advisories asking employers to pay full wages in lockdown and an appeal from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “be kind” to workers, unions said they have been flooded with complaints of non-payment. Where wages were paid, salaries are now being docked. “The worker will compensate for all the losses and that has been made very clear by companies,” said Sebastian Devaraj, honorary president of the Karnataka Garment Workers’ Union. “Companies have calculated the number of extra hours a worker has to put in to compensate for lockdown wages. In one instance, it is 208 hours, of which a worker has to work 104 hours without paid overtime. They have no choice.” The labour ministry did not respond to repeated calls for comment. The country’s multi-million-dollar garment industry, which employs at least 12 million people, was hit when global brands cancelled orders or demanded steepdiscounts to cope with plunging sales. K. Selvaraju, secretary general of the Southern India Mills Association, which has more than 500 members, denied the allegations and said that manufacturers had gone the extra mile to take care of workers despite their own losses. But workers in the garment hubs of Bangalore in southern Karnataka told their union leaders that they were given a couple of options when factories reopened. They could forgo half their April wages or work extra hours for free, Devaraj said. “This fear has been whipped up that if workers don’t take pay cuts and work harder, running the factory would be difficult, it would be closed and they will lose their jobs,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. “Employers are basically saying that they are sinking and workers should save them or they will also drown. It is a veiled threat and workers are scared to complain.” Lawyer Amrish Patel said that it was illegal for companies to deduct wages in retrospect and force people to do overtime. “These are blatant violations of labour rights,” said Patel. A worker in Tamil Nadu, who requested anonymity, said the salary cuts swallowed nearly 20 per cent of her take-home pay. “It has become almost impossible to pay school fees or the instalments for the loans we took during lockdown,” she said. Gajera gets distress calls from workers in the garment hubs of Gujarat everyday. “They don’t want to upset their employer but they are unable to put two square meals on their table,” Gajera said. “Their distress is mounting and complaints will surge if they are not paid their dues by Diwali next month.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Karnataka colleges to reopen on November 17||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to reopen from November 17 engineering, diploma and degree colleges that are shut since March due to the pandemic, with students free to opt for online or offline classes or a mix of both. “In a meeting that took place under the chairmanship of the chief minister, it was decided to reopen degree colleges from November 17. Engineering, diploma and degree colleges will all reopen,” deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said students would have the option to either attend classes physically or online or go for blended learning by using both options. Parents’ consent should be taken to attend classes in person at colleges, Narayan said. Depending on attendance, it will be decided how the classes will be held and in how many batches, in adherence to all standard operating procedures, he added. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired the meeting of officials from the health, social welfare, backward classes, finance, transport and education departments, along with Narayan on reopening of colleges. Narayan, who is also in charge of the higher education department, said all necessary arrangements would be made for students who would stay at SC/ST, social welfare and OBC hostels. Transport arrangements will also be made to facilitate smooth conduct of classes, the deputy chief minister said. Priority will be given to practical classes, he said, pointing out that UGC guidelines also provides an opportunity to conduct offline classes from November. Students have also been demanding that classes restart, Narayan said. He said the decision to reopen colleges was taken after several rounds of consultative meetings with all the stakeholders. Each college will have a task force, the deputy chief minister said, adding that deputy commissioners of districts had been authorised to coordinate and monitor at the district level. To a question on cutting short the syllabus, Narayan said “we have not discussed it for now”. That flexibility will be looked into keeping exams in view, he added. “For now, we are trying to give impetus to learning.” “As per UGC guidelines, we will be conducting classes. Online classes have already started in October,” he said. On November 17, the chief minister will launch the Learning Management System (LMS) portal, which, Narayan said, would be a first in the country, for the benefit of about five lakh students studying in government colleges. Necessary approvals and budgetary allocations have been made for the LMS, he said, adding it would be of help to students and teachers and improve the quality of education. “It is aimed at bringing about revolutionary reforms in the education sector. We will be sharing details about this in due course,” Narayan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Tejashwi Yadav keeps focus on governance||The inability of the ruling BJP-JDU combine to get RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad boxed in the traditional Lalu Yadav brand of politics has become a critical factor in this Bihar election as the young challenger has quietly moved from the politics of representation to good governance. What has happened in the process is that Tejashwi has snatched the development plank from chief minister Nitish Kumar who was struggling to retain it in the aftermath of the unprecedented misery caused by the lockdown and the rising aspirations over the last 15 years. While the BJP-Janata Dal United alliance kept targeting the Rashtriya Janata Dal for the perceived or real misdeeds of Lalu’s tenure — an era of identity politics — Tejashwi largely succeeded in blunting the attack with a refreshing obsession with governance issues. Tejashwi starts and ends his speeches with the unemployment crisis, promising to start the process of delivering 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting after coming to power. This has not only generated enormous curiosity among the youth cutting across caste barriers, it also helped the RJD’s carefully crafted mission of image makeover. He avoids meandering, vague rhetoric and offers the job proposal like a scared pledge, telling the hugely responsive crowds to give him one opportunity after the failed experiment of 15 years. While this is a constructive way of dealing with the soaring anti-incumbency sentiment, Tejashwi avoids talking about contentious issues — national or local. Even on Friday while addressing a joint rally with Rahul Gandhi in Hisua, he said: “We don’t have to get misled. There will be attempts to divert attention to caste and religious issues. But we are fighting this election on livelihood. We have to stick to that. We have to worry about the future of our youth, to think about their education, jobs and healthcare.” The RJD anticipated the nature of the political offensive it will face and took radical measures to disconnect itself from legacy issues. Unlike Lalu who explicitly appealed to the caste consciousness of voters, Tejashwi stresses the need for unity, promising to take every section of society along. Lalu stressed on identity and representation when the oppressed sections needed voice and social empowerment. That politics — based on the Muslim-Yadav equation — had its limitations and the RJD sensed that it needed to change. Tejashwi seized on the overriding concern of livelihood. The RJD manifesto also keeps the focus on governance issues — development, welfare and security, instead of stressing on social justice, its traditional theme song. The manifesto talks of jobs, new industrial policy, food processing SEZs (special economic zones) and 22 per cent budgetary allocation to education and model residential schools in every district. Together with the Congress’s progressive vision, the alliance weaves a strong pro-poor narrative that has flummoxed the BJP-JDU combine which is still hunting for the old enemy. While Nitish is stuck in that groove, even the BJP is relentlessly firing at a non-existent ghost. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, considered a pragmatic and smart electoral strategist, was also found wandering in the forgotten lanes. He did his best to revive fears of “jungle raj”, the symbol reserved by the elitist media for Lalu regime, recalling how goons used to loot and terrorise citizens across Bihar. He also referred to family rule and wondered if those driven by vested interests could serve Bihar well. But the emotional connect that Tejashwi has developed with the voters was absent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||All bandits have to return loot: Mehbooba||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday came out all guns blazing in her first public address after 14 months of imprisonment, referring to “bandits”, describing the revocation of the special status as robbery, declaring that Kashmiris were not comfortable in today’s India and vowing not to unfurl the Tricolour until the state flag was restored. The People’s Democratic Party leader also pledged to tap into all peaceful means available to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue and force Delhi to reverse its decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate the state into Union Territories, even to the peril of her life. “My flag is this (pointing to the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir kept on the table in front of her),” Mehbooba told reporters at a media conference. There was no Tricolour on the table. Jammu and Kashmir lost its flag and constitution with the abolition of certain key provisions of Articles 370 and 35A on August 5 last year. “When this flag comes back, we’ll raise that flag (Tricolour) too.... This flag (of Jammu and Kashmir) forged our relationship with that flag (Tricolour),” the PDP leader said. She repeatedly referred to bandits while speaking of the Centre’s move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, which gave the erstwhile state’s residents exclusive rights over land and government jobs. “No matter how big a thief or a bandit is, or how dreaded he is, how heavily armed he is, but if he steals something, he has to return the goods. The robbery on August 5 was not according to law,” she said. “If there had been discussion and it had happened in keeping with the law, we would have thought it (special privileges) had gone and it won’t be returned. But it was stolen through loot, violating the Constitution.… They don’t have any power, the Indian Constitution gave that (power to decide on the special status) to our Constituent Assembly, which had decided it would continue,” Mehbooba said. Mehbooba, who looked frail, said her struggle was not restricted to the restoration of Article 370. “Our fight is as much for the resolution of the Kashmir issue as it is for the restoration of Article 370.… The Kashmir issue is an issue. You cannot shut your eyes like a pigeon to drive away the cat. If you close your eyes, the cat will devour you. You will lose yourself. Those who think we will forget the Kashmir issue, they are mistaken,” she said. The former chief minister said she would be among the first leaders to offer to sacrifice her life. “Thousands of people in Jammu and Kashmir have offered their lives,” Mehbooba said. “We will not forget their sacrifices…. So far, ordinary people have offered their lives. Now it is time for leaders like us to do so.” Mehbooba, who stressed she would fight using peaceful means, appeared to suggest that Kashmiris were not happy in India anymore. “They (Centre) don’t want the people of Jammu and Kashmir. They (people) are expendables for them. They want the territory. The territory was with them through legal means till August 5, 2019, but when they broke the relations on the basis of which we had acceded with them... let me tell them we are not comfortable in today’s India, what they have made of it,” she said. The former chief minister said Jammu and Kashmir had acceded with a liberal, democratic and secular India, but Dalits and minorities were not safe in the country today. To a question whether the Chinese aggression and the repeal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status were linked, Mehbooba said even China had said so. “China has gobbled up 1,000sqkm. And that is a reality,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Trump labels India ‘filthy’, puts ‘friend’ in a spot ||US President Donald Trump has put his “friend” Narendra Modi in a spot once again by calling India “filthy” and placing the country in the same league as China for the second time in less than a month at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are at loggerheads. Speaking on climate change during the final presidential debate on Thursday at Nashville, Tennessee, Trump said: “Look at China. How filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India. It’s filthy. The air is filthy.” No sooner had Trump made the comments than social media platforms went into a tizzy at the mention of India in the same club as China and Russia, with which the US is currently engaged in a “great power competition” in the words of secretary of defence Mark Esper. More so because of the amount of effort Modi has invested in his relationship with Trump, whom the Prime Minister has described as “my friend”. Modi has hosted two community events for the President in the run-up to the US elections — in Houston last year with the diaspora turning out in strength and in Ahmedabad this February in the presence of a lakh-plus crowd. Gujaratis make up a sizable section of the NRIs in the US. Although India has maintained that neither event was related to the elections, the Trump campaign has from the beginning viewed these as an endorsement from Prime Minister Modi of Trump’s re-run for the White House. A video released by the Trump campaign to woo the Indian diaspora amplified that view. Against this backdrop, Trump calling India “filthy” — even if followed by the qualification that the “air is filthy” — was used by Modi’s detractors to criticise him and his foreign policy, given how his bromance with President Xi Jinping, too, had come apart this summer with the Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control. There were many who pointed out that Trump was being factual about India’s air quality, considering the national capital is already dealing with smog though winter is yet to arrive in full swing. Others like Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said: “India is filthy and India’s air is filthy are two separate statements with two distinct meanings and both were said by President Trump. Bhakts defending the ‘filthy air’ comment, as air pollution is bad, are conveniently forgetting the first comment. Now where is Bharat Mata ki Jai?” Some others also pointed out that this was the second time in less than a month that Trump had been critical of India. Earlier, in his first presidential debate, he had questioned India’s statistics on Covid deaths. Even in that instance, Trump had clubbed India with China and Russia. “When you talk about numbers, you don’t know how many people died in China. You don’t know how many people died in Russia. You don’t know how many people died in India. They don’t exactly give you a straight count,” Trump had said. Bringing this up, Congress MP Kapil Sibal tweeted on Friday: “Trump: Fruits of Friendship (1) Questions India’s Covid death toll (2) Says India sends dirt up into the air…. (3) Called India ‘tariff king’. The result of ‘Howdy Modi’!” Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena said: “What an unfortunate comment to make about India, @realDonaldTrump. Reminder: India stands committed to climate change goals, US chose to withdraw, much against the wishes of many Americans. Thank you.” What added to the government’s discomfiture was that Trump made the remark just three days before India and the US are to hold their third 2+2 ministerial dialogue for which secretary of state Mike Pompeo and Esper are flying into New Delhi on Monday. Briefing mediapersons in Washington on Thursday, Dean Thompson, principal deputy assistant secretary in the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, had said: “The 2+2 format is reserved for our closest friends and partners and reflects our belief that the United States and India are stronger, more secure, and more prosperous when we work together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||SC clears air on default bail||An accused has an indefeasible fundamental right to bail if the investigating agency fails to file the chargesheet within the stipulated period, the Supreme Court has said. Under CrPC Section 167, the investigating agency has to file the chargesheet against the accused within 90 days where the offence involves imprisonment ranging from 10 years to a life term. In case of charges that entail a punishment of less than 10 years in jail, the investigating agency has to file the chargesheet within 60 days. “…So long as an application for grant of default bail is made on the expiry of the period of 90 days… before a chargesheet is filed, the right to default bail becomes complete,” a bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha and K.M. Joseph said in a recent order. The bench said that in cases of special Acts such as the UAPA, where the time limit for filing the chargesheet can be extended to 180 days, an accused is entitled to “default bail” if the probe agency fails to meet the deadline. The bench allowed an appeal filed by Bikram Singh, a murder accused, challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court ruling cancelling his bail. “We must not forget that we are dealing with the personal liberty of an accused under a statute which imposes drastic punishments. The right to default bail, as has been correctly held by the judgments of this court, is not mere statutory rights under the first proviso to Section 167(2) of the Code, but is part of the procedure established by law under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which is, therefore, a fundamental right granted to an accused person to be released on bail once the conditions of the first proviso to Section 167(2) are fulfilled,” the Supreme Court said. “This being the case, we set aside the judgment of the high court. The appellant will now be entitled to be released on ‘default bail’ under Section 167(2) of the Code, as amended by Section 43-D of the UAPA. Singh had been arrested in 2018 but the NIA failed to file the chargesheet within 90 days. The accused subsequently filed an application for grant of default bail on February 25, 2019, which was allowed by a special court. The high court had, however, set aside the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Modi starts with Paswan tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his speech on Friday at his first campaign rally in Bihar with a tribute to “close friend” Ram Vilas Paswan, whose son and political heir Chirag has been relentless in his attacks on chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Bihar has recently lost two of its worthy sons who served the people of the state for decades. I pay my tribute to Ram Vilas Paswan, my close friend who dedicated his life to the poor and the Dalits and stayed with me till the end, till his last breath,” the Prime Minister said at Sasaram in Rohtas district, as Nitish stood by his side on the dais. Modi also hailed former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had a few days before his death severed his decades-long association with Lalu Prasad’s RJD. The tribute to Paswan at the start of his speech at a rally that was expected to be a show of unity between the BJP and the Janata Dal United further fuelled speculation that Chirag’s attacks on Nitish — the chief ministerial candidate of the National Democratic Alliance — have the backing of the BJP’s top leadership. Chirag has fielded candidates of his Lok Janshakti Party in 136 Assembly seats, including almost all the seats from which the JDU is contesting. Several BJP leaders, including some sitting and former MLAs whose constituencies went to the JDU in the seat-sharing agreement, are contesting on LJP tickets. Even as he has attacked Nitish, Chirag has continued to praise the BJP, to the extent of describing himself as Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman”. Speculation has been persistent that the BJP has propped up Chirag to undermine the JDU and reduce its seat tally, and clarifications by senior BJP leaders that the LJP was not an ally in the state have failed to put the lid on it. The JDU and the BJP agreed to contest 122 and 121 Assembly seats, respectively. However, the JDU has given seven seats from its share to former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular, and the BJP has parted with 11 seats in favour of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). “Modi’s praise for and tribute to Ram Vilas at this juncture when the elections are just five days away have destroyed all the hard work done by us and other BJP leaders to drill into the psyche of voters that Chirag and his LJP are not part of the NDA, and that voting for them would be akin to voting against the alliance. This situation could have been avoided,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. Modi subtly chipped away at Nitish during his speech. He praised the work done in Bihar to counter the coronavirus pandemic by “the NDA government under Nitishji’s leadership”. The Prime Minister spoke about the development of Bihar over the past 15 years but again did not give individual credit to Nitish. The chief minister, however, while recounting the progress made during his term and in the fight against Covid-19, kept praising the assistance provided by the Centre. Modi alleged that the 10-year UPA rule at the Centre had put obstacles in the development of Bihar. “Though we came to power at the Centre in 2014, in reality our ‘double engine’ government has got just around three to four years to work with Nitishji for the development of Bihar,” Modi said, drawing a distinction with the two years from 2015 when Nitish was part of the Grand Alliance. Modi closed his speech by saying that “the NDA government under Nitish Kumar in Bihar is necessary to strengthen the resolve for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
