25-10-2020||India||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das tests Covid positive||Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said he has been tested positive for Covid-19 and will continue to work from isolation.

Das said he is asymptomatic and has alerted those who came in contact with him in recent days.

"I have tested Coivd-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone," he tweeted. Currently, the RBI has full strength of four deputy governors B P Kanungo, M K Jain, M D Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao.

The RBI governor was quite active during the lockdown period and post unlock period to keep the economy and financial market in good shape.

He used both conventional and unconventional monetary policy tools to support economic recovery hit by Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Kapil Dev discharged from hospital after angioplasty||India's first World Cup winning-captain Kapil Dev was on Sunday discharged from a city hospital, two days after undergoing angioplasty following a heart attack. The 61-year-old complained of chest pain on Thursday following which he was taken to Fortis Escorts Heart Institute's emergency department. He is doing fine now. "Mr. Kapil Dev got discharged today afternoon. He's doing fine and can resume his regular daily activity soon. He'll be under regular follow-up consultation with Dr. Atul Mathur," the hospital said in a statement. Angioplasty is a procedure to open blocked arteries and restore normal blood flow to the heart. Following his admission, Kapil's condition was evaluated and an emergency coronary angioplasty was performed by Dr. Mathur, who is the director of cardiology department in the Fortis Escorts Heart Institute. "Dr Atul Mathur did Kapil paji angioplasty. He is fine and discharged. Pic of @therealkapildev on time of discharge from hospital," his former India teammate Chetan Sharma tweeted along with a photo of Kapil and the doctor who performed the procedure. The legendary all-rounder was wished a speedy recovery by many on social media, including India's current captain Virat Kohli and batting great Sachin Tendulkar among others. He remains the only player in cricket's history to claim over 400 wickets (434) and accumulate more than 5000 runs in Tests. He also served as India's national coach between 1999 and 2000. Kapil was inducted into the International Cricket Council's Hall of Fame in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||India a Hindu Rashtra, Hindutva essence of self-hood: Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India is a "Hindu Rashtra" and Hindutva is the essence of its self-hood. Speaking at the RSS's annual Vijayadashami rally here which was broadcast online and attended by 50 swayamsevaks (volunteers) due to the Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said when the Sangh says Hindustan is "Hindu Rashtra", it does not have any political or power-centered concept in its mind. "Hindutva is the essence of this Rashtras Swa(self-hood). We are plainly acknowledging the self-hood of the country as Hindu because all our socio-cultural practices are directed by its principles with their spirit percolating in the personal, familial, professional and social life of each one of us," he said. The RSS chief said the term Hindutva has been "distorted" by appending a ritualistic connotation to it. The Sangh does not use it to refer to this misconception. "To us, it is the word expressing our identity along with the continuity of its spirituality based traditions and its entire wealth of value system in the land of Bharat," Bhagwat said. "Therefore, the Sangh believes it is the word applicable to all 1.3 billion people who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh, whose every day life is striving towards an alignment with its moral and ethical code and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors who successfully traversed the same spiritual landscape since time immemorial," Bhagwat said. He said being oblivious to the true meaning of this term weakens the thread that integrates us with this country and society. "It is for this reason that this term is the first target of castigation by those who instigate inter-group conflicts, who are bent on splitting our country and society," he said. By presenting as separate our diversities which are traditionally accepted, respected and are a part of larger scope of Hindu philosophy in reality, they try to convert them into a source of alienation or separatism, Bhagwat said. "Hindu is not the name of some sect or denomination, it is not a provincial conceptualisation, it is neither a single castes lineage nor the privilege of the speakers of a specific language. "There may be some who have an objection in accepting this term. We do not object their using other words if the content in their mind is the same," he said. However, in the interest of the countrys integrity and security, the Sangh has over the years humbly assimilated the colloquial and global interpretations of the term Hindu, Bhagwat said. He further said being Hindu does not require giving up one's faith, language, land or any other identity marker. It only mandates an abandonment of the quest for supremacy. "One has only to be alert and keep away from the selfish and hateful forces who confuse and instigate people by showing them false dreams of supremacy, encourage radicalism and foster separatism," he said. Dwelling on the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, he said India stood strong in the face of adversity and dealt with the calamity effectively. "There are some reasons why we escaped corona debilitation that few countries could not. Our governing and administrative agencies promptlysprung up in action. They cautioned citizens, created emergency task forces and efficiently implementedcontrol measures," the RSS chief said. Government officials, medical practitioners, police officers, municipality workers and cleaners displayed an extraordinary sense of responsibility by dedicatedly serving the infected patients, he said. Citizens of the country too mobilised private resources and left no stone unturned in offering all possible help to their fellow beings, he noted. "The larger picture was that of sensitivity, cooperation and mutual trust between governmental administrative agencies and society," Bhagwat said. He also talked about reflecting on the centuries' old culture ethos of the country. "Many of our traditional habits pertaining to cleanliness and hygiene, healthy lifestyle and strengthening immunity with the science of Ayurveda also proved to be useful in this period," he said. Bhagwat asked for restarting educational institutions, compensating teachers, resending students to their schools and colleges while paying fee for the same. He noted that in cases where families are facing deprivation, stress creeps up in the households. To prevent negative dispositions like crime, depression and suicide, there is an extensive need of counselling and support services at this time, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: Sheohar candidate shot dead||A Janata Dal Rashtravadi party candidate and one of his supporters was shot dead during their poll campaign in Bihar's Sheohar, while the suspected attacker was also lynched, police said on Sunday. Shri Narayan Singh, 45, was killed on Saturday evening while campaigning at the Hathsar village in the Puyanhiya police station area. Singh himself had a criminal record and over three dozen cases registered against him. Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh linked the killing to a "gang war". Sheohar's Sub-Divisional Police Officer Rakesh Kumar said Singh was shot in his chest. He was rushed to the Sheohar Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to another facility, but he died on the way, police said. Singh was at a political campaign when the attack happened, the SP said. The suspected attacker was in the crowd walking with the candidate and shot at him, he said. One of the candidate's supporters was also injured and he later died, he added. The attacker was then beaten to death by the mob, the officer said. The Sheohar seat has 15 candidates in the fray, including five independents. The RJD, the JDU and the LJP have fielded their candidates from the seat. The BSP is also contesting. Police said security has been tightened in the area and paramilitary personnel deployed. Police said Singh's last rite has not yet been conducted. The constituency goes to poll in the second phase on November 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Four-legged wheels of polls||As the Bihar Assembly election draws closer, candidates are coming up with novel ways to attract voters even if it backfires on them; from riding buffaloes while canvassing to driving tractors and ploughing land. A 34-year-old candidate for Gaya Town constituency — Muhammad Perwez Mansuri — contesting on a ticket of the Rashtriya Ulema Council, thought of giving a novel touch to his campaign by moving on a buffalo. His supporters brought one on Monday. He promptly sat on it and moved out from the Gandhi Maidan in a small procession. However, Mansuri could ride the buffalo just a few hundred metres when the  seized his “vehicle” and registered an FIR against him at the Civil Lines police station under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). Stumped by the action, Mansuri protested and said he was riding the buffalo because he has no other vehicle. “I do not have money to buy an automobile. Those who have cars use them for campaigning. I have a buffalo, so I was campaigning on it,” Mansuri said. He also said that he was riding a buffalo to highlight the fact that Gaya was among the most polluted cities in the country. “The current representative and BJP leader Prem Kumar who has been a legislator for 30 years, and his main challenger Congress’s Mohan Srivastava, a deputy mayor for the last 15 years, have done nothing for the development of the city,” Mansuri said. Gaya senior superintendent of police Rajeev Mishra said that an FIR was registered against Mansuri for violating various laws. “The police will investigate the matter and take further action accordingly,” he said. On the other hand, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son Tej Pratap drove a tractor and ploughed five cottahs of land in Hasanpur constituency of Samastipur district. He also sat on a machan (makeshift bamboo tower to keep a vigil on the crop) to listen to the problems of the farmers. Tej Pratap left the Mahua constituency in Vaishali district, which he represents at present, to contest from Hasanpur to rely on caste equations to get elected. While campaigning in the constituency, he saw a farmer driving a tractor in Badgaon area. He borrowed the vehicle and ploughed his land. “I understand the problems of the farmers. Many parts of this constituency, especially vast stretches of agricultural land, face problems such as waterlogging. My priority would be to create a canal system to alleviate the situation,” Tej Pratap said. The results will tell whether his actions helped reap votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Rajnath to visit China border in Sikkim today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived at the Bagdogra airport here on Saturday and will fly to Sikkim on Sunday for an interaction with senior army officials along the China border and inauguration of a road near the frontier. “Heading to Darjeeling on a two day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim. I shall visit the forward areas and also interact with the troops. A road constructed by the Border Roads Organisation in Sikkim will also be inaugurated during the visit,” Singh tweeted on Saturday, before leaving for Bagdogra. The defence minister is being accompanied by senior officials of the army. From Bagdogra, he has reached the headquarters of the 33 Corps of the Indian Army at Sukna, around 10km from here. Army officials will brief the minister on deployment of troops and other details during the visit which comes amid the stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. Singh will fly to Sikkim on Sunday and attend a “Shastra Puja” — the traditional worship of weapons by the defence personnel on the occasion of Dusshera — and interact with the troops. Later in the day, he is scheduled to inaugurate a road near the China border and later the Thakurbari temple in Gangtok. There was a stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Dokalam, a tri-junction of Sikkim, Bhutan and China, three years ago. This is the first time that the defence minister is on a visit to the India-China border in Sikkim after the clash between the armies of both the countries in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh. “The minister’s visit seeks to boost the morale of soldiers in forward areas,” said a defence ministry official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Sadhu beaten to death in UP||A sadhu was beaten to death in Hamirpur district while another was found hanging from a tree in Lucknow on Saturday. Mahant Ratiram, 60, the head priest of Siddh Baba Mandir at Kharehi Mihuna village in Hamirpur district, was attacked with sticks and bricks by five persons during an argument following an accident. Banke Bihari Singh, a local police inspector, said: “An SUV had hit a motorcycle. The sadhu, who was riding pillion, had tried to calm nerves when the two drivers came to blows. The SUV driver and some other people then assaulted him. The sadhu was taken to a hospital with serious head injuries and died during treatment.” Singh said the police had arrested one person and were looking for the four other accused. Eyewitnesses, however, said the sadhu was a bystander, not the pillion rider. “An SUV and a tractor had collided. When those in the two vehicles began to fight, the sadhu had tried to pacify them. The SUV driver called his friends, who reached the spot within minutes and started beating the sadhu. He fell to the ground. The police took him to hospital, where he died,” a resident said. Ram Baran Yadav, the younger brother of Ratiram, has lodged a police complaint. In Lucknow district, a sadhu identified as Sukhdev Sahu was found hanging from a tree in the forest at Dubagga. The police claimed Sahu used to take drugs and had been arrested earlier for possessing marijuana. Local people told reporters that the sadhu had fractured his left hand and it had been placed in a cast. “It would not have been possible for Sahu to climb the tree, tie a rope and hang himself. It is clearly murder,” a local said. At least four sadhus have been killed and several attacked over the past year in Uttar Pradesh, ruled by the saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath who is also a temple mahant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||No imported goods at military canteens ||The government has ordered its 4,000 military shops to stop buying imported goods, according to a document reviewed by Reuters, a move that could send an unwelcome signal to foreign liquor firms such as Diageo and Pernod Ricard. The defence canteens sell liquor, electronics and other goods at discounted prices to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families. With annual sales of over $2 billion, they make up one of the largest retail chains in the country. The October 19 internal order from the defence ministry, reviewed by Reuters, said that in future, “procurement of direct imported items shall not be undertaken”. The order said the issue had been discussed with the army, air force and navy in May and July, and was aimed at supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign to promote domestic goods. A defence ministry spokesman declined to comment. The order did not specify which products would be targeted. However, industry sources said they believed imported liquor could be on the list. Imports make up around 6-7 per cent of total sales value in the defence shops, according to an August research column of the government-funded Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA). Chinese products such as diapers, vacuum cleaners, handbags and laptops, account for the bulk if it, it said. Reuters reported in June that Pernod and Diageo had briefly stopped receiving orders for their imported brands from such government stores. Diageo did not respond to a request for comment, while a Pernod spokesman declined comment. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||BJP nominee accused of taking voter cards ||The Congress has accused the BJP candidate for an Assembly bypoll in the city of bribing and illegally collecting the voter identity cards of many electors to ensure they don’t vote against him. The Congress got a court order on Thursday directing Bangalore police to file a case against RR Nagar BJP candidate N. Munirathna and his associates who allegedly collected thousands of voter ID cards in exchange for Rs 5,000 to each voter. RR Nagar has a sizeable population of Muslims and the poor. “By denying the poor and the minorities the right to vote, the BJP is also trying to create a rift and take undue electoral advantage from that,” Congress spokesman and senior lawyer V.S. Ugrappa told The Telegraph on Saturday. “We want action against Munirathna and all those who are involved in this crime. If the Election Commission does not act, we will file a contempt petition since there is a court order to proceed with a police case,” he added. “In the same complaint (on Tuesday), we have addressed the serious issue of Munirathna overshooting the electoral expenses (originally Rs 30 lakh). He would have paid at least Rs 2 crore for the thousands of voter cards collected,” Ugrappa said. The court order cited offences under IPC Sections 171 B, C, E and F that cover bribery and interference in elections, and Sections 25, 77 and 125 of the Representation of the Peoples Act, which pertains to charges ranging from overspending to promoting enmity between classes. The police booked an FIR against the BJP candidate on Friday. “We are still waiting to see what kind of action the police and the Election Commission take on this electoral fraud,” Ugrappa said. Bypolls to the RR Nagar Assembly seat in Bangalore became necessary after Munirathna defected to the BJP last year along with 12 other party colleagues and three from the Janata Dal Secular. The defections led to the fall of the Congress-JDS government and the BJP came to power. This is not the first time Munirathna is being accused of voter ID fraud. As a Congress candidate in the 2018 Karnataka polls, he had been booked along with 13 of his party associates after the Election Commission seized 9,746 genuine voter ID cards from two steel trunks in an apartment belonging to one of his supporters. They had allegedly collected the cards to ensure that JDS supporters did not get to vote against Munirathna. He eventually won by over 41,000 votes, after polling had been deferred by a few days owing to the fiasco. Although the Congress had not taken any steps against Munirathna then, many in the party had internally expressed disgust at his actions. In their written complaint to the chief election commissioner, Congress leaders, including Ugrappa, have cited the 2018 instance. “We have listed the names of several voters whose cards were forcibly taken away by Munirathna’s people. We expect swift action against him and all those responsible for the gross violation of law,” Ugrappa said. The BJP denied any wrongdoing. “These are false accusations. We have done no wrong. They just want to keep this issue alive until the election,” state BJP legal cell co-convener Yogendra Hodaghattha told this newspaper. The BJP has filed a counter-complaint with the Election Commission and lodged an FIR bringing allegations of bribery and voter card confiscation against Congress Legislative Council member M. Narayanaswamy, who has been campaigning for the Congress candidate for RR Nagar, and others. “They are the ones who are grabbing voter cards from the people, not us,” insisted Hodaghattha. The first elections after being appointed state Congress chief, D.K. Shivakumar has taken the bypolls to RR Nagar and Sira in Tumkur district as a prestige issue. He has fielded Kusuma Ravi, the widow of IAS officer D.K. Ravi who committed suicide a few years ago, against Munirathna, apparently with the aim of bagging sympathy votes. Former minister T.B. Jayachandra is the Congress candidate in Sira.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||BJP under graft fire from ex-MLA in Bihar ||Saryu Roy, a former BJP legislator and a whistleblower in the multi-crore fodder scam, is using his political goodwill in Bihar to help mostly Independent candidates in constituencies going to polls in the first phase on October 28. The Bihar-born Roy had created a flutter in political circles after he fought as an Independent and defeated former chief minister and current BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das from Jamshedpur East constituency in the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly polls. “I have so far visited three constituencies going to polls in the first phase and have campaigned for those candidates who had invited me and sought my blessings. I do not campaign for any party but highlight the ills affecting the BJP, a party which I had once served to the best of my ability. The BJP government at the Centre has forgotten its own standard practices against corruption which is evident in the case of Jharkhand where a former chief minister (Raghubar Das) facing corruption charges and a probe by the ACB has been made the party’s national vice-president (in September),” said Roy, 69. He had made the corruption allegation against Das his main plank during the 2019 Jharkhand polls and ultimately defeated the five-time MLA from Jamshedpur East after being denied a ticket by the BJP allegedly at the insistence of the former chief minister. Roy had served as an MLC on a BJP ticket for a six-year term (1998-2004) in undivided Bihar before being given a ticket by the party from Jamshedpur West (in Jharkhand). He began his campaign in Bihar at Ramgarh (in Kaimur district) for RJD candidate Sudhakar Singh (son of veteran RJD leader and former MP Jagdanand Singh), followed by Brahmapura (in Buxar district) for Independent candidate Ramesh Kumar and Shahpur (in Bhojpur district) for another Independent candidate Shobha Devi. He had earlier played a key role in exposing the multi-crore fodder scam in Bihar leading to the conviction of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav. “RJD leader Lalu Prasad has been convicted and that is a past thing. I am not against the BJP but I am pained to see that those at the helm in the party have forgotten the ideals and standards for which it was once known. I am trying to paint the same picture in areas where candidates have sought my support,” said Roy, who has close links with BJP ideologue K.N. Govindacharya and party MP Subramanian Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||Cong to BJP: Hoshiarpur not Hathras ||The Congress on Saturday expressed shock at the senior ministers of the Narendra Modi government comparing the Hathras horror with the rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, wondering if they couldn’t see the difference between the response of the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh administrations. Rahul Gandhi himself confronted the BJP’s leaders who had questioned his silence on the Hoshiarpur rape, saying through a tweet: “Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice.” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said at a news conference: “Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi felt the need for standing with the family of Hathras because the police, the administration and the government was threatening them and were trying to hush up the case. The body of the rape victim had been burnt in the middle of the night against the family’s wishes. The chain of events was so horrific that leaders of other parties also went to show solidarity with the family.” She said: “Three ministers — finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, I&B (information and broadcasting) minister Prakash Javadekar and health minister Harsh Vardhan woke up from their deep slumber to speak about Hoshiarpur incident and question Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for not going there. Can’t they see the difference? While the FIR was registered under the strictest possible clauses of the IPC and Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act in Punjab, the chief minister and the DGP have called for immediate action. All the accused have been arrested.” She added: “In Uttar Pradesh, the district magistrate was threatening the family. Rape charge was not included in the FIR. Top police officers said no rape took place. The media was not allowed to enter the village. The administration and the BJP leaders were rallying behind the accused. “It becomes the duty of the Opposition to express solidarity with the victim’s family under such abnormal circumstances. What were the BJP ministers doing when all this happened in Hathras? Did they call for justice to the victim and the family at that time, or during the Unnao case when the victim and family members were being killed?” Recalling that even Allahabad High Court felt compelled to intervene because of the actions of the administration and gave a tight slap in the government’s face, Sushmita said: “Rape is an unfortunate tragedy wherever it happens. But what is critical is the role of the government. We won’t tolerate if our governments behave in that brutal manner like the Yogi Adityanath government did. Nirmala Sitharaman, having ruined India’s economy, should keep her mouth shut if she has any sense of shame. She should not demonstrate her insensitivity and brazenly partisan attitude towards such issues.” Attacking Rahul and Priyanka, Sitharaman had said: “In the Hathras rape case, it seemed as though they were all going out for a picnic. The brother and sister ran towards the village. But why not in the case of Hoshiarpur or Rajasthan? “The selective outrage of the party has been completely exposed. Why was there no response from the ‘tweet-friendly’ leader? Does this selective outrage suit the Congress party? At least 35 MPs were flamboyant in their statements on Twitter in the case of Hathras. Where are those 35 MPs today?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||RJD vows to give jobs, not ‘pakodas’||Bihar’s main Opposition party, Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, has in its Assembly election manifesto promised to provide 10 lakh government jobs immediately, waive farm loans, develop smart villages and offer better healthcare facilities. “This is not a manifesto, this is our vow. This is our determination to bring a change, which is going to come true. The aim is to develop Bihar,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said on Saturday. “Our first cabinet decision after coming to power will be to provide 10 lakh government jobs. We could have promised 1 crore jobs like other parties just for the sake of elections, but we did not because we have to fulfil the promise,” he added. “And when we say jobs, these will be government jobs. There is a distinction between job and employment. Frying pakodas, cleaning garbage or drains are also employment. But we are talking about government jobs,” Tejashwi said, taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had said in 2018 that selling fritters was also a type of employment. Tejashwi’s election rallies are witnessing a huge turnout of youths, which is said to have caused some worry in the NDA camp. Political experts said that runaway unemployment could be a reason for youngsters flocking to the young Tejashwi’s rallies. Arguing that 10 lakh jobs would fulfil the requirements of Bihar’s workforce, Tejashwi, the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance, took a swipe at chief minister Nitish Kumar and the BJP, which has promised 19 lakh jobs in its manifesto released earlier this week. “Nitishji gave up on hearing about 10 lakh jobs and asked where was the money. If he cannot, then how is the BJP promising to provide jobs? They are just trying to fool the people,” the RJD leader said. The RJD, which is leading the Grand Alliance that includes the Congress and three Left parties — the CPM, CPI and the CPI-ML — is the last among the bigger parties to release its manifesto. The state’s 243 seats will vote in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be announced on November 10. The RJD manifesto includes messages from former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. While Lalu has sought to remind voters how he had taken Bihar towards equality and harmony and how the state had slipped on the development index in the past 15 years, Rabri has said living in Bihar had become a problem. “People are drowning in sorrow. Unemployment, crime, scams, atrocities on women are at the extreme. This indicates that Nitish has completely failed as chief minister,” Rabri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||WHO sounds caution on Remdesivir||The World Health Organisation’s chief scientist, Soumya Swaminathan, has said experts and regulators assessing the use of remdesivir against Covid-19 should take into account all evidence, including the WHO’s global trial that found no benefit. “We believe our results are robust and we hope that people doing treatment guidelines and regulators around the world will take note of our study results in addition to other evidence,” Swaminathan said at a WHO briefing, a day after US regulators approved remdesivir for Covid-19. An Indian panel of medical experts is also examining available global evidence on remdesivir and is expected to decide in the coming days if the drug should continue to be offered to Covid-19 patients. The national treatment guidelines pencilled earlier this year recommend remdesivir for Covid-19 as an “investigational drug” under emergency use authorisation. The US Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved remdesivir citing three clinical trials, including one by the US National Institutes of Allergies and Infectious Disease (NIAID). The FDA said the WHO results did not refute the findings of benefits observed in the US trials. The NIAID trial found recovery time from Covid-19 was 10 days in patients who received remdesivir compared to 15 days for patients who received the placebo. The overall 29-day mortality was 11 per cent in the remdesivir group and 15 per cent in the placebo group, a difference the FDA said was “not statistically significant”. Swaminathan said it appeared that the FDA used data from Gilead, the US manufacturer of remdesivir, and did not take into account the WHO trial’s findings. “What we understand… the FDA decision was based on data submitted to them from Gilead which did not include the (WHO) trial results,” she said, pointing out that Gilead had advance access to the results. “They first saw the results on September 23 and saw the full manuscript on September 28,” Swaminathan said. “They had the results even before they were public through medRxiv (a preprint archive). We gave it to them 10 days in advance. It appears that the results were not provided to the FDA.” Some doctors have argued that the WHO trial was not placebo-controlled and was not double-blind — in other words, it did not adopt the most rigorous of standards for clinical trials. But Swaminathan said the trial was still robust because it looked at endpoints such as death. “Death is not a soft endpoint. You cannot fudge that endpoint,” Swaminathan said. “We looked at progression to ventilation which is again very objective. On the other hand, the (US-NIAID) trial looked at time to recovery.” Another top WHO official, speaking at the briefing, suggested what really matters in whether a drug should be used or not are the treatment guidelines and not the regulatory status of drugs. “The primary function of regulatory authorities at the national level is to assure safe products are put on the shelf and that… they have certain levels of proven efficacy or indicative efficacy,” said Michael Ryan, WHO’s executive director. “The regulatory process is a signal for what can go on the shelf.” What doctors ultimately use is based on complex clinical guidance, he said. “For day-to-day practice, it is the clinical guidance package that is most important in guiding physicians to use what is on the shelf.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
