26-10-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia accuses Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh of being 'biggest traitors'||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday accused former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh of being the "biggest traitors" in Madhya Pradesh, saying  they betrayed voters' trust by running a "corrupt" government and he had to leave the Congress after people's issues raised by him were not addressed despite approaching "every port of call". He also expressed confidence that the BJP will "win a majority", if not all, of the 28 assembly seats where bypolls will be held on November 3. In an interview with PTI, Scindia said 27 out of the 28 assembly seats which are going to polls were Congress seats, so the BJP has everything to gain, while the Congress has everything to lose. By-elections were necessitated after 22 rebel Congress MLAs, loyal to Scindia, resigned from the party in March this year leading to fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. Later, three more MLAs resigned and joined BJP, while further three seats fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs. "The Congress needs to win 28 out of 28 seats to be able to even think of coming close to forming the government and they have just lost another MLA (in Rahul Lodhi) who has joined the BJP. It is very clear that people do not have any hope in the Congress party, not only at grassroots, but also in sitting MLAs of the Congress," Scindia said. "I do not think in any other state you would have seen MLAs in such a large number -- almost about 30 per cent -- leaving. It very clearly shows the lack of trust and faith in the state leadership of the Congress party which is Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, and who are in a partnership," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Asked about the Congress campaign narrative of betrayal and being called 'gaddar' by Congress leaders during canvassing, Scindia said it is not a term that he normally uses in politics as he believes that there must be a certain level in politics that should be adhered to. "If they indeed are using that term then the biggest gaddars (traitors) in Madhya Pradesh are Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh who have been 'gaddars' towards seven and a half crore people because none of the poll promises were fulfilled, they were busy in rent-seeking activities and holding on to power and chair rather than serving the people of the state," Scindia said. Talking about Kamal Nath's 'item' jibe at BJP candidate Imarti Devi, the 49-year-old leader said public figures must adhere to certain values and morals and set an example. Scindia said the remark was directed at a woman who has risen from the grassroots-level, fought a sarpanch election, became MLA three times and was a Cabinet minister in the Kamal Nath government. "Kamal Nath says he cannot remember her name, which shows his arrogance of power that he cannot remember the name of a colleague who was part of his cabinet. After all, he was only the Chief Minister, who is the first among equals, and she was a colleague," Scindia said. To top that, he calls a woman and that too a Dalit woman "an item", which speaks of his mentality towards both women and Dalits, he said. "What is very sad is that he has not been alone in this. He has been followed very arduously by the former leader of the opposition Ajay Singh who in a statement said 'Imarti should be made into a 'Jalebi' after the election'," he said. Scindia also alleged that former chief minister Digvijaya Singh had also also made a derogatory comment about Meenakshi Natrajan two-three years ago "This shows the attitude of the Congress party towards women and scheduled castes. If Baba Saheb Ambedkar was alive today, he would be very deeply grieved and pained," Scindia said. Kamal Nath has maintained he did not say anything disrespectful. Asked if like Arjuna of Mahabharata, he feels any dilemma in taking on people with whom he was close to and fought together, Scindia said he is fighting for the cause of the people of Madhya Pradesh and for their well being. Scindia said his father Madhavrao Scindia, grandmother Vijaya Raje Scindia and he joined politics only for the welfare of the people. "For me, a political party is a medium to be able to reach that goal of public service. So for me, politics is not important, what is important is the goal of public service," he said. Scindia said he is willing to do whatever it requires to fulfil the aspirations of people, and if it "entails sometimes fighting with those with whom you have worked for over 20 years, so be it". "I tried to change the way the (Kamal Nath) government was functioning for 15 months, I went to every single port of call that one can to try and address these issues, but when they lay unaddressed, what option was I left with," the former Union minister said. Scindia said when the Congress came to power, aspirations of citizens of the state rested squarely on the shoulders of Kamal Nath, but he ran a "corruption-riddled government during the span of 15 months". Accusing the Nath government of indulging in corruption in numerous areas from "sand mining to liquor mafia", Scindia said the Congress dispensation "literally ridiculed and belittled" the aspirations of the people. "Not fulfilling any of the election promises left me no options but to look for a better governance mechanism for the people of the state. I firmly believe that the Shivraj Singh government would be able to provide that to the people under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party president J P Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Rajnath holds talks with US counterpart, stag set for Indo-US 2+2 dialogue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his US counterpart Mark T Esper held extensive talks on Monday, covering various aspects of fast expanding defence and strategic ties, including ways to further deepen military-to-military cooperation, between the two countries. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Esper arrived here on Monday on a two-day visit for the third edition of Indo-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue which will take place on Tuesday during which the two sides will focus on further boosting overall defence and security ties as well as cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian side at the 2+2 dialogue would be led by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Singh. The talks are taking place at a time India is engaged in a bitter border row with China, and the issue is expected to figure in the deliberations. The two key officials of the Trump administration will also call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. The US Defence Secretary was given a tri-services guard of honour outside the South Block in the Raisina Hills ahead of his talks with Singh. In the last few months, the US has been very critical of China over a range of contentious issues including the border row with India, its military assertiveness in the South China Sea and the way Beijing handled the anti-government protests in Hong Kong. Ahead of Pompeo's visit, the US State Department said the US welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. "The United States welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council," the State Department said. It is expected that the two sides may finalise the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The BECA will provide for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. According to the US government, India maintains the largest fleets of C-17 and P-8 aircraft outside of the US, and as of 2020, Washington has authorised more than USD 20 billion in defence sales to India. The first edition of the two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Priyanka slams Yogi govt over law and order; says fear prevailing among people||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday slammed the Yogi Adityanath government over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that fear prevails among the people of the state. Along with her tweet attacking the state government, Priyanka Gandhi tagged a media report which claimed that an iron trader was kidnapped this morning in Baghpat and Rs one crore was demanded in ransom. "An iron trader was kidnapped in Baghpat this morning. Women are not safe in UP. Traders are not safe. Children are not safe," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Those in government make hollow speeches in election meetings. Fear prevails in public," the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP said. The Congress has been attacking the UP government over the state of law and order, alleging that criminal activities are rampant, a claim denied by the state dispensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Covid cases in India mount to 79,09,959 with 45,148 in 24 hours||New coronavirus infections reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 50,000 for the second time this month, while the new fatalities registered during the same period fell under 500 after 108 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 79,09,959 with 45,148 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll climbed to 1,19,014 with 480 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 71,37,228 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far pushing the national recovery rate to 90.23 per cent while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.50 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infections remained below 7 lakh for four days in a row. There are 6,53,717 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 8.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,34,62,778 samples have been tested up to October 24 with 9,39,309 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||RSS: China has intruded. Oops!||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday named China in connection with the border standoff, something Prime Minister Narenda Modi has shied off so far, and acknowledged Chinese intrusion into Indian territory, which the Prime Minister has denied. Shortly afterwards, however, the RSS tweeted an edited text of Bhagwat’s Dussehra address that changed “hamari seemaon ka jo atikraman kiya (intruded across our borders)” to “atikraman ka prayas kiya (attempted to intrude)”. “Corona mahamari me Chin ka naam aata hai. Pata nahi kya hai. Lekin uski bhumika sandigdha hai. Lekin Chin ne iss kaalawadhi me, apne aur samarik bal ke garv me, abhimaan me hamari seemaon ka jo atikraman kiya aur jis prakar ka vyavahar kiya aur kar raha hai (China’s name has come up in connection with the coronavirus pandemic. Don’t know what it is, but its role is doubtful. But during this period, the way China has intruded across our borders out of military pride, and the kind of behaviour it has shown and is still showing)...” Bhagwat said at the start of a long sentence on Beijing’s expansionist policies. The RSS tweet did not edit out the reference to China, but tweaked the intrusion part to quote Bhagwat as saying: “Parantu, Bharat ki seemaon par jis prakar se atikraman ka prayas apne aarthik samarik bal ke karan madandh hokar usne kiya (Besides, the way it attempted to intrude across India’s borders, intoxicated by its economic and military might)....” The RSS chief is seen as the guardian of the entire Sangh parivar, which considers his annual Dussehra speech an address to the nation. The sarsanghchalak dwells on the various challenges before the country and lays down the Sangh’s line on key issues. Modi had on June 19 denied any Chinese intrusion as he addressed an all-party meeting four days after 20 Indian soldiers had died during a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. He has not retracted or added to the statement since. “Na wahan koi hamari seema me ghus aya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje me hai (Neither has anyone intruded across our frontiers there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else),” he had said. Modi has avoided naming China all along. On the Galwan Valley clash, the Modi government has maintained that Chinese troops had tried to cross the Line of Actual Control but were thwarted by the brave Indian soldiers. Bhagwat, while acknowledging Chinese intrusion, credited not just India’s soldiers but also its government with a firm and bold response, although he gave no specifics. He claimed that India’s bold response had “stunned” China and inspired other countries to stand up to Beijing. “Iss baar Bharat ne jo uski pratikriya di uske karan woh saham gaya, dhakka mila usko kyonki Bharat tan-ke khada ho gaya (This time, India’s response stunned China; it received a blow because India had stood firm),” Bhagwat said. He said that while the world was aware of China’s expansionist policies earlier too, it saw it clearly this time with China picking on Taiwan, Vietnam, America, Japan and India simultaneously. Bhagwat said that to counter China, India needed to grow not only in “shakti” (power) but also in “vyapti” (scope). He said that while India wanted friendly relations with all its neighbours, its benevolence shouldn’t be seen as weakness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Chirag seeks votes for BJP ||Chirag Paswan on Sunday urged Bihar’s electorate to vote for the BJP in constituencies where his Lok Janshakti Party is not contesting. He also stepped up his attack against chief minister Nitish Kumar, in alliance with whom the BJP is fighting the election. “I request you all to vote for LJP candidates at all the places where they are contesting to implement ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ (the party’s slogan for the Assembly polls), and vote for BJP candidates at other places,” Chirag tweeted. “The next government in the state will be free of Nitish.” While senior BJP leaders claim that the LJP is not in the NDA in Bihar, many believe that the BJP is using Chirag to try and undermine Nitish and emerge the largest party in the October-November elections. Chirag’s latest act would bolster the suspicion. Such speculation had gained strength when Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to Chirag’s recently deceased father, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, at his first election rally in Bihar. Modi had refrained from criticising Chirag while broaching the subjects of Article 370 and the instant triple talaq— issues on which Nitish has refused to support the BJP. Chirag’s party has fielded candidates from 136 of the state’s 243 seats, including 115 where Nitish’s Janata Dal United is in the fray. A few LJP nominees are contesting against BJP candidates too, but sources said they had been fielded with the BJP’s permission. Many BJP flags were seen at Chirag’s rallies in Buxar and Sitamarhi on Sunday. Chirag’s appeal is being seen as a signal to the voters that he is indeed with the BJP. This could win him votes from BJP supporters in constituencies where his candidates are pitted against JDU rivals. It can help keep him in the BJP’s good books too — the LJP commands about six per cent votes in Bihar. Chirag’s move is also being seen as a bid to counter the allegation — levelled by many BJP leaders as they tried to distance their party from the LJP’s anti-Nitish stance — that his party is a “vote katwa” (gobbler of NDA votes). It’s also a way of rebutting insinuations that he is in touch with RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Such whispers had gained ground after Chirag fielded a candidate from Raghopur where Tejashwi is pitted against the BJP’s Satish Kumar. Many of the LJP candidates are rebels from the BJP and the JDU. At his rallies on Sunday, Chirag stepped up his attacks on Nitish and promised a temple at Sitamarhi, considered Sita’s birthplace, that would be bigger than the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Nitish and his officials will be behind bars if we come to power,” he said in Buxar while alleging rampant corruption in the execution of government schemes. In another rally, he asserted that Nitish’s pet project of prohibition had been a failure. “Liquor is being sold on a large scale and he (Nitish) is getting the money,” Chirag alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Squabble over unpaid doctor wages ||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP have traded blame over unpaid wages in five hospitals run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which has prompted a hunger-strike from Friday by five doctors at Hindu Rao Hospital and the threat of an indefinite cease-work. The BJP, which controls all three municipal corporations in Delhi, has blamed the crisis on the AAP-run state government’s alleged withholding of more than Rs 18,000 crore in funds to the civic bodies. The state administration says the corporations owe it around Rs 10,000 crore for multiple services, and that a bailout would merely fall into a bottomless pit of debt. Doctors at all the five hospitals have announced a “mass casual leave” on Monday, and an indefinite strike from Tuesday if a lasting solution was not found to the repeated delays in salaries, seen over the past two years. At a news conference on Sunday, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak condemned Saturday’s transfer of four chief medical officers (CMOs) from Hindu Rao to another corporation hospital. He said the four were being punished for participating in wage-delay protests. The orders said the transfers were being carried out “in view of the exigency of services due to the strike of senior resident and junior residents”. “For the last 10-12 days these Covid warriors are protesting. Now they are on hunger strike for the last two days. They have met BJP leaders, the mayor and others to solve this problem but nothing has happened,” Pathak said. He said that if even a tenth of the Rs 18,000-crore budget of Delhi’s municipal corporations were used efficiently, the crisis could be resolved. BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor told The Telegraph: “North DMC has not transferred any doctor; only a very short period deputation has been allowed from HRH to Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis to meet the urgent need for doctors there in the diphtheria season.” He said the AAP should “stop playing dirty politics in this health emergency” and its government should “extend a financial package immediately” to help end the crisis. The salaries have been unpaid for at least three months. Earlier this month, the North DMC had cleared a month’s wage arrears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Four-month delay for first-year tech classes||First-year classes in engineering and management colleges will start on December 1, more than four months later than usual, but efforts will be made to cut down on vacations to minimise the loss to students, the technical education regulator has said. Academic years at engineering and management colleges usually begin in mid-July. But guidelines issued last week by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to affiliated engineering, management and other professional colleges say that classes for the 2020-21 session will start from December 1 for the fresh entrants. The existing students (second year onwards) have been taking online classes since August. Even the first-year classes from December 1 are expected to be held online. The circular, issued by AICTE member secretary Rajive Kumar, adds: “Due to prolonged emergent conditions in the country and requests from various state governments and ongoing admission process of (the) llTs and NITs, the council has extended the last date of admission to first-year engineering courses (UG and diploma lateral entry) to 30th November, 2020.” Admissions are now going on at the Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, and are expected to end in another fortnight. Many of the 3,500 other AICTE-approved engineering colleges wait for the IITs and the NITs to complete their admission processes before wrapping up their own admissions. “The colleges can admit students in October and November too; the AICTE has only suggested a last date,” Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the council would advise the institutions to cut down on vacations for the first-year students. Usually, the colleges close for about 10 days around Christmas and two months during the summer. First-year undergraduate and postgraduate students in general universities and colleges will not get summer or winter vacation this year, the University Grants Commission has said. However, the students will get a week’s break each after their first and second-semester exams. Their classes will start from November 1, according a revised academic calendar that the higher education regulator issued last month. The first-semester exams will be held from March 8 to 26 next year. The second semester will start from April 5 and continue till August 1, with the exams scheduled between August 9 and 21. Before the exams, the students will get a week’s preparation break. The second-year classes for the session 2021-22 will start from August 30. Usually, classes at universities and colleges begin in July. The colleges will decide whether and how long to conduct the classes online, depending on the policies of their state governments, a UGC official said. The UGC has provided for the cancellation of admissions with a full refund of the fees up to November 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Rahul: Bhagwat knows truth, can’t face it ||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday confronted RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on the question of the Chinese intrusion, accusing him of not speaking the truth despite knowing that India’s territory has been captured. Responding to the RSS chief’s customary Vijaya Dashami speech, Rahul tweeted: “Deep inside, Mr Bhagwat knows the truth. He is just scared to face it. The truth is China has taken our land and the Government of India & RSS have allowed it.” Bhagwat in his speech had admitted the Chinese intrusion — something Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not done — but claimed that India’s firm response had rattled the neighbour. “Bharat tan ke khada ho gaya (India stood firmly). Bharat ne jo pratrikriya di, usse Cheen ko dhakka mila (China received a setback by the response given by India). The setback — economically and strategically — was good enough. China would not have anticipated it.” Bhagwat did not explain the setback. The Congress has been demanding restoration of status quo ante. Rahul has repeatedly said that nothing short of status quo ante was acceptable. The Congress has dismissed the banning of some mobile apps and the informal calls for boycott of Chinese goods as inadequate. While Bhagwat suggested that the only way to curb the Chinese tendency of expansionism was to strengthen India economically, strategically and diplomatically, he did not explain whether the Modi government was on course to achieve that target. India’s economy is in a mess, with GDP growth stuttering at minus 23 per cent. China’s economy didn’t dip into the negative territory despite the impact of the pandemic. India’s relations with neighbours are also not very healthy while Modi personally ran a huge risk by supporting Donald Trump’s campaign in the US election. Rahul, in his message on Vijaya Dashami, said: “Truthultimately triumphs.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi in her message said, “Dussehra is a symbol of victory of justice over injustice, truth over untruth and wisdom over arrogance.” She added: “There is no place for arrogance, untruth and betrayal of promise in a ruler’s life. That’s the key message of Vijaya Dashami.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||BSNL union in 4G cry||The BSNL Employees’ Union has planned to intensify its campaign and launch an agitation to get its long-standing demands fulfilled by the Centre. The union has urged the Centre to keep its promise and roll out 4G services to help the state-run telecom company compete with private players. “It is a year since the government announced its revival package. But nothing has happened yet,” BSNLEU Karnataka president C.K. Gundanna told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Our employee strength has been halved, thanks to an ill-timed voluntary retirement scheme. In December 2019, we had 1.6 lakh workers across the country. Now it’s hardly 66,000,” Gundanna said, citing this as one of the biggest handicaps forced on the company. “We know the Centre is trying to kill us to help Reliance Jio that has benefited a lot since its launch. But let them realise that we have been getting new subscribers despite the lack of 4G services,” he said. He said BSNL added 3.88 lakh subscribers in July while Vodafone-Idea lost 37.26 lakh customers. But a significant chunk of subscribers went to Jio and Airtel. “The fact that people still trust us is enough reason for the Centre to permit us to roll out 4G services. While the private telecom companies are set to launch 5G, we are still being denied 4G,” he said. He said the trade union’s executive committee meeting held recently had called for an agitation. “We will be joining the nationwide general strike on November 26 called by all trade unions against the Centre’s policies. That apart, we are chalking out other strategies so that we can get across our demands without troubling our customers,” said Gundanna. The trade union also raised the issue of contract employees whose services were discontinued without clearing pending salaries of 18 months. “More than 70 per cent of our contract workers have been removed without clearing their salary dues. We demand that they must be paid without any more delay,” Gundanna added. The union put forth a 10-point charter of demands, which sought a level playing field with private players, retention of contract workers, revision of wages and pension and Rs 10 lakh compensation to the families of employees who die of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||BJP rides Jinnah’s ghost in Darbhanga campaign||Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s ghost has entered the campaign trail in the Jale seat of Bihar’s Darbhanga district riding on the coattails of Congress candidate Maskoor Ahmad Usmani. Another unlikely presence, also in spirit, has been that of Aligarh Muslim University, located a thousand miles away in western Uttar Pradesh, where Maskoor had been students’ union president in 2017-18. Over 50 AMU students are camping in Jale to manage Maskoor’s campaign and more are headed that way. And Maskoor’s opponents have been linking him to Jinnah, alluding to a controversy over a portrait of Pakistan’s founder at the AMU students’ union hall that broke out when Maskoor was union president. Giriraj Singh, a BJP politician, recently accused the Congress of fielding a “Jinnah supporter”. Cue for social media to be flooded with posts associating Maskoor with Jinnah. Even Rishi Mishra, Congress member and grandson of former railway minister Lalit Narayan Mishra who turned dissident after being denied the Jale ticket, has said: “I have no regrets at being denied a ticket by the Congress. But it hurts to know that a Jinnah worshipper has been chosen in my place.” Maskoor, ever ready to distance himself from Jinnah over his “dark history”, has brushed away the “mischievous” comments as a ploy by the ruling alliance to veer attention away from the backwardness of Bihar in general, and Darbhanga in particular. He has directed at the BJP the party’s own all-season epithet of “anti-national”, saying his opponents are “scared of AMU”. “The nationalistic, democratic and inclusive culture of AMU has always been a nightmare for the anti-national and fanatic elements. We knew they would harp on the old theme when I began campaigning in Jale,” Maskoor told The Telegraph over the phone. “Bringing Jinnah into the campaign means they are scared of AMU and are working to manufacture lies around me. These same lumpen elements had raised the issue of Jinnah’s portrait at the AMU students’ union auditorium during the May 2018 by-elections to the Kairana Lok Sabha seat and Noorpur Assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh.” Several BJP politicians had demanded the removal of Jinnah’s portrait, ignoring AMU’s plea that it had been put up in 1937 — long before Pakistan’s creation — and hung alongside the pictures of others who had spoken at the auditorium, such as Mahatma Gandhi and Mother Teresa. But the university had stood firm. Maskoor said the portrait of every pre-independence national leader who had visited AMU and given a fillip to the freedom movement launched by the students hung from the hall’s walls. “Satish Gautam, BJP politician and MP from Aligarh, had claimed at the time that Jinnah’s portrait had been hung just a few days ago. But the alert voters defeated the BJP candidates. That history will be repeated in Jale,” Maskoor said. “We don’t stand by Jinnah, for we cannot forget his dark history. But the lumpens were also against the visit by Hamid Ansari, former Vice-President of India, who was chief guest at an event organised by us,” Maskoor said. A clash between AMU students and a pro-BJP crowd had broken out at the varsity gates during Ansari’s visit, which took place shortly after the Jinnah row. “Ansari was escorted safely and left the campus. Beaten up by the police at the time, I fell unconscious,” Maskoor said. He added: “Darbhanga is my hometown and Jale the place where I spent my childhood. The people know me and my commitment to my country. They will give a fitting reply to the fanatics.” Mohammad Ashraf, an AMU student who plans to visit Jale soon, said in Lucknow: “Over 50 students from the university are already campaigning door to door for Maskoor. Many more who couldn’t make it to Jale are contributing money to the campaign — anything from Rs 100 to Rs 500. We are trying our best although there are some very rich people in the race.”Maskoor’s main rival is the BJP’s Jibesh Kumar, who won the last time. The constituency, which votes on November 7, has a habit of regularly switching support but backed the BJP the last two times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Janata Dal Rashtravadi candidate shot dead||Armed men in the guise of supporters shot dead a Janata Dal Rashtravadi candidate from Sheohar Assembly constituency and his aide on Saturday night while they were coming back after daylong campaigning. One of the attackers was lynched after the incident, prompting Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to stress the deterioration in the law and order situation in Bihar. Shrinarayan Singh, 45, and his aide were killed near Hathsar village under Puranahiya police station in the district. Eyewitness accounts suggest the presence of 10 to 15 attackers armed with pistols. They fired at Singh and his supporters from behind while they were returning from the village on foot. The Shoehar seat holds importance because jailed don Anand Mohan Singh’s son Chetan Anand is contesting on an RJD ticket while the current Janata Dal United (JDU) MLA Muhammad Sarfuddin is trying to get re-elected from there. “We are yet to receive the post-mortem report, but prima facie, it seems Srinarayan Singh was hit by two to three bullets, which led to his death. A villager also got shot and died in the incident. We have detained a few people for questioning. Raids are being conducted and we hope to crack the case soon,” Sheohar superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar told The Telegraph on Sunday. The deceased was a known muscleman and an accused in over 30 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, and loot. He was associated with former ganglord Santosh Jha and had a wide influence among the voters belonging to the upper castes. Singh had been in politics for a long time. He was a former mukhiya of Nayagaon panchayat and a former member of the district board. His family members have been mukhiyas of the panchayat since 2001 and his mother holds the post at present. Police have been unable to identify the alleged attacker who was nabbed and lynched by Singh’s supporters. However, they said that the killing could be a fallout of a gang war. “We have got leads that the killing is a fallout of the rivalry between criminal gangs. We will reveal everything once the investigation is over,” Kumar said. RJD leader Tejashwi condemned the incident and demanded a high-level inquiry to bring the culprits to book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Farm law protests in Haryana||Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday held protests against the Centre’s new farm laws at various places in Haryana and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At Shahbad in Kurukshetra, BKU activists held a protest near the residence of former Haryana minister and BJP leader Krishan Kumar Bedi. Police used water cannon to disperse the demonstrators. The protesters, some of whom were carrying black flags, raised slogans against the Centre and the BJP-led state government, while demanding the rollback of the new farm laws. BKU state president Gurnam Singh led a protest at Lakhnaur Sahib village near Ambala City in the afternoon. As part of their protests, BKU members burnt effigies of Modi in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts. Gurnam Singh said the agitation would continue till the Centre withdrew the contentious legislations. Earlier this month, Kurukshetra police had booked Singh for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Modi. The complaint was lodged at the Shahbad police station barely hours after the BKU leader had appealed to farmers to burn effigies of the Prime Minister on Dussehra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||India wants peace on border: Rajnath ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that India wants peace on the China border, the comment coming after he had performed “Shastra Puja”, a weapon-worship ritual conducted by the army on Dussehra. “We want the tension that is prevailing along the India-China border to end.... We want peace to prevail,” Rajnath, who was on a two-day visit to north Bengal and Sikkim, said after the puja in Sukna, headquarters of the 33 Corps of the army. He inaugurated an alternative stretch of road connecting Gangtok with Nathu La on the China border. Rajnath was accompanied by the army chief, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, and a host of senior officers at the puja, held at the Sukna War Memorial in Darjeeling district. “The morale of our army is high and I’m confident that our soldiers will not let anyone take even an inch of our land,” Rajnath said. Rajnath had been scheduled to perform the puja at Sherathang, a high-altitude border barely 2km from the Line of Actual Control in Sikkim, but the plan was dropped because of bad weather, a source said. Rajnath’s puja of weapons in the region amid the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh was significant, a defence expert said. “A tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers took place in north Sikkim in early May. So, the defence minister’s visit and the puja of weapons is significant, as it signals India’s confidence,” the expert said. Multiple sources said that Rajnath, after landing in Bagdogra on Saturday, went straight to Sukna where senior army officials briefed him about the situation in the region and the China border. “The opening of the alternative alignment of National Highway 310 that connects Gangtok with Nathu La by the minister is also significant for strategic reasons,” the expert said. Although the new, 19.85km road marks a longer route between Gangtok and Nathu La, it will reduce the travel time since it’s a two-lane highway and has been built on topographically stable terrain. “The new alignment was necessary since the existing alignment has suffered extensive damage due to sinking and other natural hazards,” the Border Roads Organisation, which maintains the highway, has said in a release. “The road serves as an important link to bolster defence preparedness in the Nathu La sector in particular and all of east Sikkim in general.” While inaugurating the road through videoconferencing, Rajnath lauded the BRO for delivering outstanding-quality infrastructure in record time and optimal cost. “The defence minister enumerated the government’s drive towards progressing infrastructure development in far-flung areas to not only enhance defence preparedness but also in fostering socio-economic development of the region,” the release said. NH-310 attracts sizeable tourist traffic since it leads to the Tsomgo (Changu) Lake, Baba Dham and Nathu La. Since October 10, when Sikkim reopened its gates to tourists after the lockdown, about 1,500 sightseers have visited Tsomgo and Baba Dham, sources said. Nathu La is, however, yet to be reopened for tourism. Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang has welcomed the opening of the new road as a boost for tourism. “The chief minister of Sikkim brought out the positive impact the new alignment will have in boosting tourism as well as in inclusive socio-economic development of the entire region and the state,” a release from his office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Modi: Light a diya for soldiers ||Asserting that India stands firmly with its brave soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to light a “diya” in their homes to honour security forces guarding the country’s borders while they celebrate festivals. In his “Mann ki Baat” radio broadcast, Modi also made a strong pitch for unity in the country while remembering Sardar Patel whose birth anniversary is on October 31. “Unity is power, unity is strength, unity is progress, unity is empowerment, united we will scale new heights,” Modi said. He also remembered Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on the same day. Modi wished people on Dussehra and said they needed to follow health guidelines while celebrating these occasions. Hailing the contribution of soldiers to the nation, he said: “We must also think of our braveheart soldiers who are firmly stationed on our borders in the line of duty, even during these festive times… all in the service and security of Mother India... We have to light a diya at home in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Mother India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Naveen versus Panda war intensifies||The crime branch of Odisha police have conceded to the request of BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda’s wife, Jagi Mangat, the managing director of news channel OTV, to record her statement in connection with an alleged gang-rape case involving two employees of her channel at a place of her choice. “As a woman, she has the right under the law to ask for recording of her statement in her office or at the place she chooses. We will soon proceed with the case,” said a senior crime branch official. Jagi had failed to appear before the crime branch to record her statement on October 17. She had then requested the crime branch to record her statement in her office. A senior reporter of the channel, Ramesh Rath, who was picked up by police from near his residence in the city on October 15 in connection with a case relating to circulation of an allegedly morphed obscene video clip of a Biju Janata Dal leader from Keonjhar, has resigned. The gang-rape case came into focus after the mother of the alleged victim who is a minor lodged a complaint with the police. The woman, a former OTV employee, accused seven persons, including two employees of the channel, of being involved in the alleged crime. She also alleged that Jagi had urged her not to proceed with the case. Jagi has vehemently denied the charge. The alleged crime took place between March and April but a complaint was registered only on August 30. Later, an audio clip of the purported conversation between Jagi and the victim’s mother came into public domain. While the case is being investigated by the crime branch, the state women’s commission is looking into the allegations of harassment of the victim’s mother at her former workplace. Jagi has consistently maintained that the women’s harassment cell of the channel had examined the matter and advised the victim’s mother to seek police and legal help. The channel claims that it is being harassed by the state government for exposing its alleged corruption in Covid-19 management. “Ever since OTV ran some stories about Covid corruption in Odisha, state government has been targeting it and its employees, even me and my family members,” Jagi said in a release issued on October 3. “The vindictive attitude of Naveen Patnaik government, which has been making false allegations against us, is there for everyone to see. We expect more false cases against us in future,” she added. The state government, on the other hand, feels that OTV is trying to malign chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s image by raising the issue of alleged irregularities in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other kits though allegations in this connection have also been made by others. There are also other reasons behind the friction between the channel and the state government. Based on information obtained through an RTI application, OTV had aired a report that cast doubts on the chief minister’s aerial survey of flood-hit areas. The channel said it did not get any response on the issue from the chief minister’s office despite repeated requests. Naveen is said to have flown in the helicopter for the survey for just 19 minutes on August 31. The Airports Authority of India, too, had clarified that the chief minister’s helicopter had indeed departed on that day. However, the RTI activists have demanded that the entire video of the chief minister’s survey be made public. Rath, who had highlighted the aerial survey issue, was picked up by the police on October 15 in the immediate wake of the channel running the aerial survey report. OTV has described it as a vindictive step. The police, however, maintain that he was interrogated in connection with the circulation of an obscene video clip last year. The police claimed that the video had gone viral on the eve of the 2019 general elections and one of the accused in the case had named Rath as the person who had provided him the video clip. Rath was released within hours of being picked up and asked to appear before Keonjhar police on October 21. However, he did not appear before the Keonjhar police on that day citing health problems and sought 15 days’ time. He resigned from the channel two days ago. In the wake of Rath’s detention for a few hours, Jay Panda had tweeted, “REPORTER who broke news of RTI activists’ exposé of Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik’s claimed flood review aerial survey is ARRESTED. Wonder whether @IndEditorsGuild will condemn this, or if the many legendary champions of #FreedomOfSpeech in India will protest or return their awards??” On the other hand, the BJD leader from Keonjhar had said in a release: “I have a question for OTV owners Jagi Panda and Baijayant Jay Panda. If a daughter from your family was in my place and her morphed obscene video had been viraled, would you have saved the man like OTV reporter Ramesh Rath who had perpetuated it?” “I want to ask the national media if your daughter and sister’s morphed obscene video was viraled by a journalist, would you have pardoned the journalist just because he was a journalist? Has immunity from police action been provided to journalists in India who commit a crime? As a tribal lady, my honour and dignity were defamed in public. When will I get justice?” the BJD leader asked. On its part, OTV said in a release that the law should take its own course in the matter. “But it is surprising that they have woken up to it only now, one day after Ramesh Rath reported RTI activist’s findings regarding the CM’s chopper review of the floods,” said the channel’s operating officer Litisha Mangat. The channel has cited other examples of alleged harassment by the government. Recently the Khurda district administration demolished the boundary wall of OTV’s CSR project at Saura on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar alleging that it was stopping the free flow of water into nearby agricultural land. The government has also launched a crime branch probe to find out whether there were any irregularities in the purchase of land. The political war between the chief minister and Panda, a former MP, has intensified following the latter’s suspension from the BJD in January 2018. “Differences between them grew further following OTV’s alleged attempts to malign the Naveen government. It’s not a healthy trend,” said political analyst Girija Shankar Dash. “We need to look deep into the matter. Panda used to be the blue-eyed boy of Naveen babu. But he fell from grace after he tried to spread false stories about the chief minister and the BJD and began tilting towards the BJP. His ambition to become the chief minister of the state has cost him a lot,” said a senior BJD leader. In an interview to news agency ANI in April 2019, Patnaik had said, “After 2014, a number of my friends from Delhi rang me up with concern because they thought I was in bad health. But my health has always been good and I told them so. They told me that this is what Baijayant Panda was spreading. This was a shock.” The chief minister had said that Panda was interested in promoting his mining business and wanted to become the chairman of the parliamentary finance committee, which he did not support. “Things worsened after the Panda family’s channel started targeting Naveen’s office and some BJP youth activists forcibly entered the residence of Naveen’s private secretary, V.K. Pandian. Their relations soured further when Naveen picked up Anubhav Mohanty to contest against Panda from the Kendrapara Lok Sabha constituency. The chief minister personally monitored the campaign and ensured Anubhav’s victory by a huge margin,” said a BJD leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
