27-10-2020||India||Coal scam: Delhi HC suspends 3-year jail term of ex-minister Dilip Ray||The Delhi High Court Tuesday suspended the three-year jail term of former Union minister Dilip Ray in a coal scam case pertaining to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand block in 1999. According to a lawyer associated with the case, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also issued notice to the CBI and sought its response on the appeal filed by Ray, challenging his conviction and sentence in the case. The high court, which heard the matter during the vacation, admitted the appeal and listed the matter for further hearing on November 25, the lawyer said. The trial court had on Monday sentenced Ray, the 68-year old former minister of state (coal) in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, to three-year in jail and also imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh on him. Besides him, the trial court has also awarded three-year jail term each to two senior officials of the ministry at that time -- Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, both about 80-year-old. It has also awarded the same jail term to Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla (75). The trial court had however granted bail to the convict persons for one month to enable them to approach the high court challenging the verdict. It had imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh each on Banerjee and Gautam, while Agarwalla was asked to pay a fine of Rs 60 lakh. It had also imposed a fine of Rs 60 lakh and Rs 10 lakh on CTL and Castron Mining Ltd (CML) respectively. The two firms were also held guilty in the case. The convicts had urged the trial court to take a lenient view considering their old age and that they were never convicted earlier. The CBI, represented by public prosecutors V K Sharma and A P Singh in the trial court, however, had sought maximum punishment for the convicts. The trial court had convicted Ray for the offences of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by public servant and cheating under the IPC and under the provision of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Regarding Ray, it had said that he dishonestly facilitated allocation of the abandoned non-nationalised coal mining area in favour of CTL and that too in violation of the direction of law. The case pertains to allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih in Jharkhand to CTL in 1999. In response to the convicts' argument that no loss was caused to anyone in the matter since almost the entire amount of extracted coal was surrendered to the government, the trial court had said, that non-availability of sufficient raw material such as coal has in fact resulted in the lack of infrastructural/ industrial development of the country. Had coal block been allocated to a deserving applicant company after following the due process of law and the company would have proceeded to extract coal so as to use it captively in its end use project then it would have certainly added to the infrastructural/ industrial development of the country. ...arbitrary allocation of coal blocks as has been seen in the present matter to unscrupulous persons who never intended to establish any end use project in itself has caused huge loss to the nation which is difficult to be computable in monetary terms, the court had said. It had said the case involved commission of white collar crimes and that too by people occupying high places in the society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Centre amends laws to allow people from outside J&K to buy land there||The Centre has paved the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in the union territory by amending several laws, more than a year after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution.  In a gazette notification in Hindi and English, the Ministry of Home Affairs has made several changes to the land laws, including allowing use of agricultural land for setting up facilities of public purpose.  The most important tweak has been made in the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of land in the union territory as the Centre has omitted the phrase "permanent resident of the state" from Section 17 of the law.  Before the repeal of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the fresh changes have paved the way for non-residents to buy land in the union territory.  Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha told reporters that the amendments did not allow transfer of agricultural land to non-agriculturists.  However, there are several exemptions in the Act which enable transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, including setting up of educational or health care facilities.  Former Advocate General Mohammad Ishaq Qadri said the amendments have opened floodgates for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land. "Now there is no legal bar on purchase of land here by outsiders," he said.  The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- an amalgam of seven mainstream parties in Jammu and Kashmir -- condemned the changes in the land laws and vowed to fight these on all fronts.  National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the amendments were unacceptable.  "Unacceptable amendments to the land ownership laws of JK. Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land and transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. JK is now up for sale and the poorer small land holding owners will suffer," he tweeted.  PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said it was a step to "disenfranchise" the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "Yet another step that's part of GOI's nefarious designs to disempower & disenfranchise people of JK. From the unconstitutional scrapping of Article 370 to facilitating loot of our natural resources and finally putting land in JK up for sale," she tweeted.  The notification has replaced Section 30 and Part VII of the State Land Acquisition Act of 1990 with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.  The other major laws repealed by the notification includes the J&K Big Landed Estates (abolition) Act, a landmark act brought in by Sheikh Abdullah that gave land rights to landless tillers.  The JK Alienation of Land Act, 1995, the JK Common Lands (regulation) Act, 1956 and the JK Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1962 were also repealed.  Other laws to be repealed are the J&K Prevention of Fragmentation of Agricultural Holdings Act, 1960; JK Prohibition on Conversion of Land and Alienation of Orchards Act, 1975; the JK Right of Prior Purchase ACT, 1936 A.D; Section 3 of the J&K Tenancy (Stay of Ejectment Proceedings) Act 1966; the JK Utilisation of Land Act, 2010; and the J&K Underground Utilities (Acquisition of rights of user in land) Act.  The notification also maintains that government on the written request of an Army officer not below the rank of Corp Commander may declare an area as "strategic area" within a local area, only for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces, which may be excluded from the operation of this Act and rules and regulations made there under in the manner and to the extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Facebook India policy head Ankhi Das quits company||Ankhi Das, the controversial India policy head of Facebook who allegedly opposed blocking of right-wing hate content, has quit the company.  "Ankhi has decided to step down from her role in Facebook to pursue her interest in public service. Ankhi was one of our earliest employees in India and played an instrumental role in the growth of the company and its services over the last 9 years," Facebook's Managing Director India Ajit Mohan said in an e-mailed statement.  Das faced allegations of opposing enforcement of hate-speech rules against BJP and other right-wing leaders. She was also accused of posting messages in support of the BJP for several years on a Facebook group of the company's employees.  Her resignation came about two-and-a-half-months after she first shot into the limelight due to the allegations.  Over 40 human rights and internet watchdog organisations had called on Facebook to place Das on leave until the company finishes conducting an ongoing audit of its India operations.  Das had joined Facebook in 2011.  Ajit Mohan said: "She has been a part of my leadership team over the last 2 years, a role in which she has made enormous contributions. We are grateful for her service and wish her the very best for the future".  Das, on her departure, said she had decided to step down from Facebook to pursue her "personal interest in public service".  "When I joined Facebook in 2011, internet growth in the country was woefully low and I often wondered how social and economic asymmetries will be addressed. We were a small unlisted startup back then guided only by our mission and purpose to connect people in India. After nine long years, I feel that mission has largely been met," she said.  Facebook did not link her departure to stories around her controversial stand but said Tuesday was her last day at the company.  "I have decided to step down from Facebook after long service to its mission of connecting people and building communities to pursue my personal interest in public service," she said in her departure message.  She thanked Mark Zuckerberg for creating "something beautiful for the world."  "This is a special company and a special group of people," she wrote. "I hope I have served you and the company well".  "I know we will be in touch on Facebook," she added.  The controversy around her began on August 15 when The Wall Street Journal report alleged that Ankhi Das had blocked action against leaders associated with the BJP and other Hindutva groups.  According to the report, a day before the BJP won the 2014 Parliamentary elections, Das had written: "We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history."  She also wrote that Modi was the 'strongman' who had broken the former ruling party's hold. "It's taken thirty years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally," she wrote in another post about Congress.  The Wall Street Journal also reported that Ankhi Das had trained the BJP for its social media campaign for the 2012 Assembly polls. After the training, she wrote: 'Success in our Gujarat Campaign'.  The report further added: "When a fellow staffer noted in response to one of her internal posts that the BJP's primary opponent, the Indian National Congress, had a larger following on Facebook than Mr Modi's individual page, Ms Das responded: 'Don't diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well let my bias not show!!!'".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Modi slams 'dynastic corruption', says it's part of political culture in some states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday batted for strong action against "dynastic corruption", saying it has become a part of the political culture in some states and has emerged as a formidable challenge that is hollowing out the country. Inaugurating a three-day national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption organised by the CBI, the prime minister said that inaction in a single corruption case forms the foundation for future scams and corruption. "Dynastic corruption, as in corruption transferred from one generation to another, has grown over decades to become a formidable challenge before the country," he said "During the past decades, we have seen that when one generation of corrupt people is not punished adequately, its subsequent generations indulge in corruption with more impunity," he said. When a generation sees that a corrupt person in the family is let off without or very little punishment, their courage to indulge in corrupt activities grows manifolds, he said. "Because of this, it has become a part of the political culture in some states. Corruption running through generations and the dynasty of corruption are hollowing out the country like a termite," Modi said. His remarks came ahead of the first phase of voting in the Bihar assembly election, where the BJP-JD(U) alliance has been targeting Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial candidate of 'Mahagathbandhan', over corruption cases against his jailed father and RJD leader Lalu Prasad. When suitable action is not taken in corruption cases, it becomes normalised in society, the prime minister said. "People know, the media knows that a person has made crores of rupees through corrupt means, but they also start taking it normally. "This situation is a major obstacle in the growth of the country. It is a hindrance to a prosperous and self-dependent India," he said. The prime minister said there is a need to have systemic checks, effective audits, capacity building and training against corruption. "Fighting corruption is not a job of a single agency but is a collective responsibility," Modi said. During the conference, senior officials of the government, including the Home Secretary, the Comptroller and Auditor General, and the Finance Secretary, will discuss crucial issues related to investigation challenges in foreign jurisdiction, matters linked to vigilance and corruption, amendments in Prevention of Corruption Act among others. The national conference organised by the CBI coincides with the 'Vigilance Awareness Week', which is observed in the country annually from October 27 to November 2. "Activities in this conference would be focused on vigilance issues aimed at raising awareness and reaffirming India's commitment to the promotion of integrity and probity in public life through citizen participation," a government statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Centre extends unlock protocols till November 30||The Centre on Tuesday said the current guidelines on allowing various activities, like opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, will continue to be applicable till November 30 in areas outside containment zones. These guidelines, issued on September 30, were to be in force till October 31. But on Tuesday, the ministry of home affairs issued an order to extend this period till November 30, a ministry spokesperson said. The guidelines said that international travel, except those permitted by the Centre, would remain shut while state and UT governments were given the flexibility to decide on reopening of schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner. These decisions are to be taken in consultation with the respective school and institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to certain conditions, according to the guidelines. The activities permitted in areas outside containment zones were -- cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, business to business (B2B) exhibitions, swimming pools used for training  sportspersons, entertainment parks and similar places. Various ministries and departments have issued standard operating procedures for the reopening of activities. Political gatherings in poll-bound Bihar and those constituencies where by-elections will be held were allowed with attendance of a maximum of 200 people in a closed space or hall and in an open space depending on its size. Political gatherings can be held only outside the containment zones. The lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in containment zones during the period. The coronavirus induced country-wide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31. The unlock process in the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. The number of coronavirus cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 after over three months, while the new fatalities registered during the same period remained under 500 for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 79,46,429, with 36,470 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,19,502 with 488 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 72,01,070 people have recuperated from COVID-19 so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 90.62 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: CBI probe to be monitored by Allahabad High Court, says Supreme Court||The CBI investigation in the Hathras case, in which a Dalit girl was brutally raped and died of injuries, will now be monitored by the Allahabad High Court, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The apex court said that all the aspects of the case, including monitoring of probe and providing security to the victim's family as well as the witnesses, would be considered by the high court. A bench of Justices A.S. Bopanna, V.Ramasubramanian and Chief Justice S.A. Bobde said the plea for transfer of trial of the case from Uttar Pradesh would be considered after the CBI probe is over. The top court, which passed the verdict on a batch of pleas by activists and lawyers claiming that a fair trial is not possible in Uttar Pradesh as the probe has allegedly been botched up, said that CBI will file the status report in the case before the high court. The bench considered the request of Uttar Pradesh government and asked the Allahabad High Court to delete the victim's name from one of its orders on a PIL pending there. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". On October 15, the apex court had reserved its verdict on the pleas in the matter. The lawyer, appearing for the victim's family, had told the top court that trial in the case should be shifted out of Uttar Pradesh to a court in the national capital after completion of investigation. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by the Uttar Pradesh government which gave details about the security and protection provided to the victim's family and witnesses in the case. The state government, which has already transferred the case to the CBI and given consent to monitoring by the apex court, had filed the affidavit after the top court sought details on witness protection and whether the victim's family has chosen a lawyer. Referring to the compliance affidavit, Mehta had said that they have engaged a lawyer and also requested that government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||India, US ink strategic defence pact amid stand-off with China||India and the US signed the landmark defence pact, BECA, that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, geospatial maps and classified satellite data between their militaries as the two countries held a high-level dialogue on Tuesday, and vowed to ramp up their security ties and boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific amidst China's growing economic and military clout in the region. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh held the third edition of the 2+2 talks with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark T Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. The high-level interaction comes at a time China is attempting to expand its economic and military clout in the Info-Pacific region, and is also engaged in a tense standoff with India in eastern Ladakh. During the talks, the US side also assured India that America stands with it as they confront threats to their sovereignty and liberty. Addressing a joint media event along with Jaishankar, Pompeo and Esper, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the two sides held comprehensive discussion on range of key issues, and dubbed the inking of BECA with the US is a "significant move". "Our military-to-military cooperation with the US is moving forward very well," he said, adding that projects for joint development of defence equipment have been identified. "We reaffirmed our commitment to peace and security in Indo-Pacific region," Singh said. Pompeo, in his remarks, said, during the visit they visited the war memorial to honour the soldiers that sacrificed their lives for the world's largest democracy, including the 20 that were killed by China's PLA forces in the Galwan Valley in June. "The US will stand with people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty", Pompeo asserted. Slamming the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Pompeo said the US leaders and citizens see with increasing clarity that the "CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law and transparency". The US and India are taking steps to strengthen cooperation against all manners of threats and not just those posed by the CCP, Pompeo added. Jaishankar said the Indo-US national security convergences have grown and the Indo-Pacific was a focus of the discussion. US Defence secretary Esper noted that the bilateral defence cooperation is continuing to grow. The inking of the BECA completes finalisation of four key pacts between the two countries which were identified as crucial to significantly expand the strategic ties. A key pact called General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed by the two countries in 2002. The GSOMIA provides for specific measures to ensure security standards for safeguarding critical information shared by the US with India. In a major move in 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provide for deeper cooperation. India and the US signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. About BECA or Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement,  officials said it will give India access to classified geo-spatial data as well as critical information having significant military applications from the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||India, US ink strategic defence pact ahead of November 3 elections||India and the US on Tuesday inked a landmark defence agreement that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, classified satellite data and critical information between the two countries. The signing of the long-negotiated Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) during the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue between the two strategic partners also signals further boosting of bilateral defence and military ties and it comes in the backdrop of India's tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T. Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. In the 2+2 dialogue, the two sides deliberated on a host of critical issues including ways to further expand the already close relationship between the militaries of the two countries as well as broader issues of mutual interest in the Indo-Pacific region. The inking of the BECA completes finalisation of four key pacts between the two countries which were identified as crucial to significantly expand the strategic ties. A key pact called General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed by the two countries in 2002. The GSOMIA provides for specific measures to ensure security standards for safeguarding critical information shared by the US with India. In a major move in 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provide for deeper cooperation. India and the US signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. About BECA, officials said the agreement will give India access to classified geo-spatial data as well as critical information having significant military applications from the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||MCDs not releasing salaries of doctors shameful, Centre must grant funds to civic bodies: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said it is shameful that doctors of MCD-run hospitals are forced to protest over salary dues and requested the Centre to grant funds to municipal corporations so that their pay checks can be issued. Several doctors in hospitals run by the North MCD have claimed they have not been paid in three months and have been protesting for the last two weeks. Kejriwal alleged gross mismanagement and corruption in the functioning of the MCDs. There was no immediate reaction available from the North MCD. “It pains me that our doctors have to protest for their salaries. These doctors risked their lives to serve us during the pandemic. This is shameful,” the CM said while inaugurating a waste-to-energy plant at the Ghazipur poultry and fish market. “We have been witnessing that civic bodies have not been able to pay salaries of teachers, sanitation workers and doctors over the years. Why is there such an acute shortage of funds in MCDs?” he asked. We have released more funds to the MCDs as compared to previous governments. We have given them more than their due Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said there should be no politics over the issue of doctors' salaries and everybody should make efforts to ensure they get their pay checks. He claimed that the Centre has been providing grants to municipal corporations across the country, barring Delhi. “I request the Centre to give funds to MCDs so that they release salaries of doctors,” the CM said. “The pandemic has hit the tax collection of the Delhi government. Still, it has been managing affairs properly and releasing salaries of its doctors and teachers,” he said. “If we had the funds, I would have given the salaries of doctors of MCD-run hospitals today itself doesn't matter if it was as per the Constitution or not,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court dismisses Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha's bail plea||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail plea of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in connection with a case related to a larger conspiracy in the Delhi riots in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, in his order passed on October 26, said that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against Tanha were prima facie true. Tanha was arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Air pollution may hinder India's fight against Covid, say scientists||The causal link between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is yet to be established conclusively but long-term exposure will certainly make people more vulnerable to lung infections, warn scientists as the skies over large parts of north India, including Delhi, turn smoky and the air quality deteriorates rapidly. Their concerns come amid several global studies pointing to the possible connection between higher air pollution levels and increased Covid-19 cases and deaths. A study by researchers at Harvard University in the US in September showed that an increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. "Given the current limited literature, the surge of PM2.5 level in Delhi may be associated with increased Covid-19 cases... Although the literature is relatively sparse at this stage," Xiao Wu, corresponding author of the Harvard study, told PTI. He said the relationship between long-term air pollution and Covid-19 has been documented in many studies, which indicate that adverse health impacts of air pollution can make people prone to the infection or exacerbate the severity of Covid-19 symptoms once infected. This is interesting, especially considering Covid-19 causes viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, and severe inflammation to the heart and circulatory system, the scientist said. Another study by the University of Cambridge in April found an association between living in an area of England with high levels of air pollution and the severity of Covid-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. "Based on our findings, I would expect to see an association between higher levels of air pollution in India and Covid-19 in the winter, similar with what we found in England," said Marco Travaglio, corresponding author of the Cambridge study. "If the levels of air pollution have been consistently above the legal limits for several months or years before this coming winter, I would expect to see a relationship between those levels and Covid-19 burden across different parts of India in November and thereafter," Travaglio told PTI. The level of small particulate matter (PM2.5) levels in Delhi have averaged around 180-340 g/m in the past few weeks while that of bigger pollution particles (PM10) has hovered between 120 and 450 during the time. Long-term exposure to chronically high PM2.5 levels weakens the ability of the lungs to fend off infections, therefore making people more susceptible to Covid-19, the scientists said. In addition, studies from Italy have shown that traces of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, the genetic material of the virus, can be found on pollution particles, meaning that increased air pollution may act as a vehicle to increase Covid-19 transmission in highly polluted places. The air quality in north India is expected to deteriorate further from November to February due to several factors such as stubble burning, festive fireworks and low wind speed conditions which lead to an uptick in vehicular and industrial pollution being trapped in the lower atmosphere. "In view of this evidence, high levels of PM2.5 in Delhi may lead to a higher number of Covid-19 cases," Travalgo added. Studies in humans have shown that toxic air particles can penetrate airways and cause widespread infiltration of lung cells. This chronic state of inflammation may induce or aggravate health conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, experts said. Because these conditions have been widely found to be associated with increased risk of contracting Covid-19 or incurring into critical illness, it is likely that air pollution acts as a risk factor to increase the susceptibility to Covid-19. India has the world's second-highest caseload of over 7.9 million and the third-highest death toll with more than 115,000 from the novel coronavirus. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned that Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter because of the prevalence of respiratory illnesses during this season that worsen the symptoms of the disease. On Sunday, the national capital recorded 4,136 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in 38 days. D.J. Christopher, head of pulmonary medicine at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu, noted that the increased severe form of Covid-19 among patients would lead to an increased ICU hospitalisations, thereby increasing the burden of the healthcare system. "Let us hope the numbers are not so high. There is a chance of hospital beds getting filled and shortage of ICU beds," Christopher told PTI. Prof. Rajneesh Bhardwaj concurred, saying there is growing scientific evidence that airborne respiratory droplets carrying the virus travel and contaminate the air after an infected person coughs. Pollution may help this airborne droplet to remain suspended for a longer time and may increase the spread of Covid-19," Bhardwaj, associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, told PTI. According to pulmonologist Anurag Agarwal, however, the relation between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is very complex. While in general high air pollution increases risk of respiratory infections, it is difficult to say much more," Agarwal, director of the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, told PTI. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Rahul asks Modi to reach out to farmers||Rahul Gandhi has described farmers’ burning of the Prime Minister’s effigy on Dussehra as a “very dangerous precedent” and asked Narendra Modi to reach out to them and provide the healing touch. Farmers at many places in Punjab and Haryana had on Sunday replaced Ravan’s effigy with Modi’s for the burning ceremony, calling the Prime Minister “Kisan ka Ravan (Farmers’ Ravan)”. At some places, portraits of industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani were attached to Modi’s effigy. Farmers are angry over the recent farm laws passed by Parliament, which they fear would deprive them of the relative security of minimum support prices and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big companies. After social media reported the trend widely with photographs and videos, Rahul tweeted: “This happened all over Punjab yesterday. It’s sad that Punjab is feeling such anger towards the Prime Minister.” He added: “This is a very dangerous precedent and is bad for our country. The Prime Minister should reach out, listen and give a healing touch quickly.” In BJP-ruled Haryana, police cracked down on the protesters. They rounded up farmers from many villages and booked Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni over the burning of the Prime Minister’s effigies and charged him with creating enmity in society. The BKU, a non-partisan farmers’ organisation with a presence in several states across the country, is leading the agitation for the withdrawal of the new laws. Over 250 farmers’ unions have joined the protests. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has repeatedly warned the Centre of unforeseeable consequences in the border state, which has faced militancy in the past, if the farmers lose faith in the system. Rahul too has described the new farm laws as a sinister move that would destroy agriculture and enslave India. While the Congress has extended support to the agitation, the farmers’ unions have so far not allowed politicians to join their movement. Even women and children have been participating in the agitation, publicly venting their fury at the Prime Minister. Songs are being sung to express the farmers’ anger. The BJP has, however, accused the Congress of instigating the protests. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tweeted: “On one hand, the Congress is making wild and baseless allegation of fascism, and on the other hand, shamelessly organising burning of Prime Minister’s effigy. Their dubious character is exposed in front of everybody.” He seemed to be alluding to an article Sonia Gandhi has written accusing the Modi government of assaulting democratic institutions. Reacting to the effigy burning, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted: “Entire Punjab has expressed its anger & resentment unequivocally. Up to the BJP now to take note and make amends, as Rahul Gandhi says, or charge entire Punjab for promoting enmity and breach of peace as they did to BKU’s Charuni in Haryana. Conciliation or confrontation?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Blow to India’s naval base hope in Seychelles||The election of Indian-origin priest Wavel Ramakalawan as the next President of Seychelles on Sunday may well bring the curtain down on India’s hopes of developing a naval base in the East African archipelago. Ramakalawan had led the opposition to the project, first announced during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the country in 2015. Ramakalawan had changed his position on the agreement — for India to develop the naval base on the Assumption Island, located around 1,100km from the country’s largest island, Mahe — from first supporting it to opposing it and stalling its ratification by the country’s parliament. He is reported to have reiterated during his campaign that no foreign military base would be allowed in Seychelles. After the initial opposition to the agreement, signed in 2015, then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar had made a fresh attempt in January 2018 to resurrect the deal by tweaking it to clear the air about who will control the naval base. The revised agreement was seen as an effort to allay fears in Seychelles that India will not only develop the naval base but also control it. India’s contention has been that Seychelles will own the base and the two countries will jointly manage it. However, Jaishankar’s effort to salvage the deal just before he retired as a diplomat came to naught, as did the renewed resolve to work together and develop the base during outgoing Seychelles President Danny Faure’s India visit in June 2018. The deal has remained in limbo since then with no word from Seychelles. In March 2018, Ramakalawan — while announcing that the Opposition would not ratify the revised agreement — had said: “This deal is dead.” Apart from the issue of sovereignty, there are also environmental concerns about the development of a naval base on the island, its usefulness in combating piracy notwithstanding. The environmental concerns arise from the Assumption Island’s proximity to Aldabra — the world’s second-largest coral atoll and home to its largest giant tortoise population. The Aldabra Atoll is a Unesco world heritage site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Members of a Sangh parivar outfit allegedly enter the Taj Mahal and pray to Shiva||Members of a Sangh parivar outfit allegedly entered the Taj Mahal with a saffron flag on Sunday, Vijaya Dashami, and prayed to Shiva on the premises of the Mughal mausoleum. The Hindu Jagaran Manch — a moderately well-known group across northern and western India that holds discussions on religion and culture and is not known for activism — has posted purported videos of the act. Gaurav Thakur, president of the outfit’s Agra unit, told local reporters: “The Taj Mahal was originally Tejo Mahalaya — a Shiva temple. I have prayed to Shiva at the Taj Mahal at least five times in the past few years and will continue doing so until the government agrees to hand the monument over to Hindus.” The claim that Shah Jahan built the 17th-century tomb to his queen Mumtaz Mahal over the remains of a temple is part of a pattern. Ever since the Supreme Court handed over the disputed Ayodhya plot to Hindus last November, demands for the removal of Islamic structures allegedly overlying temples have gained ground in Mathura and Varanasi, too. BJP and RSS spokespersons distanced their organisations from Thakur’s purported act. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi did not respond to a text message asking whether Thakur and his men would be booked. A police officer in Lucknow said that flags — and inflammable substances, incense sticks, even pens — were banned at the Taj because of security reasons. “The youths can be booked for breach of security and promoting enmity between religious communities if the charges are true,” he said, asking not to be identified. In the video, Thakur is seen sitting on a bench on the Taj compound with his eyes closed while another man stands behind him holding a saffron flag. A third man is seen recording the two on his mobile phone. A fourth person would have shot the video. “Some youths are seen in a video taking selfies with the Vijaya Dashami flag,” state BJP media-in-charge Maneesh Shukla said. “It’s not the RSS flag.” The RSS is known to hold marches with its flag on Vijaya Dashami. Sateyndra Sonkar, a local RSS leader in Agra, said: “The flag the youths were carrying was not the RSS flag.” Rahul Yadav, a CISF commandant, said: “We are not aware when it happened and are trying to verify the authenticity of the video. Action will be taken if the charges are found true.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||SC puts Lokur panel on hold ||The Supreme Court on Monday kept “in abeyance” a 10-day-old order appointing a retired judge, who is a trenchant critic of the State’s misuse of the sedition law, as a one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde put the Justice Madan B. Lokur committee on the backburner after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had previously opposed the former apex court judge’s appointment, conveyed a promise from the Centre for a prompt legislative solution. As a sitting judge, Justice Lokur had headed a bench that delivered an unpalatable verdict for the Narendra Modi government on extra-judicial killings. After retirement, he had condemned the use of the sedition law against “youngsters, students talking about doing something good for the country”. On October 16, the three-judge bench had tasked Justice Lokur with ensuring the prevention of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, an age-old practice that aggravates air pollution in the National Capital Region in October-November every year. On Monday, Mehta told the court the Centre would within three to four days issue an ordinance, to be later replaced by a regular law, creating a permanent body to deal with stubble burning. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing public interest petitioner Aditya Dubey who had sought the judicial committee, argued that legislation would take a long time and the Justice Lokur panel should therefore not be delayed. But the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, rejected his argument after Mehta said: “This government is different, it works faster…. The matter is being dealt with on a war footing. Several ad hoc measures have been taken.” Justice Bobde said: “We welcome the step (promised by the government). This is not a matter for a PIL.” Singh said: “I don’t understand the interests of the Union of India in getting the order suspended.” Justice Bobde told Singh the court was free to keep its own order in abeyance. “What is your problem? After all, you are a PIL petitioner,” the Chief Justice said, adjourning the matter till October 29. In September this year, Justice Lokur had told a webinar, without mentioning names: “(The charge of) sedition is being used with an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views.” Alluding to Dr Kafeel Khan, he had said that recently in Uttar Pradesh, a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. In 2018, dealing with a public interest plea on alleged extrajudicial killings of more than 1,500 people in Manipur between 1985 and 2001, a bench headed by Justice Lokur had ordered a CBI inquiry despite the Modi government arguing this would demoralise the armed forces. Justice Lokur’s willingness to express dissent also showed in the way he had combined with three other apex court judges in January 2018 to hold a news conference and accuse then Chief Justice Dipak Misra of allocating key cases to certain favoured junior judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Found: First direct evidence of water on Moon ||US scientists on Monday announced their discovery of the first direct evidence of molecular water on the Moon, 11 years after India’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft had detected the signatures of a possible component of water. Researchers at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Goddard Space Flight Centre and other collaborating institutions in Hawaii and Colorado have detected a distinct infrared spectral signature that they say can only be explained through molecular water — or H2O. Instruments aboard three spacecraft, including Chandrayaan-1, had in 2009 detected the signatures of hydroxyl (OH), a component of molecular water, but it was unclear whether the OH had emerged from water or other hydroxyl compounds. Now, Goddard scientist Casey Honniball and her colleagues have used an infrared camera on a flying observatory aboard a Boeing 747 to observe a region in the Moon’s high southern latitudes near the Clavius crater and spotted the strong spectral signature of molecular water. They have used their observations to calculate water concentrations ranging from 100 parts per million to 400 parts per million. They believe the water is probably stored in between dust grains on the lunar surface that protect it from the harsh environment. In an independent study, US researchers at Colorado University have estimated that hidden pockets of water preserved in the lunar regions of permanent shadow, called “cold traps”, could be more common on the Moon than assumed. Both findings appeared in the journal Nature Astronomy on Monday. Paul Hayne at Colorado University and his colleagues examined the distribution of such cold traps across the lunar surface and found that small micro-cold traps, some only one centimetre in diameter, are hundreds to thousands of times more numerous than larger traps. Their assessment suggests that around 40,000sqkm of the lunar surface can trap water. “If we’re right, water is going to be more accessible for drinking water, for rocket fuel, everything that Nasa needs water for,” Hayne, an assistant professor, said in a media release from the university. Studies suggest that the temperature in a cold trap could be minus 184°C. “The temperatures are so low in cold traps that ice would behave like a rock. If water gets in there, it’s not going anywhere for a billion years,” Hayne said. Space scientists say the presence of water on the Moon would be significant from the perspective of future lunar missions, including ideas of establishing temporary research outposts on the Moon. One scientist had in 2009 said that harvesting water from the lunar surface could dramatically reduce the costs of long-term human activities on the Moon. The scientist had estimated that it takes $50,000 to carry a litre of water to the Moon on a rocket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||A Birla cries ‘racism’ at restaurant||Ananya Birla, the daughter of Aditya Birla Group’s billionaire chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, has slammed a US restaurant for being “racist”, saying the Italian-American dining place in California “literally threw” her and her family out of its premises. The singer and artist took to Twitter to share her ordeal on Saturday. “This restaurant @ScopaRestaurant literally threw my family and I, out of their premises. So racist. So sad. You really need to treat your customers right. Very racist. This is not okay,” she said in a tweet. The Scopa Italian Roots restaurant is an Italian-American dining place by chef Antonia Lofaso. “We waited for 3 hours to eat at your restaurant. @chefantonia Your waiter Joshua Silverman was extremely rude to my mother, bordering racist. This isn’t okay,” Ananya said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||On video: BJP leader cleans shoe with flag||A Valley BJP politician has purportedly been caught on video cleaning his shoe with a Tricolour on a day his party held a Tiranga Yatra (Tricolour March) in Srinagar to celebrate Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India. The embarrassment for the BJP comes at a time the party has accused former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti of dishonouring the national flag. The People’s Democratic Party leader had said she would not hold the Tricolour until the scrapped state flag of Jammu and Kashmir was reinstated. A five-second clip shows Pulwama BJP president Sajad Ali Raina cleaning his shoe with the national flag while a man in the background, apparently the person shooting the video, breaks into laughter. “This is foolishness,” a smiling Raina, sitting on the floor, says as he notices he is being filmed. Almost as a reflex action he tries to hide the flag. The video has taken social media by storm. Raina told reporters it was an old video, from the time his “thinking” was different. “I am a proud Indian. My nation’s flag is my life and pride. The video you are talking about is six years old,” he said. “At the time I had something else in mind. But when I joined the BJP, I started loving my country. I will have no regrets if I have to sacrifice my life for the flag.” If the video were from a time before Raina joined the pro-India camp, it’s not clear why he should be seen objecting to being filmed in the act. BJP spokesperson Darakhshan Andrabi said she had neither seen nor heard about the video. She initially suggested that a “small issue” not be blown out of proportion. “It may have been done by mistake, somewhere. Now we are (blowing) a small issue out of proportion; I think that is not right,” she said. On whether it was indeed a “small issue”, she backtracked. “This is an offence, a crime. There could be a punishment for it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||ED glare on Kerala MLA ||A bribery scandal involving an Opposition MLA has broken out in Kerala, impeding efforts to corner the ruling Left front government over a gold-smuggling case in which a top bureaucrat has been questioned. The Enforcement Directorate has launched a probe against K.M. Shaji of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) who has been accused of accepting Rs 25 lakh in bribe in 2014 for sanctioning higher secondary status to a school in his Azhikode Assembly constituency in Kannur. Though Shaji had denied any wrongdoing, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau booked him in April this year. Initiating an investigation into the money-laundering charges against Shaji, the ED has summoned the MLA and several others to appear before the agency on November 10. The ongoing probe by the ED to locate Shaji’s assets led them to a palatial house in Kozhikode allegedly built in his wife’s name. Based on the ED’s order, the engineering division of the Kozhikode Corporation measured the dimensions of the mansion and found that it was built over 5,200 square feet instead of 3,000 square feet for which permission was granted. The civic body has issued a notice to demolish the unauthorised building. The ruling Left Democratic Front quickly grabbed the opportunity to nail the lawmaker whose party is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front and a significant player in northern Kerala. The ED’s entry and allegations of disproportionate assets against Shaji emerged at a time the former secretary of the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, has been questioned for nearly 100 hours over his alleged links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||SC stay on campaign restrictions||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a Madhya Pradesh High Court order that had imposed several restrictions on physical gathering by political parties during campaigning ahead of bypolls to 28 seats on November 3 in view of the pandemic. A bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar passed the order on an appeal by the Election Commission and separate petitions by BJP leaders Pradyumn Singh Tomar and Munnalal Goyal challenging the high court’s October 20 judgment. The EC had contended that under Article 329 it alone had the powers to enforce restrictions on poll-related activities. The apex court bench told senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for EC that while the order of the high court was being stayed, the poll panel must “consider” the issues referred to by the high court on social distance. “We are not in any manner expressing anything with regard to the merits of the case or any process to be adopted by the Election Commission in this regard,” Justice Khanwilikar said. The BJP leaders, through senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocate Astha Sharma, told the apex court that the restrictions impinged on the fundamental rights of the candidates to carry out campaigning. However, the court said it would not deal with the issue at this juncture and instead suggested that the candidates could make their representations to the Election Commission on their grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Nadda trains guns on Sonia Gandhi||The BJP on Monday hit out at the Congress’s Gandhi family for their criticism of the government, terming it “one dynasty’s deep personal hatred” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP chief J.P. Nadda posted a series of tweets in response to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s article in a newspaper detailing how “Indian democracy is being hollowed out” under the Modi government. “One dynasty’s deep personal hatred against a person who was born in poverty and became PM is historic,” Nadda said in a tweet. “Equally historic is the love people of India have showered upon PM @narendramodi,” he added, stressing that the Congress’s hate for Modi would only increase his popularity. “More Congress’s lies and hate increase, the more people will support PM Modi,” Nadda said. Apart from the BJP chief, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar too posted tweets to attack Sonia for her article. Both these leaders sought to project the Congress chief’s criticism of the government as a personal attack against Modi. Sonia wrote in her article that “dissent” is branded as “anti-national” activity by the Modi government. Javadekar in his tweet said Sonia’s article reflected her “pain” as “people gave the PM’s chair to a leader from a poor family instead of her son”. Nadda also targeted Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of denigrating the Prime Minister’s chair. “The Rahul Gandhi drama of burning PM’s effigy in Punjab is shameful but not unexpected. After all, the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty has NEVER respected the office of the PM,” Nadda said. “Combination of despondency and shamelessness is dangerous.… Empty rhetoric of decency by the Mother is ‘complimented’ by live demonstrations of politics of hate, anger, lies and aggression by the Son,” he said. Nadda referred to the Emergency, a favourite of the BJP to attack the Congress, to attack the Opposition party for “pontificating” on freedom of speech. “They (Cong) have contempt for dissenting voices for decades. We saw glimpses of it during the Emergency,” he said. On Sonia’s charge of the Modi government using state power against dissenters, Nadda picked on the Congress-backed Maharashtra government. “If anyone wants to see a laboratory of usage of brute state power, troubling opponents, curbing freedom of speech in trademark Congress style, see the working of the Congress blessed Maharashtra Government,” Nadda alleged. He, however, didn’t substantiate his charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Ladakh review on commanders’ table ||The ground situation along the Ladakh frontier where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a standoff since May, besides Indian Army’s winter preparations, will be reviewed  during the four-day army commanders’ conference that began on Monday, defence ministry sources said. The apex biannual conference, chaired by army chief Manoj Naravane, will be attended by top commanders. “The commanders will carry out a comprehensive review of the security challenges facing the country and assess India’s combat readiness in eastern Ladakh along with other sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control with China and Line of Control with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir,” a defence ministry official said. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is estimated to have taken around 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The government has not, however, confirmed this. According to an assessment, China has deployed around 50,000 soldiers along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. India has also made similar deployment along the high-altitude frontier. “The Chinese side is yet to fix the date for the eight-round army commander talks between the two sides. A fresh round of talks was supposed to take place at the end of the last week,” the official said. The seventh round of military talks between the two armies on October 10 had failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground. Sources said defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria will address the commanders on Tuesday. Besides reviewing the security challenges along the borders, the army commanders’ conference will also deliberate on several reform measures to enhance the operational capability of the 1.3-million-strong force. On the last day of the conference, the director general of the border roads organisation will provide an update on the various infrastructure projects that are currently being undertaken by the BRO and other formations along the borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Green alert! Rooftop gardens linked to heat stress ||Irrigated green areas and rooftop gardens in urban landscapes may please the eyes but are likely to exacerbate extreme heat stress, Indian scientists have cautioned after a study that has revealed how irrigation worsens moist heat. The scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, have shown in a study that the combination of high temperatures and high humidity resulting from irrigation can exacerbate “moist heat stress” which they say is harder to deal with than dry heat. Their research, published on Monday in the journal Nature Geoscience, has shown that although irrigation can cause the land surface to cool, it also leads to substantially higher surface humidity, increasing moist heat stress. “Moist heat, the kind that causes mugginess, is worse than dry heat,” Vimal Mishra, an assistant professor of civil engineering at IIT Gandhinagar, told The Telegraph. “You can beat dry heat by drinking water and cooling yourself. But water doesn’t help much in high levels of moist heat.” Mishra and his colleagues have found that intensive irrigation across the Indo-Gangetic plains cools the land surface by 1°C and the air by 0.5°C. But the decreased heat from the irrigation alters the layers of air near the surface, increases humidity and adds to the moist heat stress. The scientists have also pointed out that green roofs and green urban areas that require irrigation can increase surface humidity and worsen extreme heat stress conditions, especially under warm climates. The findings suggest that any increase in the irrigated areas in urban and agricultural rural regions could worsen extreme heat stress. “In the tropics, where humidity is high, green roofs and irrigated lawns can make the moist heat stress worse,” Mishra said. Mishra said the findings were surprising. “We did not expect irrigation to play such a strong role in lowering the dry heat and elevating heat stress through moist heat,” he said. “The combination of irrigation and climate warming could lead to rise in heat stress in India in the future.” The researchers say their work underscores how human land use to increase food production has impacts on temperature and thus on health. Their findings also suggest that irrigation in the Indo-Gangetic plains also contributes to extreme heat in Pakistan and Afghanistan through the transport of moisture in the lower atmosphere. Earlier studies have suggested that heat waves have increased significantly across India over the past decades, likely contributing to increase in heat stress-related deaths. Thousands of people have died across the country over the past two decades under extreme heat stress conditions. In 2010, more than 1,300 people had died in Ahmedabad city alone, prompting the city authorities to develop a “heat action plan” to mitigate the impacts on health. The plan involved establishing an early warning system and bolstering local healthcare workers’ capacity to manage heat-related illnesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||India, US set to sign agreement  ||India and the US will on Tuesday sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geospatial intelligence to expand their military relationship, government sources said. Sources in India’s defence ministry described the development as “very significant” at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. The two countries decided to sign the agreement after an hour’s meeting on Monday between defence minister Rajnath Singh and US defence secretary Mark Esper at South Block. On Tuesday, a two-plus-two dialogue is scheduled between the two countries’ defence and foreign ministers. “Rajnath Singh and Esper held extensive talks, covering various aspects of the fast-expanding defence and strategic ties, including possible ways to deepen the military-to-military cooperation between their countries,” a defence ministry official said. “The signing of the BECA is very significant considering China’s aggressive posture, and will pave the way for more cooperation in defence, security and intelligence. It will convey an unambiguous message about the growing relationship between India and the US.” The official, however, declined to say whether Rajnath and Esper had discussed the India-China border standoff. In a statement, the defence ministry said the two ministers “reviewed bilateral defence cooperation, spanning military-to-military cooperation, secure communication systems and information sharing, defence trade and industrial issues and also discussed ways to take bilateral cooperation forward”. “The two ministers expressed satisfaction that an agreement of BECA will be signed during the visit. US secretary of defence welcomed Australia’s participation in the exercise Malabar 2020,” the statement said. India had last week announced that Australia would join the upcoming Malabar exercise, which means that all the four member countries of the “Quad” or Quadrilateral coalition will be participating in the November-end drill. The other members are India, the US and Japan. The decision to include Australia comes amid the military standoff between India and China. The exercise will bring together the militaries of the Quad group in the Bay of Bengal. During Monday’s meeting with Esper, Rajnath broached the “Make in India” campaign. “Defence minister elaborated upon the initiatives under the Atmanirbhar Bharat to encourage investments in the defence industry in India and invited US companies to make avail of the liberalised policies and the favourable defence industry ecosystem in India,” the defence ministry statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Migrants in river-mouth battle for farmland||More than a hundred migrant labourers, who had returned to Odisha during the lockdown, joined hands with fellow villagers from around six villages of Ganjam to dig up 200 metres of the Rushikulya river mouth to drain out the water inundating agriculture land following torrential rains recently the influence of a low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal. Rushikulya flows through southern Odisha districts like Ganjam for the major part of its course. Residents of villages like Puranabandha, Paliabandha, Sanagaon, Badagaon, Potagarh and Nuagoan under Ganjam block were struggling to drain out the water accumulated in their fields following heavy rains in the past two weeks as the river mouth, nearly 2km from their area, had become choked with silt. “With no outlet for release of the excess water, flooding had become commonplace in our area. Though we had lodged a complaint with the district administration to desilt the river mouth, there was no action taken. So we decided to dig up a new river mouth to discharge the rainwater ourselves,” said Rabindra Sahu of Purunabandha. He said the migrant labourers who returned to the village during the lockdown extended a helping hand. “This motivated us to step up our efforts,” he added. The new river mouth was dug up last Thursday. “But we have started digging it again as it got filled with sand once more. So far we have spent Rs 4 lakh on the work. A major part of the money has been spent on hiring a JCB machine. We generally keep some money for emergency because we may get into trouble in the sea at any time during fishing. When we go out to the sea, we ensure that our emergency funds are safe. Now the funds have come in handy and helped us carry out the digging work. The migrant labourers have done their bit for us,” said Balraju of Sanagaon. Villagers said that waterlogging followed heavy rainfall triggered by a low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal. A low pressure system had formed in the Bay on October 10 and then it was followed by another. Rainfall is still continuing. “Thankfully, we have succeeded in opening the river mouth and the water is now being discharged to the sea. Now there is no back flow of water,” said Ganesh Behera, a migrant labourer who had returned to the state in the second week of May along with 30 others from Chennai by hiring a bus. Each one of them had paid Rs 5,000 for the journey. Behera said, “When we noticed the plight of the villagers we thought of helping them. But we had no money to help them as our income had dried up. There is no work available for us. So when the elders of the affected villages came up with an idea of digging up a new mouth of the river, we put out a message on our WhatsApp group seeking support from all our friends. All of us reached the site and helped the villagers to dig up the new mouth. It was a huge task.” He said that the old river mouth had not been de-silted for several years. “Dumping of waste had also choked it, obstructing the release of water from the river into the sea. But now excess water is being easily drained out to the sea through the new mouth. We face no crisis despite continuing rains,” Behera said. The other advantage of digging up a new river mouth is that the fish now have a free channel to enter the Rushikulya from the sea. “We expect a good catch once the rains subside. There is now free movement of inland and marine fish and crab,” said Rabi Behera. Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange told The Telegraph, “ I have sought a report on the development from the sub-collector. Change in the course of the river is a natural phenomenon when it happens due to siltation. Even a cyclone sometimes changes the course of a river following heavy rain. The area comes under a highly eco-sensitive zone. We will seek expert opinion on the new mouth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
