28-10-2020||India||Smriti Irani tests positive for Covid||Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19. The women and child development and textiles minister asked the people who came in contact with her to get themselves tested at the earliest. "It is rare for me to search for words while making an announcement; hence here's me keeping it simple -- I've tested positive for #COVID and would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest," she said in a tweet. Irani campaigned for the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday for the Bihar Assembly polls. Soon after the minister made the announcement, wishes poured in for her on Twitter. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said she will emerge stronger from this fight against Covid. "Wishing good health & speedy recovery to Smt @smritiirani Ji. There is no doubt she will emerge stronger from this fight," he said in a tweet. "You have always displayed resolute determination in fighting for the people of the nation, @SmritiIrani ji. I am sure you will use the same determination to fight against COVID-19 and recover soon. My best wishes for your well being," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal wrote on the microblogging website. Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Jitendra Singh, BJP leaders Tejasvi Surya and Poonam Mahajan were also among those who wished Irani a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Trouble brewing in BSP over Rajya Sabha elections||In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, four of 10 MLAs who had proposed the name of the party's lone candidate in next month's Rajya Sabha polls, withdrew support amid hints that they and two others may switch sides. The four accompanied two other Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs to the Samajwadi Party headquarter here and met party chief Akhilesh Yadav, said an SP MLA who did not want to be named. But the same SP leader maintained that the group of six BSP MLAs from Uttar Pradesh could also be in touch with the ruling BJP. The six MLAs earlier met the returning officer, when the four proposers submitted in writing that their signatures on senior party leader Ramji Gautam's nomination papers were forged . One of the rebels later admitted that she met Akhilesh Yadav, while the others in the group a third of BSP's total strength of 18 in the state Assembly -- expressed dissatisfaction over the way their own party treated them. Asked about their future course of action, Shravasti MLA Aslam Raini said there was a general impression that Akhilesh Yadav respects his party members. The rebels did not specifically target BSP supremo Mayawati while criticising other party leaders. Without taking names, a BSP leader also indirectly laid the blame for the dramatic development on the SP, with which Mayawati's party was in alliance during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. If the returning officer accepts the forgery claim by four of Gautam's 10 proposers, it could lead to the BSP candidate's disqualification. The BSP had on Monday fielded Gautam, its national coordinator and Bihar in-charge for the November 9 biennial elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant in the Rajya Sabha. The BSP doesn't have the numbers in the Assembly to win an RS seat on its own but party leaders had indicated that it may get the support of other Opposition parties. The four MLAs who submitted an affidavit saying their signatures were forged are Aslam Raini, Aslam Chaudhary, Mujtaba Siddiqui and Hakim Lal Bind. Along with them, two others, Hargovind Bhargava and Sushma Patel, also met the returning officer, Raini said. The scrutiny of nominations was being undertaken Wednesday. Raini and Mujtaba Siddiqui told reporters that they were unhappy with the interference of BSP coordinators. “There is no respect in the party for us. I complained about a personal problem recently to our leader Lalji Verma, but to no avail,” Siddiqui, who is the MLA from Pratapur in Allahabad, said. But the three-time legislator made clear that he had no complaints against Mayawati. Shravasti MLA Aslam Raini said when he contracted coronavirus in August chief minister Yogi Adityanath got him admitted at a private hospital. Both the CM and Akhilesh Yadav inquired about his health on phone, but no leader from his own party called, the MLA said. The BSP leaders were also upset with a video clip he made during his hospital stay, Raini said. “I was in hospital and the BSP coordinators were moving about in my constituency telling people not to meet their MLA,” he claimed. “It's the same problem with all six of us. Behenji (Mayawati) is not to be blamed, but the coordinators have acted in a manner which has depressed us and we thought what is the use of remaining with such a party,” the MLA said.There were also reports that after meeting the returning officer, the BSP MLAs drove to the SP office to meet Yadav. Later, two of them told reporters that there was no such meeting.Sushma Patel, however, admitted having met the SP chief who she claimed had called them. But she refused to elaborate.Senior BSP leader and MLA Uma Shankar Singh claimed that the nomination of industrialist Prakash Bajaj for the Rajya Sabha, filed just two minutes before the deadline Tuesday, was part of a conspiracy .Bajaj is contesting as an independent with the SP's support. “They are out to buy MLAs and felt why not get the nomination of the BSP candidate rejected,” Singh alleged, apparently referring to the SP. He said the rebels were present when Gautam filed his nomination papers. “We have sent pictures of the nomination to the Returning Officer. If they had any objection, they should have given it to the RO by yesterday. Why now?” Singh questioned. Altogether, 11 candidates, including eight from the BJP, have filed their papers for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh going to the polls. Given the overwhelming strength of the BJP in the UP Assembly, all its eight candidates, including Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, are expected to get a berth in the Rajya Sabha. Of the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant, three were earlier held by the BJP, four by the SP, two by the BSP and one by the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Modi silent on issues confronting India: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, throwing at him "chai and pakoda" jibes and accusing him of "not talking about issues confronting India” such as unemployment but speaking only about other countries. On his second round of campaigning for the ongoing state elections, Rahul addressed two back-to-back rallies -- one at Valmiki Nagar in West Champaran and the other at Kusheswar Asthan in Darbhanga -- and also assailed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over issues of unemployment, migration and poverty. At his first rally at Valmiki Nagar, the former Congress president once again criticised the three farm laws, the government’s handling of the migrant crisis and demonetisation, and alleged Modi and Nitish "control the media". Rahul said angry farmers in Punjab burnt effigies of Prime Minister Modi on the occasion of Dusshera which "pained" him. "If I tell you the truth, I did not like it. Because after all Narendra Modiji is our Prime Minister, the country’s  Prime Minister. "Usually effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghanada are burnt on Dusshera. But it is for the first time that the effigies of Narendra Modi, Ambani and Adani were burnt," he said. "I saw it for the first time (that a Prime Minister’s effigy was being burnt on the occasion of Dusshera). You did not get to see it may be because Nitishji and Modiji control the media," he told the crowd at the Darbhanga rally. He said small shopkeepers, youths, farmers and labourers are today "angry" with Modi at the national level and Kumar in Bihar. He also alleged the reason the Prime Minister’s effigy was burnt was that "what Nitishji did in Bihar in 2006, Modiji is doing in Punjab, Haryana and across the country.” He said the "pilot project" for the three farm laws -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act was run in Bihar. The Congress has been vehemently opposing the farm laws, alleging it will destroy the mandi system, end the MSP regime and leave farmers at the mercy of big corporates. All the charges have been rejected by the Centre. "In 2006, it started much earlier in Bihar. Your backbone, your farming system, MSP and procurement system were abolished. Today, the youth of the nation cannot get employment," Rahul told the gathering. As he was in the middle of his speech, talking about migration and unemployment, a person from among the crowd shouted "he (Modi) asks us to fry pakodas". "Did you fry pakodas?” Rahul responded jovially, drawing applause and cheers from the crowd. “Next time they come, fry pakodas and offer some to Nitishji and Modiji," he mockingly said. In January 2018, Modi had said in a TV interview that people earning Rs 200 a day by selling pakodas cannot be considered unemployed, a remark often ridiculed by the Congress. At his rally in West Champaran, Gandhi said, "The Prime Minister had come here a few years ago. He is again coming in the next two days. He had said it’s a sugar belt, will operationalise sugar mills and have tea prepared with local sugar on my next visit. Do you remember? Did he have tea with you? No." He said the Prime Minister and the Bihar chief minister used to raise the issue of unemployment earlier but no longer now. "Youths and farmers of Punjab and Bihar and youths of Uttar Pradesh are angry that our PM keeps making speeches with Bihar Chief Minister and talks about sugar, tea and other countries, but not about the problems confronting our country such as unemployment," he said. "Now, the PM does not say in his speeches that he would give two crore jobs. Because the people of Bihar have realized that he had lied. "I can guarantee that if the PM comes today and promises two crore jobs to youths, perhaps the crowd would shoo him away, telling him that he had lied," Gandhi said. He said the people of Bihar gave 15 years to Nitish Kumar as chief minister and six years to Modi as Prime Minister yet "Bihar is the poorest state". "I want to see the day when youth from other states come to Patna to find employment," he said. He said India today cannot create jobs and the "neighboring countries have marched ahead of us. He said the ongoing elections in Bihar was about the states future and not about "Lalu ji's family, Nitish jis or my family." “If the Congress comes to power it will be a government of all castes and religions,” he added. "We know how to run the country, we know how to stand with farmers, we know how to give employment to the youth. But there is definitely a shortcoming in us that we do not know to lie, we cannot compete with them in lying," he said. He also praised RJD leader and the mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, saying he wants to give a new perspective and talks about employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Twitter in line of fire for showing Ladakh as part of China||A parliamentary committee on Wednesday came down heavily on Twitter for showing Ladakh as part of China, saying it amounted to treason and an explanation must be tendered by the US-based parent of the social media platform in form of an affidavit, sources in the panel said. Appearing before the joint committee of parliament on Data Protection Bill, chaired by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, representatives of Twitter India "begged apology", but they were told by the members that it was a criminal offence that questioned the sovereignty of the country and an affidavit must be submitted by Twitter Inc, not by its 'marketing arm' Twitter India, sources added. They were questioned for more than two hours by the panel members, mainly on Ladakh being shown as part of China on the Twitter app. "The committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter's explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate," Lekhi told PTI after the meeting. The Twitter representatives told the panel that the social media company respects the sensitivities of India, she said. "But, it is not only a question of the sensitivity of India or Indians. It is a question about national integrity and sovereignty of the country, and not respecting that is a criminal offence. And displaying Indian map improperly and incorrectly is an offence of treason and attracts imprisonment of seven years, she said. Lekhi said Twitter was also asked about its banning policy. "Shadow banning, banning policy there is no clarity about it. Such actions are very subjective... Twitter is becoming a law onto themselves and under these circumstances, they are violating Article 19 of the Constitution about the freedom of expression," she said. Sources said some members also raised questions about Twitter's transparency policy and its actions during elections, especially vis-a-vis their policies in other countries. Asked for their comments, a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement, "The recent geotagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the Government to share timely updates." Multiple sources in the panel said Twitter officials "begged apology" for Ladakh being shown as part of China on its app, but they were told by members that whatever they wanted to say on the issue should be given in writing in form of an affidavit by Twitter Inc, the parent company of the social media platform. They said Twitter India is "just a marketing arm" of US-based parent Twitter Inc, and therefore a written reply should come from them. Twitter Asia, based in Singapore, mainly deals with advertisement revenues and takes all major decisions related to the region, some members opined. Officials who deposed before the panel on behalf of Twitter India included Shagufta Kamran, senior manager, public policy; Ayushi Kapoor, legal counsel; Pallavi Walia, policy communications; and Manvinder Bali, corporate security. Officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology, and the Ministry of Law and Justice also deposed before the panel. The Indian government on October 22 had warned Twitter about its location setting that showed Leh in China, saying any disrespect towards the country's sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable. In a strongly-worded letter, Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the country's sensitivities, sources in the ministry had said. Twitter also came under heavy criticism and faced a backlash from social media users after its geotagging feature displayed "Jammu & Kashmir, the People's Republic of China" in a live broadcast from Leh's Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Nitish sings Modi praise, promises a 'developed' Bihar ||Bringing the "Modi factor" to the fore of the poll campaign, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday devoted his speech at a BJP rally here to development works undertaken by the Prime Minister for Bihar and said Narendra Modi will make it a "developed" state if the ruling NDA is voted back to power. Lavishing praise on Modi, Kumar referred to a slew of projects to assert that the people of Bihar can never forget what he has done for the state. "Listening to his (Modi's) appeal, if you give the NDA one more chance to work in the state, then you take it for sure that he will transform it into a developed state. Bihar will march ahead," he said. Locked in a keen electoral battle with the RJD-led Opposition amid a perceived anti-incumbency against Kumar's nearly 15-year tenure as chief minister, the National Democratic Alliance is banking strongly on the Modi factor to help it romp home. In the state capital and several other places, BJP's posters carrying the prime minister's photographs and its symbol, among with that of allies, have been put up prominently, assuring voters that he will bring them jobs -- a central theme of the Bihar assembly polls -- and other developments in the same way he has brought them roads and electricity. In his speech, Kumar, the JD(U) president, spoke about the Patna metro project, smart cities plan and the Ujjwala scheme among other measures to laud Modi. He has done so much for building roads and bridges in the state, the chief minister said in his brief speech. Kumar also praised Modi for his initiatives in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to the free ration scheme for over 80 crore poor in the country between April and November, the chief minister said, "This is not a small thing." The NDA has projected Kumar as its chief ministerial candidate. Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial face of his alliance, has launched an aggressive campaign around the theme of "unemployment and corruption" in the NDA government in the state and has protected himself as a harbinger of hope and change. The NDA, on the other hand, has been raking up the issue of the "15-year-misrule" during the previous RJD regime from 1990 to 2005.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Delhi schools to remain closed for indefinite period||All schools in Delhi will continue to be closed till further orders in view of the COVID-19 situation, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday. Parents are not in favour of reopening schools either, Sisodia said at an online press conference. The Delhi government had earlier announced that schools will remain closed till October 31. "We keep getting feedback from parents that they are really concerned about whether it is safe to reopen schools. It is not. Wherever schools have reopened, Covid-19 cases among children have risen. So we have decided that as of now schools in the national capital will not reopen. They will continue to be closed till further orders," Sisodia said. Delhi recorded 4,853 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike here till date, as the infection tally in the city mounted to over 3.64 lakh, authorities said. The previous highest single-day spike of 4,473 cases was recorded on September 16. Universities and schools across the country were closed on March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. While several restrictions were eased in different 'unlock' phases, educational institutions continued to remain closed. According to Unlock 5' guidelines, states can take a call on reopening schools in phases. Several states including Haryana, Punjab, UP and Sikkim have also begun the process of reopening schools. Schools in UP's Noida are struggling with low attendance as parents are apprehensive about sending their wards to schools yet. Earlier, schools were allowed to call students from Class 9 to 12 to school on voluntary basis from September 21. However, the Delhi government decided against it. The Ministry of Education had issued detailed guidelines for reopening of schools including thorough cleaning and disinfection of premises, flexibility in attendance, no assessment for up to three weeks and ensuring a smooth transition from home-based schooling during the coronavirus-induced lockdown to formal schooling. Schools have been advised to form task teams such as emergency care support and response teams, general support teams for all stakeholders, commodity support teams, hygiene inspection teams, among others, with earmarked responsibilities. The Maharashtra government has said it will assess the Covid-19 situation post-Diwali and till then schools will continue to remain closed. The Gujarat government has also said it is likely to consider reopening schools only after Diwali. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said a decision on reopening of schools will be taken only after mid-November. The Karnataka government has said it is in no hurry to reopen schools and will take a call on the issue after evaluating all aspects. The Meghalaya government has sought feedback from parents before taking a final decision on reopening of schools in the state. The Mizoram government has decided to shut all schools that were reopened for students of classes 10 and 12 due to the rising number of locally transmitted COVID-19 cases and also because some pupils have tested positive for the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||PM talks about other countries but not problems of India, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he talks about other countries in his speeches but not about the problems facing India such as unemployment. Gandhi, who arrived in West Champaran district for his second round of campaigning in the ongoing state elections, also attacked Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over unemployment and the issue of migration. Addressing a rally at Valmiki Nagar, the former Congress president said he was pained to see that Prime Minister Modi's effigy was burnt in Punjab on the occasion of Dusshera, and added that it reflected the "anger" of youths and farmers. "Youths and farmers of Punjab and Bihar and youths of Uttar Pradesh are angry that our PM keeps making speeches with Bihar Chief Minister and talks about other countries, but not the problems confronting our country such as unemployment," he said. He said the prime minister and the Bihar chief minister used to raise the issue of unemployment earlier but no longer now. "Now, the PM does not say in his speeches that he would give two crore jobs. Because the people of Bihar have realised that he had lied. "I can guarantee that if the PM comes today and promises two crore jobs to youths, perhaps the crowd would shoo him off, telling him that he had lied," Gandhi said. The Congress knows how to run a country, how to stand with farmers and provide employment, but "we don't know how to lie", he said. Criticising the Centre over the three recently passed farm laws, he said its "pilot project" was implemented in Bihar in 2006 when the mandi system was abolished in the state. "What Nitish Kumar did in Bihar in 2006, Narendra Modi is doing in Punjab, Haryana and across the country," Gandhi said. The Congress has fielded Pravesh Kumar Mishra for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha by-election, while Rajesh Singh has been nominated for the assembly poll from there. The bypoll to Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency has been necessitated due to death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto. The Lok Sabha by-poll will be held on November 7 and the results will be announced on November 10 alongside the results of Bihar assembly elections. Later in the day, Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to address a rally at Kusheswar Asthan in Darbhanga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Suspension of international passenger flights extended till November 30 ||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till November 30 amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said on Wednesday. "However, the international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Indian aviation regulator said in a circular. The scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral 'air bubble' arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 18 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) circular also mentioned that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. The scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Hong Kong bans Air India flight from Mumbai till November 10||Hong Kong has banned Air India flights from Mumbai till November 10 after a few passengers on its flight tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival earlier this week, a senior government official said on Friday. This is the fourth time that Air India flights from India have been banned by the Hong Kong government for bringing passengers who tested positive for the infection after arrival. Previous bans were on the airline's Delhi-Hong Kong flights during September 20-October 3 and August 18-August 31 and October 17-October 30. Passengers from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if they have a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done within 72 hours prior to the journey, according to rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July. Moreover, all international passengers are required to undergo a post-flight Covid-19 test at the Hong Kong airport. Besides India, a pre-flight Covid-19 negative certificate is mandatory for all passengers from Bangladesh, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa, the UK and the US, according to the Hong Kong government's rules. An airline operating a flight to Hong Kong from these countries has to submit a form before departure, stating that all passengers onboard have Covid-19 negative certificates. "A few passengers who travelled on Air India's Mumbai-Hong Kong flight earlier this week tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival at Hong Kong," the senior government official said. "Subsequently, the Mumbai-Hong Kong flights have been barred from October 28 to November 10 by the Hong Kong government," the official added. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, the Indian airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July this year. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, the airlines of both countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. India has formed such pacts with approximately 18 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Modi calls Tejashwi the 'yuvraj' of jungle raj in second Bihar rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a stinging attack on the opposition RJD in Bihar and its chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, asking voters to beware of the "yuvraaj" (crown prince) of "jungle raj", and alleged the party had the "copyright over kidnappings". Addressing his second rally of the day in the poll- bound state, Modi cautioned the people that a return of the "jungle raj" will bring a double whammy for the state in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic' He asked the voters to view the assembly elections as "an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of darkness". "Can anything be expected from the yuvraaj of jungle raj? He ought to be evaluated on the basis of a track record about which the people know much better than I do," said Modi, without mentioning by name the RJD or Yadav, the younger son and heir apparent of party president Lalu Prasad. In an apparent reference to Yadav's alluring promise of 10 lakh permanent government jobs if his party was voted to power, the prime minister said, "Forget about jobs in the public sector. Even private companies giving jobs will flee." "Companies will shut down their offices and run away. Extortion calls will be made by those patronised by the party which has a copyright over kidnappings," he said, apparently referring to the 15 years of the RJD rule when the party in power often faced accusations of being in cahoots with criminal gangs. "The elections are an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of darkness. The Centre has many plans for Bihar which will bring more peace and prosperity with Nitish Kumar at the helm in the state," the prime minister said. He cautioned people against those who were responsible for kushasan (bad governance) in Bihar. "They are waiting for an opportunity to make a comeback. If jungle raj returns amid the COVID 19 pandemic, it will be a double whammy for the state." "It is a party which patronised criminals and ensured the riches of one family grew," he remarked, making a veiled reference to the corruption scandals involving Prasad and his family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Modi rakes up Ayodhya, 'jungle raj' at first Bihar rally of the day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched the second leg of his campaign for Bihar assembly elections, raking up the Ayodhya issue and urging the people to defeat the opposition which had ushered in a "jungle raj" in the state and embezzled funds meant for development schemes. Invoking the imagery of Goddess Sita and her father Janaka, the king of Mithila of which this north Bihar town became the capital later on, Modi said those who used to taunt the BJP over the delay in construction of Ram temple were now forced to applause. "I am happy to be here, in the birth place of Mother Sita. Construction of temple at Ayodhya has also begun. Those siyasi log (political opponents) who used to taunt us with the question what is the date (for commencement of construction), have now been forced to clap in applause," Modi told the rally. The prime minister, who shared the stage with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, lavished praise on the latter, calling him the "bhaavi mukhyamantri" (prospective CM) and crediting him with Bihar's economic turnaround. "The people of Bihar have made up their mind to inflict yet another defeat on those responsible for the jungle raj where the crime graph soared to such an extent that living a normal life became difficult for the common people, our mothers and sisters," Modi said in an obvious attack on the RJD-Congress combine, without mentioning either by name. "They committed financial irregularities in the name of waiving farm loans. They took bribes in exchange for jobs. The NDA stands for development. Beware of those who are greedily eyeing the funds earmarked for progress," said Modi. He said those who were in power before the NDA government was formed were so obsessed with their "commission" that they never cared about connectivity for regions like Mithila. A project like Kosi Mahasetu could be completed only when the NDA was in power both in the state and the Centre, he added. The prime minister, who spoke at length about the measures taken by the Centre for the development of Mithila as well as those proposed for the future, sought to strike a chord with the local populace by recalling legendary Maithili poet Vidyapati and uttering phrases in the local language. He also made references to "paan" (betel leaves) and "makhaan" (fox nut) cultivated in the area in abundance. In a deft attempt at reaching out to the lower castes, Modi also paid tributes to Dalit icon Baba Chauharmal. Noting that voting was underway in several assembly segments in the first phase of elections, Modi urged the people to stay safe and take precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic while exercising their franchise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Fear in Valley as Centre unlocks land||A central notification has allowed Indian citizens living outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy non-agricultural land in the Union Territory. The notification puts in place the biggest change facilitated by the abrogation of the special status last year, igniting fears of an eventual demographic shift in the Muslim-majority tip of India and triggering outrage in the Valley and in Jammu as well as across faiths. Until now, only permanent residents were allowed to buy immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre’s notification has omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with sale of land in the fledgling Union Territory. Article 370 and 35A had barred outsiders from owning land. But the special status granted through these laws was scrapped last year. The Union home ministry’s notification said the “Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of Central Laws) Third Order, 2020 shall come into force with immediate effect and will encourage development in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir”. The new order has not been extended to Ladakh, which was carved up as a separate Union Territory when Jammu and Kashmir lost its statehood. Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha tried to play down the fears and said agricultural land was reserved for farmers. “On the areas identified as ‘industrial areas’, we want good industries to come up here, like in the rest of the country, so that there is progress, development and employment,” Sinha said. But the wording of the notification suggests even farmland can be transferred with the government’s approval. “No sale, gift, exchange, or mortgage of any land will be valid in favour of a person who is not an agriculturist, unless the government or an officer authorised by it in this behalf may grant permission for the same,” the notification says. The rules add that any non-agriculturist in whose favour land has been transferred can use it only for non-agriculture purposes and shall put the land to use only for which it has been transferred within a period of five years. The rules allow the government, on the request of an army officer not below the rank of corps commander, to declare an area as “strategic area within a local area” for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces. “The government may satisfy itself about the reasons cited for declaring the area as a strategic area and will have such area notified accordingly with such conditions as may be required,” the rules state. The seven-party alliance formed to fight for the restoration of the special status called the decisions a “betrayal” and a “massive assault on the rights of people of Jammu and Kashmir” and vowed to fight on all fronts. “The repeal of the Big Estates Abolition Act — the first-ever agrarian reform in the subcontinent, is an insult to the sacrifices of thousands of freedom fighters and farmers who fought against an autocratic and oppressive rule and a crude attempt to rewrite history. The order made in exercise of powers under Reorganisation Act, 2019, it is stated, is yet another brazen violation of the principle of constitutional propriety that is of fundamental importance to a constitutional democracy,” spokesperson Sajad Lone said. “The unconstitutional measure is clearly designed as an attempt to pre-empt the outcome of the challenge before the Supreme Court (which is hearing petitions challenging the abrogation of special status under Article 370).” The assault on exclusive property rights apart, changes in urban development laws and creation of security zones is bound to prejudicially affect the environment and ecosystem in environmentally fragile regions of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh in utter disregard of grave environmental concerns.” Kashmiri Pandit leader Satish Mahaldar called it a betrayal. “I, as a Kashmiri and a Kashmiri Pandit, feel betrayed. I and my community today fear that our land has been snatched. We are in great shock after reading the gazette notifications issued by the Union home ministry. We condemn such act,” he said. Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, too, criticised the Centre’s decision. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said: “Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land, and transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. J&K is now up for sale and the poorer small land holding owners will suffer.” The Centre had introduced domicile laws earlier this year, allowing jobs to certain sections of outsiders. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said “such brazen measures reinforce the need of people of all three provinces of J&K to fight united.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Jobs stir to life but miles to go||Formal employment generation has started picking up in the past few months but the deficit compared to last year continues to be wide, the latest payroll data of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) suggests. The data, released by the EPFO last week, showed that the number of new subscribers, which mostly indicates new job holders, increased from 5.52 lakh in June to 6.48 lakh in July and 6.7 lakh in August. Despite the increase, the number remained far lower than that in the corresponding months of last year. The drop in new subscribers was 33 per cent in August 2020 over the corresponding month of last year. The fall was steeper in June and July 2020 over the corresponding months of 2019. After the Covid outbreak, the Centre had imposed a nationwide lockdown which continued till May-end. It was gradually lifted from June 1. The payroll data showed that the participation of women is less than 20 per cent in new subscriptions in August this year, down from 23 per cent in the same month last year. Mahesh Vyas, managing director of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), said the enrolment data of the EPFO offered a good sign about gradual recovery in formal employment in the recent months but there is still a big deficit in employment creation compared to last year. “The year-on-year comparison of enrolment data suggests the decline in generation of new jobs is gradually reducing. The data of every month shows the job creation is gradually increasing. The CMIE’s data also suggests a similar trend. The job loss was enormous in April but job generation picked up gradually in the subsequent months although the deficit remains, compared to last year,” Vyas said. “There is still a long way to go to get back to the employment situation of the pre-Covid period. It will depend on how fast economic activities are restored. In the festive season, there are always increased activities. It will be interesting to see if these activities are sustained in the lean period of January and February too. Also, much would depend on how fast the corona fear is going away,” Vyas said. He said women’s participation in labour gets affected during difficult times. Women are the first to leave the workforce and they suffer more than men. Companies are hesitant to hire women workers during difficult periods, a labour economist said. “There are social factors like more work at home that is mainly done by women. So they are likely to be more occupied at home. Second, some employers do not hire women so that they can avoid expenses on special safety, transport and possibly maternity leave,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Delhi outsources ‘China’ to US ||The Narendra Modi government’s reluctance to name China as an aggressor stood out again on Tuesday during the media interaction after the 2+2 dialogue with the US. The visitors from the US spoke out against Chinese aggression which their Indian interlocutors — ministers Rajnath Singh and S. Jaishankar — studiously avoided, preferring the usual euphemisms instead. Both US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and secretary of defence Mark T. Esper brought up China in their remarks to the media with the former making a specific reference to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash. Referring to his morning visit to the National War Memorial, Pompeo said it was to honour the brave Indian men and women who have sacrificed their lives for the world’s largest democracy, “including 20 who were killed by the PLA forces in the Galwan Valley in June. The US will stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty”. Detailing the discussions in the 2+2 format as also the one-to-one meeting he had with external affairs minister Jaishankar, the US secretary of state said: “The challenge of defeating the pandemic that came from Wuhan also fed into our robust discussions about the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Our leaders and our citizens see with increasing clarity that the CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency nor to freedom of navigation — the foundation to a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific.” Pompeo said: “I am glad to say that the US and India are taking steps to strengthen our cooperation against all manner of threats and not just those posed by the CCP.” Earlier, Esper too had brought up China, asserting that “we stand shoulder to shoulder in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific for all, particularly in light of increasing aggression and destabilising activities by China”. By contrast, the two Indian ministers avoided naming China while referring to the need for upholding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. In his remarks to the media, Jaishankar said: “The Indo-Pacific region was a particular focus of our talks. We reiterated the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in this region. As Raksha Mantri stated, this is possible only by upholding the rules based international order, ensuring the freedom of navigation in the international seas, promoting open connectivity and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. A multi-polar world must have a multi-polar Asia as its basis.’’ Later, Jaishankar responded to a specific question on whether China was a factor for the series of engagements that India has had with the US in the past few weeks — that, too, so close to the U.S. presidential elections. Jaishankar said: “As for the factor for holding these meetings, there are two — one is called India and the other is called the United States of America. This is a relationship that serves our national interests... also Indo-US collaboration can be a force of good. In that sense, it is truly global, it is truly comprehensive, it is truly strategic and that’s the reason why we are meeting.’’ An official release by the State Department of the remarks made by the four principals at the 2+2 meeting quoted defence minister Rajnath as saying: “In the area of defence, we are challenged by reckless aggression on our northern borders.” According to the release, this is “via interpreter” and the remaining part is marked “inaudible’’. The defence ministry did not put out Rajnath’s opening remarks at the meeting even after the American release was flagged to them. Rajnath was non-committal, asked if the growing military cooperation with the US would mean India would be distancing itself from Russian weapons suppliers. “Purchases are dependent on negotiations,” the minister replied, indicating that India was keeping both options open and sidestepping the specifics of the S-400 deal with Russia that the US has opposed. The joint statement appears to have taken on board India’s apprehensions in naming China, in view of the ongoing negotiations to resolve the situation along the Line of Actual Control and also the different dynamics at play, given the geographic proximity as compared to the US. As a consequence, there is no naming of China in the statement. But it dwells at length on the Indo-Pacific that is a pet subject of the Trump administration and a crucial part of Washington’s China-containment policy. According to the joint statement, the two sides reaffirmed that closer India-US cooperation will support shared interests in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. They also emphasised that the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (SCS) should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law. The Code of Conduct in the South China Sea refers to the effort by China and Asean over the past decade to evolve a set of regional norms and rules in the SCS to avoid conflicts in disputed waters. China’s Nine Dash Line covers most of the SCS and overlaps with the exclusive economic zones of several countries including Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei and Vietnam besides Taiwan which Beijing considers part of its territory. In defence, the last of the foundational agreements materialised with the signing of BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement), making Pompeo state that the two countries have entered into a new age of ambition. This comes on the heels of more institutionalised liaison between the two militaries over the past couple of years. According to Esper, there is a resolve to cooperate further in cyber and space and the joint statement also refers to cooperation on dealing with the pandemic in a clear desire to build on the experience of developing and distributing ROTAVAC vaccine against Rotavirus. “Recognising that bilateral engagement in the research & development and the mass production of vaccines and therapeutics plays to our respective strengths, the ministers sought to jointly promote access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments on a global scale,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Kerala to fix floor price for vegetables||Kerala on Tuesday became the first state to introduce a floor price for vegetables, which would be 20 per cent above the production cost, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here. The scheme would come into effect from November 1, he said. Launching the scheme online, the chief minister said this was the first time the floor price was being fixed for 16 varieties of vegetables produced in Kerala. This was also the first such initiative by any state, which would provide relief and support to farmers, he added. The floor price would be 20 per cent above the production cost of the vegetables, he said. Even if the market price went below this, the produce would be procured at the floor price from farmers. The vegetables would be graded according to the quality and the floor price fixed accordingly, he said. “Farmers across the country are not satisfied... but for the last four and half years, we have supported them. The government has taken up several initiatives primarily targeted at the development of agriculture in the state,” the chief minister said. Vijayan said 16 varieties of vegetables would be covered in the first phase and there was a provision to revise the floor price on a regular basis. Local self-government (LSG) bodies would play an important role in this scheme, as they would be coordinating procurement and distribution of vegetables, Vijayan said. The scheme would benefit a farmer with a maximum of 15 acres of vegetable cultivation per season. They can register on the agriculture department’s registration portal from November 1 after insuring the crop to get the benefit of the floor price, he said. The scheme also envisages setting up the entire supply chain process like cold storage facilities and refrigerated vehicles for transporting the produce. The chief minister said vegetable production in Kerala has more than doubled in the last four and a half years, from 7lakh tonnes to 14.72 lakh tonnes. The target was to increase production by an additional 1 lakh tonnes each of vegetables and tuber crops this year, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||‘Urgent’ plea on poll bonds ||The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), an NGO, on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the fresh issuance of electoral bonds by India’s lead banker, State of Bank of India, between October 19 and 28, just ahead of the Bihar election battle. The NGO, through advocate Prashant Bhushan, has requested “urgent” hearing since the matter relating to the validity of electoral bonds has not been heard by the court for the past nine months since January 20. In the meantime, the bonds are once again in circulation at the time of elections, it said. According to the application, which is yet to be listed, the fresh circulation of electoral bonds raises “…very significant questions concerning democratic functioning of the country…which requires urgent adjudication”. “That recently, right before the Bihar legislative Assembly elections, the State Bank of India, in the XIV Phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash Electoral Bonds through its 29 Authorised branches w.e.f. 19.10.2020 to 28.10.2020. “That even though a notification, dated 02.01.2018, stipulates sale of electoral bonds in January, April, July and October months of each year; the window was not opened in April and July, but has been opened in October, right before the Bihar legislative election,” the application said. The NGO said it was willing to argue the application through videoconferencing as the issue raised is of considerable importance to the country’s democratic polity. “…in view of passing of more than 9 months since the last date of hearing of the instant PIL and new developments relating to Bihar legislative election having taken place, the instant matter requires urgent adjudication. The petitioners herein request that the instant PIL be heard on an urgent basis. The petitioners herein consent to matter being heard through video conferencing for which purpose they will link through their own desktop/mobile,” the application said. The NGO had earlier in 2017 filed a PIL challenging the electoral bonds policy on the ground that it would lead to corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties and lack of transparency in the accounts of all parties. The petition had challenged certain amendments made through Finance Act, 2017, and the earlier Finance Act, 2016, which were both passed as money bills to give effect to the electoral bonds. The NGO said this had opened doors to unlimited political donations, even from foreign companies, thereby legitimising electoral corruption at a huge scale and complete non-transparency in political funding. “That the Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy. The Finance Act of 2017 has introduced the use of electoral bonds which is exempt from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, opening doors to unchecked, unknown funding to political parties,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||HC to monitor Hathras probe: SC ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered CRPF security cover to the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by four upper-caste youths in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, on September 14. The top court also directed Allahabad High Court to monitor the ongoing CBI investigation. The girl died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. Her body was burnt by the police in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family has said they were locked up in their house by the police before the cremation. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked the high court to morph any reference relating to the identity of the girl after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta brought to its notice references to the girl’s identity in the earlier orders by the high court. Disposing of a batch of 16 petitions/applications filed on the issue by individuals and organisations for a Supreme Court-monitored probe, the bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said the high court was already seized of the issue. But the top court assured that at a later stage, it would consider the plea for transferring the trial to Delhi from Uttar Prdaesh after completion of the CBI investigation. “Though various contentions were urged, the undisputed fact is that the investigation has in fact been entrusted by the state government itself to the CBI on October 10 and the CBI has started investigation in respect of the crime on October 11. “Therefore, the apprehensions expressed by the petitioners/applicants that there would be no proper investigation if the Uttar Pradesh police conducted the same would not remain open for consideration at this stage and the grievance to that extent stands redressed.” Referring to the plea by senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for some women lawyers, to appoint a special public prosecutor for the case, the bench said the high court was free to decide on this since the case involves an offence under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||Cong goes local in Bihar campaign ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said the Bihar government had failed to do good for any section of the society and called for a change to ensure freedom from miseries and lies for the state’s hard-working people. Sonia, who has not been campaigning in elections for the last few years for health reasons, issued an appeal to the voters, saying: “The government lost its way, both in its words and deeds. Every section — farmers, labourers, youth, women… are in distress. Both the governments of Delhi and Bihar are governments of bandi (closures). Note-bandi, lockdown and closures of businesses, industries, economy, employment, agriculture…” Asking the voters to support the Congress-RJD alliance, she said: “People of Bihar have talent, skills and capacity to work hard. They don’t deserve unemployment, migration, hunger, tears… What they suffered during the lockdown is unspeakable. Time has come for reconstruction of Bihar, for a change.” She didn’t name chief minister Nitish Kumar or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress has altered its strategy during the campaign, focusing on local issues and concerns of Bihari voters instead of its usual critique of Modi. Probably taking a cue from RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav’s obsessive focus on jobs which has shaped the discourse of the Bihar election, the Congress has also avoided dwelling on national issues. They started attacking the BJP and Modi but the focus has now been shifted to Nitish, perceived to be the softest target in this election. Even the BJP has realised that Nitish had become a liability and has woven a new campaign theme around Modi. The Congress ran a social media campaign — Speak up for Bihar — on Tuesday which also focused on the miseries of the lockdown and the state government’s failures. Issues like Chinese intrusion, communalism and Article 370 were given a go by. A statement issued by the Congress’s election in-charge, Randeep Surjewala, also avoided dealing with Modi’s politics. The entire messaging revolved around Nitish’s failures; he was described as “Apradh Kumar” in the context of rising crimes in the state. Surjewala said: “There has been an increase of 150 per cent in crimes, with 737 crimes happening daily. Bihar is witnessing kidnapping of even children, much more than anywhere in the country.” The Congress is also laying excessive focus on the miseries of the lockdown as people of Bihar, especially migrant workers, suffered the most during that period. There is a realisation that this strategy has prevented the BJP from diverting attention from real problems and even polarising voters on communal lines. Rahul Gandhi is going to campaign in Bihar on Wednesday in Valmiki Nagar and Darbhanga. It will be interesting to see whether he too sings a different tune, discarding his usual Modi-centric rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||Allahabad High Court frowns on ‘misuse’ of cow law in UP||Allahabad High Court has said the law preventing cow slaughter in Uttar Pradesh is “misused against innocent persons” and that many people languish in jail for “an offence that may not have been committed at all”. The court on October 19 made the observation while hearing the bail plea of Rahmuddin, a resident of the Thana Bhavan area of Shamli district who had been arrested on the charge of cow slaughter, which is banned in the state. Although the police had accused Rahmuddin of possessing beef, they did not send samples of the meat for a forensic exam. Rahmuddin challenged his August 5 arrest and pointed out that there was no proof that he had been in possession of cow meat. He was granted bail. While hearing the case, the single-judge bench of Justice Siddharth said: “There is no allegation against the applicant in the FIR.” “The (Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter) Act is being misused against innocent persons. Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without getting it examined or analysed by a forensic laboratory. In most of these cases, the meat is not sent for analysis. The accused persons continue to be in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all,” the court said. The maximum punishment for cow slaughter is seven years in jail. The high court also pointed to the shoddy treatment meted out to cows in a state whose government swears by “gau mata”. “Whenever cows are shown to be recovered, no proper recovery memo is prepared and one does not know where cows go after recovery. Goshalas do not accept non-milching or old cows and they are left to wander on the roads,” the court noted. The state government claims to have opened cowsheds in every district but reports of cows being abandoned and dying of starvation are not uncommon in Uttar Pradesh. The court observed: “…The owners of cows, after milking, leave them to roam on roads, to drink drainage/sewer water and eat garbage, polythene, etc. Moreover, cows and cattle on the road are a menace to the traffic and a number of deaths have been reported due to this.” It continued: “In the rural areas, cattle owners who are unable to feed their livestock abandon them…. There are no pastures now. Thus, these animals wander here and there, destroying crops. Earlier, farmers were afraid of ‘Neelgai (antelope)’. Now, they have to save their crops from stray cows (too). Whether cows are on roads or on fields, their abandonment adversely affects the society in a big way.” The court hoped that the government would solve the problem. “Some way out has to be found to keep them either in cow shelters or with the owners, if the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act is to be implemented in letter and spirit,” Justice Siddharth said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||US help to watch China ||India and the US on Tuesday signed the long-awaited Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geospatial intelligence during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue. In the third edition of the talks, foreign minister S. Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper to expand their bilateral military relationship at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. Terming it a “significant achievement”, Rajnath said: “In our meeting, we shared assessment of the security situation across the Indo-Pacific. In that process, we reaffirmed our commitment to peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in this region. “We also agreed that upholding the rules-based international order, respecting the rule of law and freedom of navigation in the international seas and upholding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states are essential.” BECA for geospatial cooperation is essentially a communication agreement between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US department of defence and India’s defence ministry. It will allow India and the US to share military information, precision data and topographical imagery on a real-time basis. The agreement will also allow the US to share sensitive satellite and sensor data that would help India in striking military targets with accuracy. It will also help Delhi to keep a close eye on the movements of Chinese warships in the Indian Ocean. “BECA will help both India and the US to counter China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region. Chinese navy has been taking an assertive stance in the South China Sea and challenging India’s domination in the Indian Ocean. BECA will help India to keep track of China’s increasing presence in the Indian Ocean region,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. The UPA government had earlier raised concerns over BECA on protection of classified information and access to classified laboratories in India. “These concerns have been addressed as most of the information shared will be unclassified. For sharing classified information there is a clause in the pact with safeguards to prevent it from being shared with any third party,” the IB official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||First-phase elections today ||Caste, prohibition and onions made a dramatic entry into the Bihar poll campaign on Monday as the Opposition parties used them to take on the ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) and the BJP just before electioneering for the first phase of voting on Wednesday came to a halt. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav stirred up a hornet’s nest in what appeared to be a bid to divide politics on caste lines. “Jab Lalu Yadav ka raj tha to garib seena taan ke babu sahab logon ke saamne chalta tha (The poor used to move defiantly in front of babu sahab during the rule of Lalu Yadav),” Tejashwi said at a rally in Rohtas. Opposition Grand Alliance’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi is the younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is currently incarcerated in Ranchi following conviction in the fodder scam cases. “Babu sahab” is what upper caste Rajputs are generally called in Bihar. Though politics in post-Independence Bihar has always been heavily fraught with casteism, Tejashwi’s comments were seen as an attempt to reinforce it ahead of the Assembly polls scheduled on October 28, November 3 and 7. He realised his mistake and quickly talked about taking all castes together on the path of development, but the damage was done. The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) latched onto his comments to remind how Lalu, in his heydays, had given a call to remove “Bhura Baal” — an acronym for Bhumihar, Rajput, Brahman and Lala — all general category castes. It had led to much caste friction in the state. Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi, currently in hospital after contracting coronavirus, said in a video message: “The abusive statements of the leader of Opposition (Tejashwi) at a public meeting in Rohtas are condemnable. The entire politics of the RJD has been to abuse the general category castes. This is the same party that opposed the 10 per cent reservation given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to the poor among the general category castes.” However, Sushil also did not refrain from playing politics by raking up the issue of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who quit the RJD before his death in September. He was a Rajput. “This is the same RJD whose tallest general category leader Raghuvansh babu was insulted and had to leave the party. The entire politics of this party is on removing ‘Bhura Baal’ and divide the society. The BJP condemns this,” Sushil added. Earlier in the day, Tejashwi raised the issue of inflation, including increase in onion prices, and attacked the BJP, the central government, and chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Inflation is the biggest issue right now. The BJP leaders used to wear garlands of onions. The price of onions is now about to touch Rs 100 per kg. There is unemployment all around. People are starving, small traders have been ruined and poverty is rising. The GDP is falling and we are going through an economic crisis. But why the BJP, the Centre and Nitish Kumar are silent?” Tejashwi asked. He also symbolically protested by making garlands of onions for the BJP and the JDU. On the other hand, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, who has stormed the campaign trail after completing the last rituals of his father, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, attacked Nitish, who is also the JDU president, by alleging the failure of prohibition. He has been on the warpath for the last few months. “Everybody is getting liquor in Bihar. The entire government and administrative system is complicit in this. There is no single minister in Bihar from the JDU who does not know about this. Not only I, but everyone is saying that home delivery of illicit liquor is happening,” Chirag said in his speeches and to mediapersons. Wondering why the government was not reviewing prohibition and how smugglers and bootleggers were operating in the state, Chirag asserted that people across the state were getting liquor easily. “How is it happening? The chief minister is patronising it. Prohibition cannot be done only through talking. It has to be executed. How so much liquor is being recovered in the state and from those involved in smuggling?” the LJP leader asked. Chirag had earlier tweeted that people in Bihar were becoming liquor smugglers due to the lack of employment opportunities. Nitish had implemented total prohibition in April 2016 by enacting a legislation to ban any consumption, manufacturing, trade or possession of liquor, and incorporating harsh punishments right from seizure and auction of assets of people involved in flouting the ban to life imprisonment. All parties in both Houses of the state legislature had supported it and the legislation was passed unanimously. However, this did not deter the liquor mafia in the country to make deep inroads into the state which shares borders with Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Nepal. It is a common knowledge that alcohol is easily available everywhere in Bihar due to a strong nexus of the mafia, enforcement agencies and politicians. At times liquor is seized, but it is just the tip of the iceberg. On the other hand, prohibition has also led to numerous raids leading to the registration of around 2.14 lakh cases in which around 2.75 lakh people have been booked and over 1.8 lakh have been arrested. This has overburdened the entire judicial system in the state. Nearly 40,000 bail applications are pending in Patna High Court while 40 per cent of the accused in jail have been in some way or another flouted prohibition. Bihar had to forgo tax revenue worth Rs 5,000 crore. The employment of several lakh of people engaged in selling snacks around liquor shops; cooking, serving and indulging in other works in bar and restaurants eroded. Chirag’s vitriolic remarks hit the bull’s eye and Nitish quickly reacted to it at one of the rallies he addressed at Lakhisarai. “An environment is being created against prohibition in the state by those involved in the liquor trade. They want the liquor ban laws to be removed. The liquor mafia wants to remove me somehow. I implemented prohibition to fulfil a long-standing demand of women. I had promised them before the 2015 Assembly polls that I would do so if I came back to power,” Nitish said. The chief minister pointed to the decrease in disputes and crime as the benefits of prohibition. He asserted that prohibition was a social welfare step.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
