29-10-2020||India||Mayawati suspends seven rebel MLAs||BSP leader Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven of her party's rebel MLAs who had opposed the nomination of its official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Amid speculation that the MLAs could switch sides in Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati also said that to ensure defeat of Samajwadi Party candidates in future MLC elections, her party will vote for BJP or any other party's candidate. The former UP chief minister said as soon as the rebel MLAs join any party, the BSP would take action against them under the anti-defection law. She said the party organisation has been informed that the suspended legislators should not be invited to any party function. Mayawati said that her party will leave no stone unturned to defeat SP candidates in the future even if it means voting for candidates of BJP or any other party. Any candidate who dominates over SP's second candidate will get BSP MLAs' vote, she said in a statement. In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, six party MLAs reportedly met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and later threw hints that they may switch sides. Four of the group of rebels also filed an affidavit, saying their signatures on the party candidate Gautam's nomination for the Rajya Sabha polls had been forged. The move turned out to be futile with the Returning Officer still accepting Gautam's nomination as the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate for the November 9 biennial elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||Almost 50,000 cases in a day, Covid tally crosses 80 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 80-lakh mark on Thursday, 18 days after it had gone past 70 lakh, with 49,881 new cases while the recoveries surged to 73.15 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 90.99 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 80,40,203 and the death toll climbed to 1,20,527 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 517 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.49 per cent. There are 603687 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 7.5 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,65,63,440 samples have been tested up to October 28 with 10,75,760 samples being tested on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. The 517 new fatalities include 91 from Maharashtra, 60 from West Bengal, 55 each from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 40 from Delhi, 35 from Tamil Nadu and 27 from Kerala. A total of 1,20,527 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 43,554 from Maharashtra followed by 11046 from Karnataka, 11,018 from Tamil Nadu, 6,958 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,643 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,664 from West Bengal, 6,396 from Delhi, 4,158 from Punjab and 3701 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||One lakh tonne onions released in market||Amid the soaring prices of onion, Union Agriculture Minister has said one lakh tonne of buffer stock of the key kitchen staple is being released by the government to provide relief to people. He was talking to reporters on Wednesday after taking part in a rally in Dharampuri town of Indore district ahead of the November 3 bypolls to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. "The government has already taken cognisance of the issue of rising prices of onion and its one lakh tonne of buffer stock is being released through NAFED," Tomar said. "We had imposed a ban on the export of onion from the country well in time and opened routes for its import," the minister said. NCP chief and former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Wednesday blamed the central government's policies for the rising prices of onion, and said he would speak to the Centre about the stock limit imposed on the commodity traders. Referring to Congress's protests on the new farm laws, Tomar accused the opposition party of having double standards. In its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto, the Congress promised to make trade free of regulations, he said. The Congress had also said it would encourage inter- state trade, discontinue the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), give encouragement to contract farming and end the Essential Commodities Act, he said. "But it was unable to do these things because of pressure from middlemen," the minister claimed. "The BJP-led government framed new laws for agriculture reforms. Therefore, the Congress is now suffering from stomach ache," he added. The Union minister was in Indore to address a rally in support of the state's water resources minister Tulsiram Silawat, who is contesting the bypoll from Sanver Assembly seat here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||Suspension at DU helm takes wraps off mess||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday suspended Delhi University’s absentee vice-chancellor, Yogesh K. Tyagi, on the charge of “misgovernance” but several teachers of the varsity alleged the government was equally to blame. Tyagi — whose attempts last week to ambush the executive council’s decisions from outside had embarrassed the university — will face an inquiry over “dereliction of duties and lack of commitment and devotion to duty”, the education ministry’s suspension order said. Pro-vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi will continue to discharge the vice-chancellor’s responsibilities for now. Tyagi, appointed in March 2016, was to end his tenure next March. The President is the Visitor, or head, of all central universities. An apparently ailing Tyagi, absent from the campus for over two months without officially taking leave, had on October 21 foisted an acting registrar on the university just before the executive council was to appoint a regular registrar. His appointee P.C. Jha hijacked the registrar’s office for a whole day and later issued orders negating earlier orders by Joshi, who had been filling in also as acting registrar. Tyagi had issued another order replacing Joshi with Geeta Bhatt. Eventually, the education ministry intervened to clarify that Tyagi’s orders appointing Jha and Bhatt were invalid. Wednesday’s suspension order repeated the point. The suspension order accused the VC of “not administering the university in accordance with the provision of the act, statutes and ordinances of DU, which has caused misgovernance and malfunctioning of DU”. It cited a series of lapses, including inaction or very little action on the pending appointments of teachers, chairpersons of college governing bodies, and key university functionaries. It cited how the post of pro-VC had been vacant from June 2016 to June 2020 till Joshi was appointed after great “pursuance by administrative ministry”. The posts of registrar and finance officer had been vacant since March before the executive council filled them both last week. The university has lacked regular controllers of examinations for the past six years. Many colleges have lacked principals and chairpersons of their governing bodies. Besides, several vigilance and sexual harassment complaints have been pending for more than two years without any action. Delhi University has about 4,500 ad-hoc teachers, who make up half the teacher strength. The government has from time to time asked the university to fill the posts but only a few were filled during Tyagi’s tenure. Earlier this year, the university had written to its affiliated colleges to hire guest teachers, threatening the jobs of the ad-hoc teachers. The ministry had to intervene and ask the university to continue with the ad-hoc teachers as a stop-gap arrangement. The suspension order mentioned Tyagi’s long absence from office without formal leave from the executive council. At least half-a-dozen teachers of the university, however, told The Telegraph that the education ministry and the University Grants Commission had allowed the mess to continue. “DUTA (the university’s teacher association) submitted a white paper in June last year on the inactions and misgovernance. But the government and the UGC allowed the malfunctioning to continue. They share the responsibility for the present situation equally,” former executive council member Abha Dev Habib said. The teachers feared that the inquiry was mainly the outcome of a power struggle within a BJP-backed teachers’ group and had little to do with correcting the university’s affairs. WhatsApp messages and a phone call to Tyagi went unanswered. An email to the education ministry on the teachers’ allegation about the government ignoring the white paper evoked no response, either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||An app to trace Aarogya setu’s creator||At 7.25pm on Tuesday, 16.23 crore Indians were using the Aarogya Setu App but the departments concerned in the Narendra Modi government have claimed in writing that they do not have any information on who created the app and they do not possess files relating to this “mandatory” tool to fight Covid-19. Three wings of the central government — the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the National e-Governance Division (NeGD) — turned away an RTI activist seeking this information. The Central Information Commission (CIC) on Tuesday described the departments’ response as “extremely preposterous” and issued a notice asking why action should not be initiated against them for “obstruction of information and providing an evasive reply”. The CIC’s interim order was issued after Saurav Das, RTI activist and member of the National Campaign for People’s Right to Information, requested an urgent hearing. He took the plea that the Aarogya Setu App — designed as a contact-tracing mechanism — would be rendered useless once the pandemic was over. Das had applied to all three entities but each passed it on, claiming it lacked the required information. In the order, information commissioner Vanaja N. Sarna said: “The commission observes that it is a current issue and it is not possible that there was no file movement while creating this app, a citizen cannot go round in circles to find out the custodian. The CPIO, NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the app is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MeITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, then it becomes more relevant to now find out how an app was created and there is no information with any of the relevant public authorities.” Das had in his RTI applications sought information on the origin of the proposal, approval details, companies, people and government departments involved, file notings related to the app, comments on the files by various officers, and copies of communications between private people involved in making/ developing the app and the government departments concerned. He had also sought copies of the requests for collaboration with people from the industry who had helped create the app, all communications received from all the contributors/ advisers relating to the app, internal notes, memos, file notings, the correspondence carried out while making the app and finalising it, and the minutes of the meetings held while creating the app. Forced on the back foot by the furore over the departments claiming ignorance in writing, the government came out with a detailed response from the telecom ministry that provided the background to the mobile app’s development but left specific questions asked by Das unanswered. “AarogyaSetu App was launched by Government of India in public private partnership mode to bring people of India together in its fight against Covid-19. The AarogyaSetu App was developed in a record time of around 21 days, to respond to the exigencies of the pandemic with lockdown restrictions only for the objective of building a Made in India contact tracing app with the best of Indian minds from industry, academia and government, working round the clock to build a robust, scalable and secure app,” the statement said. Stating that the ministry would respond to the CIC’s notice, the statement added that the names of all those associated with the development of the app and the management of the app ecosystem at various stages had been shared when the code was released in the public domain and that they were published widely in the media too. “The same can be accessed on https://github.com/nic-delhi/AarogyaSetu_Android/blob/master/Contributors.md. On all such occasions, it has been clearly mentioned that the AarogyaSetu App has been developed by NIC in collaboration with volunteers from industry and academia. AarogyaSetu app has been developed in the most transparent manner and all details and documents including privacy policy and AarogyaSetu data access & knowledge sharing protocols issued on 11th May 2020 (have) been uploaded on the AarogyaSetu portal – aarogyasetu.gov.in.’’ Responding to the ministry’s clarification, Das tweeted: “Not an ounce of word on the file related to the app, communications between private players and ministry, file notings, etc. Nothing is being put on record apart from these unsigned press releases! But yeah, go to their website & see ‘Why one should use @SetuAarogya’.” Reacting to NeGD CEO Abhishek Singh’s claim that there was no confusion on who had created the app, Das said: “Oh is it Mr Abhishek Singh? Then why was your officer mum during the hearing? Couldn’t he say that to the commission? Govt should stop this whataboutery and furnish the information on affidavit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||NIA raids cross-section of civil society in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has raided a cross-section of the civil society in Kashmir, including human rights defenders and journalists, on a day resistance seemed to be crystallising against the new land purchase policy notified by the Centre. Officials of the NIA, which reports to the Union home ministry, said searches were carried out on 10 premises in Srinagar and Bandipora in the Kashmir Valley and on one locality in Bangalore in connection with a case involving NGOs and trusts raising funds at home and abroad. The officials claimed that funds were raised in the name of charitable activities and subsequently used for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in Jammu and Kashmir. An NIA spokesperson said raids were conducted “on the residence and office of Khurram Parvez, co-ordinator of J&K Coalition of Civil Society (CCS); his associates Parvez Ahmad Bukhari, Parvez Ahmad Matta and Swati Sheshadri; Parveena Ahanger, the chairperson of Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons (APDPK), and NGO Athrout and GK Trust, among others.” GK Trust publishes two most widely read newspapers, the Greater Kashmir and the Kashmir Uzma. The CCS and the APDPK are human rights organiations. Bukhari is a journalist who has contributed for the Time magazine and Al Jazeera among others and now works for the France-based news agency AFP. Sources said there was also a raid on the residence of a senior journalist. Athrout, a charity, has been at the forefront of assisting the needy during crises in the Valley for more than a decade. Khurram and many others had expressed outrage on Tuesday against the new land law that lifts the bar on those living outside Jammu and Kashmir from buying non-agriculture land in the Union Territory. The change, facilitated by the abrogation of the special status, was notified by the Centre on Tuesday. “Abrogation of (the special provision in) Article 370, India had claimed that it was being done to ensure development, creation of jobs, women empowerment and transparency. Kashmiris knew that the real reason for abrogation was land grabbing and demographic changes. It can’t be anymore brazen and violent,” Khurram had tweeted on Tuesday. Disquiet against the new land rule is brewing in Jammu’s Hindu heartland, too, with several Dogra leaders claiming that the Dogra  identity was under assault. Jammu’s Hindu hub is a BJP stronghold where the Dogras, who are Hindus, form the  majority. The raids coincided with a break by separatists from their long slumber since Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status and statehood last year. The separatists called for a shutdown on October 31 against the new “imperial” land laws. On the searches, an NIA spokesperson said:  “A case was registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967 on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds at home and abroad through donations and business contributions, and are utilising these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K.” Politicians, journalists and people from other walks of life called the raids a crackdown on dissent and an assault on people who refuse to fall in line. “The NIA raids on GK office and HR defender Khurram Parvez’s house are attempts to impose silence even on our whispers (and they’re scared of even that). This comes a day after the disempowering land laws. Can this be just a coincidence?” tweeted Anuradha Bhasin, editor of the Kashmir Times. Bhasin’s office and residence- — allotted by government — in Srinagar and Jammu were recently sealed. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said the raids was yet another “example of GOI’s vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent”. “Sadly, the NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate & browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” she tweeted. “At a time when J&K’s land & resources are being plundered, GOI wants media publications to write op-eds about diabetes & yoga. In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media is targeted.” Sajjad Lone, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a seven-party alliance to fight for the restoration of the special status, said NIA raids have added to the “environment of fear”. “GK essentially was one institution which struggled its way to the top. The institution now stared helplessly as fear and slander take over. Hoping against hope that sanity prevails,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||Shift to government schools in villages||Enrolment in government schools has risen at the expense of private schools in the villages over the past two years, reversing the previous years’ trend, a survey has found. The finding suggests that the financial stress caused by the pandemic may be prompting parents to choose public-funded education for their children. Although physical classes have been closed since the lockdown began in March, school enrolment has taken place. The Annual Status of Education Report 2020, published by the NGO Pratham, is based on a 10-day telephone survey of 59,251 children, aged 5-16, in September. The children were from 52,227 households in 16,974 villages across 584 districts. The ASER report of 2018 had found 62.8 per cent of schoolboys and 70 per cent of schoolgirls enrolled in government schools in the villages, while the rural private schools accounted for the remaining 37.2 per cent among the boys and 30 per cent among the girls. The 2020 report on rural school enrolment found 66.4 per cent of the boys and 73 per cent of the girls on the rolls of government schools — a rise of over three percentage points. “There has been a clear shift from private to government schools between 2018 and 2020, in all grades and among both boys and girls,” the report said. “Reasons may include financial distress in households and/or permanent school shutdowns among the private schools.” Parents’ failure to pay fees during the pandemic has forced many private schools to shut down across the country. The pandemic seems, however, to have also increased the percentage of children not enrolled in schools, from 4 per cent in 2018 to 5.5 per cent in 2020. The increase has been the sharpest among boys aged 6 to 10, from 1.8 per cent in 2018 to 5.3 per cent in 2020. One possible explanation is that with the schools closed and classes being held entirely online, many among the very young children have not bothered to secure admission to Class I. The survey found that 80.5 per cent of the schoolchildren had textbooks. The figure was higher — 84 per cent — at government schools where textbooks are distributed free to all, compared with 72 per cent at private schools. As for smart phones, the ASER 2018 had found that 36.5 per cent children — 29.6 per cent at government schools and 49.9 per cent at private schools — had access to these devices. This year’s survey, however, recorded a leap to 56.4 per cent in government schools, 74.2 per cent in private schools and 61.8 per cent overall, implying the shift to online education had prompted parents to invest in smart phones for their children. Sixty-one per cent children in both the government and private schools have access to educational programmes on television. The latest survey also showed that regardless of the parents’ education level, families were putting in significant effort to support their children’s learning. Almost three in four children were receiving help, in some form or other, from their family members as they tackled online classes and homework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||Mayawati faces split threat over BJP||A threat to the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate’s prospects in the November 9 Rajya Sabha elections seemed to blow over on Wednesday evening but the party faced the spectre of a split over Mayawati’s alleged bid to seek BJP support for her nominee. Five rebel MLAs from the BSP had met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav twice on Wednesday, and in between visited the Assembly to claim they had never signed on BSP candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination form as proposers. They told the returning officer their signatures had been forged during Tuesday’s nomination. Each candidate needed 10 proposers. “Mayawati didn’t consult us before seeking BJP support for Gautam. We are not her property, and we never signed Gautam’s nomination form,” Hakim Lal Bind, one of the rebels, told reporters. Mayawati has recently appeared to have softened towards the BJP, offering token criticism over the Hathras atrocity and tacit support on the citizenship amendment and the abrogation of Article 370 last year. Apart from the five rebels — Bind, Aslam Rain, Aslam Ali, Muztaba Siddiqui and Hargovind Bhargav — a sixth party MLA, Sushma Patel, was present at the day’s second meeting between the BSP dissidents and Akhilesh. Late in the evening, however, the returning officer handed Mayawati a boost, clearing Gautam’s nomination and rejecting that of his main rival, Independent candidate Prakash Bajaj, who has threatened to move court. With only 10 candidates left and 10 Rajya Sabha seats up for grabs from the state, each nominee is expected to win uncontested barring a court order in favour of Bajaj. With 11 candidates in the fray originally, and the Assembly’s current strength being 395, each candidate had needed 36 votes to win. The BJP, which has 304 members, had fielded 8 candidates and therefore had 16 spare votes. The Samajwadis, who have 48 members, had fielded Ramgopal Yadav and had 12 extra votes. Mayawati had only 18 members and needed a further 18 votes. There was speculation that the BJP had promised her its spare votes as well as votes from ally Apna Dal (9 members) and three friendly Independents. With the 8 BJP candidates and Ramgopal assured victories barring massive cross-voting, the fight for the last seat till Wednesday evening seemed to be between Gautam and Bajaj, an industrialist and political rookie whose proposers included several Samajwadi members. BSP lawmaker Uma Shankar Singh accused the rebels of being “lured” by Bajaj. Bind said: “Mayawati doesn’t care for us. The party’s district coordinators misbehave with us. But Akhilesh calls us and enquires about our well-being. Even chief minister Yogi Adityanath helps us on occasion. But our own party ignores us.” Samajwadi lawmaker Udai Veer Singh said the BSP rebels had told him they were unhappy because Mayawati “was trying to get closer to the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||SC bins plea against activist bail||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed Delhi police’s appeal challenging the bail granted to JNU activist and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita in a case related to the communal violence in Northeast Delhi in February this year. The top court rejected the probe agency plea that she would tamper with the evidence. “It is only a grant of bail. How can you say she will tamper evidence? She is not going to run away,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah observed. Additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju, appearing for Delhi police, in the plea claimed that the activist was highly influential and she would tamper with the evidence. “How can influence of a person be a ground to deny bail to an accused?” Justice Shah asked. The court, however, said the investigating agency was free to approach it for cancellation of bail, if at a later stage the police gather any information about her tampering of evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||ED takes Sivasankar into custody in gold case ||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday took senior bureaucrat M. Sivasankar for interrogation in a gold smuggling case minutes after Kerala High Court dismissed his anticipatory bail pleas. ED officials reached an ayurvedic hospital in Thiruvananthapuram where Sivasankar was undergoing treatment for disc prolapse within five minutes of the high court pronouncing its verdict. The court had earlier stopped the ED and customs department from arresting Sivasankar until October 27 pending the hearing of his bail pleas. A bench of Justice Ashok Menon on Wednesday dismissed the bail pleas and removed all obstacles to any further action, including arrest, by the ED and customs department. The court considered the ED’s contention that Sivasankar was in constant touch with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, and it was possible that he knew about her activities. “Probably there may not be sufficient evidence at present collected by the ED to implicate the applicant as an accused, and there also may not be sufficient evidence to suggest that he is guilty of the offences alleged. But they have sufficient materials to interrogate him,” the court stated in its order. Sivasankar was driven to the ED office in Kochi, around 200km away, where he would be questioned by the central agency that is probing a money-laundering angle in the gold smuggling case. Customs officials met their ED counterparts, suggesting that they too might want to interrogate Sivasankar. On July 5, the Thiruvananthapuram airport customs had busted the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore inside a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of consulate-general of the United Arab Emirates in the Kerala capital. The state government had quickly removed Sivasankar from his duties and later suspended him from service as more details emerged about his links with Swapna, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair — the three accused in the case. Sivasankar had in his bail pleas argued that he was neither an accused nor a witness in any of the cases filed in connection with the smuggling. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for Sivasankar, highlighted how the ED, National Investigation Agency and the customs department had questioned him for over 90 hours but could not find anything to incriminate him. The ED had opposed the anticipatory bail plea and cited Sivasankar’s closeness with Swapna whom he introduced to chartered accountant P. Venugopal and helped open a bank locker, allegedly to launder the unaccounted money. The ED had contended that Sivasankar knew Swapna was trying to launder her share from gold smuggling when he sent her to his chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Land ache in Hindu belt too ||Tensions are flaring up in Jammu’s Hindu heartland and BJP stronghold against the Centre’s decision to allow sale of land in Jammu and Kashmir to outsiders, with several Dogra leaders claiming that their identity was under assault. Jammu’s Hindu heartland is a BJP stronghold where Dogras, who are Hindus, form a majority in the region. The BJP always banks on the support of Dogras in Assembly elections and because of them they have won both Jammu Lok Sabha seats during the last two consecutive terms. Protesters belonging to Jammu-based Panthers Party and People’s Democratic Party hit the streets in Jammu city against the new land laws. There is massive anger in the Valley against the decision, but there have been no street protests here so far. Panthers Party leader Harsh Dev Singh, in a video appeal, said the decision will turn Jammu residents into slaves of outsiders and the region was staring at big trouble. “Anybody can buy land here without PRC (Permanent Resident Certificate) and domicile....Big sharks will settle here and usurp the land of poor people,” he said. Singh said the BJP-led government at the Centre has not introduced such laws in Ladakh due to the unity of the (Buddhist) leadership there and the BJP was taking advantage of the disunity in Jammu. Kathua Bar Association president Ajat Shatru Sharma said many Jammu residents had welcomed the decision to scrap Article 370 but the new notification had “befooled” them. “Everyone knew that very few will purchase land in Kashmir Province (they are already de-facto immune) and influx would be in Jammu Province where people from rest of India can purchase agricultural land on the fake or forged agricultural certificate without actually residing for a minimum period. The day is not far away when maximum agricultural land from Jammu Province may be sold away to outsiders on just the basis of mere false certificates,” he said. PDP leader Surinder Choudhary claimed that the outsiders’ influx will increase rapes in Jammu. “The Dogra culture is under threat,” he said, referring to rapes in “Hathras and Faridabad”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||ABVP chief in fresh storm||The Union health ministry has appointed ABVP national president Subbiah Shanmugam to the board of the new AIIMS coming up near Madurai, prompting condemnation from Opposition MPs who have cited how he faced charges of harassing an elderly woman neighbour in July. Dr Subbiah, a surgical oncologist, was accused in a police complaint of urinating outside the widow’s flat to intimidate her in an alleged attempt to grab her parking slot at their apartment complex in Chennai. Subbiah had denied the allegations, and the complaint – made on behalf of the neighbour by a relative – was later withdrawn. Several Opposition MPs from Tamil Nadu on Wednesday slammed his appointment as a member of AIIMS Madurai’s 17-member board and said it reflected the BJP’s lack of respect for women. “I am shocked by the appointment of Dr Subbiah Shanmugam, who stands accused of harassing his elderly woman neighbour, as a board member of AIIMS,” tweeted DMK parliamentarian Kanimozhi. “Is this an endorsement of his indecent behaviour and also an incentive for other BJP cadres to follow suit?” The controversy comes just as the BJP was claiming the moral high ground over VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan’s recent criticism of the Manusmriti, during which the Dalit MP made certain remarks that the BJP has construed as insulting to women. The BJP had on Tuesday launched a state-wide protest, led by new entrant and actor Khushboo, against the remarks. On Wednesday, Thirumavalavan hit back. “Is this the respect they show to women?” he told reporters, flagging the harassment charges against Subbiah, professor of surgical oncology with the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital in Chennai. Thirumavalavan threatened an agitation if Subbiah’s appointment to the AIIMS Madurai board was not revoked. Among other MPs who criticised Subbiah’s appointment were D. Ravikumar (VCK), Su. Venkatesan (CPM) and Manickam Tagore (Congress). After the harassment complaint was lodged, Subbiah had alleged “slander and character assassination” by Congress student wing NSUI and claimed the controversy stemmed from “misunderstandings emanating from the parking issue”. Dr V.M. Katoch, president of Jipmer, Pondicherry, has been appointed chairman of the AIIMS Madurai board. The members include Dr Sudha Seshaiyan, vice-chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. The board is to have three MPs as members, but these slots are yet to be filled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in January 2019 laid the foundation stone for the institute, being built at an estimated cost of Rs 1,264 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||PM talks of ‘jungle raj’ in three rallies in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the spectre of “jungle raj”, describing Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as its “yuvraj” (crown prince), in three back-to-back rallies in Bihar on Wednesday. Modi’s rallies at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna coincided with the first phase of voting in the Assembly elections. Seventy-one seats spread across 16 districts voted to decide the fate of 1,066 candidates on Wednesday. The Prime Minister also tried to tap into the fear of the coronavirus as he sought votes for the National Democratic Alliance. “There is a coronavirus pandemic on one side and the people of jungle raj come to rule on the other. This will be a two-fold blow for the people of Bihar. You can imagine what they will do with the coronavirus funds if they come to power. What else can the public expect from the ‘yuvraj of jungle raj’ on the basis of the previous track record?” Modi said in Muzaffarpur. “This is not a time for those who speak about lofty things. This is a time to choose them again who have experience and have extricated Bihar from darkness to here,” he added. Tejashwi, 31, is drawing huge crowds at his public meetings and has touched a cord among the youth by promising jobs. The RJD leader has not used photographs of his parents — former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi whose 15-year rule from 1990 to 2005 came to be branded “jungle raj” after Patna High Court used the phrase in a case in the context of governance — during his election campaign in an attempt to start on a clean slate. But Modi, in his entire speech in Muzaffarpur, kept the focus on the past by talking of “jungle raj and its side effects like closure of industries, fleeing of investors, poverty, migration of workers, anarchy and poor governance. The Prime Minister spent only a few minutes taking about the work done by the NDA government and praising chief minister Nitish Kumar. “The people of Bihar will not forget their (those in power) behaviour towards those who had their own work and business. Those who will give rangdaari (protection money, extortion money) will survive; else the copyright of the kidnapping industry is with them. Therefore we should remain alert about them,” he said. Modi also sought to counter the promise of RJD and its ally Congress to provide 10 lakh jobs by saying: “Leave aside the government jobs, even the private companies will run away from Bihar if they come to power.” Speaking at Darbhanga earlier, the Prime Minister touched on the issue of corruption and blamed the 15-year-rule of the RJD as an era of gobbling up development funds and taking commission in projects. “The people of Bihar have once again decided to defeat the powers who brought jungle raj in Bihar. They have decided to again defeat those who looted the state. People who have been trained to divide and rule the society, and indulge in taking commissions can never think of the welfare of Bihar,” Modi said. The Prime Minister also touched the topic of the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya and taunted the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Rahul promises a government of every caste, religion, region, and district||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday gave a personal “guarantee” to the people of Bihar that the RJD-Congress-Left coalition government would look after the interests of every section of the society, countering the BJP-JDU combine’s desperate attempt to revive the memories of excesses committed by the Yadavs against the so-called upper castes during Lalu Prasad’s regime. Addressing rallies in West Champaran and Darbhanga, Rahul said, “I have come here to give you a guarantee that our government will be a government of every caste, every religion, every region, every district. Our government will work for education, healthcare, jobs and women’s safety. This election is not about the family of Tejashwi or mine. That talk is rubbish. This election is about the future of people of Bihar.” While there is a realisation among the coalition partners that Tejashwi’s job-centric discourse had set the agenda of the election, placing the incumbent government on the defensive, the strong push by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar to revive the fears about “jungle raj” has generated some concerns. There is no denying the fact that Tejashwi’s politics has been entirely different, it is difficult to completely disconnect from the legacy issues as many sections of the society nurture a strong dislike for Yadavs’ dominance. Tejashwi has talked about “sarv jan,” committing himself to inclusive politics and now Rahul is explicitly offering assurances in the form of guarantee to blunt the efficacy of fear-mongering. Though youths attracted by the job promise haven’t experienced the misrule of Lalu’s regime and aren’t ready to alter their priorities on the basis of an imperfect past, Rahul’s intervention is important as he has shown a tendency of fighting against injustice. Rahul took care to explicitly back Tejashwi as a leader who intends to bring new vision. “Modi and Nitish don’t have the decency of talking about your problems. Modi promised two crore jobs every year. Does he even refer to jobs now? It is not only Bihar, Modi’s policies have ensured youth won’t get jobs anywhere in India. Note-bandi and lockdown destroyed economy. Modi and Nitish are leaders of past, you have tested them,” he said. Realising that the people are too distressed to hear about issues unrelated to their wretched existence, Rahul avoided dwelling on national issues; skipped even his pet theme of Chinese intrusion. He kept his focus on the miseries of lockdown. “Millions of Biharis were walking home during the lockdown announced without adequate notice. We kept asking for giving financial help to the poor, to the small businesses, to the migrant workers. But Modi was not fighting corona, he was at war with the poor,” he said. As there is a perception about Nitish becoming a liability and the entire burden of salvaging the NDA’s campaign falling on Modi, Rahul tried to create an impression that the Prime Minister’s credibility has gone down. He said: “Farmers of Punjab burnt Modi’s effigies on Dussehra. Not Ravan’s. I didn’t like it as burning Prime Minister’s effigy is wrong. But the farmers are angry. The Prime Minister works for the interest of a few capitalists. The farmers also burnt the effigies of Ambani and Adani along with Modi’s.” Rahul’s campaign reflected a perfect synergy with Tejashwi’s as they seemed to be complimenting each other at a time the relationship between the BJP and JDU is marked by suspicion and distrust. This was made possible by the surge in Tejashwi’s popularity at the initial stages of the campaign, forcing the Congress to shed whatever inhibitions they had about his leadership. Now the Congress leaders hail him as the future chief minister in every meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||BCG boost found in Covid fight  ||Medical researchers in India have found that the BCG (Bacille Camerin Guerin) vaccine which is used to protect children from tuberculosis can also enhance in the elderly multiple arms of the immune system that might protect them from the coronavirus disease. A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found that the BCG vaccine enhanced innate and adaptive components of the immune system, including memory elements, bolstering evidence for arguments that this familiar vaccine could be tool against Covid-19. Innate immunity relies on cells already present in the body such as dendtric cells while adaptive immunity involving so-called T-cells and B-cells is triggered by the body’s exposure to microbes. Scientists at the ICMR-National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, who conducted the study have cautioned that whether their findings translate into protective immunity against SARS-COV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is yet to be determined. But their findings add new evidence to show that the BCG vaccine boosts immune responses in elderly populations just as they do in children and might train the immune system to fight infections other than TB. “This is very encouraging – it lends support to ongoing clinical trials to assess the efficacy of the BCG vaccine against Covid,” said Seyed Hasnain, a senior biologist, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology and now vice-chancellor at Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi. “But it’s not surprising given what we know about BCG,” Hasnain told The Telegraph. We believe BCG works through a process called immune training,” Hasnain said. “Exposure to BCG trains the immune system to fend off attacks from other microbes.” Several studies over the past two decades have suggested the century-old BCG vaccine not only protects children from severe TB, but also lowers the risk of sepsis in newborn and the risk of other respiratory infections in young children. The ICMR-NIRT study is part of an ongoing nationwide six-city clinical trial in which 1,450 persons aged above 60 years will be administered the BCG vaccine to determine whether it is able to reduce mortality from Covid-19 infections. In the coming weeks, doctors involved in the trial will measure differences in the incidence of the infection itself and severity of the infection among vaccinated volunteers and unvaccinated volunteers to determine if BCG will protect people from severe Covid-19. In August this year, doctors in Germany, Greece, and the Netherlands had jointly published a study that had found that BCG was able to decrease the incidence of respiratory tract infections in elderly patients. The doctors had presented their data collected between 2017 and 2019 and suggested that clinical trials should assess the efficacy of BCG vaccine to protect people from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Bihar stone sculptors struggle for survival||Sounds of hammer and chisel indicate the Patharkatti village of stone sculptors, surrounded by hills and paddy fields in Bihar’s Gaya district, is close by. Once upon a time traders from all over the country would wait here with their vehicles to buy and take away the stone statuettes and idols, especially of Lord Buddha and Hindu gods and goddesses, grinding bowls, pestles, glasses, bowls, plates and coasters crafted by the sculptors. Though its election time in the state, none of its buzz could be seen or felt here. Some people are working on stones, giving them the desired shapes. Others are just squatting here and there or loitering around. “There is virtually no work and no sale since the lockdown. Marble from Rajasthan is not coming. Orders for various objects are just a trickle of what we used to get before. Some of us, you can say around 20 per cent of the craftsmen, are enough to fulfil the orders. We are just surviving somehow,” said sculptor Pramod Kumar. The sculptors blame the government and officials for ignoring them during the lockdown and the ensuing months. The politicians also did not come to the village to take stock of the situation. “We know that polls are here, but no big politician of any party has come here. Kaun munh lekar aayega yahan? (With what face will they come here?). They must be ashamed of approaching us after neglecting us completely after the coronavirus outbreak. None of them were bothered whether we survived or not. Our livelihood stands almost wiped out,” said another sculptor Bijendra Prasad. Patharkatti is around 100km south of state capital Patna. Stone sculpting tradition in the area dates back to Mauryan, Gupta and Pala dynasty periods. But Patharkatti came to prominence when Maratha ruler Ahilyabai Holkar (1725–1795) of Indore decided to reconstruct the famous Vishnupad Temple at Gaya. She is said to have brought around 900 Gour Brahmin artisans from Rajasthan for the purpose. The artisans camped at Patharkatti, around 35km from Gaya, in the vicinity of the hills of black granite rocks that were found suitable for the temple. The stones were carved according to the temple’s design, taken to Gaya and assembled to form its structure in 1787 without the use of any mortar. A large number of the artisans decided to settle down at Patharkatti. In the coming years they trained people from the village and the surrounding areas in stone craft. Neighbouring villages like Khukhari, Deay and others also now excel in the craft. Patharkatti comes under Atri Assembly constituency. Altogether 11 candidates are in the poll fray, but the main contest is expected to be between Manorama Devi of the ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) and Ajay Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Though the battle may swing one way or the other, the villagers do not seem very happy with governance. “Many of us found it extremely difficult to make both ends meet during the lockdown. But no help came from the government. We did not get foodgrains also. We will vote for the candidate who works for our welfare; who encourages and promotes our art,” another sculptor Satyendra Choudhari said. Meanwhile, one of the settlers from Rajasthan — Rabindra Nath Gour, a well-known stone sculptor who has trained several villagers in the craft — threw light on the economy and the crisis being faced by the village and its inhabitants and the role of politics in it. “Marketing is a huge problem for us. Traders from other states used to come here and take truckloads of statues and other stone objects from here till three decades ago. They would give us money in advance, place the order and take away finished products. However, things deteriorated after 1990 when Lalu Prasad came to power. The buyers were harassed, looted, kidnapped and even killed in that period. So they stopped coming here,” Rabindra said. “We then started taking our stonework to sell in states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and others but the traders there stopped making full payments. This was a reversal of the previous trend. Law and order improved and peace prevailed after Nitish Kumar became the chief minister in 2005, but the traders did not return,” he added. Many of the families that had come from Rajasthan went back during this period. The sculptors say that there is a high demand for black stone Buddha idols among the foreign tourists because of benevolent emotions on their faces. These idols have become a brand and are known as Magadh Buddha. The artisans have demanded that the state government provide raw materials, purchase the finished objects and also open its outlets at various tourist spots to perk up the sales. But nothing much has happened on the front. The state government did arrange for advanced training of some of the sculptors in Odisha and Tamil Nadu, but the skills are yet to be used due to the lack of raw materials and marketing. The sculptors and their families at Patharkatti have now started wondering whether it would be viable for their children to carry on the tradition in the coming years. They cite government apathy for their pessimism. However, all is not lost. Some young men want to take the stone-sculpting art of the village to a wider horizon. “We want to give it an international exposure. We cannot rely only on the government for this, but it could certainly help us in the initial stages,” said Shubham Gour, Rabindra’s son and an MBA aspirant. Atri constituency, including Patharkatti, voted on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
