30-10-2020||India||EC censures Kamal Nath, revokes ‘star campaigner’ status||The Election Commission revoked the "star campaigner" status of senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Friday for repeated violations of the model code while campaigning for bypolls in 28 Assembly constituencies in the state, criticising the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister for breach of "ethical and dignified behaviour". In an order, the commission said, "...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh." It said no permission was to be granted by authorities to Nath as a star campaigner. "However, if any campaign is done by Kamal Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure related to travel, stay and visit will be completely borne by the candidate in whose constituency he carries out campaigning," it said. While the political party pays for the expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. The EC said it has carefully considered the matter and has observed with "displeasure that Kamal Nath despite being a leader of a political party is repeatedly violating the provisions of Model Code of Conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour". The Commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally. The Congress's Madhya Pradesh unit said it would challenge the decision in court, ndtv.com reported. Byelections are being held on November 3 to fill 28 vacant seats in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly. Most of these fell vacant when Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia rebelled earlier this year and defected to the BJP, taking along 22 MLAs. Kamal Nath's Congress-led government fell and the BJP returned to power. The BJP needs to win at least eight of these seats to stay in power. If at all the Congress manages to win all 28, it can make a comeback attempt. On the campaign trail, the Congress has been ranged against its own, with Kamal Nath lashing out at former party men who are now contesting as BJP candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||25,000 tonne of onions to be imported before Diwali to curb price-rise ||In an effort to boost domestic supply and check price rise, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said private traders have already imported 7,000 tonnes of onion and another 25,000 tonnes are expected to arrive before Diwali. Cooperative Nafed will also start importing onion, he said. Besides, 30,000 tonnes of potato is being imported from Bhutan in order to improve the local supply and control prices of the key commodity, he added. "Retail onion prices have stabilized in the last three days at Rs 65 per kg. The government has taken proactive measures to check price rise. Exports were banned timely and took steps for import," Goyal said at a digital press conference. The government relaxed fumigation norms for import of onion till December. So far, 7,000 tonnes of onion has been imported by private traders, he said. "Another 25,000 tonnes of onion is expected to arrive before Diwali," he said, and added along with imports, the arrival of a new kharif crop in mandis from next month will help improve the supply situation and ease pressure on prices. The minister said that onion is being imported from countries like Egypt, Afghanistan and Turkey by private traders. Even Nafed will import on its own capacity. The government has relaxed fumigation norms for import of onion and export of onion seeds have been banned, he added. Among other measures, stock limits have been imposed on traders to curb hoarding and black marketing and Nafed, which is holding buffer stock of onion on behalf of the government, is offloading stock in the open market. So far, Nafed has offloaded 36,488 tonnes. In case of potato, Goyal said its prices have been rising and the average retail price in India has been stable at around Rs 42 per kg for the last three days. However, the government has taken steps to import potatoes. About 30,000 tonnes of potatoes are arriving from Bhutan in the next couple of days, the minister said. "We are going to import about 10 lakh tonnes of potato and bring prices under control," he added. Kharif onion is expected to hit mandis from next month. Onion production from kharif and later kharif season is expected to be lower by 6 lakh tonnes to 37 lakh tonnes in the current year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||India-US relations: quiet, out-of-the-box approach||With only days before the American elections, India is adopting out-of-the-box tactics to stabilise relations with the United States post the November 3 polls. Across the board, India’s political leadership and its diplomats are using the space created by electioneering in America to tap hitherto little used sources of support for the Indo-US relationship which are to be leveraged once a new establishment occupies Washington. The nature of US elections is such that every politician is not involved to the same degree in the campaign. If neither of the two Senators from a state is up for re-election, that state’s governor can breathe easy in an election year -- especially if it is not a toss-up state he may even have time on his hands. The pace of engagement between New Delhi and, say, Phoenix or Indianapolis, both less cultivated state capitals previously, or with think tanks that are outside the Beltway environs of Washington, could create a new momentum in Indo-US relations. The expectation is that in the coming months, offshoots of the new approach will show, just as Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao’s landmark decision 25 years ago to break with tradition and appoint lobbyists for India in the US broadened his government’s American outreach. Where America’s long-time allies are reaching for the moon, as it were, in anticipation of a change in Washington next week, and largely failing in that effort, India’s goals are more modest. New Delhi is using the current phase to consolidate past gains and course-correct its policies on the ground. There is a populist impression about the “Howdy-Modi” extravaganza in Houston that is far from the truth: that it was all about the Indian Prime Minister and the US President, standing shoulder-to-shoulder declaring an arrangement of mutual admiration. What is not well-known is that Donald Trump did not have a clue about the Houston reception for Narendra Modi until a few weeks before the actual event. Howdy-Modi: The truth about Trump The White House representative at the Howdy-Modi programme was to have been Mick Mulvaney, then the President’s Chief of Staff. Trump injected himself into the reception after he heard about it from Modi at one of their bilateral meetings. Being a smart politician, Trump did not want to miss the crowd-waving opportunity or an outreach to Indian Americans. With or without Trump hotfooting to Houston, Modi would have gone to America’s energy capital last September. There has been a whopping 93 per cent rise in the hydrocarbons trade between the US and India in the last two years. The business was worth $9.2 billion in 2019-20. Demand for energy will double in India in the medium term. In the skyscrapers that dominate downtown Houston, oil and gas executives are living an Indian dream, the COVID-19 downturn notwithstanding. In part, Modi chose Texas as his destination last year because he was impressed that the state’s Governor, Gregory Abbott, undertook a gruelling nine-day visit to four Indian cities with a high-end business delegation in spite of having to permanently use a wheelchair. Abbott has been re-elected to lead Texas until 2023. India: robust link-ups Modi’s visit to the US South, rare for Washington-New-York-centric Indian leaders, had a spill-over effect on states neighbouring Texas. Today, India’s link-ups with Arkansas and Colorado, both neglected in the past, are robust. The governors of both these states have visited India. Howdy-Modi and Trump’s presence on the stage with the prime minister got all the media attention, but the proof of the pudding has been in the eating. Big countries, even America’s close treaty allies, have been baiting the big fish, as it were, in Joe Biden’s waters once the former vice president’s fortunes began to rise. India’s goals being more modest are, therefore, realistically more achievable than those of more powerful or richer nations. The reality, which is rarely acknowledged publicly in New Delhi, is that India is a bit player in Washington, Indian TV’s hype notwithstanding. There is absolutely no comparison between US-French relations going back in history to American independence or the British-US umbilical cord to Indo-US ties, which are, in substantive terms, only 20 years old. Until Bill Clinton’s presidency, India and the US only talked at each other. For 52 long years, New Delhi and Washington rarely talked to each other. Three men working as a team Whether it is Trump or Biden, who will occupy the White House in the next four years, the priority of the next US administration will be trans-Atlantic ties, its own neighbourhood, Russia, China, Japan, the Middle East and the like. Not India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, both former ambassadors in Washington, know this. Their successor and incumbent, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, a battle-hardened veteran of multiple US postings, knows this only too well. As a team, the three men have worked towards what is possible as Trump’s fortunes receded and Biden’s stars became ascendant. Sandhu’s diary in the final weeks of the US election campaign is instructive. It shows a laser-sharp focus with eyes not only on the White House, but also on both chambers of the US Congress, which are likely to be controlled by Democrats, come January. In the second week of October, while the Germans and the British and the Canadians were all chasing after the top guns in the Biden campaign – and failing to meet them – Sandhu went South. Those who know the intricacies of today’s racially polarised America and the interplay between the legislative and executive branches of government will grasp the true significance of why the Indian Ambassador met Bennie Thompson. He is serving his 13th term in the US House of Representatives and chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security, which legislates on immigration. Thompson, the only Democrat in the Mississippi Congressional Delegation, is a powerful voice in the Congressional Black Caucus, and equally important for India, in the Progressive Caucus. An influential Congressman living in small town Bolton is more amenable to diplomatic persuasion in his backyard than a freshman legislator on the outskirts of Washington or San Francisco. A day after Michael Bloomberg ploughed $20 million into the campaigns of environment-friendly Democrats this week, Sandhu had extensive discussions with the former New York Mayor on environment, sustainability initiatives and smart cities development. Most people wrote off Bloomberg after his miserable show in the Democratic primaries. But he is spending $100 million in Florida to help Biden win the critical state. Bloomberg will most likely be included in a presumptive Biden cabinet. Arizona Governor Doug Ducey made a public commitment about future tie-ups with India after Sandhu discussed film and digital media collaboration as well as aerospace and defence technology business prospects between Phoenix and New Delhi. Because India’s political aims in election-bound US are modest, its diplomats in Washington have used the campaign season hiatus to reach out to American corporate honchos. Milind Pant, CEO of Amway, Jaimie Dimon, Chairman of JP Morgan, Arvind Krishna, CEO of IBM and Alex Holmes, CEO of MoneyGram are just a few business leaders who are looking at post-COVID opportunities in India after structured dialogues with the Indian embassy in Washington.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Nitish attacks Lalu over women's welfare schemes in state||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday attacked Opposition party RJD by appealing to people to not "get misled" by those who "ignored" women and backward classes during their rule. Addressing an election rally at Parbatta here, he said, "They are talking today, but how was the condition of women earlier? They were ignored, nobody paid attention to their issues." Attacking his bete noire and jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, without naming him, Kumar said, "When he was sent to jail, he installed his wife (Rabri Devi) on the chair, but did nothing for the welfare of the women otherwise." Lalu, who became chief minister of Bihar in 1990, had anointed his wife on the chief minister chair after he was sent to jail in 1997 over the multi-crore fodder scam cases. Nitish said when he had the opportunity, he gave reservation to women in panchayats and urban local bodies, besides providing quotas to SC, ST and backward classes. "If Bihar has progressed today, the biggest reason is womens’ participation. Promoting women is our commitment," said the JD(U) chief. Talking about economic empowerment of women, he said his government started the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project (BRLP), locally known as JEEViKA, by taking loan from the World Bank and the initiative has expanded today. Trying to connect to the women voters in the constituency, he mentioned prohibition and asked them to cast their votes first and cook later on polling day and also encourage others in their family to vote. Nitish declared Bihar a dry state in April 2016. On several occasions he had said he took the step on the demand of the women. He said his government has ensured development by taking along the SC, the ST, Backward Classes, Extremely Backward Classes and Mahadalits "whom nobody cared about earlier". He said, "Earlier even cities did not have electricity, but now we have ended the lantern era and every household gets power now." Lantern is the poll symbol of the RJD. "Everybody knows who says what and indulges in what kind of misdeeds. They (the Opposition) neither have the experience to work nor do they want to work. They just indulge in useless talks," he alleged. Speaking about the cooperation between the state and the Centre, he said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given several projects for the development of Bihar. If you give us another chance to work, we will take Bihar forward and make it a developed state." He also slammed the RJD over its record on law and order, education, health, jobs and other development parameters. He said if voted to power, he will take irrigation water to every field and provide solar street light in every village. The constituency goes to poll on November 3 in the second phase. Nitish, who heads the JD(U), also addressed public meetings in Sheohar and Runi Saidpur in Sitamarhi district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Modi pays tribute to late Gujarat CM Keshubhai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to the late Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel and also met with grieving family members of Gujarati film legends Kanodia brothers, who died a few days ago. Patel (92), a BJP stalwart, died on Thursday. Soon after his arrival in the morning at the Ahmedabad airport for a two-day Gujarat visit, Modi directly reached Patel's residence in Gandhinagar and offered floral tributes to the veteran politician, who headed the first BJP-led government in the state in 1995. The PM spent some time with Patel's kin and consoled them. "Modiji recalled his long association with Keshubhai and asked us about his last moments, a family member told reporters after the PM left Patel's residence. Modi had on Thursday paid rich tributes to Patel, saying he had mentored many BJP workers, including him. Modi had remembered Patel through a series and tweets and shared some old photographs with the former Gujarat CM. "Our beloved and respected Keshubhai has passed away. I am deeply pained and saddened. He was an outstanding leader who cared for every section of society. His life was devoted towards the progress of Gujarat and the empowerment of every Gujarati," Modi tweeted on Thursday. After meeting Patel's kin in Gandhinagar, the Prime Minister visited the grieving kin of Gujarati cinema superstar Naresh Kanodia and his music composer-brother Mahesh Kanodia, both of whom died recently, at their residence in the state capital. Naresh Kanodia (77) died on October 27 at a hospital while undergoing treatment for coronavirus, just two days after his elder brother Mahesh (83) died due to age-related ailments. Both brothers were associated with the BJP. While Naresh Kanodia was a former MLA, Mahesh Kanodia had served as a BJP MP. Modi paid floral tributes to the famous duo and spent some time with their family members, including Naresh Kanodias son Hitu Kanodia, a sitting BJP MLA. Modiji fondly remembered my father and uncle. He told us that both the brothers loved each other immensely and now they have became immortal. "He also regretted not coming earlier to meet them," Hitu Kanodia told reporters. This is Modi's first visit to his home state after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. During his two-day visit to Gujarat, the PM would inaugurate a host of projects near the Statue of Unity, a monument dedicated to Sardar Patel, at Kevadia in Narmada district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||More than 48,000 Covid cases in a day||India saw 48,648 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 80,88,851, while active cases fell below 6,00,000 and the national recovery rate crossed 91 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The Covid-19 death toll in the country climbed to 1,21,090 with 563 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 73,73,375 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far pushing the national recovery rate to 91.15 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.50 per cent. There are 5,94,386 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 7.35 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16,60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,77,28,088 samples have been tested up to October 29 with 11,64,648 samples being tested on Thursday. The 563 new fatalities include 156 from Maharashtra, 61 from Bengal, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 45 from Karnataka, 35 from Tamil Nadu, 27 from Delhi and 26 from Kerala. A total of 1,21,090 deaths reported so far in the country including 43,710 from Maharashtra followed by 11,091 from Karnataka, 11,053 from Tamil Nadu, 6,983 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,725 from West Bengal, 6,659 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,423 from Delhi, 4,168 from Punjab and 3,705 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Delhi's air quality in very poor category, says govt agency||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the very poor category on Friday morning, while a government forecasting agency said some improvement is likely due to favourable wind speed. On Thursday, the city's air quality index (AQI) touched severe levels for a brief period before slipping back into the very poor category. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitoring agency, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 36 percent on Thursday -- the maximum so far this season. Delhi recorded an AQI of 380 at 9:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 395 on Thursday. It was 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday, 353 on Monday, and 349 on Sunday. Several monitoring stations, including at Shadipur (417), Patparganj (406), Bawana (447) and Mundka (427), recorded air quality in the severe category. An AQI between 0and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. On Thursday, PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR peaked to 424 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 10 am -- the highest this season so far, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. The levels of PM2.5 finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream were 231 g/m3. PM2.5 levels up to 60 g/m3 are considered safe. NASA's satellite imagery showed a large, dense cluster of fires that covered most parts of Punjab and some regions of Haryana. According to SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 36 percent on Thursday. It was 18 percent on Wednesday, 23 percent on Tuesday, 16 percent on Monday, 19 percent on Sunday and 9 percent on Saturday. SAFAR said accumulation of locally generated pollutants and increased external intrusion due to north-north westerly boundary level winds from regions where stubble is burnt were the major factors for the increase in PM2.5 levels. Extremely calm surface and boundary layer winds along with the low night time boundary layer height resulted in low ventilation practically stagnant, no dispersion condition has resulted in the current situation, it said. An increase in surface wind speed and better ventilation conditions are likely to "significantly" improve the situation by Saturday, SAFAR said. According to the India Meteorological Department, the predominant wind direction was northerly and the maximum wind speed was 10 kilometers per hour. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13.1 degrees Celsius. It was 12.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday the lowest in October in 26 years. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The city's ventilation index a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be around 7,000 meter square per second on Friday favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. On Thursday, the Centre introduced a new law through an ordinance that put in place a powerful oversight body to curb air pollution. Under the ordinance released by the Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday, the 22-year-old Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) has been dissolved and replaced by a powerful commission comprising 18 members. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas will specifically look at Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas only and it will be binding on the states to follow its directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Sikkim dharna on transport lifted||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) on Thursday night called off its over week-long dharna in support of the demand for the restoration of the pre-Covid public transportation arrangement after an understanding was reached with different drivers’ associations at a meeting called by the East Sikkim administration. The agreement was preceded by a day-long drama after some hundred-odd drivers descended in front of the East District collector’s office in Gangtok to oppose the SPYF dharna. The drivers under the banner of the Joint Action Committee of All Sikkim Drivers’ Association accused the SPYF of besmirching their reputation by raking up the issue of Covid protocol-induced fare hike. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs), both shared taxis and government-run buses are allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their original capacities, but at double the old fares for taxi commuters and at 30 per cent premium for bus passengers. Besides, two-wheelers are also not allowed to ride pillion. The SPYF, which espouses various political and social issues, wanted the restrictions to be lifted and old fare structure restored because the new arrangement hurt the common people and was fundamentally not in sync with scientific advice on ways to contain the contagion. Speaking to reporters after Thursday’s meeting, Shankar Sharma, a member of SPYF, said the issues raised by the forum were discussed and it was agreed in principle to arrive at an amicable solution by the first week of November. “Following which we are calling off our dharna now, but if the demands are not fulfilled, we will take the agitation path if the need arises,” he said. Sharma said on the main issue of lifting of passenger restriction in taxis and buses, the drivers’ body had agreed to comply with whatever decision the transport department and the State Task Force on Covid-19 take. A representative of the drivers’ association said both the parties had agreed to find an acceptable solution. “We have also decided not to go ahead with the chakka jam from October 31 that we had been contemplating since the issue has now been resolved,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Jail for air pollution in National Capital Region||The Centre on Thursday issued an ordinance to combat air pollution in the National Capital Region, mandating an end to stubble burning and a maximum punishment of five years’ jail and a Rs 1-crore fine for any violations. The ordinance allows the Centre to escape having to answer for air pollution to a former Supreme Court judge who had passed security-related verdicts unpalatable to the Narendra Modi government and, after retirement, condemned misuse of the sedition law. Its promulgation prompted a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde to adjourn till November 6 the hearing of a public interest petition on air pollution in Delhi. It’s in connection with this petition that the court had on October 16 appointed Justice Madan B. Lokur as a one-man committee to ensure the prevention of stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbourhood, ignoring objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On October 26, however, the court put the order “in abeyance” after Mehta conveyed a promise from the Centre for an ordinance that would provide an alternative mechanism to check pollution. The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, applies to Delhi and adjoining areas in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It seeks to “implement a consolidated approach for monitoring, tackling and eliminating the causes for air pollution” not limited to “stubble burning, vehicular pollution, road dust and urban construction”. It sets up a commission that can close any industry or establishment and cut their power supply. It will have search and seizure powers similar to the police’s. “Any non-compliance or contravention of any provisions of this ordinance, rules… or any order of direction issued by the commission shall be an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to five years or with fine which may extend up to one crore rupees or with both,” the ordinance says. “Where any offence under this ordinance has been committed by a company, every person who at the time... was directly in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished.” Offences under the ordinance have, however, been made non-cognisable, which means arrests will require a court warrant. The commission’s orders can be challenged only before the National Green Tribunal. During Thursday’s hearing, Justice Bobde told Mehta: “We would like to look at the ordinance before passing any order.” Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing petitioner Aditya Dubey, said the hearing need not be adjourned as “the situation will get worse by next week”. But the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said it would hear him and Mehta in good time. Citing experts, Justice Bobde observed: “It is not only stubble burning that creates pollution. All of you should also stop using the beautiful cars. All of you start using bicycles now.” The commission’s members will include bureaucrats from the Centre and the affected states. It will function under the overall control of the Centre and “under the oversight of the elected representatives with regular reports to the Parliament”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Win or lose, Tejashwi makes a mark in Bihar||To emerge from the looming shadows of Lalu Prasad is a tough task; to begin to cast your own even tougher. Tejashwi Yadav of the RJD, anointed heir to Lalu Prasad, has debunked punditry and prediction and given the lie to his own default lassitude to make a phenomenon of his campaign charge in Bihar. Win or lose, this election Tejashwi has made himself the man to watch in Bihar beyond the conclusion of the current contest. There’s a mandatory caption to the images of Tejashwi amid rapturous throngs wherever he goes: Lalu remains a force to reckon with even from his continued banishment in jail. Paradoxically, this also makes the RJD’s run on the ballot double-edged. The more Tejashwi is seen to be the aggressor-trailblazer, the more likely it is to consolidate the ranks of his adversaries. The BJP might, in fact, be not too displeased to see a surging Tejashwi; a section believes it can feed off a revived RJD by fanning fears of a return to “Lalu raj”. The BJP remains Bihar’s largest single force, the most resourceful and the most adept at twisting the course of the campaign to suit its ends. Tejashwi’s feisty barnstorming across the state has forced hectic revision of how he was earlier assessed by ally and adversary alike; suddenly, in the turn of a few weeks, there is no Bihari leader able to match his ability to pull crowds and swing them. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been put deep in the shade with paltry pickings, unable to contain the vexation at the manner he is being thwarted. Tejashwi’s only real competitor at the hustings is a man not in the contest for Bihar --- Prime Minister Narendra Modi. To many, Tejashwi’s abandon of manner on stage and the energy he is bringing to crowds is a reminder of Lalu in his heyday --- in a marked change of mien, he isn’t delivering speeches any more, he is conducting a dialogue, his meetings have become raucous gigs. But there is more to Tejashwi’s challenge than merely his pied-piper spell on audiences. He is playing to --- and being paid for --- a strategy designed to sidestep the classic electoral pitfalls of the RJD. Tejashwi has deliberately dodged the sectarian themes spun by the BJP to avoid getting button-holed on the “minority appeaser” card. Equally, and outspokenly, Tejashwi has made to widen his political appeal and embrace --- he isn’t talking the Mandal tongue, he is foregrounding “sarvajan” politics, a platform that does not mark out any caste, least of all the upper castes, as adversaries. “Tejashwi has made a crossover from merely social justice (the war cry of Lalu-era Mandalism) to economic justice as well,” Manoj Jha, MP and top RJD strategist, told The Telegraph. “We are defining a new, larger politics aimed at all sections of Bihar and addressing the fundamental issues of unemployment and deep economic stress that all Biharis have suffered.” A couple of factors are characteristic of the new Tejashwi campaign. He is keeping strictly to local issues, mindfully spurning the temptation of getting looped into the BJP’s ultranationalist or Hindutva discourse. He has responded neither to junior home minister Nityanand Rai’s rhetoric that the gathbandhan’s victory will encourage “terrorists to come from Kashmir”, nor to Modi’s invocations of victory for the cause of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He is also refusing to get riled by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s recurrent personal attacks on his father and family. “Whatever Nitishji says, even if he curses me, I accept as a blessing,” has been his stock response. “We are aware of the regulation rhetoric of the ruling alliance,” said a close aide to Tejashwi’s. “We want to neutralise them by simply not getting into extraneous issues. We want to emphasise our own issues, we want to set the agenda for this election.” The RJD deems it a success that Tejashwi’s hard-driven campaign on opening 10 lakh jobs and taking governance to people through improved education and healthcare has forced the BJP to mimic the promise. “Tejashwi has triggered a new imagination and hope with his job promise,” the aide said. “He has put his signature on the issue, the others will be seen as copycats.” One phase of polling done, RJD strategists remain ebullient about their prospects, even claiming the status of “runaway campaign leaders”. Tejashwi’s electric turn on the campaign apart, they are also savouring the overt manoeuvres of the BJP to cut Nitish Kumar down to size. The fielding and spurring of Chirag Paswan of the LJP, they believe, will not only hurt Nitish but also sunder votes in a manner that could help the gathbandhan. They are, however, privately cognisant of obstacles --- internal and external --- that could trip the RJD’s bid for power, arguably the strongest without Lalu to helm the troops. They must contend with Lalu raj --- “jungle raj” in the lexicon of the NDA --- being an embedded psychological issue with many voter segments, especially upper castes and non-Yadav backward communities. The prospect of Tejashwi getting close to power could create a counter-consolidation. Tejashwi’s inclusive “sarvajan” chant and Rahul Gandhi’s “personal guarantee” that a future gathbandhan government will belong to all communities are attempts to blunt the NDA’s emerging narrative. That begs another wonderment: has Tejashwi been able to expand his appeal beyond the RJD’s Muslim-Yadav constituency and breach sections of other backwards, Dalits and upper castes? Tough to tell, but critical to his ambition. RJD insiders also admit that they may have tactically erred in giving away as many as 70 Assembly seats to the Congress, an emaciated force in the state. “We were offering the Congress much less but in order to keep the integrity of the alliance, we had to pay the price we did. We hope it does not cost us as heavily as some say,” an RJD leader conceded. He quickly added, in undisguised hope: “But if a mood for change sets in, as we think it has, the electorate can often makes winners of rank losers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Mayawati signals BJP; Congress can’t wait to twist knife||Mayawati on Thursday expressed her willingness to support the BJP in the upcoming legislative council elections. “I want to say today that in the next MLC election, our party will ensure the victory of the BJP candidate and will do anything to defeat the second candidate of Samajwadi-Akhilesh, whose conspiracy has been defeated,” Mayawati said in Lucknow, referring to Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. The Samajwadi Party had partnered Mayawati in last year’s general election. “It will weigh heavy on them. In the next MLC election, whenever it is held, we will respond to yesterday’s development. We will use our full force, even if it means voting for the BJP; we will defeat their second candidate,” the BSP leader added. Mayawati said a “false rumour” was being spread by her rivals that she was getting closer to the BJP. The Congress saw in Mayawati’s declaration a public confession of a secret deal with the BJP, decisively pushing her out of the Opposition frame. Priyanka Gandhi, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, offered a terse remark on Mayawati’s announcement: “Iske baad kuchh baki hai (Any doubt left after this)?” Priyanka had earlier described the BSP leader as an “undeclared spokesperson for the BJP”. Mayawati had softened towards the BJP since the general election, offering token criticism over the Hathras atrocity and tacit support on the citizenship amendment and the abrogation of the special provision in Article 370 last year. At the same time, the BSP leader had bitterly attacked the Congress and accused Priyanka of “dramabazi” in Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka too burnt her bridges with Mayawati, unlike Sonia Gandhi who had adopted a conciliatory attitude towards the Dalit leader. That the Congress has decided not to have any association with the BSP became clear when Uttar Pradesh unit chief Ajay Lallu followed up Priyanka’s sarcasm with an acerbic jibe. “Hathi ab sarkari ho gaya/ Dalit-vanchit samaj ka daman kar rahi sarkar ka saathi ho gaya (The elephant -- the BSP’s symbol — has now turned sarkari, becoming friendly with the forces that oppress the downtrodden),” Lallu tweeted. Many senior Congress leaders pounced on Mayawati, underlining how she had been dancing to the BJP’s tune for the past several months. Although Mayawati linked her readiness to support the BJP to her desire to defeat the Samajwadis in the legislative council elections, arguing they had betrayed and insulted her party, the Congress portrayed the remark as an alliance with the BJP. Defending Priyanka’s combative posturing, party general secretary Tariq Anwar told The Telegraph: “We have accommodated Mayawati for far too long despite her deep ties with the BJP and a clear understanding that her ideology and principles mean nothing in her lust for power.” Anwar added: “Mayawati has been using politics for personal positioning. She brazenly strikes compromises with her secular commitments. Her consistency is manifested best in her opportunism. She cannot be trusted. She has gone so far as to campaign for Narendra Modi in the Gujarat elections. She has fielded candidates with the sole purpose of harming the Congress’s prospects in many states. Her alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in Bihar is part of the same sinister game. Both Owaisi and Mayawati have been tasked to harm the Congress-RJD alliance in Bihar.” Asked if the front that includes Owaisi, Mayawati and Upendra Kushwaha would significantly dent the Congress-RJD’s prospects in Bihar, particularly in Muslim-dominated Seemanchal, Anwar said: “Their job is to create confusion and mislead the voters. Owaisi has played this game in Maharashtra. But the people of Bihar can see through the game. Where was Mayawati when the Hathras incident happened? While Owaisi may harm us in a couple of seats, overall their vote percentage will be negligible.” Owaisi has blamed the Congress and the RJD for the BJP’s return to power in Bihar. He says Nitish Kumar defected to the BJP because the Congress and the RJD could not hold him in alliance. He describes the Congress and the RJD as “vote thieves” who sought Muslim votes to install the BJP in Bihar. The Congress and the RJD hope the voters will not buy this logic. Mayawati’s untimely declaration of willingness to support the BJP may further dent the chances of her front, and Owaisi and Kushwaha will find it difficult to explain her decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Bombay High Court  to expedite Varavara’s bail hearing||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Bombay High Court to expedite the bail hearing of 81-year-old revolutionary poet Varavara Rao in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence as it expressed surprise that a matter relating to personal liberty of a person was last heard on September 17. A bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit while asking the high court to take up the matter at the “earliest”, however, declined to pass any orders on the bail plea of Rao, represented by senior advocate Indira Jaising. The court was dealing with a petition filed by Pendyala Hemalatha, wife of the poet who has been held as an undertrial prisoner in a Maharashtra jail for two years on charges of sedition. He was arrested on August 28, 2018, in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence at the Elgaar Parishad meeting of December 31, 2017. The petition sought his immediate release on bail citing multiple health disorders, including Covid infection and neurological problems, and being sustained on diapers and bladder catheterisation. Advocate Jaising submitted that there is a violation of right to health of the prisoner and, as such, the court must direct his release on humanitarian grounds. “Cognisance has been taken so we cannot say detention of the man is illegal. The issue of bail is before the high court. The bail could be on merits or on medical grounds,” the bench said. The bench at one point wanted to send Rao back to Nanavati hospital for treatment but the same was opposed by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency. Mehta said this would open the floodgates for other prisoners to seek similar concessions. However, the other judge on the bench, Justice Ravindra Bhat, said: “Health of all prisoners is important for the State. Why should this not be extended to all prisoners?... Question is who would want a death in jail?” While expressing concern that the matter had not been heard after September 17, the court noted that already two judges had recused from the matter. “The Nanavati Hospital report is before the high court. It is bothering us that two judges recused and the matter was not being heard,” the bench said. The counsel argued that “precedence exists on the issue of when undertrials have died due to insufficient medical facilities”. But the bench was not convinced and said: “…We can direct for the matter to be heard by the HC in two weeks.” Jaising argued that prisoners have a right to health in custody and the same has been held to be so by the Supreme Court. She stated that the petitioner’s right to life and dignity is being violated. “We need to see if the jail hospital has all the facilities or not. If they have, then you can’t say there is better facility in England or Nanavati. If its available, then treatment will be in jail hospital,” the bench said, while directing the petitioner to approach the high court which shall deal with the issue at the “earliest”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Test for Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia ||Along with Bihar, the stakes are high for the BJP in the byelections to 28 Assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh that will decide the survival and stability of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. In Bihar, the central party has hurled all its strength to retain an NDA government, preferably led by the BJP, and in Madhya Pradesh the state leadership has been asked to go to any extent to ensure victory on at least half of the 28 seats. The BJP has 107 MLAs in the 230-member Assembly. It needs at least nine more to cross the halfway mark. The party, however, would like to win at least half of the 28 seats to have a comfortable majority and reduce dependence on Independents and BSP MLAs. The bypolls in Madhya Pradesh are scheduled for November 3 and counting of votes will take place along with Bihar on November 10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is campaigning in Bihar but not Madhya Pradesh since he wants to stick to his record of not canvassing in bypolls. So, it’s entirely up to the state leadership, particularly chief minister Shivraj, to perform. Polls are being held on seats that were won by the Congress in the November 2018 Assembly elections. Later these MLAs resigned and joined the BJP. This change of colour by the Congress MLAs had led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in March this year. Most of the BJP candidates on these seats are the ones who had contested as Congress nominees two years ago. An acrimonious campaign is on in Madhya Pradesh with Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia pitted against the stalwart Congress duo Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh. More than half of the 28 seats are located in Jyotiraditya’s area of influence — Gwalior-Chambal region — and so his worth is also at stake along Shivraj. The BJP’s performance would also play a role in deciding what ministry the former Congress leader gets in the Modi government. Jyotiraditya’s rebellion had propelled the bunch of Congress MLAs to embrace the BJP along with him to bring down the Congress government. Both Kamal Nath and Digvijaya are accusing Jyotiraditya of “betrayal” and “trading” with the BJP and urging the voters to teach him a lesson. In the middle of this fight between the old warhorses of the Congress versus a former young face of the party, Jyotiraditya, Shivraj is campaigning tirelessly to prove to the current party regime that his popularity was intact. Shivraj, who is into his fourth term as the chief minister, is widely believed to be not the first choice of the Modi-Shah combine and he has to prove his worth to keep ticking. The Congress has 88 MLAs and would have to win all the seats to cross the halfway mark, a daunting task. The Congress leadership, however, wants to teach a lesson to Jyotiraditya by winning a good number of the seats. The Congress is also trying hard to win 20-21 seats that will help them cross the BJP’s individual tally and then it can put the Independents into play.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav does not take my calls: Mayawati||Mayawati, who has announced her willingness to support the BJP in the legislative council elections, has accused Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav of trying to split her party to prevent its candidate Ramji Gautam winning a seat in the November 9 Rajya Sabha polls. She announced she had suspended the seven rebel MLAs who had allegedly met Akhilesh on Wednesday, and five of whom had tried to scuttle Gautam’s candidature by telling the returning officer their signatures on his nomination form had been forged. Mayawati’s comments came at a news conference a day after the returning officer had cleared Gautam’s candidature and scrapped that of industrialist and Independent candidate Prakash Bajaj, allegedly propped up by Akhilesh to defeat Gautam. The suspension of the seven rebels deepens the threat of a split in the BSP, which has just 18 members in a currently 395-strong Assembly. The rebels had alleged that Mayawati had sought BJP support to get Gautam elected, and that they didn’t want any truck with the “communal outfit”. The BJP was assured of eight of the 10 seats up for grabs on November 9, while the Samajwadis were assured of one. The battle for the last seat was to be between Gautam — who needed the BJP’s spare votes — and Bajaj, who would have expected the spare Samajwadi votes. With Bajaj now out of the fray — barring a court petition and a favourable order — the remaining 10 candidates are all expected to win unopposed. Mayawati said she regretted having listened to Akhilesh after the tie-up for the general election and withdrawn her case against the Samajwadis over an attack on her in 1995. The BSP and the Samajwadis had contested 38 and 37 of the state’s 80 Lok Sabha seats, respectively, and won 10 and 5 seats. “Akhilesh stopped receiving my phone calls after the elections. (BSP general secretary) Satish Chandra Mishra tried to contact him recently but he didn’t take the call. Nor did his secretary respond to our satisfaction,” Mayawati said. “Mishra then called (Samajwadi leader) Ram Gopal Yadav, who said he would be his party’s lone nominee for the Rajya Sabha. It was in this context that we fielded Gautam. Our rivals would have tried to buy our MLAs if we didn't have our own nominee.” She recalled that Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav had engineered a split in her party in 2003, and accused Akhilesh of a similar attempt now. Mayawati appeared to be wooing Brahmins, whose support had helped her win the 2007 Assembly elections. “Whatever Akhilesh did was an insult not only to Mishra but to the entire Brahmin community. The Samajwadis are essentially anti-Brahmin; the Brahmins will give them a fitting reply,” she said. Mayawati added that “members of religions or castes” from which the seven rebels came shouldn’t worry about losing her favour. The suspended seven are Aslam Rain, Aslam Ali, Muztaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargav, Sushma Patel and Vandana Singh. Mayawati’s decision to support the BJP in the legislative council elections, due early next year, stems from her lack of numbers to get a BSP nominee elected and her desire to stop the Samajwadis getting a second candidate through. State parliamentary affairs minister and BJP politician Suresh Khanna told The Telegraph that Bajaj’s candidature had been scrapped because one of his proposers was not an MLA. “The name of his third proposer was Nawab Shah. There is none by that name in the Assembly. His affidavit had other errors too,” Khanna said. “It was found that all of Gautam’s proposers were present when he submitted his nomination papers to the returning officer on Tuesday. The five MLAs’ allegation that their signatures had been forged was found untrue.” Samajwadi spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary accepted his party was supporting Bajaj. “We are studying the returning officer's objections and will plan a strategy soon,” he said. The BSP rebels had visited the Samajwadi office twice on Wednesday and again on Thursday, but Akhilesh claims he never met them. Bajaj was seen in Akhilesh’s chamber for about two hours on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Three BJP leaders shot dead in Kashmir||Three BJP leaders were killed on Thursday evening in one of the deadliest militant attacks on politicians in the Valley in months, triggering panic. A police spokesman said militants opened fire on Fida Hussain Itoo, Umar Rashid Beigh and Omar Ramzan Hajam in Y.K. Pora village of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. They were declared dead on arrival at the hospital. The BJP said all three were office-bearers of its youth wing. A spokesman condemned the “barbaric terror attack on BJP leaders” and said those “responsible for this will not be spared”. BJP activists have borne the brunt of militant attacks since last year’s abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. In July, militants killed BJP leader Wasim Bari, his father Bashir Ahmad and brother Umar Bashir in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. Several BJP activists subsequently announced their resignation from the party. BJP sources said the fresh attack has triggered panic among its men, many of whom have been accommodated in safe locations away from their homes. A BJP leader said the three men killed on Thursday had earlier sought security. The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Toiba, has claimed responsibility for the killings. In messages in English and Hindi on its social media account, the TRF threatened that “crematoriums will get overbooked”. BJP’s J&K president Ravinder Raina condemned the killings by “Pakistani cowards”. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said he “unequivocally condemns” the killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Pakistan minister brags about Pulwama terror attack||A senior Pakistani minister on Thursday admitted that Pakistan was responsible for the Pulwama terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 that had killed 40 CRPF personnel. “Humne Hindustan ko ghus ke maara (We entered India and attacked it). Our success in Pulwama is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan,” science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry said in the National Assembly during a debate. When some of his fellow lawmakers objected to his mention of “success in Pulwama”, the minister said that “after the Pulwama incident, the way Pakistan went inside Indian territory to target it, the entire media in India was ashamed of it.” However, he did not retract his claim of “success in Pulwama”. Chaudhry, a close aide of Prime Minister Khan, made the remarks a day after Opposition leader Ayaz Sadiq said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had in an important meeting pleaded for the release of Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was captured by the Pakistan Army on February 27, 2019, after his MiG-21 Bison jet was shot down in a dogfight with Pakistani jets. “Legs were shaking and forehead perspiring, and the foreign minister told us, ‘For God’s sake, let him (Abhinandan) go back now because India is attacking Pakistan at 9pm in the night’,” Sadiq said, adding the meeting was attended by army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa. Pakistan Army spokesman Major General Babar Iftikhar said Sadiq’s statement was an attempt to “distort history”. “Pakistan first demonstrated its capability and resolve and the actions taken on February 27 were from the position of strength,” he said. On Thursday, Sadiq in a video statement said that he was being “misquoted”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Saudis keep Jammu and Kashmir out of  India and Pakistan in map||In a move that has left everyone guessing, particularly given the bromance between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Saudi Arabia has chosen to place the entire state of Jammu and Kashmir outside the territorial contours of both India and Pakistan in the world map imprinted on the new 20 Riyal-note issued earlier this week to commemorate the kingdom’s presidency of the G20. The erstwhile undivided state has been shown as a separate entity almost as if the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is batting for its independence from both India and Pakistan; drawing a strong protest from New Delhi over the cartographic distortion. According to external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, India has conveyed “our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side for taking urgent corrective steps in this regard’’. Srivastava was responding to questions at the weekly briefing on the issue of the misrepresentation of India’s territorial contours on the banknote issued by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority. He, however, sidestepped a specific question on whether Saudi Arabia had explained why it had chosen to distort the map of India and what action New Delhi was contemplating for this cartographic distortion. MBS is among the chosen few world leaders who was accorded a tarmac welcome by Modi when he visited India last year; the others being US Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyau, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The distortion was first noticed by Pakistanis who saw it as another instance of Saudi Arabia displaying its displeasure with Pakistan for foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi’s criticism of Riyadh’s refusal to call a special meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Countries to discuss the situation in Jammu and Kashmir on the first anniversary of the constitutional changes in the erstwhile Indian state. The Right-wing in India lapped it up with glee as did several of their friendly television channels; seemingly unmindful of the fact that J&K had been removed from Saudi Arabia’s depiction of India too on the map.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||NIA raids Amit Shah accuser in Delhi||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday raided several premises in Kashmir and Delhi, including those of former Delhi minority commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan, in connection with a terror-funding case. Under Khan, the commission had in July accused Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and some other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches before the February riots in Delhi. Its report had also alleged that “police were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and arrested victims rather than the people they had accused. Khan said his home and offices were raided from 7am to 11am, with the sleuths scaling “the wall to enter my house like they did with (Congress leader P.C.) Chidambaram”. “They took many papers, all laptops, hard disks of all desktops, cash found, etc. They showed me an order on their mobile, issued by one Yadav of NIA to conduct the raid linking me and my NGO with Kashmir terror,” he said. Denying any links to Kashmiri militants or secessionists, he said: “It seems there is an attempt to implicate me in some terror or riot case.” As Delhi minority panel chairman, Khan had taken a stand against the police rampage at the Jamia Millia Islamia last December, and helped secure the release of several students. On Wednesday, the NIA had raided journalists and activists in Kashmir and Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Fear and force freeze Kashmir protests ||Security forces on Thursday foiled the first demonstration by any mainstream political party in the Valley since the August 5 clampdown last year, amid speculation that the National Investigation Agency’s renewed crackdown was aimed at scaring the usual suspects off protesting the new land laws. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti taunted the Centre after protesting leaders and activists of her People’s Democratic Party were rounded up from Srinagar’s streets, challenging it to take on China and not the “helpless people of Kashmir”. Many in Kashmir suspect that the Centre has unleashed the NIA to prevent protests against the new laws that allow land sale to “outsiders”. The anti-terror agency’s past raids and arrests are believed to have averted large-scale protests against the scrapping of Article 370 last year. Now, with tensions flaring across Kashmir and Jammu after the Centre sanctioned the new land laws on Tuesday, the NIA is back in action. On Wednesday, it carried out raids on journalists, human rights defenders and charities. On Thursday, it raided nine Valley premises including those of charities and trusts such as the Falah-e-Aam Trust, Human Welfare Foundation and the J.K. Yateem Foundation. The agency claims some organisations are collecting terror funds locally and abroad. When the PDP tried to protest the new land laws and the NIA’s “intimidatory tactics” — breaking a 15-month lull in political agitations — the security forces arrested the participants and sealed the party office. “People in Jammu are free to protest but no protests are allowed here. We wanted to (stage the demonstration) so that people gave up their fear,” a PDP leader said. Protests have hit the Hindu heartland in Jammu where many believe the new laws are an assault on the Dogra identity. Mehbooba was prevented from visiting the Kothi Bagh police station, where PDP leaders had been detained, prompting her to say the Centre had turned the Valley into a jail but was unable to fight the Chinese. “Every day the BJP says the situation is normal and they don’t even allow a former chief minister to visit a police station,” she said. “Go and get the land occupied by China, which has killed so many of our jawans. No, the BJP can’t and won’t do this because it can’t overpower China. It is instead suppressing the helpless people of Kashmir.” Mehbooba accused the BJP government of looking to “rob” Jammu and Kashmir of its resources and wage cultural aggression against the Kashmiris and Dogras. “Kashmir has been turned into a jail. They don’t allow anybody to express himself. Neither journalists nor civil society members are allowed to talk. Voices of dissent are curbed,” she said. “People in Bihar demand jobs and food from the BJP and this party tells them to go to Kashmir and purchase land there. The BJP can’t think beyond elections. It is fooling people and using Kashmir in every election.” Former chief minister Omar Abdullah, addressing National Conference workers, said the Valley parties had united to fight for the restoration of the special status. “Cursed is anyone who is fighting for power…. We are not counting seats any more. This fight is not for power or chief ministership. It will be shameful if we go after power,” he said. Seven Valley-based parties have floated the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate cuffs on Kodiyeri son, heat on CPM||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday arrested Kerala CPM secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in a case linked to financing a drug peddler who was arrested earlier in the city. Bineesh, the younger son of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was quizzed by the ED on October 6, but failed to appear when summoned for a second round of questioning on October 21. After he appeared at the ED zonal headquarters here on Thursday, the agency produced him before a magistrate who granted four days’ custody to facilitate detailed interrogation. The development has pushed the CPM-led Left Democratic Front into further trouble, just a day after the ED arrested M. Sivasankar, former secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in connection with a gold smuggling case. Bineesh was questioned over his links with Anoop Mohammed who was arrested in August in a drug case that eventually netted two top film actresses, among others, in Bangalore. The Narcotics Control Bureau had unearthed a huge cache of party drugs that Mohammed and his accomplices — D. Anikha and Rijesh Ravindran — allegedly peddled to film stars. All three have since been arrested and sent to judicial custody. The NCB eventually linked Bineesh to Anoop based on a money trail. While Bineesh had admitted to having provided financial assistance of around Rs 6 lakh to Mohammed for starting a restaurant in Bangalore, he had claimed ignorance about his friend’s involvement in drugs. But that argument did not cut ice with the ED that unearthed details about 20 others, allegedly known to Bineesh, paying a total of Rs 30 lakh to Mohammed. Sources said the ED’s immediate objective was to examine the source of the money that Mohammed and his accomplices allegedly used to procure drugs that were sold to high-profile party networks in Bangalore. Many of the 20 account holders have already been questioned in connection with the payments made to Mohammed. But it was not immediately known if they had made any incriminating statements against Bineesh. Sources said the ED was likely to approach a court seeking custody of Mohammed to interrogate him along with Bineesh. Following the August drug bust, the central crime branch of the city police had arrested actresses Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani and others in September. The arrest of the CPM secretary’s son provided more fuel to the United Democratic Front and the BJP to attack the Left Democratic Front government that was already under fire after Sivasankar’s arrest. Leader of the Opposition in Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, said the Bineesh’s arrest would force “Malayalis to hang their head in shame”. “The culprits will be brought before justice irrespective of what the chief minister will do to protect them,” he added. However, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said the party had nothing to do with Bineesh. “Bineesh is not a CPM leader. Kodiyeri (Balakrishnan) is our party secretary and we will be responsible only if he commits a mistake,” Vijayaraghavan told reporters. “He (Balakrishnan) has already distanced himself from this and made it very clear that law should take its course,” he added. Soon after Bineesh’s name emerged in the case Balakrishnan had said: “Let action be taken if Bineesh is involved in any illegal activity. Let him be punished. No one is going to provide any protection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Delhi University to investigate administration spat||A day after suspension of Delhi University’s absentee vice-chancellor Prof. Yogesh K. Tyagi for “misgovernance”, the varsity authorities set up a fact-finding committee to inquire into the recent spat between two groups in the administration and acted against his associates. The Executive Council, the top decision-making body of the university, met here on Thursday and decided to set up the panel to investigate the sequence of events after October 21 when Tyagi and a section of faculty members tried to take over the administration, two EC members said. The EC decided to issue a memo to Geeta Bhatt, who was appointed pro-VC by Tyagi. It also decided not to give any administrative responsibilities to Prof. P.C. Jha, appointed in-charge registrar by Tyagi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Centre U-turn on MPs’ Ladakh visit||The defence ministry has changed its mind and opposed a parliamentary committee’s proposed visit to Ladakh to see how well the soldiers deployed in high-altitude forward areas have been clothed and equipped for the biting winter. In a letter on Wednesday, the ministry said “it may not be advisable” for Parliament’s public accounts committee to visit Ladakh early next month given the continuing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control. A day earlier, however, the ministry had expressed no such reservations in its letter to the committee, which had said the MPs would need acclimatisation before travelling to the forward areas. The House committee, headed by the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had last month received Speaker Om Birla’s clearance for the trip. It had also discussed the visit with the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. Originally, the visit was slated for October 28-29 before being rescheduled to November 8-10. The House panel wants to get a sense of how adequate the winter clothing and high-altitude equipment given to the troops are. The committee is examining a CAG report that has flagged shortages of snow goggles and multi-purpose boots for the soldiers deployed in high altitude in Siachen and Ladakh. Defence ministry sources said the committee had been told that the situation along the LAC was tense and volatile, with troops from both sides still in close proximity, which made it inadvisable for the MPs to visit the forward areas. The letter said that once there was a degree of de-escalation and disengagement, a fresh date would be communicated to the parliamentary delegation for a possible visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Odisha zoo offers virtual tour ||Nandankanan Zoological Park, located on the outskirt of Bhubaneswar, is offering a virtual tour of the park to animal lovers. The animal lovers, who are unable to visit the park because of the pandemic, can see the captive menagerie of the zoo sitting in their homes through this programme. Though the zoo has been opened to general public since October 4, it failed to attract sufficient number of visitors who prefer to keep away for the fear of the pandemic. The park authorities in a tweet said, “Now you can make a virtual tour of Nandankanan staying at home. Go to nandankanan.org-tour or nandankanan.org for an incredible experience.” Deputy director of the zoo, Bimal Prasanna Acharaya, said: “We have already uploaded the activities of each animal, their movement and habitats on the net. One can get the same feelings by watching it on the mobile and on their computer sets. We have also uploaded pictures of the adjoining botanical garden.” The zoo has 3,700 animals, birds and reptiles belonging to 158 species. They are all open for adoption. “The adoption programme was launched in 2008 and we made it online in 2019. It has got a good response. But, this time the adoption programme has also been hit because of the corona induced lock down,” said an official. At Rs 2.5 lakh per year elephant is the costliest animal available for adoption in the zoo. The adoption programme has contributed Rs 21 lakh to the zoo’s kitty so far. The zoo that generates around Rs 15 crore as revenue every year on an average. But it has failed to make any substantial earning this year because of its closure for nearly six months. “ We are hopeful that tourist footfall will increase in November and December. However, those visiting the zoo will have to abide by the guidelines of the COVID 19,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Bhubaneswar AIIMS OPD to open on November 2||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, on Thursday announced it will resume its OPD (outpatient department) services from November 2. The OPD has been closed since July 10 because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases among AIIMS staff. AIIMS Bhubaneswar said in a release: “Because of the growing demands and cater to patients’ needs, it has been decided to start the OPD services from November 2. Initially, the number of registrations will be restricted to 30 patients per department per day until 8th November; from 9th November onwards, the number will be increased to 50 patients per department day for a week. After that, an assessment for an increase in number will be made.” “The OPD was closed from 10th July, due to Covid crisis except for day-care services, radiotherapy, dialysis, trauma and the emergency and lifesaving surgery, and IPD (inpatient department) services. However, the telemedicine consultation and ‘AIIMS Bhubaneswar Swasthya’ app is continuing,” it added. The house of a professor working at Odisha University of Agriculture Technology (OUAT) here was burgled. Sources said the thieves entered the house by breaking the lock and looted valuables. They also ransacked the house. he professor and his family were not present when the theft took place. “We will detect the culprits soon,” said police inspector in-charge Padmanabha Pradhan. This is the latest burglary in the city which has witnessed a series of thefts and dacoities during the last few months. Several cases of chain snatching have taken place. Recently, a young engineer was attacked with a sword by miscreants early in the morning near his house. The city also witnessed the murder of a sweet shop owner but the killers were later caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Fury at Munger firing explodes ||Munger town on Thursday witnessed mob violence against the administration in retaliation for Monday’s alleged police firing on a Durga immersion crowd, prompting the Election Commission to remove Munger district magistrate Rajesh Meena and superintendent of police Lipi Singh. Monday’s firing had killed a young man and left dozens injured from the shooting, the resultant stampede, and follow-up police beatings in the town, about 200km east of Patna. The police have denied firing and alleged the shots were fired by criminals from within the crowd. The poll panel has ordered a probe. Several videos and photographs posted on social media claim to show the police brutally beating up people who had been sitting peacefully on the ground around an idol. “The EC has ordered immediate removal of the SP and DM of Munger,” additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Singh said. “It has also ordered an inquiry by Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao, which has to be completed within the next seven days.” SP Lipi Singh, a 2016-batch IPS officer, is the daughter of R.C.P. Singh, a Rajya Sabha member from the ruling Janata Dal United and a former IAS officer. Lipi’s plum postings have long prompted murmurs in the police. Thousands hit Munger town’s streets around noon on Thursday and attacked the SP’s office. They vandalised the residence of the sub-divisional officer and went on the rampage at Purabsarai police station, in whose area Monday’s alleged police atrocities happened. Soon, several other police stations too faced attacks. Government buildings were stoned by people chanting slogans against the administration. Several vehicles, including some belonging to the police, were torched. Reinforcements were sent to control the situation and a flag march was held. Local people said the protesters were demanding justice for the young man killed in the firing and for the peaceful devotees beaten up by the police. “They waited three days for justice, refraining from disturbing Wednesday’s voting. Then they lost patience,” a source said. A Munger resident blamed Monday’s violence on the police’s decisions. He said the force had kept prodding a group of devotees, who were carrying the town’s celebrated “Badi Durga” idol on their shoulders for immersion, to move faster. “The devotees got tired, put the idol down, and sat down around it to rest. The police kept pressuring them to resume the journey but they were too exhausted,” he said. “At this, the police ordered other immersion processions to overtake the Badi Durga.” Such overtaking of the Badi Durga was a breach of tradition and triggered an argument, prompting the police to fire into the crowd and set off a stampede of sorts, the Munger resident said. “The police then caned the devotees,” he said. “The idol was eventually immersed without the traditional rituals.” Some of the Badi Durga organisers said the district administration had earlier refused their request to allow the immersion on Thursday after the voting had ended. The Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress have criticised the administration, saying better management would have averted Monday’s violence. The police action has been trending heavily on various social media platforms since Monday, with some netizens comparing the Munger SP to Brigadier General Reginald Dyer who had ordered the Jallianwala Bagh firing in Amritsar in 1919.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
