31-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath moves Supreme Court against EC’s order to revoke ‘star campaigner’ status||Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday moved the Supreme Court challenging an Election Commission (EC) order revoking his ‘star campaigner’ status for violations of the model code during the campaign for the bypolls in 28 assembly constituencies in the state. Besides seeking quashing of the EC's October 30 order, the Congress has sought framing of appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners or campaigners, “keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections”. Nath, who is currently the president of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee has said in his plea that the EC has passed the order without any notice or hearing him based on a complaint by the BJP against a speech delivered on October 13. “It is submitted that the impugned order (of EC) is illegal, arbitrary, unreasoned, passed in complete violation of basic canons of natural justice and in negation of fair play and therefore, deserves to be quashed. Further, no notice has been issued to the petitioner (Nath) with regard to the impugned order in complete violation of principles of natural injustice,” the plea, filed through advocate-on-record Varun Chopra, said. While a political party pays for expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. Earlier in the day, senior lawyer and Congress Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha told PTI that the former chief minister has challenged the EC's decision on various grounds and an urgent hearing on his plea would be sought. In his plea, Nath said that EC has passed the October 30 order and has revoked his name from the list of 'star campaigners' of the Indian National Congress on the ground of repeated violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and advisories of the poll panel. It alleged that the order is completely unreasoned and passed without application of mind. The plea said that MCC has been in force for 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh since September 29 when the schedule for by-elections to 28 seats in the state legislative assembly, which are to be held on November 3, was announced by the EC. In his plea, the former Union minister and nine-time Member of Parliament has claimed that leaders of the BJP have been “repeatedly making statements ex-facie in violation of the model code during campaigning for the by-elections”. It is reiterated that despite the use of such language in public view and blatant violation of the Model Code of Conduct, the Respondent No.1 (EC) has not taken any such action against any leaders of BJP or the party itself for allowing its leaders to repeatedly violate provisions of MCC, it said. The plea has also raised several questions of law of public importance, including whether the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to Nath has been abrogated by the EC. Whether a restriction on speech and expression, that too in a manner that is arbitrary and contrary to natural justice restrains the free exchange of ideas to the voter for making an informed choice and thus negates the fundamental right of the petitioner (Nath) to have freedom of speech and expression and the fundamental right of voters to know?, said one of the questions of law in the plea. Whether by the revocation of petitioner from campaigning as a star campaigner, the principle of free and fair and level the playing field in elections have been impeded by the Respondent No.1 (EC), it said. The plea said EC ought to have granted a hearing to Nath before taking the drastic step of revoking his status as a 'star campaigner'. It said that for a vibrant democracy and for the conduct of free and fair elections, it is necessary that voters, candidates, campaigners and workers are not unduly restrained from exercising their freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. The plea said that restriction on speech and expression, that too in a manner that is arbitrary and contrary to natural justice restrains the free exchange of ideas to the voter for making an informed choice and thus negates the fundamental right of Nath to have freedom of speech and expression and the fundamental right of voters to know. It said that to achieve freedom of expression guaranteed under the Constitution, elections should be transparent, inclusive and accountable, and there must be equitable opportunities to compete in the elections. Besides the plea, an application has also been filed seeking a stay on the EC's October 30 order until the final disposal of the petition. In the order, the poll panel said, “...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh.” The commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at the state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
31-10-2020||India||After Punjab, Rajasthan introduces bills to negate farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three bills in the Assembly to negate the impact of the farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. The move comes after the Punjab Assembly earlier this month adopted a resolution against the farm laws and unanimously passed four bills to counter the Centre's contentious legislations. Rajasthan's Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. He also introduced the Code of Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 on the first day of the Assembly session. A number of provisions to protect the interests of farmers, including sale or purchase of a crop under farming agreement on a price equal or greater than minimum support price and imprisonment of three to seven years for harassment of farmers, have been included in the bills. The Congress leadership has suggested that states where it is in power should pass laws of their own to counter the central legislations that had triggered farmers' protests in several parts of the country. In the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, a provision states, "Provided further that no Farming Agreement for the sale or purchase of a crop shall be valid unless the price paid for such agricultural produce is equal to, or greater than, the prevailing Minimum Support Prices, announced by the Central Government for that crop. Apart from a few other amendments, three new sections have been added as special provisions for Rajasthan, providing for punishment for harassment of farmers and powers to the state government to give directions. The bill proposes punishment of imprisonment from three to seven years with or without a fine of Rs five lakh if any person, company or corporate house or any other association or body of persons harasses farmers. "There has been extraordinary outrage amongst the farmers, farm labourers and all others engaged in incidental and ancillary agricultural activities. Since the direct consequences of the Central Act would be to nullify the minimum support price mechanism that has stood the test of time and introduce several other infirmities and distortions operating to the grave detriment and prejudice of agriculture and the communities associated with it," the statement of the bill said. "The Parliament has also introduced a mechanism for production, trade and commerce in agricultural produce through this Central Act, that is vulnerable to encroachment and manipulation by vested corporate interests through provisions such as contract farming minus a guarantee of minimum support price and leaving the farmer open to the vagaries of market forces for getting a remunerative price for agricultural produce, fruits and vegetables. No check has been provided against exploitation of farmer, it said. In the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, one of the proposed amendments pertains to regulation of notified agriculture produce, which says that the state government may notify a Fee/Cess/Cesses/Charges on notified agricultural produce, brought or bought or sold, by a corporate or trader for trade and commerce in a trade area. The Rajasthan government also introduced three other bills on the first day of the session -- the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill-2020, the Code of Civil Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill-2020 and the Rajasthan University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (Amendment) Bill-2020. The House was adjourned for the day after obituary references on the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and other leaders who passed away recently. After the House was adjourned, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore told reporters that the BJP will oppose the bills and will prove during the debate on Monday that the central laws are in favour of farmers. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised, during election campaigns, doubling the income of farmers but after winning the elections he worked to serve the interests of the corporate houses and anti-farmers legislations were enacted. The three central farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Earlier, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had said his state would follow Punjab in bypassing the "anti-farmer laws". "INC under the leadership of Smt #SoniaGandhi ji& #RahulGandhi ji stands absolutely with our annadatas and will continue to oppose the anti-farmer laws passed by NDA Govt. Today Congress Govt in #Punjab has passed Bills against these laws & #Rajasthan will follow soon, Gehlot tweeted on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
31-10-2020||India||Tharoor refers to 'Hindutva movement' as mirror image of 1947 Muslim communalism||Hindutva movement is the "mirror image" of the Muslim communalism of 1947 and its triumph would mark the end of the Indian idea, says senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, asserting that Hindutva is a political doctrine, not a religious one. A 'Hindu India' would not be Hindu at all, but a "Sanghi Hindutva state", which is a different country altogether, says Tharoor in his new book 'The Battle of Belonging' that was released on Saturday. "People like me want to preserve the India we love, and not turn our beloved nation into the kind of religious state we were brought up to detest," he said. Tharoor also asserted that the Hindutva movement rhetoric echoes the bigotry that India was constructed to reject. In the book published by Aleph Book Company, Tharoor makes a stinging critique of the Hindutva doctrine and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which he says is a challenge to, arguably, the most fundamental aspect of Indianness. Devoting a chapter to the 'Hindu Pakistan' controversy in the book, the former Union minister writes: "I had inveighed against the ruling party's attempts to create a Hindutva version of Pakistan, since that was not what our freedom movement fought for, nor was it the idea of India enshrined in our Constitution." "This is not just about the minorities, as the BJP would have us believe. Many proud Hindus like myself cherish the inclusive nature of our faith and have no desire to live, as our Pakistani neighbours are forced to, in an intolerant mono-religious state," he writes. Tharoor's reported comment last year that the BJP will pave the way for creation of a "Hindu Pakistan" had sparked a controversy with the party demanding his apology over the remarks. Hinduism, as Swami Vivekananda asserted, teaches the acceptance of difference as a basic credo, Tharoor said in the book. "What is bizarre about the media drama over my remarks is that no one who was giving airtime to multiple BJP voices, frothing at the mouth about my words, actually asked them one simple question: 'Is the BJP giving up its dream of a Hindu rashtra?" Tharoor said. BJP apologists point out that the government has done nothing to amend the Constitution, and others have suggested that the Supreme Court's ruling that secularism is part of the 'basic structure' of the Constitution makes the idea of a 'Hindutva Pakistan' impossible, he said. "But the fact is that both have only been held at bay by the simple fact that the BJP has not had the numbers required to achieve their goal -- two-thirds of both Houses of Parliament and half the states," he said. Their overwhelming victory in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and winning a plurality of seats in the Rajya Sabha in June 2020 has ensured that they finally have all the elements needed to fulfil their "project", he said, adding that the nation has been "warned". Tharoor argues in the book that the battle is between two opposing ideas of India or what might be described as ethno-religious nationalism versus civic nationalism. In a sharp criticism of the CAA, Tharoor said it is the first law to question a basic building block of the nation -- that religion is not the determinant of our nationhood and, therefore, of our citizenship. At a time when India's major national priority ought to have been its flailing economy, whose plummeting growth rate had already aroused widespread alarm even before the coronavirus struck, the Modi government plunged the country into an unwanted political crisis of its own making with the CAA, he said. "With its penchant for shock-and-awe, the government pushed through Parliament legislation that fast-tracks citizenship for people fleeing persecution in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh -- provided they are not Muslim. By excluding members of just one community, the new law is antithetical to India's secular and pluralist traditions," writes Tharoor. "The religious bigotry that partitioned the country with the founding of Pakistan has now been mirrored in pluralist India. As I told my fellow parliamentarians, that was a partition in the Indian soil; this is now a partition in the Indian soul," he said. The Hindutva movement is the mirror image of the Muslim communalism of 1947; its rhetoric echoes the bigotry that India was constructed to reject, Tharoor said. Its triumph would mark the end of the Indian idea, the Congress leader added. In the book, Tharoor also delves into the issue of the slogan 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' allegedly becoming an "acid test of Indian nationalism" and reiterated his stance that no Indian should be compelled to mouth a phrase that is nationalistic in the eyes of some, but not in his own. Revisiting the 2016 controversy involving Muslim legislator Waris Pathan, who was suspended from the Maharashtra Assembly soon after for refusing to utter the slogan, Tharoor noted that some Muslims say, "'Tell us to say Jai Hind, Hindustan Zindabad, Jai Bharat, we'll do it -- but do not ask us to say Bharat Mata ki Jai'." "The same Constitution that, in our civic nationalism, gives us the right to freedom of speech, also gives us the freedom of silence. We cannot put words in people's mouths," he asserted. Tharoor also criticized the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, saying Modi shocked the nation with an announcement on Kashmir that could well turn out to be the "political equivalent of demonetization".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
31-10-2020||India||Truth of Pulwama attack accepted in Pakistan Parliament, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the truth of last year's Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, has been accepted in Pakistan Parliament. His statement comes two days after Pakistan's Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country's role in the Pulwama attack during a debate in their National Assembly (Parliament). Modi also said that when the entire nation was mourning the brave soldiers' death in Pulwama attack, some people indulged in "dirty politics" for their political gains. Without mentioning China, the prime minister said that Indian soldiers are giving a befitting reply to those eyeing to grab the country's land. He was speaking at Kevadiya in Gujarat's Narmada district after paying tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Statue of Unity on his 145th birth anniversary. "The country cannot forget the unwarranted statements made after the Pulwama attack. Dirty politics laced with selfishness and arrogance was at its peak when the country was suffering from immense pain," Modi said. "But the real face of such people has been exposed after the truth was accepted in the Parliament of our neighbouring country," he said in his address on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas. During a debate in Pakistan's National Assembly on Thursday, Chaudhry had said, "Humne Hindustan ko ghus ke maara (We hit India in their home). Our success in Pulwama, is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan. You and we are all part of that success." The PM said he remained silent despite all the "accusations and filthy words" used against him after the Pulwama terror attack. "Politics done after Pulwama attack shows that people can cross any limit for their political gains. I want to urge such political parties not to indulge in this kind of politics as it affects the morale of our security forces," he said. "For your political gains, you should not play into the hands of anti-national forces, knowingly or unknowingly," he added. Against the backdrop of terror attacks in France and criticism being faced by its President Emmanuel Macron over a cartoon row, Modi said it was a matter of concern for the entire world how some people have come out in support of terrorism. "In the present situation, all the nations, all the governments and people of all the faiths must get united against terrorism. Peace, brotherhood and respect for each other is the identity of humanity. Terrorism and violence is not good for anyone," he said. India understands the pain of terror victims very well, as terrorism has taken lives of thousands of Indian soldiers and citizens over the years, the PM added. Stressing that the world needs to get united against terrorism, Modi also called for fighting all those forces that support it. On the issue of securing borders, Modi said the country's soldiers now have the capability to give a befitting reply to the enemies. "Aaj Bharat ki bhoomi par nazar gadane walo to muh tod jawab mil raha hai (Today those eyeing to grab our land are getting a befitting reply)," Modi said without naming China. "India is building hundreds of kilometers of roads, bridges and tunnels near our borders. The country is committed and well-prepared to protect its honour and sovereignty," he said. On the occasion, Modi remembered all those police personnel, who sacrificed their lives while serving the society during the coronavirus outbreak. "When other countries are still struggling, 130 crore citizens of India came together to give a united fight against the pandemic. As a result, India is coming out of the coronavirus outbreak and marching ahead," he said. He said Jammu and Kashmir's "unification" with India completed one year as his government scrapped Article 370 a year ago. Modi said that Sardar Patel would have resolved the Kashmir issue had he been allowed to do so. "I am fortunate for getting the opportunity to complete the unfinished task of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Now, Kashmir has embarked on its journey of development," he said, adding that efforts were also being made for bringing peace and prosperity in the north-east region. He said Patel started the "yagya" (mission) of reclaiming India's cultural heritage by ordering reconstruction ofSomnath temple. "The country saw the extension of that yagya in Ayodhya. The country witnessed the Supreme Court ruling on Ram temple, and people are now witnessing the construction of a grand Ram Mandir," he said. Stressing the need for unity and developing the spirit of 'India First', Modi mentioned a poem written by well-known Tamil poet and freedom fighter Subramania Bharathi. Remembering Sardar Patel, who united the country after the British left, Modi said, "We should always remember that the interest of the country is paramount for all of us and only it will lead us to the path of progress." He also remembered Maharishi Valmiki on his birth anniversary. The PM said it is Valmiki's depiction of Lord Ram that connects every citizen living in different parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
31-10-2020||India||Free Covid vaccine promise not a violation of poll code, says EC ||The BJP's promise of providing free coronavirus vaccine in its manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls is not violative of the provisions of the model code, the Election Commission has held. Responding to a complaint by RTI activist Saket Gokhale, the commission said it has found no violation of the provisions of the model code in the issue. "...no violation of any of the provisions of Model Code of Conduct has been observed...," the commission said. Gokhale had claimed that the promise is discriminatory and a misuse of powers by the central government during elections. According to sources, the commission cited certain guidelines for election manifestos contained in Part VIII of the Model Code of Conduct to conclude that the free vaccine promise was not violative of it. "The Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution enjoin upon the State to frame various welfare measures for the citizens and therefore there can be no objection to the promise of such welfare in election manifesto," one of the provisions quoted by the EC said. Trust of voters should be sought only on those promises which are possible to be fulfilled, the other provision cited by the EC said. "It is stated that the election manifestoes are issued by political parties, candidates in respect of a particular election," the EC response said. Gokhale wrote on Twitter on Friday, "ECI shockingly ignored the fact that the Union government announced it for a specific state and said action is taken when election atmosphere is vitiated." Earlier this month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had released the BJP manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls which promised free Covid-19 vaccine once it is cleared by the ICMR. Opposition parties had slammed the BJP for promising free Covid-19 vaccines in its Bihar poll manifesto and demanded action by the Election Commission, while alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political gains. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the BJP, saying one has to refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when one will have access to the vaccine. The BJP, however, said health is a state subject and its manifesto is for Bihar, not for the entire country, where it has promised that the state will buy the vaccine for its people. The RJD, the Congress, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party and the National Conference all raised questions on the BJP's poll promise of free vaccine for Bihar, alleging that it is politicising the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
31-10-2020||India||Covid caseload above 81 lakh with 48,648 more cases||With 48,648 fresh Covid-19 infections, India's caseload rose to 81,37,119 on Saturday, while the number of recoveries crossed the 74-lakh mark, pushing the recovery rate to 91.34 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 1,21,641 with 551 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 74,32,829 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far, taking the national recovery rate to 91.34 per cent. The case fatality rate has dropped to 1.49 per cent. The number of active Covid-19 cases remained below 6 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 5,82,649 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, which comprise 7.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 10,87,96,064 samples had been tested for Covid-19 till October 30. Of these, 10,67,976 samples were tested on Friday. The 551 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 59 from West Bengal, 49 each from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 47 from Delhi and 38 from Tamil Nadu. Of the total 1,21,641 deaths reported so far in the country, 43,837 are from Maharashtra, followed by 11,140 from Karnataka, 11,091 from Tamil Nadu, 7,007 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,784 from Bengal, 6,676 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,470 from Delhi, 4,187 from Punjab and 3,711 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||A concert and a lesson for liberals ||Poems of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru would form the lyrics for Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna’s performance to mark Kerala’s formation day on Sunday. A Magsaysay Award winner known for his progressive speeches and writings and widely acclaimed efforts to push out caste elitism from the world of Carnatic music, Krishna has tuned the poems of one of the key social reformers, who led the transformation of Kerala from an unrelenting caste-based society to a more progressive one. Malayalam channel Kairali TV will broadcast the pre-recorded concert at 5.30pm on Sunday to mark the “Kerala Piravi” or Kerala formation day. In an email interview to The Telegraph, Krishna said it was quite easy to compose Guru’s poetry since it had immense musicality. “Guru’s poetry naturally opens itself to melody and rhythm. The flow, measure, sound of syllables are all musical, therefore setting them to music is easy,” he said. Krishna said the poems should come out in other genres and languages as well. “It is essential that Guru’s thoughts are shared through music and other art forms. I want to stress that it should not only be Carnatic music. We should be able to hear Guru’s poems in rock and roll and hip-hop and they must be sung in many languages,” he said. In the first such show, Krishna had performed in Mumbai last year. “Before the Covid-19 pandemic took over our lives, we were planning a few concerts in Kerala and in Karnataka (Mangalore),” he said, expressing hope to carry on the social reformer’s messages through music. Born into a backward Ezhava family in caste-ridden Kerala in 1855, the social reformer, who came to be revered as Sree Narayana Guru, had done the unthinkable in 1888 by consecrating a piece of rock he picked from a river in Aruvippuram near Thiruvananthapuram. While the Brahmins, whose sole domain it was to consecrate, questioned the act, Sree Narayana Guru had famously retorted that it was “not a Brahmin Shiva, but an Ezhava Shiva” at a time when Kerala was deeply enmeshed in a rigid caste system that left a massive majority as untouchables. It was this kind of regressive caste dynamics that made Swami Vivekananda declare Kerala as a “lunatic asylum” during a trip in 1892. The radical consecration of what became a famous shrine eventually led to a massive movement with leaders of more dominant communities like the Nairs joining Sree Narayana Guru in his endeavour to rewrite the social fabric of Travancore, and eventually the state. Krishna found the teachings of the reformer-philosopher very relevant to the present times. “In the present context, learning from Guru becomes essential. If we want to fight parochialism, bigotry, divisiveness, hate, every liberal in this country must internalise Guru,” Krishna said, pointing to a fallacious approach of liberals. “The liberals of India have to realise that for too long we have treated religion and faith with condescension and progressiveness has become synonymous with atheism. This has paved the way for bigotry and violence, allowing the Right-wing to use fear to trap people within its clasp. Guru’s progressiveness was faith itself,” he said. “Unlike (Mahatma) Gandhi who unfortunately thought cleansing and purifying religion was all that was needed, Guru questioned, reimagined and literally redrafted religion. He took ownership of it,” said Krishna. The show would be presented under the banner of Nool Archives, a collective of intellectuals. “Nool” means thread in Malayalam and the name signifies finding a common thread in cultures across and beyond the country. Artist Riyas Komu, a key figure behind Nool Archives, saw the concert based on Guru’s poems as a significant step towards recovering mystic traditions. “Such artistic interventions will help rejuvenate the collective consciousness of the people in the current political climate,” said Komu, one of the co-founders of Kochi Muziris Biennale, the country’s premier art exposition. “We wanted to take the conversation forward with Guru as a poet since he wrote in multiple languages,” he said, alluding to how Guru wrote in Malayalam, Tamil and Sanskrit with equal ease. “It is important to retrieve our past which has got great values and present it for today to build a great future. If you are not conceiving the past in its right spirit then your present goes into chaos,” he said. Dinakaran Meenamkunnu, a retired scientist of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre who too is a part of Nool Archives, cited Guru’s progressive thoughts and writings that had to be focused on. “He is very unique. Not only that he didn’t have any baggage from the Western education system, he was very progressive in the Indian way,” said Meenamkunnu. He said that the socio-political analysis of the social reformer had to co-exist with his metaphysical side. “You have nothing new to say about the social reform part of Guru. But the metaphysics side of Guru that gave rise to the social reforms is important now,” Meenamkunnu said, alluding to Krishna’s concert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath loses ‘star campaigner’ status||The Election Commission on Friday revoked the “star campaigner” status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath taking serious note of breach of “ethical and dignified behaviour” and repeated violations of the model code during campaign for the bypolls in 28 Assembly constituencies in the state. In an order, the commission said, “...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (star campaigner) of Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current byelections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh.” It said no permission will be granted by authorities to Nath as a star campaigner. “However, if any campaign is done by Kamal Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure related to travel, stay and visit will be completely borne by the candidate in whose constituency he carries out campaigning,” it said. While the political party pays for the expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like “item”, a jibe used to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Global Himalayan Expedition trains sights beyond India||An Indian social business that leads Himalayan treks to set up solar micro-grids in remote mountain villages plans to expand its clean-energy work to other countries facing similar challenges, after winning a United Nations climate award. Global Himalayan Expedition (GHE) has brought solar electricity to more than 130 Indian villages, benefiting about 60,000 people, while setting up home-stays for tourists that have generated more than $100,000 income for villagers. By providing clean energy and livelihoods, the company has helped preserve fragile eco-systems and bridged the gender gap by training local women to become entrepreneurs, said Jaideep Bansal, GHE’s chief operating officer. “Without access to basic facilities and better income opportunities, the villagers are likely to migrate to towns in search of jobs, accelerating cultural and social erosion in these areas,” he said.  “We are able to leverage tourism as a force for holistic development of remote mountain communities.” The Indian government deems all villages nationwide to be electrified because at least 10 per cent of households and public places have electricity. But power cuts are rampant, forcing residents to use diesel generators and kerosene lamps with noxious fumes. Fast-dropping costs for solar power, combined with plenty of sun have made mini-grids and micro-grids an affordable option. GHE identifies villages that lack access to reliable electric power, sometimes trekking up to six days to reach them. More than 1,300 travellers have so far paid up to $3,500 each to join the hikes, with about a quarter of the charge going towards setting up the solar grid, Bansal said. The tourists work alongside engineers to install the micro-grids and fixtures, including street lights and LED lights, fans and mobile charging points in homes, he added. The project has provided solar capacity totalling 360 kilowatts, avoiding about 35,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, according to a UN estimate. GHE trains local youths and women to become electricians, and helps women set up home-stays and“astro-stays” that offer stargazing at night on solar-powered telescopes. “Empowering women entrepreneurs through astronomy has helped reduce the gap in gender equality. It has also engendered greater interest in STEM subjects in women and children,” Bansal said, referring to science, technology, engineering and maths. GHE’s model of tourism with environmental and social benefits is “easily replicable because of the simplicity in approach”, said the UN climate secretariat, announcing the winners of its 2020 global climate action awards this week. The model is particularly relevant as sales of off-grid solar products fell sharply in the first half of the year with incomes hit because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Covid-19 crisis has derailed GHE’s expeditions this year. But it plans to expand tours to Madagascar, Sumatra and Nepal next year, and is partnering on other community-based tourism initiatives in Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Kenya. “We are looking at remote regions with similar development problems as the Indian Himalayas, where the concept of impact tourism and sustainable development can be applied,” Bansal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Congress steps up Munger heat ||A Congress delegation met Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday and demanded the removal of chief minister Nitish Kumar over Monday’s alleged police brutality on Durga devotees in Munger town, which left a teenager dead and triggered retaliatory mob violence on Thursday. “We met the governor and demanded the immediate removal of chief minister Nitish Kumar and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. “They are responsible for the brutal lathi-charge and police firing in Munger. They have pushed the state into anarchy.” On Monday, a quarrel over the right of way had broken out between the police and devotees carrying the town’s famed Badi Durga idol for immersion. The police allegedly fired on the crowd, killing 17-year-old Anurag Poddar and setting off a minor stampede, and then caned the crowd, leaving many people with bullet wounds and other injuries. The police have denied firing, saying criminals from within the Puja crowd had fired the shots. Wednesday’s vote in the town passed peacefully but with no action taken against the police even on Thursday, thousands of angry residents attacked police stations and vehicles and other government buildings. Subsequently, the Election Commission transferred Munger district magistrate Rajesh Meena and superintendent of police Lipi Singh. Surjewala said the Congress team had requested the governor to provide a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to Anurag’s family and ensure punishment for the officials involved in Monday’s atrocity. “The police fired at the people in which a youth was shot in the head and died. Eight others received bullet injures. Several women, children and other people were brutally thrashed,” he said. He accused the state government of having tried to shield Lipi because she is the daughter of senior JDU leader R.C.P Singh, considered close to Nitish. Meena is believed to have Sushil’s patronage. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera and Bihar unit president Madan Mohan Jha had accompanied Surjewala to the governor. Meena’s and Lipi’s replacements, Rachna Patil and M.S. Dhillon, respectively, have held flag marches in Munger, which has been limping back to normality. An internal report written purportedly by an official of the Central Industrial Security Force, deployed in the town on poll duty and apparently present at the site of Monday’s violence, has been circulated widely on social media. It says the police had fired in the air after the Durga devotees began throwing stones around 11.45pm on Monday night. This provoked the mob to intensify the stoning. A CISF head constable then fired 13 rounds from his Insas rifle in the air in self-defence, after which the crowd left, the report says. It does not explain how a young man died and many others received bullet injuries if all the firing was directed at the sky. Calls to the CISF public relations officer went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Appeal: We must look after and look out for teachers||The Loreto Schools have made a special request to parents to “act in a spirit of cooperation and consideration for others” to get through the “crisis without conflict”. The schools have said in a circular that although profit is not the priority, the institutions need to be kept afloat and functional to ensure that the “staff are paid and their dependence on the schools are addressed”. The eight unaided Loreto schools in the state — six in Calcutta and one each in Darjeeling and Asansol — have issued an appeal to parents and guardians: those who do not need to avail of the reduction of fees may inform the schools. “Profit, financial benefit and money are not our priorities. However, the reality is that we need to keep the schools afloat and functional, and to ensure that our staff are paid and their dependence on the schools are addressed. Our teachers and staff depend on us for their livelihoods and existence. We must look after them, and look out for them at all costs through these hard times,” the circular says. The circular has been uploaded over Thursday and Friday on the websites of the schools, communicating compliance with a high court order for a 20 per cent reduction in tuition fees. It said all Loreto schools had unanimously adopted resolutions implementing the points of the order. Addressing parents, guardians and staff, the circular said all those who are part of the Loreto family know that they have a lot of other responsibilities to society and to those who are “less fortunate than us”. That is where a lot of the costs arise, dealing with basics as widely varying as food rations, clothes, books, mobile top-ups and sanitary materials, the circular said. “It is for those in our family who have enough to choose to give what they can for others in need, for whom Loreto is a means of survival. The simplest way to do that is through making payment of fees so that we can use the money in the way we always have, to cover our costs and for the betterment of others,” the circular added. “We still incur heavy expenses in each of our schools towards our social commitment and helping the needy students, and those less fortunate than us. For this reason, we appeal to those who do not need to avail the reduction of 20 per cent fees, to write or communicate to us immediately... this small gesture on your part will help reduce our burden and our concern for the coming months ahead. “We request all to act in the spirit of cooperation and consideration for others to help us get through this crisis without conflict. We are here to help you, for your child is as much our responsibility.” A member of the Loreto Education Board said that concessions had always been provided to a large number of students, and during the pandemic they had increased. “We have given further concession to students whose families suffered financial losses. We have provided support like data recharge, smart phones wherever necessary to ensure that where learning is concerned students should not suffer,” said the Loreto Education Board member. The circular said: “You have trusted us with your children to educate them and instil values in them. We ask you to help us, as we also trust you as part of our family to stand by us. We hope that those who can do without the concessions and understand the practical issues of keeping the schools alive and running will stand by us in our times of need, just as we stand by all of you.” The schools have said that the Loreto way of life has never been about marks alone but also about being good human beings and helping each other. “We hope, pray and trust that these values will show in all of us, and come back from our entire family of staff, parents and administrators, and we will get through all of this together, helping those in need, making sure we maintain as much normalcy as possible for our children, and with the greatest good to the greatest number,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Proposal for high-risk group during phase 3 efficacy trial||A top medical virologist has proposed that vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease shown to be safe and generating a good immune response in humans should be offered to high-risk individuals in parallel with phase 3 efficacy trials. The proposal by T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, represents a dramatic departure from standard practice that allows vaccine roll-outs only after efficacy has been established through large-scale phase 3 trials. “There is a strong case for allowing emergency use of any Covid-19 vaccine already in phase 3 or ready for phase 3,” John said in a peer-reviewed paper co-authored with Mumbai-based paediatrician Dhanya Dharmapalan and set to appear in the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. A phase 1 trial on a small number of healthy volunteers evaluates a vaccine for safety, while a phase 2 trial on a few hundred volunteers examines whether the vaccine generates a strong immune response among the recipients. Phase 3 marks a critical efficacy trial in which researchers administer the vaccine to tens of thousands of people to determine whether it protects them from the natural infection. John’s proposal implies that vaccine candidates found to be safe and generating an immune response should be offered to individuals with underlying health disorders and the elderly who are at high risk of developing severe disease or dying from Covid-19. John contends that such a limited and supervised roll-out may help save lives. “If the candidate works, it would save lives. If it does not work, no harm done. If a candidate has as yet undetected adverse effects, the larger pool of recipients through a parallel roll-out will only facilitate faster detection of adverse effects,” John told The Telegraph. Two Covid-19 vaccine candidates in India -– one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from Oxford University and produced by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India — have been approved for phase 3 clinical trials. At least eight other candidates are under phase 3 trials elsewhere in the world. The limited, supervised roll-out of vaccine candidates in parallel with phase 3 trials would need to be under full-informed consent where recipients are aware that they are receiving experimental and unproven vaccines and with no liability on the manufacturers or vaccinators for adverse events. “The world is facing a once-in-a-century need for fast-tracked vaccines,” John said. Other experts and clinical researchers said John’s arguments were strong. “This is a pandemic and in times such as these, the benefits may be large and therefore it’s worth taking risks,” said Urmila Thatte, senior clinical pharmacologist in Mumbai and a specialist on trials. “But the bottom line is informed consent,” Thatte said. India’s apex health research agency has independently initiated a “scientific dialogue” on the option of authorising emergency use of vaccine candidates without any compromise on safety, a top official in the agency said. “The Covid-19 pandemic has posed an extraordinary challenge that requires extraordinary responses,” Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told this newspaper. “We’ve initiated a scientific dialogue on this.” Panda, however, stressed that the decision to approve a vaccine candidate for emergency use rests with the drug regulatory authority.India’s Covid-19 epidemic has killed over 121,000 people. Health authorities on Friday recorded 48,648 new cases, raising the total of laboratory-confirmed patients to over 8.08 million, of whom 7.37 million have recovered and 594,000 are under medical supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||No ifs and buts: Muslim women’s voice stands out||Two among the largest organisations of Indian Muslims have focused on the reaction of the French government to the beheading of schoolteacher Samuel Paty rather than on the knife attacks. But an unequivocal condemnation of the murders of Paty and three others in a church in Nice on Thursday has come from the Muslim Women’s Forum, India. The forum works for the empowerment, inclusion and education of Muslim women. A statement signed by former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, one of the founders of the forum, and others said on Thursday: “We remind ourselves of the Quranic injunction — ‘killing an individual is like killing an entire quam (humanity) (Surah 5:32)’. Such an act cannot be accepted by any democratic and civilised society. We want that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice quickly.” One of the signatories, civil rights activist Shabnam Hashmi, told The Telegraph: “Most people are caught up with politics within the country, on which Islamophobia is present. They find it difficult to come out of that prism and do not see extremists among Muslims too. In the last few decades, conservatism has grown in the community. In my youth, we could speak about topics that are called blasphemous today.” Bhopal, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Aligarh have seen protests against France amid calls in some places for a boycott of French goods. N.P. Ashley, who teaches English at St Stephen’s College in Delhi and is part of education programmes in his community of Moplah Muslims in Kerala, said the protests in India had brought together conflicting streams of Muslim politics. “We are seeing two kinds of protests: one by conservatives who feel that you can’t insult the Prophet. The conservatives may be illiberal but they aren’t communal. The second is by Islamists who seem to view the developments as a rerun of the crusades. This is communal and it rejoices in acts like the conversion of the Hagia Sofia into a mosque by Urdugan (Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan),” Ashley said. “Islamists think of Islam as a civilisation, just like the Islamophobes. The fear of majoritarian targeting or anti-Muslim bigotry should not make Muslims lose their sense of ethics or perspective.” Author and journalist Ziya Us Salam said: “Outside France reacts to the perceived actions of the French government — which is not a civil society response. When the government puts pictures of the Prophet on buildings, coupled with the statements of Macron, these are seen as acts in bad spirit which are deliberately provocative. No one in a proper frame of mind has justified the killings.” Paty was beheaded by Chechen refugee Abdoullakh Abouyedovich Anzorov in a Paris suburb on October 16 for displaying cartoons on the Prophet Muhammad during a class on free speech. Such cartoons are seen as blasphemous by Muslims. Cartoons published by satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo in 2006 and 2012 had been cited as a motive for the attacks on its offices in 2011 and 2015 in which 12 cartoonists were killed. Macron has supported the slain teacher and the right to publish cartoons, which have been projected on public buildings in the country after the incident. On October 21, Macron said: “We will defend the freedom that you (Paty) taught so well, and we will strongly proclaim the concept of laïcité (secularism). We will not disavow the cartoons, the drawings, even if others recoil. We will provide all the opportunities that the Republic owes all its young people, without any discrimination.” This, as well as his speech on October 2, in which he called Islam a “religion in crisis”, drew condemnation from Turkey, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran. India has condemned the language being used against Macron, after Erdogan said Macron needed a mental health check. Twitter has deleted a post by former Malaysia Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad saying Muslims had the right “to kill millions of French people” for the atrocities of colonialism — a sentence he said was taken out of context. The full posts of Mahathir said: “Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large, the Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t.” On Tuesday, the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, one of the oldest conservative political groups among Muslims, condemned Macron for his alleged Islamophobia. Jamaat president Syed Sadatullah Hussaini said: “French President Emmanuel Macron is openly exhibiting Islamophobia, one of the reasons for which is his government’s failure on various fronts. For the past few years, one has observed a fair degree of extremism among the Far Right political and non-political groups. It appears as though Macron is resorting to Islamophobia to discredit these organisations…. The French government should objectively evaluate the issue of teacher Samuel Paty, the act by the Chechen student and its aftermath in the context of politics, sociology and psychology.” On Wednesday and Thursday, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, a national body of clerics led by Maulana Mahmood Madani, had issued statements condemning Macron and the Indian government’s support for him. Terrorism was condemned but the group blamed France for “encouraging terrorism”. Madani said on Thursday: “This attitude of the Government of India reflects hostility towards Islam and Muslims. This will no doubt inflict hurt upon not only the 20 crore Muslims of the country but Muslims of the entire world as well secular-minded people.” In a statement, his group said: “Jamiat condemns every form of terrorism committed by any individual, organisation or State. But at the present, France itself is encouraging terrorism.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Pinarayi Vijayan under attack after arrests||The Opposition parties in Kerala have launched a no-holds-barred attack on chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over two arrests that have come to haunt the CPM. After briefly staying away from mass protests because of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, both the Congress and the BJP hit the streets in big numbers on Friday seeking the resignation of Vijayan who had all along been the bulwark they found difficult to upstage. The arrest of his former secretary M. Sivasankar and that of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of the state CPM secretary, came just a day apart and fully loaded with ammunition for the Opposition. Sivasankar was held in a case related to gold smuggling in Kerala, while Bineesh landed in trouble over a drug case in Bangalore. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said Vijayan was trying to escape by fixing all the blame on Sivasankar. “The chief minister is saying that neither he nor his government has any responsibility in what Sivasankar did in his personal capacity. Sivasankar’s help (in gold smuggling) is help from the chief minister’s office,” he said. After sporadic protests on Thursday, an organised agitation was held across the state on Friday when Congress and BJP workers clashed with police in Thiruvananthapuram. The ruling Left Democratic Front, however, stood steadfast behind the chief minister. State CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran said it was wrong to target the chief minister for alleged crimes committed by Sivasankar and Bineesh. Kerala was declared the best governed large state in a public affairs index released here on Friday, while Uttar Pradesh featured at the bottom. While Goa emerged the best governed among small states, Chandigarh was adjudged the best-governed Union Territory by Public Affairs Centre, an NGO headed by former Isro chairman K. Kasturirangan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Breather for caste, gender study centres||Teachers and students at nearly 200 academic centres that study caste and gender discrimination have received temporary relief after weeks of fear that these centres would be closed, hitting their future. The University Grants Commission last week issued a letter assuring the continuation of funding, till March 31 next year, for the Centres for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy at about 35 universities and Women’s Studies Centres at about 160 universities The commission has also decided to go on funding 30 other schemes, including equal opportunity cells that provide coaching to students from socially marginalised and minority communities. Most of these schemes had been started under the five-year plans, with five-year extensions at the end of each plan period. But these schemes and the study centres came under a cloud when the Niti Aayog scrapped five-year plans in 2017. Since then, the government had been extending these centres’ lives one year at a time. But after one such extension expired on March 31, 2020, the commission granted just a six-month extension till September 30 — and sat tight after that date passed while students and teachers worried about their careers. The social exclusion and women’s study centres offer MPhil and PhD courses in the atrocities and bias faced by Dalits, tribal people and women. Besides, they provide some courses under the choice-based credit system for undergraduates. These centres together have more than 1,000 teachers and other staff, and several thousand students. On Friday, many of the students and teachers said they were relieved for now but demanded that these centres be converted into permanent university departments, which would end the periodic tension over funds. “Six-monthly or yearly extensions of funding affect research because we cannot plan long-term projects. If the centres are made permanent, more students and teachers will be willing to join,” a teacher at a social exclusion study centre in a central university said. Some institutions like Banaras Hindu University, Tripura University, Hyderabad University and Pondicherry University have already converted their social exclusion and women’s centres into permanent departments. A recent conference of vice-chancellors passed a resolution requesting the government to provide funds so these centres can be merged with their universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Congress attacks ‘cosy club of sycophants’||The Congress on Friday reacted to the government’s choices for the new chief information commissioner and a new information commissioner by saying the Centre wanted to run the country through “a cosy club of favourite bureaucrats and sycophants”. It said the Narendra Modi government’s record in “transparency and accountability” had been “pathetic” and that its appointments to investigative agencies and watchdog institutions demonstrated its anti-democratic mindset. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, was referring to the proposed appointment of former diplomat and information commissioner Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha as the new chief information commissioner, and that of journalist Uday Mahurkar as information commissioner. Chowdhury had opposed these choices in his capacity as a member of the appointments committee, which includes the Prime Minister and the Union home minister. “If you want to conduct administration through a cosy club of favourite bureaucrats and sycophants, democracy diminishes,” Chowdhury told The Telegraph. “Watchdog institutions and investigative agencies like the CBI, Central Vigilance Commission, Lokpal, Central Information Commission, Comptroller and Auditor General of India play a critical role in the democratic functioning of the country. Any attempt to control these institutions with the help of pliable officers undermines democracy.” Chowdhury is said to have recorded his dissent at the appointments committee’s October 24 meeting, alleging violation of the criteria laid down by the RTI Act. He had argued that Sinha, a former Indian Foreign Service officer, lacked adequate “on-ground” domestic experience in the field of service delivery. Chowdhury had supported the candidature of another information commissioner, Vanaja N. Sarna, who was senior to Sinha. Mahurkar, Chowdhury had said, had not even applied for the post but was picked because he is a known Modi supporter. The journalist has written books on Modi and subscribes to the RSS ideology. “There are two aspects (to such appointments): one, following the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the provisions of the act; two, deciding by consensus. This government has no concern for either. They just decide and bulldoze their decision,” Chowdhury said. “We have seen it in the past. Democracy will not survive in this manner. There is a ‘Liberal Democracy Index’; India is falling in its rankings.” Chowdhury had also objected to IAS officer Sanjay Kothari’s appointment as chief vigilance commissioner in April, citing a vitiation of the selection process — the search committee had included an official who was himself an applicant. The government had ignored the objections. In the past, then Lok Sabha Opposition leader Mallikarjun Kharge had written dissent notes in vain. During the selection of the Lokpal, Kharge had seven times refused to attend the committee meeting as he had been called as a special invitee without the right to vote. To justify the denial of voting rights, the government had cited the technicality of his not having been formally anointed as leader of the Opposition. The Congress has consistently been complaining about a conspiracy to weaken democratic institutions. There had been speculation about the Lok Sabha public accounts committee, headed by Chowdhury, writing to the CAG about the delays in filing audit reports over the past few years. Chowdhury confirmed on Friday that he had written to the CAG. “Delays in the reports ensure that burning issues are forgotten. By the time the reports come, governments have changed in the states or events have overtaken the subject. We have summoned the CAG to explain the delays at the next meeting,” he said. Apart from the delays, the number of the CAG’s reports has fallen sharply over the past few years. During the tenure of Vindo Rai — which damaged the reputation of the Manmohan Singh government — the CAG used to churn out over 200 audit reports for Parliament and the state legislatures every year. It, however, produced just 73 reports in 2018-19 and 98 in 2017-18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Odisha MLA, wife harvest paddy on festive break||While others of his ilk appear to be on an extended vacation on account of Durga Puja and Diwali, Nityananda Gond, the BJP legislator from Umerkote in southern Odisha, has been busy harvesting paddy. The tribal MLA has been working in the fields with his wife, who is the headmistress of a government high school. Gond, 42, who has a bachelor’s degree in law and a post-graduate degree in history, was practising at the subdivisional court at Umerkote in Nabarangpur district, before winning the last Assembly election on a BJP ticket. However, coming from a family of farmers, he still takes interest in his fields whenever he finds time. Umerkote is around 598km from here. Gond, who owns nearly 25 acres of land, says he earns between Rs 12 and Rs 15 lakh every year by cultivating paddy and corn. “I have grown up watching our fields being cultivated. My father Samaru Gond used to till the land himself. My elder brother Hiraman still tills our land. I help him to the extent I can. Becoming an MLA has changed nothing for me as far as our farming activities are concerned,” the MLA told The Telegraph. According to Gond, farming can be a profitable business only if one works hard. “It’s tough to find labourers at the right time for harvesting. If you work in the fields yourself, others will follow you. We had a good harvest this year despite natural calamities,” he said. Gond said the coronavirus-induced lockdown had caused a shortage of farm labour in the market. During the Dussehra vacation when others were busy in festivities, Gond and his wife decided to work in the fields. “During Dussehra my school was closed. I decided to go back to my in-law’s house, which is only 25km from my work place. When I saw my husband working in the field, I decided to join him in paddy harvesting. As a wife, I support him. The bond between a husband and a wife gets stronger when they work together,” said Chaiti Gond, the headmistress of Chadheiguda UG High School in Nabarangpur district. Gond said, “I am proud of my wife. She always supports me. We have inspired other people in the area who don’t hesitate anymore to work in their fields. I have engaged six people to support me in harvesting the paddy. My elder brother looks after these things when I am away and engaged in political activities.” Gond, who came into politics in 2000 after being inspired by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, wants everyone to gain experience of farming. “We can engage in farming while discharging our regular professional work. Farming connects us to our roots,” he claimed. Gond said it was important for a farmer to be in his fields during monsoon to plough the land and to undertake paddy transplantation work. “Similarly , one should be present when harvesting takes place. If you take care of these things, there is never any fear of losing money,” he said. Earlier, ruling Biju Janata Dal’s Dabugaon MLA Manohar Randhari, who also hails from Nabarangpur district, had earned praise from Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for working in his paddy fields, carrying out transplantation work amidst monsoon showers. Naidu had tweeted, “It’s inspiring. According to him (Randhari), the youths should not feel ashamed or feel any kind of hesitation, while working in the agriculture field.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||IPL betting racket busted in Odisha ||Two persons were arrested by police in Odisha’s Berhampur town for allegedly running an IPL betting racket. The police also seized Rs 33.61 lakh and two mobile phones from the accused. They suspect that the accused have Dubai links. Interrogation is on. Southern Range DIG, Satyabrata Bhoi told reporters in Berhampur: “Following a tip off about an illegal online betting racket on the IPL (Indian Premier League), special teams were constituted to nab the kingpins of the racket in Berhampur town on October 29 and October 30. During the raid, a gang was busted and two accused persons R. Lalie Achary (50) and K. Prasant Kumar Subudhi (43) were apprehended and cash worth Rs 33,61,200, two mobile phone sets and three ATMs were seized.” The police in a press release said: “On thorough investigation, it was ascertained that the accused persons used to play on various online betting websites. The accused persons have conspired with the help of different agents of different cities like Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi and Dubai and collected a huge sum from the general public to bet online in IPL cricket with false assurance of getting a profitable margin of return.” The police said the accused had formed a big group to run the racket that was active in southern Odisha. “All of them have been arrested under various sections of IPC and Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning Act), 1978,” the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Maya rebels: We’re loyal to BSP, against BJP ||The rebel Bahujan Samaj Party members whose suspension Mayawati announced on Thursday affirmed their loyalty to the party on Friday and insisted they were exempt from the anti-defection law since they had violated no whip. Lalji Verma, BSP legislative party leader, has said the party would soon initiate the process to have the seven rebels disqualified from the Assembly. However, Handia (Allahabad) MLA Hakim Lal Bind told The Telegraph the dissidents had not defied any party order and had only tried to prevent Mayawati from seeking BJP support to get her candidate elected to the Rajya Sabha. Sushma Patel, MLA from Mungrabadshahpur, Jaunpur, raised a procedural point: “No party can suspend someone without serving a notice. This process was not followed in my suspension. I didn’t commit any crime and nobody can remove me from the BSP.” Five among the seven rebels had on Wednesday claimed their signatures on party Rajya Sabha candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination papers had been forged. Their move had allegedly come at the behest of Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. However, the returning officer cleared Gautam’s candidature. On Thursday, Mayawati announced their suspension from the party’s primary membership at a news conference. “I bear Mayawatiji no ill-will. I’m against our party’s Rajya Sabha candidate because I don’t want him to seek the BJP’s votes. I’m also against some of the BSP president’s rogue advisers,” Bind said. “I have not defected and never met Akhilesh. Behenji is my leader.” Aslam Ali, MLA from Dhaulana in Hapur, denied any inducement from Akhilesh and said: “I’m the only party MLA from western Uttar Pradesh, and Mayawatiji will always prefer me in place of any other candidate. We are against any understanding between the BSP and the BJP.” Under the anti-defection law, lawmakers can lose their membership of a House if they leave their party, defect to another, or violate a party directive to vote or abstain from voting on any issue. While any defection by two-thirds or more among the party’s elected members is exempt from automatic disqualification, the rebels make up less than half of the BSP’s 18 MLAs. Precedent, however, suggests that the seven may hope to escape disqualification. In July, Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit had quashed a Congress appeal to disqualify two of its MLAs, Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, for allegedly violating a party whip and supporting the BJP government over the amendment of Article 370. The Congress had suspended both after serving them with notices. Dixit had ruled that no voting had been held in the House on the matter and the MLAs had not defied the party whip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Dalit beaten up, burnt alive in Amethi||The husband of a Dalit village panchayat chief was allegedly beaten up and set on fire in Amethi on Thursday evening. Arjun Kori, 50, husband of Bandoiya village panchayat chief Chotka Devi, was rushed to Sultanpur District Hospital and later referred to the trauma centre of Lucknow’s King George Medical University. He died on the way. Superintendent of police Dinesh Singh said the family members of the victim had filed an FIR against a person called K.K. Tiwari and four others. “We are investigating the case and the guilty would be arrested soon,” Singh said. Chotka Devi said Tiwari and his goons were forcing her and her husband to give him kickbacks from the development fund. “They were not ready to listen to our plea that the fund is released by senior officers and monitored by them. We are not in a position to siphon off money from it. However, these people thought we were secretly making money. They called my husband on Thursday to discuss something. Later, some villagers told us that he was beaten up and set on fire,” the panchayat pradhan said. Surendra Kori, the son of the victim, accused police of inaction. “We had registered a complaint with the police a few months ago that some affluent villagers were threatening to kill the entire family if we didn’t pay them a monthly amount from the development fund. But no action was taken at that time,” he said. “The seat is reserved for the Scheduled Castes. Usually, the affluent villagers field Dalits on this seat and ensure their victory. They control everything once their candidate wins. But in our case, my parents resisted any misuse of their power,” Surendra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Trains halted, Punjab faces power scarcity||The power situation has turned grim in Punjab with thermal plants nearly running out of coal stock, with movement of coal rakes suspended for about a month —first because farmers protesting against the new farm laws were blocking the tracks, and now because the railways is not allowing freight services to the state. “The Centre is targeting Punjab by suspending the goods trains in the state because farmers and the government here have opposed their anti-farmer laws,” Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Friday. The protesting farmers had on October 21 exempted good trains from their rail roko agitation against the farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government, and services had resumed. But days later, the railways suspended the services alleging that the tracks were still blocked. On chief minister Amarinder Singh’s request to resume freight services, railway minister Piyush Goyal sought the state government’s assurance on the safety of trains and their crew. Minister Randhawa said: “Let the government of India officials themselves go and check if the farmers are still squatting on rail tracks. Barring one track in Jandiala Guru, where too train can be diverted via Tarn Taran to reach Amritsar, other tracks are free. On Jalandhar-Pathankot section, in Bathinda and in Ferozepur, tracks are free”. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited chairman-cum-managing director A. Venu Prasad on Friday said out of five thermal plants, only one is running. “Coal stock of Nabha Thermal Plant at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited in Mansa has been completely exhausted.” “In three other power plants, stock available will last only for 2-3 days and for emergency purpose or critical events we have kept that. In view of the situation, we are purchasing 1,500 megawatts to 1,700MW from power exchange, but it is unpredictable, sometimes we get, sometimes we don’t and at what rates we are going to get we don’t know…. “Therefore, as of today, the situation has assumed serious proportions. So, if current uncertainty continues, power board and power consumers may face difficulties,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Kargil picks Jammu and Kashmir over Ladakh ||The Valley-based seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370 received a rousing reception and warm support in Kargil on Friday, dealing a blow to the Centre’s efforts to wean Ladakhis off Kashmiris’ political campaigns. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, making its first outreach to Kargil, won support from a local coalition of political, religious and social bodies. The development was equally a setback for Ladakh’s Buddhist alliance, which has been seeking Muslim-majority Kargil’s support in its battle to have the fledgling Union Territory included in the autonomy-granting Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. The Centre has been unsuccessfully trying to convince Kargil that the amendment of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir, of which Ladakh was a part, has been good for them and that their future will be safe in the Union Territory of Ladakh. Friday’s development suggests that Kargil wants a return to a Jammu and Kashmir that is an undivided, full-fledged state with the special status granted by Article 370. Asgar Karbalai, a Congress leader from Kargil, said the local leadership had met the Valley delegation led by former chief minister Omar Abdullah and offered support to its campaign. “One thing common to the People’s Alliance and the Kargil Alliance is that we are all for restoration of the erstwhile state along with Article 370 and Article 35A. We are not going to back off,” Karbalai told reporters after the meeting. Ladakh has two districts: Leh and Kargil. Leh has a Buddhist majority that supports the abrogation of Article 370 but wants similar privileges for Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule. Overall, Muslims enjoy a slender majority in Ladakh. Omar said he was open to talks with the Buddhist leadership of Leh. He accused the BJP of trying to divide the people of the erstwhile state on the basis of religion and region. “They claim we are anti-national. Our fight is not against the country but (against) the BJP.... Whatever we demand is a part of the Indian Constitution. We will not give up our fight,” Omar said. Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain said Omar’s delegation had received a warm welcome everywhere in the district, with people lining the roads to receive it. “Kargil never supported the demand by the Leh parties, and what the (Kargil) parties reiterated here today is certainly a setback for their (Buddhist leadership’s) efforts (to forge Ladakhi unity behind the Sixth Schedule demand),” he said. In Leh, Ladakh Buddhist Association president P.T. Kunzang accused the Kargil leadership of sailing in two boats. “On the one hand they are with Kashmir and on the other they take all the benefits that come to Ladakh in the shape of Scheduled Tribe status or autonomous councils. They have to decide whether they want to be a part of Kashmir or Ladakh,” Kunzang told this newspaper. “If they put their feet in two boats, there is the chance of drowning…. We are in touch with them and we sincerely want to take them on board.” Hussain said the Kargil leadership had all along supported the unity of the erstwhile state and never sailed in two boats. In Srinagar, the government prevented People’s Alliance president Farooq Abdullah from visiting the Hazratbal shrine where a festival was under way. The alliance has termed the move an interference in his religious rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||BJP Pulwama strike on Congress||The BJP on Friday demanded an apology from the “Congress and others”, latching on to a Pakistani minister’s boast of the country’s involvement in the Pulwama terror attack. “Pakistan has admitted its hand behind Pulwama terror attack. Now, Congress and others who talked of conspiracy theories must apologise to the country,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Friday. Javadekar’s tweet came in response to Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhary boasting in the National Assembly that his country had hit India hard in Pulwama. The minister subsequently said he had been “misinterpreted”. He said he was referring to post-Pulwama air strikes by his country. Javadekar and other BJP leaders didn’t refer to the Pakistani minister’s retraction and went all out to slam the Congress and other Opposition parties, seizing his initial statement. “Terrorism anywhere in the world has its roots in Pakistan. But, it is irony that Rahul Gandhi and his associates from Congress party termed the Pulwama attack as a match fixing between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
