01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan: Gurjar body starts stir over reservation||A major Gurjar organisation on Sunday started an agitation over reservation, a day after community leaders held talks with the Rajasthan government and reached a consensus on 14 points. On Sunday, youths in large numbers blocked a rail track in Bharatpur's Bayana, police said. The Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti had earlier called for an agitation from November 1. The convener of the organisation, Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla, said he is waiting for State Sports and Youth Minister Ashok Chandna to come to Bayana from Jaipur. Replying to a question whether the movement would go on for long, he told reporters, "It depends on the government." The agitation will affect traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai rail route. The movement of traffic was disrupted on the Bayana-Hindaun road, police said. Earlier on Saturday, Gurjar leader Himmat Singh said the talks with the government were positive. Bainsla had asked the members of the community to reach Pilupura in Bayana of Sawai Madhopur district on November 1 to start an agitation on reservation-related issues. Mobile Internet services have been suspended in many districts. The home department had evoked the National Security Act (NSA) in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Tonk, Bundi, Jhalawar and Karauli districts. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government should get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process. The 14-point agreement includes providing a regular pay scale to 1,252 MBC candidates who have completed their probation period. The state government will once again write to the Centre to include the provision related to reservation for the MBCs in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, as per the agreement. Meanwhile, families of the three people who died due to injuries received during a Gurjar agitation in the past will be given an assistance of Rs 5 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Hizbul Mujahideen chief shot dead in Srinagar||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander was killed and another militant arrested during an encounter with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar on Sunday, police said. Saifullah, who had taken command of the outfit after the killing of Riyaz Naikoo in May this year, was one of the most wanted terrorists in the Jammu and Kashmir and was involved in several attacks on the security forces, an official said. Acting on specific information about the presence of militants in Rangreth near the old airfield here, the security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area. While the forces were conducting searches in the area, the militants opened fire at them. The forces retaliated, and an encounter ensued, he said. In the exchange of fire, a militant was killed. He was identified as HM commander Saifullah, who was wanted by security agencies in several cases of militant attacks, the official said. "Dr Saifullah who was the number one commander of Hizbul Mujahideen has been killed in the encounter. It was a very successful operation," Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told news agency ANI. "This is a huge success for the police and security forces. This is not a small achievement," senior police officer Vijay Kumar told reporters at the encounter site. Mr Kumar said the network of Jammu and Kashmir Police has become stronger and the police get information about any terrorists entering the city. Another militant was arrested from the spot, he said. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the encounter site, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Hate speeches, personal remarks affecting healthy democracy, says Rajnath Singh||Concerned over the deteriorating political discourse in the country, senior BJP leader and union minister Rajnath Singh has said elections shouldn't be fought and won by spreading hatred among people and there should be no place for "bitterness and acidic remarks" in a healthy democracy. He also expressed confidence that the NDA will win the Bihar elections and asserted that the exit of the Chirag Paswan-led LJP won't impact the poll prospects of the ruling alliance. Singh also rejected allegations of any hidden understanding with Paswan's party, saying the BJP believes in fair politics and doesn't play with the trust of the people. Chirag and his party would have their own reasons for leaving the alliance. But I don't think LJP would have any impact on the ruling BJP-JD(U) alliance in Bihar assembly polls. Our alliance will win the elections and form the next government in the state, he said. When pointed out that Paswan in his election campaign was only attacking Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and not the BJP, Singh said, Personal animosity is not good for healthy politics. It should be avoided and I myself also don't practice such politics. The former BJP president also termed as baseless the allegations of a hidden understanding between the BJP and the LJP. BJP believes in fair politics and doesn't play with the trust of the people, he said. Expressing concern over hate speeches and personal remarks being made against each other by leaders of all political parties, Singh said there is no place for hatred in healthy politics and elections should not be contested and won by spreading hatred among people. I myself never resorted to such tactics, he said. Bitterness, acidic remarks and personal attacks against each other in speeches should be avoided. It is not good for a healthy democracy. Rather, there should be discussion, debates and even arguments on issues of public interest, he said. Singh, who has addressed more than a dozen political rallies in Bihar and is scheduled to address many rallies in the coming days, said the response he witnessed in his public meetings is highly indicative that the BJP-JD(U) alliance will win the elections in the state. The alliance, in the Bihar assembly polls, will reap the benefits of effective implementation of the Central government's welfare schemes. At the same time the state government under Nitish Kumar has also performed well and the people will vote for it, he said. Singh, the senior-most minister in the central government, said the Modi dispensation ended the crisis of credibility in politics. Modi government delivered on its promises and its track record establishes that. On the other hand the opposition, whether in Bihar or at the national level, lacks credibility as it always failed to fulfil its commitments, he said. On Tejaswi Yadav's rallies attracting huge crowds, Singh said the rallies of BJP leaders are also being attended by people in large numbers. You yourself saw attendance in my rallies and you must have seen the massive crowds in Prime Minister Modi's rallies. Public meetings organised by BJP are attracting huge crowds. It will be unfair to exaggerate about public meetings of one party and its leaders, he said. Asked if the NDA was shrinking as some of its oldest constituents have left the ruling alliance, Singh said the alliance is still a big united family. Without naming any party, Singh said, Those who left NDA moved out of the alliance for their respective reasons. In politics you never know when anyone can become your ally. On whether the NDA's doors were still open for its erstwhile allies, he said, The NDA's doors are always open for those who want to contribute in the development of India. But we cannot compromise on our development agenda and the core issues of our ideology. Singh has twice been the BJP president and the party contested two Lok Sabha elections in 2009 and in 2014 when he was at the helm. Currently the Union Defence Minister, Singh was Home Minister in the previous NDA government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Modi takes a dig at RJD-Congress, calls it an alliance of 'double-yuvraj'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday excoriated the opposition over the Pulwama attack after Pakistan's admission of complicity in it, saying it has "taken masks off" the faces of those in India who never cared for the "sons of Bihar" who lost their lives in the assault. Addressing an election rally in Chapra, he also sought to appeal to Bihari sensitivities by speaking about 'chhath' puja, saying their "son" will ensure that kitchen fires are kept burning despite the Covid pandemic. Addressing another rally in Samastipur, Modi said On one side of the political divide was the NDA which was committed to democracy and on the other an alliance devoted to dynastic politics. "Has any relative of (Bihar Chief Minister) Nitish Kumar been sent to Rajya Sabha? Do you find any relative of Modi in Parliament?" he asked the audience in Samastipur which responded with a resounding "No". "A few days ago, our neighbour confessed to its involvement in the Pulwama terror attack," Modi said referring to a statement made on the floor of Pakistan National Assembly by minister Fawad Chaudhry who credited Premier Imran Khan for the "success in Pulwama" where "humne Hindustan ko ghar mein ghus kar maara (we hit India on its own soil)". "The admission has also taken the masks off our opponents who never actually cared for the lives we lost in the suicide attack which killed many sons of Bihar. They have always been more preoccupied with their political gains," said Modi referring to the questions that were raised about the Balakot air strikes that followed the terrorist strike. He asked the electorate to "beware of such elements" who are seeking their votes. Modi also berated the RJD-Congress combine in Bihar, calling it an alliance of "double-double yuvraj" (two crown princes) whose sole concern was to protect their "respective thrones". "On the one hand, there is development brought in by the double engine government of the NDA. On the other there are these double-double yuvraj with the sole agenda of saving their thrones," he said referring to Tejashwi Yadav and Rahul Gandhi who have shared the stage during elections quite a few times. "One of them failed in UP a few years ago and is now lending his support to the 'yuvraj of jungle raj' in Bihar. They are going to fail here again," Modi said recalling the short-lived SP-Congress alliance which was trounced in the assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh in 2017. In a bid to strike a chord with the state's women voters, the prime minister said, "My mothers need not worry about whether they would be able to afford Chhath festivities a few weeks from now. Do remember this son of yours is sitting in Delhi. He will take care of all your needs". Modi said the oppsition alliance remembered the poor only during the elections, and once they were over, they forgot them and cared only for their own family. He also assailed the Congress party for "conveniently forgetting" Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary yesterday. "Did he belong to the RSS, the Jana Sangh or the BJP? No. He was a Congressman but that party chose to forget him even on his birth anniversary," he said. The prime minister also referred to a video, which has gone viral on the social media, where an old village woman snaps at a journalist who poses her the question "what has Modi done for you?. "I was impressed when the woman fluently spoke about the welfare measures undertaken by our government and hurled the counter question when Modi has done so much for us, do you expect us to vote for you and not for him? She expressed the sentiment shared by most voters of Bihar," Modi said. He said the turnout in the first phase of poll proved pundits wrong and suggested that the NDA was set to return to power again. "This has left our opponents frustrated. They have started pushing and shoving their own supporters," said Modi in a veiled reference to a recent video of Tejashwi Yadav where he grabbed a supporter by the arm and pushed him aside. Modi also raked up the issue of "ill treatment and insult" to former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh by the family of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad which ultimately led to the founding member quitting the party a day before his death. Although Singh, a hugely respected leader, belonged to the neighboring Vaishali district, the treatment meted out to him is said to have angered his fellow Rajputs who have a sizeable presence in Chapra. Harping on the alleged lawlessness under the Lalu- Rabri governments, Modi referred to the folklore about "lakadsunghwa", a mysterious child-lifter against whom parents used to warn their children to prevent them from stepping out of homes after dark. "The kidnappers were like the lakadsunghwa. They endangered not just children, but engineers, contractors and people from all walks of life," Modi said urging the voters to reject the RJD-led Grand alliance like "bad food which causes us indigestion after which we make up our mind never to try it again".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Secularism in India is in danger, says Shashi Tharoor||Secularism as principle and practice in India is in "danger" and the ruling dispensation may even try to remove the word from the Constitution, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has said, but asserted that "forces of hatred" cannot alter the country's secular character. Secularism is only a word and even if the government takes it out of the Constitution, it would still be a secular Constitution because of its basic structure, Tharoor told PTI in an interview on his new book 'The Battle of Belonging'. He also asserted that the Congress party cannot risk trying to become 'BJP Lite' as it may end up making it 'Congress Zero' and said his party was not offering a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging and the spirit of Indian secularism was very much "alive and well" in the grand old party. Asked about his party being accused of peddling in soft Hindutva, Tharoor said he does recognise that there's a very real and tangible concern for some liberal Indians over the issue, but asserted that "we in the Congress party are very clear that we cannot allow ourselves to become a BJP-lite". "I have long argued that any attempt to emulate 'Pepsi Lite' by 'BJP Lite' will end up with us becoming like 'Coke Zero' -- that is, 'Congress Zero'," the former Union minister said. "Congress is not BJP in any shape or form, and we should not attempt to be a lighter version of something we are not. Nor are we trying to, in my view," he said. Underlining that the Congress makes a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, Tharoor said the Hinduism that "we respect is inclusive and non-judgemental", whereas Hindutva is a political doctrine based on exclusion. "So we are not offering a watered-down version of the BJP's political messaging: Rahul Gandhi has made it explicitly clear that, for all his avowing his personal Hinduism by going to temples, he does not support any form of Hindutva, neither soft nor hard," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Asked if the Congress needs to talk about secularism more often then it has been doing of late, Tharoor said he disagrees with the assertion that the Congress has not talked about secularism enough and the party on every opportunity has stressed its unshakeable commitment to secularism. On Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's recent dig at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey over secularism, the Congress leader said he did suggest that Koshyari should be given a different letterhead to express such ideas, rather than the official "Raj Bhavan notepaper". On whether the word 'secularism' in the Constitution was in imminent danger, he said, "The word is only a word; but even if the government takes the word 'secularism' out of the Constitution, it is still a secular Constitution." After all, freedom of worship, freedom to profess and propagate your religion, freedom of expression, minority rights, and equality of all citizens, are all part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and they can't disappear by deleting a word, he asserted. "The ruling dispensation may well try to do that: there is certainly a concerted effort to erode secularism and replace it with a sectarian way of being that offers no place to religious minorities in Indian society," he said. "Secularism as principle and practice is in danger, but I do not see it falling anytime soon: India embodies tolerance and pluralism in its very essence, and I do not believe that forces of hatred can permanently overcome our fundamental secularism," he said. However, Tharoor cautioned that people must not let their guards down and must continue to oppose such regressive ideas wherever they arise. Talking about the controversy over a Tanishq advertisement which showed an inter-faith marriage and had to be withdrawn after a social media backlash, Tharoor said it offered yet another illustration of how "reactionary and bigoted certain right-wing fringe elements" have become, even as the ruling dispensation was quick to distance itself from the episode. "But let us not forget that this is a Frankenstein's monster that they have created, sustained through organised and vicious social media trolls, and it's just one more reminder of the appalling power of the full-throated communal hatred that is so often unleashed in today's India," he said. "As I have said, if such people are so infuriated by Hindu-Muslim 'ekatvam', why not boycott the world's longest-surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity: India itself?" he asked. On whether Hindutva had gained mass popularity, Tharoor said the BJP holds a commanding parliamentary majority, but it has worked overtime to suppress dissenting voices and in that sense, it is difficult to get an accurate gauge of support for Hindutva among ordinary Indians. Asked about Congress leader P Chidambaram's recent remarks calling for the restoration of Article 370 and its criticism by the BJP, Tharoor said he has articulated his stand clearly within Parliament. "It's not just an issue of abrogating 370 - even (Jawaharlal) Nehru ji had said the provision was a temporary one. But the Constitution specifies how it is to be done," he said. "So though it shouldn't matter what side of the debate on Article 370 you stand on -- after all, differing voices are the lifeline of any democracy -- the manner in which it was implemented, the way our own fellow citizens were overnight clamped down upon by their own government, consciously and willfully disregarding the democratically enshrined rights guaranteed to all Indians, does not bode well for the future of the country," he said. No political objective can justify the huge-scale abuse of the rights of Indian citizens in this manner, Tharoor said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-583
01-11-2020||India||Ex-finance boss finger at Nirmala||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman faces acute embarrassment after former finance secretary Subhash Chandra Garg lifted a veil of silence and accused the minister of forcing him out of the ministry in June 2019, which eventually prompted him to seek premature retirement from the IAS cadre a few months later. “Mrs Sitharaman asked for and insisted on my transfer from the ministry of finance in June 2019 itself, within one month of her taking over as FM,” Garg said in a blog while disclosing the reasons for his sudden and hurried exit from the bureaucracy exactly a year ago. “She, for reasons not very clearly known to me, came with some pre-conceived notions about me. She did not seem to have confidence in me.… Very soon, not only had our personal relationship soured, but the official working relationship also became quite unproductive.” The former finance secretary was shifted to the power ministry where he stuck on for another three months, waiting for approvals to come through after he had filed for voluntary retirement a year before his superannuation. Garg is not the only official who was rudely forced out of the finance ministry. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had resigned in June 2018 after repeated run-ins with stand-in finance minister Piyush Goyal at a time when Arun Jaitley was hospitalised. Later the same year, former revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia — a powerful bureaucrat who had overseen the goods and services tax regime — retired in November. He turned down a lucrative post-retirement assignment, a decision many attributed to pique at the brusque treatment he had received in his final months. Like Adhia, Garg chose not to take up any assignment -- and said his one-year cooling period after his retirement had prepared him for a “life outside the government”. “I made it a point that I would stay away from the government completely during this period,” he said. The frosty relations with Sitharaman weren’t the only reason Garg opted to seek premature retirement. The former finance secretary believed that the Narendra Modi government, in its second term, no longer had the appetite for bold reforms and had quickly lost sight of its “stated goal of building a $10-trillion-dollar economy by early 2030s”. That goal had been articulated in the interim budget of 2019-20 even though the Modi government had been keenly aware that the economy had started to slow down. Revenues were muted, capital investment was falling, public-sector banks were wrestling with the problem of mounting bad debts after the collapse of the ILFS, and the Make-in-India programme was getting nowhere. After Modi’s massive mandate in May 2019, “the reform agenda and the investment plan for attaining the goal of $10-trillion economy articulated in the interim budget 2019-20... got side-tracked and was virtually forgotten,” Garg says. Instead, he says, the government turned populist. “As part of a 100 days programme, a number of announcements were made aimed to please specific constituencies. Reform agenda was acquiring tinge of being more short term and tinkering type. I had expected the government to take the requisite bold reforms in first six months. However, this did not seem to be the case,” he writes. “If there was no good opportunity to work on reform and building of $10 trillion dollar economy, there was no great fun in working in the government. This was the first major reason of my contemplating to leave the government.” Like most officials in the finance ministry during the first term of the Modi government, Garg has praise for Jaitley’s style of functioning. “Jaitley focused on broader policy issues. He left the running of the departments and implementation of policies to the secretaries. He genuinely encouraged contribution on major policy issues to come from the secretaries. He made the secretaries present the policy proposals to the Prime Minister’s Office as well as to the media and the public. He was a very magnanimous and broadminded person,” Garg says. “Nirmala Sit(h)araman has a very different personality, knowledge endowment, skill-set and approach (on) economic policy issues and also for the officers working with her. It became quite apparent very early that working with her was going to be quite difficult and it might not be conducive to undertaking necessary reforms for the attainment of the objective of building a $10 trillion economy of India.” Garg has also taken a side swipe at the Modi government for its fumbled response to the pandemic. “There is a lot of cynicism presently about India’s ability to become even a $5 trillion economy anytime soon. This is largely because of government taking the eye off the ball of economic growth and making a big self-goal by imposing world’s most stringent lockdown in the entire country at a time when the virus was not present in more than 1 per cent of India,” he says. Garg said he had predicted a sharp contraction in the economy long before others had even considered such a possibility. “I reached to the conclusion that Indian economy was in for a massive 10 per cent contraction in 2020-21. At that point of time, the government and RBI were reluctant to even speak about the likely impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on Indian economy. Most international institution or think tanks were projecting contraction to be around less than 5 per cent until June-July. By now, almost every institution, academic, multilateral or credit rating has come around to accept that India would witness a once in 100 years kind of contraction between 9-11 per cent,” he writes. “One day before the official announcement of GDP growth numbers for the first quarter, I gave out, quite unambiguously, my estimate of the contraction of Q1 GDP by 25 per cent. I felt vindicated next day when CSO announced contraction of 23.9 per cent.” But he remains optimistic and believes that “India can and will come back on the high growth path”. “I intend to work to help realise this goal over next 15 years. I would be quite a satisfied person if India is able to be a $10 trillion economy by the time I turn 75 in 2035,” adds Garg, who is writing a book, tentatively titled State of Indian Economy 2020 and What Will It Take India to Build a $10 Trillion Economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Rajasthan bills to negate farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three bills in the Assembly to negate the impact of the farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. The move comes after the Punjab Assembly earlier this month adopted a resolution against the farm laws and unanimously passed four bills to counter the Centre’s contentious legislations. Rajasthan’s parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. He also introduced the Code of Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 on the first day of the Assembly session. A number of provisions to protect the interests of farmers, including sale or purchase of a crop under farming agreement on a price equal or greater than minimum support price and imprisonment of three to seven years for harassment of farmers, have been included in the bills. The Congress leadership has suggested that states where it is in power should pass laws of their own to counter the central legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||China keeps India waiting on talks||China is yet to confirm the dates for the fresh round of military talks, keeping New Delhi waiting and guessing. Sources in the defence ministry said the Chinese side was yet to confirm the dates for the eighth round of corps commander level talks which were supposed to take place by the end of last week. “The Chinese side has not yet confirmed the dates for the talks. We are still awaiting their response on this,” a defence ministry official said. Both sides, he said, during the seventh round of talks on October 12 had agreed to continue the dialogue process for disengagement from the friction points in eastern Ladakh. “We do not know why they have suddenly pressed a pause button on the fresh round of military talks and are not confirming the dates. The talks were supposed to be held last week but we are still awaiting confirmation from them,” the official said. Sources in the Indian Army said a reminder was sent on Friday to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on finalising the date for the upcoming talks. The studied silence from the Chinese side on fixing a date for the talks has triggered apprehension among the security establishment whether the Chinese troops have something up their sleeve and are acting according to some plan. So far the seven rounds of military talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough and the Chinese troops continue to hold on to their positions inside Indian claimed lines — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. Military veterans have cautioned the army against any complacency, saying the Chinese often use negotiations to gain time and strengthen positions on the ground. Both sides have amassed more men and machinery along the Line of Actual Control at 14,000ft and above to battle the harsh winter that has already set in eastern Ladakh. Sources said the Indian side had been pressing for disengagement from the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese troops have dug in inside India-claimed lines since May but the PLA troops have refused to pull back. After the seventh round of talks, a joint statement issued by India and China had said: “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible. Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||‘No ifs and buts’ list grows in India||Eminent people from several fields have unequivocally condemned the murders by fanatics in France. “We are deeply disturbed by the convoluted logic of some self-appointed guardians of Indian Muslims in rationalising cold-blooded murder and deplore the outrageous remarks of some heads of state…. Rationalising crimes by comparing them to similar crimes committed by others is an irrational and absurd argument as two wrongs don’t make a right,” they said in a statement. “We reject any ifs and buts in the justification of heinous crimes in the name of religion, any religion.” The 130 signatories include film personalities Naseeruddin Shah, Kabir Khan, Zeeshan Ayub, Feroz Abbas Khan, Shama Zaidi, Swara Bhasker and Anand Patwardhan as well as former MPs Shabana Azmi and Javed Akhtar. The list has physicians Ghulam Mohiuddin of New York and Zaheer Ahmed Sayeed of Chennai, as well as authors Tushar Gandhi and Marathi playwright Shafaat Khan. The other signatories include retired IPS officers Julio Ribeiro, V.N. Rai, former IAS officer Sajal Mittra, activists Feroze Mithiborwala, Gauhar Raza, Hasina Khan, Cedric Prakash, Kavita Srivastava, Javed Anand, Teesta Setalvad and Prashant Bhushan. The statement on Saturday and another by the Muslim Women’s Forum on Thursday followed the killings of four people in France, including a teacher who had displayed cartoons on the Prophet Muhammad during a classroom discussion. “No God, gods, goddesses, prophets or saints may be invoked to justify the killing and/or terrorising of fellow human beings,” the 130 signatories said in the statement. “We stand in solidarity with the French Council for the Muslim Faith for strongly condemning the attacks and issuing an appeal calling on all Muslims in France to cancel all celebrations of the birthday of the Prophet as a sign of mourning and solidarity with the victims and their loved ones.” Some conservative Muslim groups in India had focused on the alleged Islamophobia of French President Emmanuel Macron rather than on the murders, and blamed the French government while condemning terrorism. Protests against France have also taken place in some Indian cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Don’t give ads to hate channels: Ex-officials||Civil servants who have retired from some of the senior-most positions have written an open letter to the corporate sector and business houses, urging them to stop advertising on media channels that foment hatred and disharmony not only because it is the right thing to do but also because fear and unrest are bad for business. Writing under the banner of Constitutional Conduct, the retired bureaucrats said companies, business houses and corporate groups — responsible for wealth creation —had not been doing their bit in upholding the rights and freedoms spelt out in the Constitution. “Sadly, an impression has gained ground that these bodies have preferred to look the other way even as a rising tide of hatred and divisiveness threatens the very foundations of our society,” they wrote. One instance of indifference to hate politics and divisiveness among corporate houses that the retired bureaucrats cited was their advertising their products on media channels that had made it a practice to ramp up their viewership by spewing hatred, creating divisions on the basis of religion and caste, manufacturing false narratives and making criminals out of law-abiding people. “It is possible that these corporates have not given sufficient thought to how their acts have unwittingly strengthened the forces which divide the nation through deliberate false propaganda,” the letter said. Stressing that the Constitution bars discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex and place of birth, the letter expressed concern that several media channels were regularly going against this fundamental right and yet received advertisements from many companies. “Channels which communalise the spread of Covid-19, allege that the UPSC has allowed Muslims to ‘infiltrate’ the higher civil services and dub sensitive advertisements about communal harmony as “Love Jihad” are unfortunately patronised by many corporates.” Urging the corporate sector to look beyond the “doubtful” TRP numbers to determine their advertisement policy, the retired bureaucrats argued that “advertising on channels which spread divisiveness is bad not only on moral grounds but bad for business as well”. Elaborating on the point, the letter said: “As several economists and social scientists have pointed out, investments tend to wither when there is unrest. And that is, unquestionably, what has been happening in India. India’s investment as a percentage of the nominal GDP has declined from 41.2 per cent in September 2011 to 21.4 per cent in June 2020. Many other growth parameters have been on a downward spiral too. Distrust, fear and uncertainty hurt not just the fabric of society but business as well.” Lauding some corporate groups’ decision to take a stand against advertising on media channels that foment hatred and disharmony, the letter said: “To all companies, business houses and corporate bodies we would like to say: let not any of your actions, even inadvertently, help forces that create discord and ill-will amongst our people. This country and its people deserve better. It is time to show, through both substantive and symbolic acts, that we uphold the principles of our Constitution and are committed to the peace and prosperity of all our citizens.” Nearly 100 retired bureaucrats have endorsed the letter. The role of the media in enabling hate politics over the past few years has come in for particular scrutiny after the witch-hunt of Bollywood personalities by some channels after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June. After Bajaj and Parle said they would not advertise on such channels, there has been growing pressure on other business houses to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Gandhi attacker chosen as IIMC professor||A central government-run journalism school has appointed as professors a former BJP spokesperson who was suspended for a controversial comment on Mahatma Gandhi and a journalist associated with RSS mouthpiece Organiser. Anil Soumitra, recruited as professor by the Indian Institute of Mass Communication here, was a BJP spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh when the party suspended him in May last year after he called Gandhi the “father of the nation of Pakistan” in a Facebook post. Soumitra had deleted the post after attracting criticism. Among six other newly appointed professors at the institute is Pramod Kumar Saini, who was associated with Organiser. Both Soumitra and Saini had fulfilled the eligibility conditions, an institute official said. A panel headed by institute director-general Sanjay Dwivedi had interviewed nearly 60 candidates after a scrutiny committee verified their eligibility. The IIMC follows the recruitment rules notified by the University Grants Commission for universities. According to these norms, only candidates with 10 years’ experience as a university teacher or researcher are eligible for professors’ posts. However, an outstanding professional with a PhD who has made “significant contribution to the knowledge of the relevant discipline” can be appointed professor even if they do not meet the 10-year criterion. An institute official said Soumitra and Saini had been deemed professionals who had made significant contributions to knowledge in their discipline. He did not elaborate. Soumitra is a former journalist. A former central university vice-chancellor, who did not wish to be quoted, questioned the moral propriety of the two appointments. “Fulfilling the eligibility norms is not enough. It’s established practice that the selection panel also examines the conduct of the candidates,” he said. “It’s unimaginable that a person found unfit for a party post because of controversial comments was found suitable for teaching at a national-level institution.” The veteran academic said it seemed as though appointments were being made purely on the ground of ideological loyalty to the party in power. “If people with questionable credentials are appointed, the institute will be destroyed,” he said. A member of the interview committee told this newspaper that the six-member panel had not been aware of Soumitra’s controversial post. “The panel selected all the candidates on merit, going by their work. There was no pressure from any quarter to select any specific person. We did not know about these controversial posts,” the member said. Dwivedi told this newspaper: “I have no comments to make.” Soumitra’s number was “not reachable”. Saini did not take the call. Text messages to both remained unanswered. The IIMC offers diploma courses in journalism. The government has proposed to upgrade the institute to a deemed university so that it can offer degree courses. Similarly controversial appointments of people with ideological links to the ruling establishment have been seen in other central government institutions too. Dr Subbiah Shanmugam, ABVP national president and Chennai-based cancer surgeon who was accused of bullying an elderly neighbour, was this week appointed a member on the board of AIIMS Madurai. Subbiah had last July been accused of urinating and throwing garbage at the doorstep of the neighbour to intimidate her in a fight over a parking slot at their apartment complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Hurriyat shutdown total in Kashmir||Separatists returned to the political scene after a 15-month hibernation, their first call after last year’s scrapping of special status under Article 370 shutting the Valley on Saturday. The shutdown was called in protest against the land laws notified by the Centre on Wednesday allowing outsiders to purchase land in Jammu and Kashmir. Shops, businesses and offices remained closed in large parts of the Valley in response to the call by the moderate Hurriyat Conference, led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, against Delhi’s policy of making “permanent demographic changes” in Jammu and Kashmir. Security forces were deployed in strength in many parts of the Valley to prevent protests and there were no stone-throwing incidents. Separatist sources said some protest calls were issued by their leadership during the last 15 months but almost none from their Valley-based top leadership. “The calls would come from the leadership based in Azad Kashmir (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir). Some lower rung leaders in the Valley also issued a couple of calls but they went unnoticed,” a separatist leader told The Telegraph. “This is the first time you had the top leadership of moderate Hurriyat, including Mirwaiz, Abdul Gani Bhat, Bilal Lone and Masroor Abbas, issuing a call for shutdown, which was effective and gave us hope for revival of our normal political activities.” Kashmir has remained shut for most of the 15 months, initially due to the government clampdown and voluntary shutdowns against scrapping of special status and then because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. But all these months, separatists had literally disappeared from the scene as many leaders were jailed, put under house arrest or had no courage to speak up. The top rung leadership still remain in jail or under house arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Land rule eased for medical colleges ||India’s medical regulatory authority has deleted land quantum requirements for new medical colleges but specified minimum space standards for student-centric and functional areas. The move eliminates a big hurdle to establishing new medical colleges, removes a possible “pretext” for private colleges to charge high fees, and opens a window for district hospitals to serve as teaching institutions, senior doctors said. The National Medical Commission this week deleted the minimum land requirement: 10 acres in Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Mumbai and Pune and 20 acres elsewhere, as set by the Medical Council of India, the earlier regulator. Notified by the Union health ministry on October 29, the new rules apply to all proposed medical colleges as well as existing medical colleges that plan to increase their MBBS intake with extra seats from the academic year 2021-22. The bed requirements for the various departments at teaching hospitals have been “rationalised to align” them with the annual student intake, the teaching time in clinical specialties, and the minimum patients required. The effect is a 10 per cent reduction in teaching beds compared with the earlier regulations. The new regulations mandate, for the establishment of a medical college, the availability of a fully functional, 300-bed multi-speciality hospital that has been operational for at least two years at the time of application. Senior doctors and medical experts believe the changes will lower the hurdles to the establishment of medical colleges while making it possible for certain district hospitals to be converted into medical colleges through government funding or private partnerships. “The land quantum was the single biggest starting hurdle to a medical college — and it was a pretext for high fees in some private colleges,” said Bobby John, a public health specialist. Also, the new rules stipulating a 300-bed functional hospital is “an opportunity” for district hospitals, he said. The new rules recognise the current trend of “vertical growth”, said Shivkumar Utture, senior consultant surgeon in Mumbai and a member of the National Medical Commission. “It is difficult to get large parcels of land, which was required under the old rules,” he said. The new regulations introduce a relative flexibility in the sharing of available teaching spaces by departments, and mandate that all teaching spaces be enabled for online learning and for digital links to one another. “Such changes are in line with the current (trend of) electronic learning, including the use of online library resources,” Utture told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||MLA: Scindia offered bribe ||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Umang Singhar has alleged that Jyotiraditya Scindia offered him Rs 50 crore to join the BJP seven months ago when a series of defections caused a change of government in the state. Singhar’s accusation heated up the penultimate day of campaigning in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the November 3 by-elections to 28 seats, necessitated by the Scindia-led Congress defections that toppled the Kamala Nath government in March. Singhar had first spoken about the alleged offer at a rally on Friday but not named anyone, prompting state BJP president V.D. Sharma to challenge him to name the person who had approached him. “I didn’t want to reveal the name but as the BJP chief is challenging me to name the person, I’m saying that it was Scindia who talked to me,” Singhar said on Saturday. “He told me there is no future in the Congress. He said given my financial condition, he would arrange Rs 50 crore. He claimed he had already discussed the matter with the BJP. This offer was made when the rebel Congress MLAs were (holed up) in Bangalore.” Singhar, a three-time MLA from Gandhwani in Dhar district, said the offer had included a ministry berth. “I told Scindiaji I do a different kind of politics. I can’t sell my ethics for power,” he said. Singhar claimed the BJP had already started working on a “Plan B” fearing a humiliating defeat in the by-elections. “The joining (defection) of Congress MLA Rahul Lodhi a few days ago is part of Plan B,” he said. The Congress held a news conference, declaring it would approach the Election Commission. Former minister Jitu Patwari said: “Singhar is now on record saying Scindia made the offer. If the allegation is untrue, let Scindia file a defamation suit.” Several Scindia loyalists denied the allegation. A BJP delegation petitioned the state election commission in Bhopal, accusing the Congress of levelling baseless charges and demanding the strictest action against Singhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-584
01-11-2020||India||Pandemic axe on Odisha’s Bali Yatra||The annual Bali Yatra (voyage to Bali) held on the banks of the Mahanadi in Cuttack to commemorate Odisha’s maritime glory will not be held this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Bali Yatra is usually held on Kartik Purnima according to the Odia almanac (generally falls in November). Thousands of years ago, people from Odisha used to travel by the sea route to Indonesia, Java, Sumatra and Bali for trade. The Bali Yatra fair, considered to be the largest open trade fair in Asia, is held to commemorate this maritime tradition of Odisha. It draws lakhs of people from various parts of the state and other parts of the country and is a good business opportunity for traders. Cuttack collector Bhabani Shankar Chyaini told reporters, “As lakhs of people congregate here during the Bali Yatra, this time we have decided not to hold it in view of the corona pandemic.” The special relief commissioner on Saturday announced that 200 people can attend a marriage and 50 people can join funerals. Earlier, only 50 people were allowed to attend marriages and 20 to take part in funerals. However, wearing of masks and using sanitisers will be made mandatory. However, the government has decided to keep schools closed till November 30. The decision to start classes for Class IX and X students will be taken following assessment of the ground situation after November 15. But conduct of examinations will be allowed. Though the government has permitted rallies and meetings in connection with the bypolls to Balasore Sadar and Tirtol Assembly seats on November 3, it has prohibited large social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious and other congregations till November 30. The commissioner has empowered the local administrations to take a decision on the opening of religious places. Soon after the announcement, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation said it will talk to all stakeholders about opening of temples. The decision on opening cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment complexes, theatres, auditorium, assembly halls and other such places will be taken only after November 16. However, open air theatres will be permitted to operate with adherence to Covid-19 rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
