02-11-2020||India||SC refuses anticipatory bail to 2 Rajasthan MLAs||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to grant anticipatory bail to two Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) MLAs of Rajasthan in a case of a violent protest during an anti-encroachment drive in which a driver of an earth-moving machine was killed. Both Merta City MLA Indra Bawari and Bhopalgarh MLA Pukhraj Garg have challenged the Rajasthan High Court order of September 28, refusing anticipatory bail to them in the case and asked them to surrender before the trial court by October 12. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari granted protection from arrest to the two MLAs and asked them to file regular bail before the trial court. This is not a case in which interference is called for. However, if a regular bail application is made within a week from today, the court may decide and dispose of the same preferably on the same day. No coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioners for a period of one week from today, it said. During the hearing, the top court was informed by senior advocate Sidharth Dave, appearing for both the MLAs, that arrest warrants have been issued by the trial court in the case and therefore they need protection from arrest. He said that most of the charges in the case are bailable offenses. The bench questioned Dave whether these two MLAs were among the instigators which led to the case. Dave said that there was an anti-encroachment drive where people were protesting. The bench asked Dave to file regular bail in the case within a week but refused to grant anticipatory bail. Dave replied that he will file regular bail in the case within a week. In August last year, police had registered a case against the two MLAs and several others after a driver of an earth-moving machine was killed during an anti-encroachment drive in Rajasthan's Nagaur district. During the anti-encroachment drive in Tausar village of the district, one driver of an earth-moving machine had allegedly died after a mob pelted stones and attacked him. Both the MLAs were booked along with others on charges of obstructing public servants in discharging their duty and damaging public vehicles among other charges. To support the affected families, Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal had also staged a 'dharna' demanding the rehabilitation of the affected families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||SC stays EC order revoking Kamal Nath's star campaigner status||The Supreme Court Monday stayed the Election Commission order which revoked the "star campaigner" status of former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath for model code violation during the campaign for bypolls in 28 assembly constituencies in the state. The counsel appearing for the poll panel told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde that Nath's plea has become infructuous as the campaigning has ended and the voting is to take place on Tuesday. We are staying it, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court was hearing Nath's plea challenging the October 30 order of the EC revoking his star campaigner status. While a political party pays for the expenditure of its star campaigner, the candidate concerned bears the expense of other campaigners. The top court also issued notice to the EC seeking its response on Nath's plea. Issue notice. Until further orders, there shall be a stay of order dated October 30, 2020 issued by Respondent No.1 Election Commission of India, the bench said in its order. Besides seeking quashing of the EC order, the senior Congress leader has also sought framing of appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners or campaigners, "keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections". During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the EC, told the bench, This is infructuous as campaigning has ended. Voting is tomorrow. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who along with senior counsel Vivek Tankha appeared for Nath, said the matter has not become infructuous and the EC had not issued any notice to the former chief minister before passing the October 30 order. How can you determine who is their leader? It's their power not EC's power, the bench asked EC's counsel. Dwivedi said, We have acted under the model code of conduct and moreover, now the matter is infructuous . It does not matter whether the matter is infructuous or not. We will determine that from where do you get power, the bench said. When Dwivedi said if the court is to determine this aspect then EC's order should not be stayed, the bench said, No, we are staying it. Nath, who is currently the president of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee, has said in his plea that the EC has passed the order without any notice or hearing him based on a complaint by the BJP against a speech delivered on October 13. "It is submitted that the impugned order (of EC) is illegal, arbitrary, unreasoned, passed in complete violation of basic canons of natural justice and in negation of fair play and therefore, deserves to be quashed. "Further, no notice has been issued to the petitioner (Nath) with regard to the impugned order in complete violation of principles of natural injustice," said the plea, filed through advocate-on-record Varun Chopra. In his plea, Nath said that EC has passed the October 30 order and has revoked his name from the list of 'star campaigners' of the Indian National Congress on the ground of repeated violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and advisories of the poll panel. The plea has said that MCC has been in force for 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh since September 29 when the schedule for by-elections to 28 seats in the state legislative assembly, which are to be held on November 3, was announced by the EC. The former Union minister and nine-time Member of Parliament further claimed that leaders of the BJP have been "repeatedly making statements ex-facie in violation of the model code during campaigning for the by-elections. It is reiterated that despite use of such language in public view and blatant violation of the Model Code of Conduct, the Respondent No.1 (EC) has not taken any such action against any leaders of BJP or the party itself for allowing its leaders to repeatedly violate provisions of MCC, it has said. The plea has also raised several questions of law of public importance, including whether the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to Nath has been abrogated by the EC. In the order, the poll panel had said, "...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh." The commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||India’s Covid experience is unique, second highest infections, very low death rate  ||The Chinese don’t pull any punches when crushing Covid-19. When distant Kashgar, capital of Xinjiang province, was hit by a handful of Covid-19 cases in late October, authorities flew in hundreds of health workers and built temporary labs to test the city’s entire 4.9 million people in just five days. Now, a few days later, it looks like Mission Accomplished and the threat of a wider Covid-19 outbreak has been averted. Cross the South China Sea to Vietnam where Covid-19 has been eliminated out differently but with equal efficiency. Within days of China revealing its first Covid case last December, it launched a media blitz, employing TV ads, blanket phone texts, billboards and loudspeakers, exhorting citizens to track, trace and isolate cases. On October 29, Vietnam, which has 96 million people, reported four new cases –all travellers returning from abroad. Before that, it had gone 59 days without a single new Covid case. Travel the length and breadth of Asia and India stands out – as the one country well and truly felled by Covid-19. We’ve just marked an unhappy milestone by crossing the 8-million infection mark. We’ve been saved from the global number-one spot because Donald Trump’s catastrophic response to Covid means the US has scaled new heights even more swiftly. What went wrong here? That’s tough to pinpoint but unlike countries like China, Vietnam and South Korea, India had no experience dealing with pandemics like SARS (the only exception being Kerala which had the Nipah epidemic). The test-trace-isolate mantra wasn’t grasped fast enough.  Also, Indian hospitals had never had reason to use their RT-PCR testing machines, the gold testing standard, and hadn’t received the training on how to use them – 250 machines are, in fact, in medical research institutions. It was only July 17 – almost three months after the lockdown had begun -- that the government’s top bureaucrat, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, sent a letter saying district hospitals and government labs could employ the 250 RT-PCR machines in training and research labs on a daily basis, saying this could create “additional testing capacity of about 60,000 tests per day.” "I am given to understand that nearly 250 machines which are capable of performing RT-PCR tests and currently not being used in any critical area, are available with educational and research institutions under various Departments,” Gauba added. Cross the border into Bangladesh and you’d expect the situation to be possibly as dire as in India. When Bangladesh declared a lockdown, the migrant workers toiling in the cities returned to their villages. “The only difference was our people went back by bus or train and didn’t have to walk,” says one Bangladeshi economist. On October 28, Bangladesh had 1,335 Covid-19 cases. India, which has dropped sharply in the last few days, had 43,893 cases -- down sharply from a few days earlier, when the numbers were almost double that.  Totally, by October 29, the death toll in Bangladesh hit 5,886. It had 19 deaths on October 30. Bangladesh’s booming textile industry accounts for 85 per cent of the country’s exports and the workers mostly work in cramped and poorly ventilated units and should have offered perfect conditions for the virus to spread. The Bangladesh government was all set for a disaster that never happened. Why? Medical specialists reckon it could have been that the textile workers are almost all very young and there’s also a larger percentage of women, who appear less susceptible to catching the illness. Says one observer: “Maybe some of them got it but didn’t want to report it and, as they were young, recovered quickly.” Cross to our Western border and it’s the same story in Pakistan and even Afghanistan. The Pakistanis, who were also preparing for the worst, seem to be getting off remarkably lightly. The country had 1,078 cases on October 30 and even that was a sharp rise because the number of Covid cases hasn’t crossed the 1,000-mark since July. Pakistan’s had around 332,000 cases and daily numbers peaked June 15 when it reported 6,825 new cases. On that same day, India wasn’t very far ahead of Pakistan with 11,502 cases. Since then we climbed inexorably and touched a peak of 97,894 on September 17. On the same day, Pakistan’s daily tally had fallen to 545. Move further west to rugged Afghanistan with its virtually non-existent healthcare system. Many Afghans work across the border in Iran, one of the first nations hit by Covid-19 after China and they were all quickly sent back home. A few cases began appearing in March but that was about it. Could it be the Afghans’ more outdoor lifestyle? The nation of 38 million has totally had 41,268 cases and 1,532 deaths. At a peak, it had 1,241 cases on June 17. Across Asia it’s the same inexplicable story. India stands out as the country where the coronavirus has run much more rampant. Ask epidemiologists why and they shrug their shoulders. Moving slowly on widespread testing is one key point. But it’s the east Asian nations all the way to Thailand and even Myanmar that have fared remarkably well. Countries like Vietnam, Taiwan, South Korea, China and even Thailand curbed Covid-19 before it could get into its stride. Each one adopted slightly different tactics but they all appear to have been equally successful. Crucially, all these were countries that were hit hard by SARS in the early 2000s and some by MERS a few years ago. It’s the SARS and MERS experience that stood these countries in good stead. Look at Vietnam which didn’t have huge resources to throw into testing all its citizens. Instead Vietnam went in for contact tracing on a scale that no other country attempted. It did contact tracing to the power of four (a contact of a contact of a contact of a contact). That was followed up by ruthlessly strict isolation for anyone thought to have the infection.  The conventional wisdom says widespread testing is needed to bring the disease under control but the Vietnamese seem to have done it just through contact tracing. On October 29, they had a total of 1,177 cases. Much more importantly, they have only 35 deaths – an extraordinary feat, by any standards. The Chinese have, by contrast, wrestled the disease to the ground by testing on a scale no one else has ever contemplated. The astonishing efficiency of their system was demonstrated most recently in Kashgar and before that in the port city of Qingdao in mid-October after 12 Covid-19 were discovered. Health workers descended on the city and tested the entire population of 9 million in four days flat. The Chinese use a form of testing in which 10 samples are clubbed together. If the clubbed sample comes up positive, then all 10 people involved are re-tested. The same mass testing method has also been used in Hong Kong where 1.7 million people were tested. In June 2.95 million people were tested in Beijing over a 10-day period. One advantage both China and Vietnam have is the ruling Communist Party, which has workers and representatives even at a village level, and they help to get the government’s message across. But let’s not jump to the conclusion that only authoritarian societies like China and Vietnam can arm-twist their citizens into good pandemic behaviour. Take a look at South Korea which turned out a remarkable performance without closing businesses or even ordering the lockdowns that brought life to a standstill in other parts of the world. What worked for South Korea was its experience dealing with MERS in 2015. In next to no time, the South Koreans put up 600 testing centres where anyone who wanted to check whether they had the infection could walk in. That was followed up by quick isolation and remarkably efficient contact-tracing. South Korea was actually hit early by the disease and had 1,062 cases on March 1. But from there the daily infection graph dropped rapidly staying usually below 100 and rising only once to 400. On October 29, South Korea had 114 cases. It has had a total of 26,385 cases and 463 deaths.  Move closer to India and even Thailand has done a remarkable job of bringing Covid-19 under control. Thailand reported the first Covid case outside China when a Chinese tourist was found to be infected. Inevitably, observers held their breath and thought Thailand would be hard hit. But the country has a highly efficient healthcare system and that extends all over the country. “The Thais have an excellent grassroots community medicine system built when they were hit hard by HIV,” says Thomas Abraham, adjunct professor, University of Hong Kong and a former World Health Organization consultant. But there are still corners of Asia where it’s difficult to believe the efficiency of China, Vietnam or South Korea could have been replicated. Look at much smaller and more impoverished countries like Laos and Cambodia where the disease has been brought under control and nobody exactly knows how. One epidemiologist speculated the people of the Mekong Delta are slightly less susceptible to Covid-19. He pointed out people in the area fall very sick if they get dengue or malaria and asks the question whether it might be that people in the region are less affected by Covid-19. Again, however, the Communist Party’s tentacles reached down to the smallest villages. There are other countries like Indonesia and Philippines that have not been able to bring the disease under control with the same ruthless efficiency shown in other parts of East and SouthEast Asia. But even in these countries, the infection numbers are on a much lower level than in India. India has earned itself a position that is almost unique in the world. It has the second-highest infection numbers after the US but its death toll per million, where it really counts, is much lower.  The total Covid-19 death toll ranges from 500-700 per million people in France, the UK, Spain and the US where a second wave is bringing life almost to a standstill one again.  In China and South Korea, it’s below 10 per million. India’s government says our death toll is 83 per million, one of the smallest counts in the world. And our infection numbers are declining. "For the third day after the active cases dropped below the 6-lakh mark after nearly three months, the progressive decline has been maintained," the health ministry said Saturday. What can be done to reduce our infection numbers further? Could we attempt the kind of efficient mass testing techniques that the Chinese have used to bring the infection to heel? Or could we try contact testing on the Vietnamese scale?  Epidemiologists and other frontline doctors handing Covid-19 appear doubtful whether either would work because, now that the disease has spiralled, the numbers might simply be too big. Most believe we would have to bring infection levels down to much lower levels and only then will contact tracing be effective. Should we try more quarantining of positive cases? China and South Korea have enjoyed great success with institutional isolation of positive cases, something studies suggest can head off nearly three times as many new cases as home-based isolation. Chinese-style mass testing would be incredibly expensive in a country India’s size and, except for Kerala, we don’t appear to have an efficient contact tracing system in place. And lack of investment in our healthcare system means institutional quarantining of positive cases may also be beyond our reach. But look across East Asia where life has gradually returned to normal and their economies are also already bouncing back. It would probably still be cheaper to pour money into bringing the disease under control than have the economy constantly at the virus’s mercy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||School principals not in favor of postponing CBSE board exams||Several school principals in the national capital and adjoining areas are not in favor of postponement of the CBSE board exams next year in view of continuing closure of schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The school principals believe that the postponement of board exams will not be a right move as it will impact the schedule of higher education entrance exams and admission processes as well, which will be disturbing for students. The Delhi government had last month written to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to not conduct the board exams next year before May and further reduce syllabus as schools still continue to remain closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had also raised the issue at NCERT's council meeting last month chaired by Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'. “Postponing the board exams can have some serious repercussions on the students' growth and performance preparing via remote learning. As this session was attributed to getting familiar with remote learning tools, by both the students and teachers,” said Priyanka Barara, principal, Delhi International School. “With no concrete update on vaccines, we don't see parents allowing their wards to return to school. Therefore, we would not like to repeat the pattern of losing time again by supporting the delay in board exams,” she added. Alka Kapur, principal, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, who is also the president of Delhi Sahodaya School Complex, said, a survey was conducted to get feedback from principals and teachers of over 100 schools, on the issue. “We asked this very question - when the examinations should be conducted? By an overwhelming majority, the school authorities suggested that the board examinations should not be postponed beyond March 15. Also, the CBSE board results for class 12 and higher education entrance exams are interlinked therefore postponement of exams any further could cause unnecessary confusion. “Secondly, we also unanimously agreed that it is best not to reduce the syllabus any further and that the students should get a gap of at least 3 to 4 days between subsequent exams. Another point that was raised was that we should try to conduct the practical exams in the offline format only by calling students in small groups,” she said. Kalpana Dwivedi, principal, St. Joseph's High School, CBSE Panvel, said, “The exams should not be postponed further, the theory portion will be completed in due time. And practical portion can be dealt with-in Jan-Feb 2021, hence, exams can be conducted in mid-March 2021 in consideration with the existing situation.” “We see no reason for postponing the exams to the month of May, as our teachers and students have now got accustomed to the virtual learning methods. We have already planned the academic calendar in a manner that relevant attention has been directed towards timely completion of syllabus along with practice sessions and doubt resolving discussions with teachers,” said Sangeeta Hajela, principal, Delhi Public School, Indirapuram. “Also, as per the government guidelines, the syllabus has been reduced by 30-40% which is appropriate considering the physical classroom void created by the pandemic. More reduction would create a substantial gap in knowledge and understanding of important concepts,” she added. Pallavi Upadhyaya, principal, DPS-RNE Ghaziabad, said, “A detailed discussion was initiated among teachers, management and parents for planning a systematic academic calendar in the remote learning academic session. Classes are being conducted and planned ever since with the intention of conducting board exams timely.” “An extension would lead to a disturbance in the set schedule of students and teachers. The syllabus reduction has already been applied by the board, which has reduced the burden and compensated for the gap created due to no classroom interaction," she said. In a letter to the CBSE, the Directorate of Education (DoE) had said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a major chunk of time of 2020-21 academic session (approximately seven months) could not be utilized for classroom teaching-learning process as schools in Delhi are closed till October 31. Universities and schools across the country were ordered to shut down on March 16 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. On March 25, the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown. While several restrictions have been eased gradually in different phases of the 'unlock' since June 8, educational institutions continued to remain closed. However, according to the latest 'Unlock 5' guidelines, schools, colleges and other educational institutions outside COVID-19 containment zones can reopen after October 15. The final decision on reopening the institutions has been left with the states and Union Territories. The Delhi government has decided to maintain the status quo on schools' closure till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||India's Covid tally past 82 lakh with more than 45,000 cases in a day ||India's Covid-19 caseload crossed the 82 lakh-mark, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 75.44 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 91.68 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 82,29,313 with 45,231 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,22,607 with 496 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 75,44,798 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far, taking the national recovery rate to 91.68 per cent, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.49 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below six lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 5,61,908 active coronavirus cases in the country as on date which comprise 6.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,07,43,103 samples have been tested up to November 1 with 8,55,800 samples being tested on Sunday. The 496 new fatalities include 113 deaths from Maharashtra, 59 from West Bengal, 51 from Delhi, 49 from Chhattisgarh, 30 Tamil Nadu and 28 from Kerala. Out of the 1,22,607 deaths reported so far in the country, 44,024 are from Maharashtra, 11,192 from Karnataka, 11,152 from Tamil Nadu, 7,051 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,900 from West Bengal, 6,706 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,562 from Delhi, 4,214 from Punjab and 3,721 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||SC seeks Centre's report on Vijay Mallya extradition process||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre to file status report in six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the United Kingdom on extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature is resolved. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file status report in the matter in six weeks and posted it for hearing in the first week of January next year. The bench also refused to accept the plea of advocate E C Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had last month said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India is not party to the process. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. On August 31, the top court had directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, the solicitor general told the bench that Agarwala has filed an application from discharge from the case. This is aggravating the matter. We have filed an affidavit saying that there are some proceedings going on which is confidential in nature. Without that legal issue being resolved extradition can not be done, Mehta said. The application seeking discharge is rejected and advocate E C Agarwala will continue to appear for the contemnor on the matter, the bench said in its order. When the bench asked Mehta about time-frame of proceeding pending in the UK, the Solicitor General said they have no information about it from the London High Commission. He sought six-week time to file status report on the issue. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its affidavit filed earlier in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said that the pending legal issue in the UK is outside and apart from the extradition process and is confidential and cannot be disclosed. The bench had last month asked Mallya's lawyer to apprise the apex court by November 2, what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. The Centre had given details of the extradition proceedings against Mallya starting from February 9, 2017 till dismissal of his appeal on May 14 and said that the fugitive businessman has thus exhausted all avenues of appeal in the United Kingdom. The Centre had said that following the refusal of leave to appeal, Mallya's surrender to India should, in principle, have been completed within 28 days but the UK home office intimated that there is a further legal issue which needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya's extradition may take place .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||The shaky chairs in academia||Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi’s suspension for “misgovernance” this week makes him the 10th VC of a central university in less than five years to be suspended, dismissed, forced to resign or sent on punishment leave till the end of their tenure. The trend, fuelled by charges of corruption or inefficiency against the VCs, has prompted several academics to question the quality of academic leaders being appointed in recent years and flag the flaws in the government’s manner of selecting them. The critics clarified that they were not fingering individual VCs but were concerned that the large number of VCs having to leave over allegations of impropriety or incompetence reflected poorly on the selection process. (See chart) In comparison, only one central university VC had resigned amid charges of impropriety during the 10 years of UPA rule. In January 2011, Rajiv Gandhi University vice-chancellor K.C. Belliappa had quit after a fact-finding committee indicted him on the charge of sending a lewd email to a senior teacher. However, two of the 10 VCs who have left under a cloud since 2016 — Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Sushanta Dattagupta and Pondicherry University VC Chandra Krishnamurthy — had been appointed by the UPA government. “There’s no problem with the (set) procedure (for selection of VCs), but the procedure is violated at every level,” sociologist Andre Beteille told The Telegraph. “Those who are very good teachers or researchers do not want to become VCs. The selection of VCs is marked by political influence at every level,” he added. Padmanabhan Balaram, former director of IISc Bangalore, agreed with Beteille that the problem was less with the selection rules than with their (lack of) implementation. He said the government’s political bias came into play at every step of the appointment process, from picking the selection panel to short-listing the candidates. “Selecting the selectors is very important. Not much attention is paid to this. It’s because governments want to control institutions or satisfy certain people. Any policy is meaningless if you have no commitment to implement it,” Balaram said. Such wielding of political influence in the selection of academic heads was always there but “it has deteriorated in recent years”, Balaram said. He said similar use of political clout by state governments marked the selection of VCs of state universities too. Aswini K. Mohapatra, dean of the School of International Studies at JNU, however, said the set procedure for selecting VCs and other academic heads was itself flawed. He said the government should introduce clear-cut parameters to help the selection panels assess the candidates’ leadership skills. Mohapatra said that beyond setting an eligibility criterion of 10 years’ experience as a professor for the candidates, the current rules give a free hand to the selection panels, whose interviewers tend to focus on the applicants’ academic credentials while ignoring their record as administrators. “Merely 10 years of professorship and some administrative experience should not be taken as proof of a person’s leadership abilities. The committee should look at what the person has done in his previous postings,” he said. One example of an academic with a questionable record being appointed vice-chancellor and then being rewarded with an extension despite a controversial tenure is provided by Appa Rao Podile, appointed as VC of Hyderabad Central University in 2015. It was during his tenure that Rohith Vemula, suspended from the hostel with four other Dalit scholars following complaints of assault lodged by the ABVP, hanged himself in January 2016. When the suicide brought a bad name to the Union HRD ministry, which had written five letters to the university seeking action against Vemula and his group, Podile was sent on forced leave. He rejoined office in March 2016 on “popular demand” and was exonerated by a judicial commission. However, in April 2016, Podile admitted to plagiarism in three papers he had co-authored between 2007 and 2014. In September 2020, after he had completed his five-year tenure, he was given a year’s extension by the President on the advice of the government. There have been allegations that some vice-chancellors accepted bribes for university appointments and contracts. Balaram said the best way of insulating the selection process from political bias would be to end the government’s role in it altogether. He cited how, at top foreign institutions like Harvard University or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the boards of trustees or overseers — made up of eminent people who receive no pay — set up the selection panel without government interference. Nor do America’s state or federal governments take any part in the appointment of the board members, who are selected by the existing board members. In India, the government not only appoints the members of the public universities’ boards of governors, executive councils or syndicates but also helps pick the selection panel and vets its recommendations. “In the US, the boards of trustees operate independently but the governing bodies in India are not free from influence. So you see the institutions crumbling in several respects,” Balaram said. For instance, the education (formerly HRD) minister heads the interview panels that select the IIT directors — a practice begun by Kapil Sibal in 2011. Balaram had last year headed a committee that the UGC had appointed to suggest ways of improving the quality of research in the universities. Among the panel’s recommendations was to drop the HRD minister as head of the interview panel. The recommendation is yet to be accepted, a government official said. But does the trend of dismissals and forced resignations imply that the government, even if its selection practices are faulty, remains ever alert to the possibility of rectification? Several academics laughed off the suggestion, saying that questionable selections are dime a dozen but the government acts only in a few cases — mostly out of political motives. “For example, the government acted against the Delhi University VC at the fag end of his tenure despite the problem of delayed appointments persisting for a long time,” Balram said. “Had the VC not had a spat with some members of the university administration, he would have completed his tenure successfully.” A retired JNU professor who asked not to be quoted said that only when a VC refuses to toe its diktats beyond a point does the government build up a case to get rid of him. “The government appoints only those who are committed to, or claim to be committed to, its ideology. In recent years, the practice has been to hand over the names of favoured candidates to the search panels,” the veteran academic said. “Even after selection and appointment, some of them fail to follow the road map chalked out for them --- to appoint only RSS sympathisers as teachers and target teachers’ and students’ bodies that differ from their ideology. Such VCs face action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||Government veil on critical coronavirus data ||Most people use statistics the way a drunkard uses a lamp post — more for support than for illumination Andrew Lang, 19th-century Scottish poet. India’s health ministry has for weeks plucked select numbers and statistics to describe the course of the coronavirus epidemic, but critical raw data remain unavailable or shielded from independent analysis, experts have said. Among medical experts, there is consternation at what many of them view as the health ministry’s efforts to portray a rising recovery rate and falling case fatality rate without appropriate data that would show how fast or slowly these changes are happening and provide answers to key questions. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has ballooned to over 8.18 million cases and 122,000 deaths. But, experts say, uniform data remain unavailable on the age-distribution among all the patients and the dead, the underlying health disorders among the patients, the proportion of patents hospitalised, and the district-level infections and deaths. Such data, the experts say, can be used to probe key questions such as who is at the greatest risk of dying, what factors contribute to the deaths, how the deaths are spread over geography and time, and why some states have unusually high or low mortality. One of the puzzles the health researchers have underlined is the near-equal case fatality rates in Kerala (0.4 per cent) and Bihar (0.5 per cent) in contrast to Punjab’s high 3.1 per cent mortality. Multiple experts, including some guiding India’s pandemic response, believe that this paucity of information is the outcome of poor reporting by various states, leading to patchy data collection, and government departments’ unwillingness to share even whatever data are available. “Government data at present are a black box — the health ministry appears to be holding on to huge amounts and doesn’t want to share them with anyone outside,” Gautam Menon, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who specialises in infectious disease modelling, told The Telegraph. “This is tragic because there is more expertise outside the government than within it to analyse (the data).” The health ministry has cited India’s rising recovery rates — 60 per cent in early July to 80 per cent in mid-September to over 91 per cent on November 1 — and falling case fatality rates, from 2.9 per cent in early July to 1.49 per cent by November 1. Health officials have defined the recovery rate as the proportion of patients who have recovered, and the case fatality rate as the proportion of the dead among the total infections detected. They have attributed the rise in recoveries and the fall in mortality to early diagnosis and effective treatment. But experts have not just flagged the lack of enough published data but also questioned the way the recovery rate is being defined independently of the case fatality rate. T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist who was formerly with the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and others have underlined that the recovery rate should be calculated simply as 100 minus the proportion who died, thus making it an outcome of the case fatality rate. Since the case fatality rate has fallen from 2.9 to 1.49 per cent, the recovery rate by this definition would have risen marginally from 97.1 per cent to 98.5 per cent. However, by calculating the recovery rate as recovered patients divided by all the patients — a proportion that is bound to rise with the passage of time for an illness that rarely kills — the government has been able to show a sharp but spurious improvement. “The ratio they are using is not the actual recovery rate. It’s a pure artefact, a number that will naturally grow during the course of an epidemic,” John said. The experts are also dismayed at the way the recovery and case fatality rate for a particular period are being calculated on the basis of the overall numbers till that period rather than solely on the numbers of cases, recoveries and deaths during that period. For example, they say, a comparison of the July mortality with the October mortality would be valid only if the July figure is based solely on the deaths and cases in July and the October figure on the deaths and cases in October. However, the government’s October numbers would include the July numbers as well as the August and September numbers, making it impossible to accurately chart the rate of the improvement between July and October. “We need to analyse the outcomes within specific cohorts of patients to assess how much mortality has declined,” said Dileep Mavalankar, a public health researcher and director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. For instance, all the Covid-19 cases detected in July, August, September and October should form four separate cohorts, or sets, of patients. “We should look at mortality within each of these cohorts to measure by how much mortality has actually declined over the months,” Mavalankar said. Critical-care doctors have, speaking anecdotally, reported a fall in mortality over the past six months, attributing the decline to improved management of the patients. But the experts say that more specific infection and death datasets are needed to measure such changes. K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and a member of the national Covid-19 task force, said that increased testing and improved case management were both likely contributors to the fall in case fatality rates. “But to understand how improved treatment is contributing to the fall in case fatality rates, we should calculate the changes in mortality only among hospitalised cases and not all the cases,” Reddy said. “So, separate mortality data are needed for hospitalised cases.” Even government researchers are handicapped without reliable data. Researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research had planned an analysis that required data on the age-distribution among patients who had died of Covid-19. But the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, failed to provide the data on the ground that the incoming data from the states were patchy. The ICMR maintains data on the tests and positive results from each state while the NCDC is expected to maintain the database of patients, including their age, underlying illnesses if any, and the disease outcomes. “Both the ICMR and the NCDC depend on what the states enter — and not all the states enter data as diligently as everyone would like them to,” a medical researcher who is a member of the national Covid-19 task force told this newspaper. Two senior health officials said the health ministry collected — and acted on the basis of — much more data than was being released in the public domain. One example is the data on hospital-level mortality — a critical measure of how the healthcare system is coping with the epidemic. Although these data are not in the public domain, hospital mortality is being used to guide interventions, an official said. Whenever the hospital fatality rate is unusually high, the health authorities immediately alert the districts or states concerned. “We have been doing this continuously,” the official said. The official asserted that the health ministry was as transparent as it could afford to be. “When working on public health, your aim is also not to create panic. Some people might pick on a particular parameter and cry ‘The wolf has come, the wolf has come’. We cannot afford that kind of response,” the official said. Many researchers view the data scarcity as a missed opportunity. “With India’s large numbers (of patients) and information technology expertise, this epidemic offered a unique opportunity for us to lead research efforts in Covid-19 data analysis,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It’s unfortunate that we’re squandering this opportunity.” The potential gains from data are already visible from a giant study facilitated by state officials in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Collaborating with researchers from the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a non-government research think tank, the officials analysed data from more than 84,000 patients in the two states. They noted that half the deaths had occurred within six days of diagnosis, and that transmission was high among children below 14 years —valuable insights both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
02-11-2020||India||Chinese construction continues in eastern Ladakh: Sources||A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment suggests that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is continuing to undertake construction at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh and is setting up additional winter camps for its troops, sources said on Sunday. The latest assessment, coming ahead of a fresh round of military talks for disengagement, has fuelled suspicion among security officials that the PLA is using the negotiations to further strengthen its positions at the friction points. “It’s extremely anguishing that the Chinese troops have not kept their word and continue to carry out construction inside India-claimed lines and build winter camps and other infrastructure. During the last military talks on October 12, the PLA had agreed to continue the dialogue process for disengagement from the friction points,” a defence ministry official said. Echoing him, an Intelligence Bureau official said: “The Chinese troops have so far shown no intent to retreat from India-claimed territory and have been acting against the agreement reached so far between the two sides to initiate the disengagement process.” With no resolution of the border standoff in sight, the Indian Army has also been ramping up its military posts in the mountainous terrain. It has already set up hundreds of new shelters for its troops. “The Indian Army has deployed personnel and equipment in sensitive areas to tackle any Chinese misadventure and provocation during winter,” an army officer said. “We have no option but to go for mirror deployment, considering the PLA troops’ aggressive posture. They have so far shown no intent to pull back to their side of the Line of Actual Control.” Sources in the security establishment said the main worry was the Pangong Lake, where the PLA has intruded nearly 8km inside the LAC and set up multiple camps at Finger 4, besides hindering patrolling by Indian troops. The Depsang Plains are another friction point where the Chinese have increased their troop deployment manifold. India, too, has increased its military formations there. Sources in the defence ministry said China was yet to respond on the dates for the eighth round of military talks. “We are ready with the agenda of the meeting but they have not responded so far,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Islamic centre signage defaced in Delhi||A vigilante group that prides itself on defacing road signage with Muslim-sounding names and threatening connoisseurs of buffalo meat and Pakistani music, vandalised the signboard of an Islamic centre in the heart of the capital on Sunday. In a statement, Hindu Sena secretary Bam Bam Thakur alias Sumit said he had pasted a sticker that read “Jihadi Terrorist Islamic Centre” over the signage of India Islamic Cultural Centre to demand the closure of the institution. Police said an FIR had been filed under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007 but did not specify who had been accused in it. The centre offers membership to all Indian citizens irrespective of religion and aims to “promote understanding amongst people of different religious groups”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Hizbul Mujahideen Valley chief killed||Saifullah Mir alias Dr Saifullah, Hizbul Mujahideen’s operational chief and the last surviving militant associate of Hizb poster boy Burhan Wani, was killed in a gunfight on the outskirts of Srinagar on Sunday. Police said an associate of Saifullah was captured alive during the gun battle. Saifullah was an “A category” militant and was largely active in South Kashmir districts of Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian. It is not clear why he was in Srinagar. “Dr Saifullah, who was the No. 1 commander of Hizbul Mujahideen, has been killed in the encounter. It was a very successful operation,” Jammu and Kashmir’s director-general of police Dilbag Singh told reporters on Sunday evening. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said police received inputs about his presence in Rangreth area of Srinagar on Saturday evening. DGP Singh said Saifullah was active since October 2014 and was associated with Wani for a long time. Wani was killed in 2016, his death leading to an agitation that lasted for months during which around 100 civilians were killed in the security force firing. “Hizbul Mujahideen was rendered leaderless after the killing of Riyaz Naikoo. It is in the same position again after elimination of its (new) chief commander who was running the terror machine of Pakistan here,” he said. Mathematics teacher-turned-Hizb commander Naikoo was killed in May after leading the outfit for nearly two years. Hizb has lost three operational chiefs after Wani’s death — Naikoo, Saifullah and Yasin Itoo. Itoo had replaced Zakir Musa in 2017 after he was expelled by the outfit for his pan-Islamist agenda. According to officials, Saifullah was the son of a government schoolteacher and had in 2010 earned a diploma in medical electronics from the Industrial Training Institute in Pulwama. The villagers knew him as a health care professional and called him Dr Saifullah. The overall head of the Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen is Syed Salahuddin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||CFO of Jay Panda’s channel arrested||Odisha police on Sunday arrested the chief financial officer of OTV, an Odia news channel owned and operated by BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda’s family. Manoranjan Sarangi, the chief financial officer, is a director of Odisha InfraTech Pvt Ltd, which has been accused of committing irregularities while  purchasing land for the OTV’s corporate social responsibility project at Saura on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. Jay Panda’s wife Jagi Mangat Panda is the managing director of OTV. The crime branch said in a statement:  “On the allegations of some Scheduled Caste persons of Sarua village and one ex-employee of Ortel communication belonging to the Scheduled Caste regarding fraudulent land transactions, the government ordered an enquiry…. Prima facie, it was revealed that Odisha InfraTech purchased land belonging to Scheduled Caste persons circumventing rules using forgery/ cheating/ intimidation and other dubious methods with an intention to cause losses to SC people.” Ortel Communication, a cable distribution firm, was owned by the Panda group. Jay Panda was earlier with the ruling BJD in the state. OTV Network  said in a media release: “Arresting the CFO without any prior notice is a sign of the state government’s  vendetta against OTV, considering our platform has been persistent and fearless in reporting fact-based news, much to their displeasure.” “No surprise they felt the need to fabricate something new and everybody in Odisha  is widely aware of the attacks on OTV,” the network added. BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi and Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray criticised the state government’s action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Amarinder Singh writes to Nadda on trains||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote to BJP president J.P. Nadda to express concern over the railways’ continued suspension of goods trains services to the state, pointing out that this would have dangerous consequences for national security. In an open letter, Amarinder said although the farmers protesting against farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government had eased their rail roko agitation, freight services remained suspended. The chief minister had appealed to railway minister Piyush Goyal to resume the services. The situation could become extremely dangerous for the country if the armed forces are deprived of critical supplies amid increased aggression from both China and Pakistan, the chief minister said. With the onset of winter, the armed forces could run out of supplies once snowfall blocks the roads to Ladakh and the Kashmir Valley. “These are dangers that neither the central government nor any political party, including the BJP, can choose to ignore,” Amarinder said. “We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country.” Punjab too could become more vulnerable to security threats from Pakistan if the farmers’ crisis is not resolved at the earliest, he warned, noting that ISI-backed terror groups were perpetually looking at exploiting any unrest in the border state. Amarinder stressed that this was a time to rise above partisan politics and respond as statesmen to a situation that threatened to spiral out of control. Nadda, as head of the party ruling at the Centre, could take the lead, he said. The chief minister criticised the comments of some BJP leaders, specifically national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, who had accused the government of colluding with “Naxal forces”. It was reprehensible to term farmers’ Naxals, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||In the middle of end game of fascism ||She woke up from her nightmare in a stupor. She had not recognised the shape of the beast. She was not even sure whether she was inside or outside its belly. She sat up, drank some water, still felt shaken and called her best friend in the middle of the night. “Don’t worry,” came the answer from the other side. “This beast of yours is like the polluted air you breathe. You get used to it.” Indeed, when fascism creeps in, it is like polluted air. When it is on the rampage you might vaguely recognise its grotesque shape, but by then the end game is approaching and you are in its belly. Recognising early the symptoms of fascism is a compulsion of our time. Since Plato we know that the essence of a thing is not encountered in reality. You do not see a perfect circle or a perfect democracy, nor encounter textbook fascism for that matter in the real world. Yet its shape is revealed through some of its idealised characteristics. And then we begin to establish connections between these idealised mental constructions, like the possible connection between a real-world, imperfect fascism and a real-world, imperfect democracy. With these connections reality is approximated in its multi-faceted complexity. We recognise the beast is on the prowl. Accordingly, our first step should be to identify some essential political, social and economic characteristics of fascism and in the next step examine their interconnections. Perhaps its commonest political manifestation is muscular nationalism through the display of the military might of the nation in defence against the enemies of the nation. The enemy may be external or internal. To be able to present it as a plot in which external and internal enemies are conspiring together to undermine “our” nationalism is the most effective in so far as it kills two birds at the same time, justifying internal suppression as well as jingoism against the external enemy. It works like a drug-induced euphoria to stimulate people to follow the leader. The people are informed that the situation is war-like and it’s not the time to raise small disputes. All problems such as unemployment, inflation, crime, environmental degradation and huge frauds on banks can wait for resolution later. The war is usually not quite there but the nation, according to the leader, is getting all prepared. Amid the mimicking of this war-like emergency, it becomes a patriotic duty to express unreserved admiration for war heroes who get “martyred”, mostly in policy-induced skirmishes. While the nation state as the political unit makes nationalism the inescapable language of all politics, simulating a war-like emergency situation in the name of national security to define patriotic duty against external and internal enemies of “our” nationalism is a typical characteristic of fascism. And, fascist tendencies advance most rapidly if the enemy can be given the identity of a minority religious or ethnic group, refugees with a different tradition, etc. State-sponsored animosity and hatred are directed against those seen as working against the traditions that hold the nation together. The cult of, and respect for, “our” tradition as opposed to modernism appears as a defining feature, and yet it raises a contradiction. Fascist regimes with their display of muscular nationalism cannot do without military technology and the propaganda machinery of the digital age. Modern technology, especially in defence and propaganda, has to co-exist with the anti-modernism of tradition with respect to caste, gender, religion and race as an unmistakable sign of fascist thinking. Since the media has a decisive role in propagating the ideology and simulating the war situation, the contradiction becomes deeper. The leader has to encourage modern methods of digital mass communication as a weapon of mass destruction of intelligence and awareness among the people. For any outsider this might almost be a psychedelic experience, seeing a political leader doing a traditional puja of the latest military equipment in one image, and in the next image holding forth in front of a captive audience of practising scientists on how much more advanced our ancient science and technology was. News is not only manufactured but also filtered, through a mostly self-imposed censorship. This requires making as invisible as possible all inconvenient “small” news like unemployment, farmers’ distress, caste, race killings or rape that adversely affects the climate of mobilisation for nationalism. The faking of news is done both by commission and omission. “Never have so many been manipulated so much by so few,” in Aldous Huxley’s words parodying Winston Churchill (Brave New World Revisited, London, Vintage Books, 1994; p 27). The dissenting opinions that might still exist are taken care of through stringent laws meant to prevent unlawful, anti-national activities and thoughts. All attempts are made politically and socially to make the state more powerful in a simulated war-like emergency that ruthlessly represses dissent. This requires making the media, judiciary and educational and other supposedly autonomous institutions as pliable as possible. And yet, an unavoidable economic dilemma appears on the economic front. If the state taxes too much its populist image suffers. If it targets mostly the rich they would turn against it; instead, big business can be induced to serve a big government for a suitable price. Thus the government is expected to deliver endless speeches of sympathy for the poor with some tokenism of help, but the real arrangement is to provide all possible incentives, including cheap natural resources and lucrative contracts, to big business to become bigger. Since big business requires concentration in its hand of several lines of diversified large-scale production, big business depends on big government. A small government with a free market is a myth that hides the fact that fascism cannot work with small business in agriculture, industry or services. Big business, in return, supports a big government with its money power in a symbiotic relationship. And, if popular discontent grows, the power of the big government, nurtured in the name of national interest, can be turned against the people. “Our” nationalism against an outside enemy becomes extremely handy for surveillance and the suppression of internal dissent These essential political, social and economic aspects can be combined in many variations in an attempt to define and redefine the shape of the beast called fascism. And yet it would be a misleading oversimplification. Because the Platonic essential characteristics are not unchanging or, as Aristotle would have it, real-life things have “potentials” such as a little seed may grow into a huge tree. This “potential” for change, especially in the biological world and society, is not captured by unchanging pure forms. These changing forms can be thought of as a series of related “language games” of the philosopher Wittgenstein; each has its own rules of communication in a specific context and yet they bear a “family resemblance” connected by language as an evolving life form. “Language games” are less determinate than the Aristotelian “potential” or the Hegelian notion of thesis and antithesis leading to synthesis. Instead, their emphasis is on the importance of the context in which the rules of any particular language game is set. What does it mean for fascism? It emphasises the importance of the context in developing potentials of the political, social and economic forms. Take, for example, a society that is functioning with reasonable coherence and is anchored to its traditional values. The potential seed for conflict is generated by questioning whether all its citizens “actually” subscribe to these traditional values or whether there are irreconcilable differences in their traditions. Because tradition is usually marinated in religion, the most obvious target are people from a minority religion or refugees. It can also be about ethnicity. The ability to demarcate a minority group irreconcilably as “not of us” is the opening game, but the rules by which this is done --- for example, religion, ethnicity, etc --- depend on the context. In the middle game, state-sponsored violence is used against the targeted group with the aim of turning the difference into hatred. It helps to raise the heat if the targeted minority group can be presented as unduly favoured or privileged at the cost of the majority. By this the Marxian notion of class privilege is given a twist. Manufactured hatred towards such exploiters, nurtured by state propaganda and an obedient media, spills over into pogroms, riots, lynching and ethnic cleansing. That these have to be treated as mere collateral damage is said or left unsaid by the state for the glory of our unified national culture. From this the fascist state emerges and promises to find a final solution that will end the problem, eliminating all debilitating differences. This promises to take the country to a mythical golden age of our past. We are in the midst of the end game of fascism when it fulfils the omerta code of honour, prevalent also among the mafia. As for the citizens, “who is deaf, blind and silent will live”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||At 91, barber seeks to cut parties to size in Odisha||At 91, Benudhar Barik is still full of beans with a razor sharp mind to boot. His candidature as an Independent in the Assembly bypoll for Balasore Sadar has added colour to the contest. Barik, a barber by profession, has caught the imagination of the voters with his energy and simplicity. While the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) geared up for chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s virtual rally in Balasore Sadar on Thursday, Barik carried on with his campaign unfazed by the hype surrounding the ruling party’s event. “Why should I be perturbed? I have nothing to fear or lose. People have seen the BJD, BJP and the Congress. They have all ruled the state but nobody did anything for the development of the poor. “People realise this. If they still don’t vote for me, it is their loss. If they elect me, they will have someone who will genuinely fight for them. “This has been my campaign promise. They will decide whether they will vote for misrule and black money or me who is committed to their welfare,” Barik, the oldest candidate in the fray, told The Telegraph. Balasore Sadar along with Tirtol in coastal Odisha will go to polls on November 3. The rebellious streak in Barik has been visible since childhood. He had joined the Quit India Movement (1942) when he was only 12. Balasore district was one of the epicentres of the movement. Barik, who lives in a hut at Gudipada in Balasore town, hits the campaign trail early in the morning following a breakfast of two rotis and tea. “I drink tea a number of times while campaigning. “Because of my age, I am careful about what I eat. But I love tea and have it 10 to 12 times in a day. I also carry puffed rice with me,” said Barik, who incidentally has the kettle as his election symbol. He campaigns either in an autorickshaw that his supporters have hired for him or on his rusty but faithful bicycle. His supporters even donated Rs 10,000 required as security deposit to contest the polls. Barik is still active as a barber. “I came to Balasore in 1945 from my village, Bishnupur, which is around 30km from the town. Since then, I have been plying my trade as a barber, giving people haircuts and shaving their beards.” “Lockdown was the only time when I faced some problems. I still manage to earn Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day,” said Barik, who has no formal education but can read and write Odia. “What is most important is that I can understand the feelings and problems of people, especially the poor. Life has taught me a lot,” he added. With no shop or saloon of his own, he plies his tradenear the railway line with his customers sitting on a stone slab under a tree. He feels secure on the family front with both his daughters and his only son already married. One of his supporters, advocate Manoj Nayak, secretary of the Bar association of Balasore, said: “Support for Benu uncle has been increasing day by day. Even intellectuals, social activists and Rani Panda, a popular name in the Odia film industry, have been campaigning for him.” “We have decided to support him as we have seen him working for the poor and the underprivileged for years. He has led agitation for land rights of the people, for proper water supply tothe 56 slums in Balasore district and other similar issues. “He has unsuccessfully contested a ward council election in the past. We are paying the Rs 1,500 for his campaign autorickshaw every day. He is getting the support of all sections,” Nayak said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Congress: Modi’s popularity on trial||The Congress-RJD-Left combine argues that last year’s general election cannot be a yardstick to assess the political parties’ strengths, with the ground reality having changed radically in Bihar over the past few months. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity is going to be severely tested this time, the Opposition alliance believes. Congress-RJD members claim that recent developments, from the economic mess to the mismanagement of the lockdown, have exposed Modi’s capabilities and Bihar’s voters had cottoned on to the chasm between his promises and their delivery. They argue that the unemployment crisis is not a creation of chief minister Nitish Kumar alone, and that Modi did nothing to keep his promise to create two crore jobs every year. It’s Modi’s mismanagement of the economy that has seen GDP growth plunge to minus 23 per cent, snuffing out millions of jobs across the country, the Opposition believes. “Nitish is definitely responsible for the 4.5 lakh vacancies in government jobs,” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told The Telegraph. “There hasn’t been a single big industry in the last 15 years, in manufacturing or service. He is making excuses about Bihar being landlocked— it’s like rubbing salt into people’s wounds. Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab are much more developed than Bihar — do they have seacoasts? Vallabh added: “Nitish returned Rs 26,500 crore allocated to Bihar under the Right to Education. A total of Rs 1,550 crore given for skill development lies unused, as does Rs 16,300 crore for thermal power. “Thousands of crores more of money allotted under several heads were returned or lie unused. So Nitish is definitely responsible for the job crisis.” He continued: “But Modi is no less responsible. He ruined the economy through the note-bandi; GDP growth fell from 8.3 per cent in 2016 to 4.2 per cent in (early) 2020. Then came the senseless lockdown, pushing the economy to minus 23 per cent.” Vallabh accused Modi of lacking interest in development. “There are 358 notified special economic zones in the IT sector across the country. Not one of them is in Bihar. Food processing and horticulture have great potential in Bihar but not one unit has been set up during these years,” he said. “Let Modi and Nitish explain why no private investment has come to Bihar. Instead of discussing these substantial issues, they are trying to fool the people.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram flagged the Prime Minister’s diminishing popularity by citing data from the Assembly polls conducted in Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi and Haryana since the general election. Chidambaram tweeted that “381 state Assembly segments have had Assembly elections (330) or Assembly by-elections (51) since 2019 Lok Sabha elections, where there were BJP candidates in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections”. He said BJP candidates had led from 319 of these 381 segments during the Lok Sabha polls. “In the elections or by-elections in these segments since 2019, BJP candidates won only 163 out of 381 segments. Who said BJP cannot be defeated? Opposition parties must believe that they can defeat the BJP. I hope this will be proved in Bihar.” In Delhi, the BJP had bagged all the seven parliamentary seats in the summer of 2019 but won just 8 of the 70 seats during the Assembly elections in February this year despite spending much energy and resources on the campaign. In Bihar, the BJP-JDU-LJP alliance had swept the Lok Sabha polls with the RJD drawing a blank and the Congress winning just one of the 40 seats. Yet any hopes of a cakewalk in the ongoing Bihar elections would have been dampened by the anti-incumbency monster rampaging across the state, leaving both the BJP and the JDU struggling to defend their record. Modi has been reduced to reviving memories of the poor law and order during Lalu Prasad’s rule, instead of showing the confidence to engage with the voter on the strength of the government’s performance. Randeep Surjewala, head of the Congress campaign committee for Bihar, condemned Modi’s attempt to divert the poll discourse from joblessness to emotive issues like the Pulwama tragedy and the amendment of Article 370. “Modiji, for how long will you mislead the voters with lies and diversionary ploys?” he said. “The double-engine government in Bihar is actually a double deception government: one Nitish who is dhokhebaaz (deceiver), and the other yourself, jumlebaaz (one who speaks with a forked tongue).” On law and order in Bihar, Vallabh said: “What will create (more) fear among the girls than the candidature of Manju Verma, whose name cropped up in the Muzaffarpur shelter home scandal?” Verma had resigned as Bihar social welfare minister in 2018 after reports of rape and torture of girls at the shelter home. “What more disorder do you want than Durga devotees being beaten up and shot without provocation? And what more confusion than the LJP’s Chirag Paswan flaunting Modi’s photograph and threatening to send Nitish Kumar to jail?” Vallabh said. Alleged police firing on a Durga immersion procession in Munger on October 26 had killed a teenager, wounded several others, and caused a mini-stampede before the cops baton-charged the crowd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
02-11-2020||India||Bihar polls: Lost jobs and unfilled vacancies bigger issue than ever||Unemployment has become a bigger issue this Bihar election than in any previous state polls, and the trend will be seen in the other states too, economists have said. Data have shown increasing joblessness and large-scale vacancies in government posts in Bihar, they said, adding that the ruling establishment’s pro-private-sector policies and lack of interest in enhancing the public sector were contributory causes. “Never before had unemployment occupied centre-stage in any state election in India,” Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said. “People are reeling under a never-seen-before crisis, with poverty and hunger threatening their ability to live with dignity. The situation is the same across the country. Unemployment will be an issue in every state.” According to a written reply from education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to the Lok Sabha on September 19, Bihar accounted for 2.75 lakh of the 10.6 lakh vacant teaching posts in state government schools nationwide. This gives the state a 26 per cent share of the vacancies — the highest — compared with its 8 per cent share in the population. Another government reply to the Lok Sabha, on July 2 last year, had shown that over 50,000 police posts in Bihar were vacant as of January 1, 2018. Education being on the concurrent list and police on the state list, the state governments are responsible for filling these posts. The RJD has promised 10 lakh new government jobs in Bihar if voted to power, while the BJP has promised 19 lakh jobs overall. Ray said that even if these promises were fulfilled, Bihar’s problem of joblessness would only be partially solved. The next government should therefore focus on policy change to encourage small collective entrepreneurships at the local level, he said. “Bihar has a large number of educated youths, graduates or Class XII pass-outs. The next government should encourage small and collective enterprises with the involvement of groups of unemployed youths,” he said. “Depending on the local ecological and social conditions and the availability of resources, these enterprises can be started in areas like manufacturing, healthcare, education, food processing, trade and so on.” Given that Bihar’s economy is largely farm-based, the focus should be on sectors such as food processing and agriculture marketing, Ray suggested. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said that joblessness had increased in Bihar over the past 13 years, during which Nitish Kumar had been in power except for a year of Jitan Ram Manjhi’s rule. In 2004-05, unemployment among youths aged 15 to 29 was 5.4 per cent in Bihar, matching the national average, Mehrotra said. By 2017-18, the figure had risen to 22.8 per cent against a national average of 17.8 per cent. In absolute numbers, Mehrotra said, 18 lakh youths were jobless in Bihar in 2017-18. “After Jharkhand was formed (in the year 2000), Bihar lost most of its industries and areas with mineral deposits. The state has a high per couple fertility rate too, and the additional problem of poor governance,” he said. “The result is that Bihar has been unable to attract investment in industry. Only service jobs have grown, but not at the pace in which youths are becoming educated in Bihar, including girls. This has led to this crisis of unemployment.” He said the creation of 10 lakh government jobs was feasible if the new government was ready to raise money through borrowing. “The new government will have to enhance healthcare facilities apart from filling the vacant posts in the police, courts and schools and colleges,” Mehrotra said. As for creating non-government jobs, he said, the employment load on agriculture must shift towards services and manufacturing. Atul Sood, professor at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development at JNU, said the vivid images of the migrant labourers’ sufferings during the pandemic-induced lockdown might be a reason behind the focus on jobs this Bihar election. He, however, said the campaign debate needed to move beyond numbers and discuss the economic and social policies that had produced the high unemployment levels and vacancies in Bihar. If the Bihar government follows the same policies as the Centre, there will be little hope of job creation, Sood cautioned. He attributed the large-scale vacancies in Bihar government posts partly to a lack of public funding for education and health, which he said reflected a preference for privatisation in these areas. “That the political parties are committed to creating a certain number of jobs is a good thing. They must now tell the electorate how the jobs will be created,” Sood said. “I believe the next government needs to reorient its focus to strengthen the public sector, provide skill training, and create dynamism in the economy for more public and private investment.” Sood highlighted the need to specifically focus on employment for women, citing women’s poor participation in Bihar’s labour market and the pandemic’s disproportionate impact on women’s employment everywhere. He said the BJP’s announcement of creating employment for Bihar’s women through self-help groups did not promise much. “Bihar’s women will surely like to be employed in the digital economy, gig economy, finance, real estate and trade,” he said. When it comes to women’s employment, Sood said, “It’s time the political parties began looking beyond precarious self-employment in traditional, low-productivity sectors and other family-based activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-582
