03-11-2020||India||Congress-BJP clash at polling booth in MP||Congress and BJP supporters clashed at a polling booth in Madhya Pradesh even as voting was underway for by-elections in 28 Assembly seats of the state on Tuesday, officials said. One person was injured in the clash, they said. A total of 26.86 per cent voters exercised their franchise till 12 pm on Tuesday, an election official said. BJP's Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress in March this year and joined the saffron party, cast his vote at a booth in Gwalior district. Former MP chief minister Kamal Nath and other senior Congress leaders, including Digvijaya Singh, were monitoring the polling from a control room set up at the state party office in Bhopal. In Morena district, Congress and BJP supporters clashed at Jatavara polling booth and an unidentified person fired a bullet during the incident, Superintendent of Police Anurag Sujania said. "A person was injured but it was not clear whether he received the injury due to the gun shot or was hit by a stick. It will be clear only after medical examination. The injured person was referred to the district hospital for treatment," the official said. Polling began in the 28 constituencies at 7 am with Covid-19 prevention protocols in place and will continue till 6 pm, an election official said. The last hour of voting will be for Covid-19 patients and people suspected to be suffering from the disease, he said. Authorities have set up 250 flying squads, 173 surveillance teams and 293 police check-posts to ensure smooth polling, he said. Altogether 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, are in the fray, the official said, adding around 33,000 security personnel have been deployed in 19 districts. There are 63.67 lakh voters in the 28 constituencies and 9361 polling booths, including 3038 booths placed under the critical category, he said. The by-elections in Madhya Pradesh were necessitated after 22 MLAs of the erstwhile Congress government switched over to the BJP in March this year, leading to the fall of Kamal Nath's 15-month-old government. Three other Congress MLAs followed the lead of Scindia and his supporters, and joined the BJP. Another three seats in the Assembly are vacant due to the deaths of incumbent MLAs. Campaigning for the bypolls was marked by acrimonious exchanges between the main rivals BJP and Congress. It is for the first time in Madhya Pradesh that bypolls are being held in as many as 28 Assembly seats in the 230-member House in one go, an official said. Congress MLAs who quit from 25 seats are now in the fray as BJP candidates. One more Congress MLA resigned recently. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
03-11-2020||India||Covid cases below 40,000 in 24 hours, recoveries surge||The number of new coronavirus cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 82.67 lakh, while the total recoveries crossed the 76 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 82,67,623 with 38,310 fresh infections, while the death toll reached 1,23,097 after 490 new fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 76,03,121 people have recuperated from the infection so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 91.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.49 per cent. The number of active cases remained below six lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 5,41,405 active cases in the country as on date which comprise 6.55 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.
It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,17,89,350 samples have been tested up so far with 10,46,247 samples being tested on Monday. The 490 new fatalities include 104 from Maharashtra, 58 from Chhattisgarh 57 from Bengal, 42 from Delhi, 31 Tamil Nadu and 29 from Karnataka. Total 1,23,097 deaths reported so far in the country include 44,128 from Maharashtra followed by 11,221 from Karnataka, 11,183 from Tamil Nadu, 7,076 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,957 from Bengal, 6,719 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,604 from Delhi, 4,227 from Punjab and 3,725 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
03-11-2020||India||Govt junks Pranab Mukherjee's IIT Roorkee appointment||The government has silently junked the approval granted by then President Pranab Mukherjee for the appointment of scientist Anil Kakodkar as IIT Roorkee chairperson, after sitting tight for three years, and appointed another. Without even getting the previous approval withdrawn, the education ministry moved a fresh proposal recently and secured President Ram Nath Kovind’s approval for B.V.R. Mohan Reddy’s appointment to the post. Reddy, chairperson of IIT Hyderabad, got additional charge of IIT Roorkee last week. Government sources speculated that an old spat with Smriti Irani when she was HRD minister may have come back to haunt Kakodkar’s chances. They said the three-year wait on the matter, and the government’s failure to get Mukherjee’s July 2017 approval formally withdrawn by the President’s office, possibly owed to a desire to keep the issue away from the limelight. A former official who had served at Rashtrapati Bhavan during the tenure of President K.R. Narayanan said appointing a new IIT chairperson without getting the previous approval withdrawn was legally questionable. “Once the President approves a proposal, it should be implemented,” he said. “If the President has approved a proposal but the notification has not been issued, and the government wants to change the decision, it should request supersession (withdrawal) of the earlier approval.” Education ministry officials confirmed that no request had been sent to the President’s office to have the previous order withdrawn. “If the previous approval has not been superseded, it means the approval stands. How could the ministry seek approval for a fresh proposal, then? Legally it is an asynchronous decision,” the former Rashtrapati Bhavan official said. Prakash Javadekar’s HRD ministry had obtained Kakodkar’s consent and proposed his appointment, and Mukherjee had approved it days before his term as President ended. No official reason has been cited why the appointment order was never issued. However, in 2015, Kakodkar had a public falling out with Irani over the selection of directors for certain IITs, and subsequently resigned as IIT Bombay chairperson. Kakodkar at the time headed the search-cum-selection panel that was to pick new directors for the IITs in Patna, Bhubaneswar and Ropar. In an interview to NDTV in November 2015, Irani had claimed that Kakodkar had tried to push “his own candidates”. Kakodkar had described Irani’s allegation as “false”. On Monday, Kakodkar declined comment on the latest development. “I have nothing to comment,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry brought no response. In September 2018, the President’s office had asked the government about the progress made in implementing Kakodkar’s appointment, cleared more than a year earlier. At times the President’s office may of its own accord withdraw an earlier approval, as was done for a Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor in 2017. But this did not happen with Kakodkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
03-11-2020||India||Amity activist held for offering namaz in UP temple||Uttar Pradesh police on Monday arrested a member of a non-violent organisation promoting communal harmony for offering namaz at a temple in Mathura on October 29. Faisal Khan, arrested from Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, is the national convener of the Khudai Khidmatgar that was founded by Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, the freedom fighter known as the “Frontier Gandhi”. The non-violent organisation was known for its activism against the British Raj and its members are said to have helped Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose escape through Afghanistan. Persecuted in Pakistan, the movement had a close association with the Congress. However, when the organisation was revived a few years ago, it dissociated itself from all political parties and focused on Gandhian principles and communal amity. The police arrested Faisal Khan on the charge of fomenting communal unrest. But Khudai Khidmatgar said in a statement that the intention of the Gandhian activist was to promote communal harmony, for which he was undertaking a five-day pilgrimage. “We also want to say that if anybody individual or organisation feels that we have hurt their sentiments, then we are sorry for that but still want to add it was never our intention,” the organisation added. The police action against Faisal Khan stands in sharp contrast with the authorities’ response to the Hindu Jagaran Manch’s act of conducting Shiva puja on the Taj Mahal’s premises on October 25. Manch leader Gaurav Thakur had echoed many BJP leaders and claimed without any historical evidence that the Mughal monument was Tejo Mahalaya — a Shiva temple. Uttar Pradesh police are still waiting for the CISF, which oversees security at the Taj, to file a complaint. Faisal Khan had made no such preposterous claim about the Nandbaba (Krishna) temple at Nandgaon, Mathura. The temple is different from the more famous Krishna Janmasthan temple complex in Mathura. Faisal Khan and three colleagues had assembled at the Nandbaba temple last week. The other three have been identified by the police as Mohammad Chand, Nilesh Gupta and Alok Ratna. The police registered a case against them in Mathura on October 30 after someone posted a video on social media. Faisal and Chand are seen in the video offering namaz at a secluded place. Local media quoted Faisal as saying: “Our intention was good. We have been taking out sadbhavana yatras (communal harmony marches) for the past 20 years and we offer namaz wherever we go. We also sing bhajans (devotional Hindu songs) at many places. I apologise to those who felt hurt because of our action.” Kanha Goswami, a priest at the temple, said: “After offering namaz, Faisal met me. When I reacted against his action, he also offered prayers before the Hindu gods and recited aloud many couplets from the Ramayan and other Hindu scriptures. I didn’t like them making viral videos of the namaz. Had they also posted the videos of their prayers before the Hindu gods, I wouldn’t have registered a complaint.” He added: “We don’t ask people their religion before they enter the temple. It is open to whoever wants to come.” The priest said the group had told him they were on a “parikarma (circumambulation)” of the “Brij Chaurasi Kos” (a particular distance to be covered) on bicycles. Goswami has registered a written complaint with Nandgaon police station. A case has been filed on the charges of promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, injuring or defiling a place of worship with the intent to insult a religion, and an intent to incite a community. Anand Giri, a sadhu from the Niranjani Akhara in Mathura, and a few other monks had threatened a protest if the group members were not arrested. “Whatever they did was to provoke us and politicise the religion,” Giri said. Gaurav Grover, senior superintendent of police, Mathura, said the case had been handed over to the state’s intelligence department. “A search is on to arrest the other three,” he said. Uttar Pradesh minister Shrikant Sharma has termed the incident an attempt to create differences between communities and said the accused won’t be spared. “For blocking the road to progress, they are attempting to create differences between Hindus and Muslims,” he claimed. On Monday, Pawan Yadav, the spokesperson for Khudai Khidmatgar, issued the following statement: “Gandhian social activist Faisal Khan was on a five-day pilgrimage (Yatra), dated 24-29 October, to the holy land of Krishna, Braja. He was participating in ancient Chaurasi Kos Yatra of Govardhan. In his Yatra, he met with several people as well as the priest of various temples. “One can see the videos, pictures of his Yatra which are available on his Facebook profile. There were great discussions about the philosophy of Hinduism, verses of Tulsidasji… and Rahimdas. “On the last day of his pilgrimage, Faisal Khan visited the holy temple of Nand Baba. He paid his obeisance there. That was the time of his afternoon prayers, so he asked for suitable place. The people who were there in the temple were allowed him to offer prayers in the temple compound itself by saying that ‘you are already in the home of God so why you need to go anywhere else’. Hearing it, Faisal Khan completed his prayers. After it, he and other members stayed in the Temple for some more time and they had their lunch in the same temple. “Everything was fine. On October 29, the Yatra was completed and he returned to Delhi with all. After three days, he got the information from some local media people that there are some people who are not happy with the incidents… and they are going to complain to the police…. “In a few TV media, false stories are being shown. We strongly oppose all the allegations…. “Khudai Khidmatgar believe in Peace, Love and Communal Harmony. Faisal Khan, as an individual, is working for the last three decades on these issues, and the objective of Khudai Khidmatgar is also the same. We focus to counter any forms of religious extremism in this society. Many Hindu religious institutions have appreciated and acknowledged the work of Faisal Khan for his uncompromising work for peace and brotherhood. “Faisal Khan and we all, as members of Khudai Khidamatgar, have full faith in humanity as well as the Rule of Law. Our efforts were, are and always will be for the betterment of the society. “We are continuously trying to put our views from different platforms through disciplined and inclusive approach. “We also want to say that if anybody individual or organisation feels that we have hurt their sentiments, then we are sorry for that but still want to add it was never our intention.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
03-11-2020||India||Global Covid-19 vaccine divide feared||Advance orders from high-income countries for vaccines against the coronavirus disease could leave hundreds of millions of people in developing countries without vaccines in the early years of the rollouts, health experts cautioned in an analysis released on Monday. Researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre in the US who analysed the existing purchase agreements and production capacities have found that high-income countries and some middle-income countries have already reserved 8.8 billion doses of yet-to-emerge vaccines. Their assessment suggests that some high-income countries will be able to vaccinate their entire populations many times over before hundreds of millions of people in low-income countries are able to receive the vaccines. Canada, for instance, has ordered enough to vaccinate its population five times over, while advance orders from the UK and the US could cover their populations twice over. India, Bangladesh and Egypt are among countries whose tentative orders would cover under 30 per cent of their populations. India’s large domestic vaccine production capacity places it in a stronger position than most low-income countries relating to its potential ability to secure Covid-19 vaccines but deploying the vaccines could pose challenges, Andrea Taylor, assistant director at the Duke Centre, told The Telegraph. The analysis says India has confirmed 600 million doses — enough for 300 million people — but is negotiating 1 billion additional doses. India is currently assessing three vaccine candidates — two home-grown and one from Astra Zeneca to be produced in the country. “If any of these candidates are successful, India will have access to enough vaccine in the early months of the rollout to vaccinate high-priority groups such as healthcare workers and high-risk populations,” Taylor said. “But distribution will be a significant challenge in rural areas.” The researchers have predicted that ensuring a cold-chain (low temperature) distribution network and sufficient numbers of trained healthcare workers to deliver the vaccine across rural areas will be challenging. “The health providers will also need tracking systems to ensure that the two-dose vaccines are provided within the correct timeframe,” Taylor said. However, health officials and members of a Covid-19 vaccine expert panel have underlined that India already has a network used to delivering childhood vaccines. They say that unless vaccine candidates are approved, it is difficult to determine the doses and target populations. A member of the expert panel had told this newspaper last month that the quantum of doses available would depend on which vaccine candidates or how many of the candidates get approved for use. “But we have the relevant experience for nationwide vaccine delivery through the immunisation programme. Under the polio campaigns, millions of children were vaccinated nationwide on single days,” a senior vaccine researcher said. The Duke Centre’s analysis estimates that while it might take three to four years to produce enough vaccines to cover the world’s population, high-income countries have purchased in advance 3.8 billion doses of the vaccine candidates through bilateral pacts with vaccine makers. Another 5 billion doses are under negotiation. The findings imply that most people in low-income countries would need to wait until 2024 for Covid-19 vaccines. “An ambitious effort to create a global system of vaccine equity is being undermined as a handful of countries… secure as many doses as they possibly can,” Elina Urli Hodges, assistant director at the Duke Centre, said in a media release. The report has found that doses to cover only 250 million people have been confirmed as purchased so far under Covax, an international effort involving both high-income and low-income countries that promised equal access to Covid-19 vaccines, regardless of income levels. The analysis has revealed that several Covax signatories, including the UK, the European Union and Canada, are “effectively undermining” the pact by negotiating “side deals” for large vaccine orders that will “result in a smaller piece of the pie for equitable allocation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
03-11-2020||India||Tejashwi and Chirag Paswan lambast Nitish Kumar over personal attacks||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan lambasted chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday over his personal attacks on opponents in election speeches. “What is wrong if somebody comes from the world of cricket or movies to politics? How much legislative experience did Nitishji have when he first became an MLA in 1985? What has happened to him? How can he say such things? This means doctors or engineers also cannot come to politics? I am surprised that he has become so negative,” Tejashwi said, speaking to journalists. “People are not angry with Nitishji. They now hate him. He does not talk on issues plaguing Bihar. He is silent on rising inflation, poverty, lack of industries, and the migra¬tion of unemployed people. He has nothing to show as the achievement of his 15 year rule. He is sure to lose in this election, but he will not accept it till the results come,” Tejashwi added. In an interview to a local news channel, Nitish had said of Tejashwi and Chirag that one has come from the world of cricket and the other from movies. He had also said that family was everything for the two young leaders, whereas he considered the entire state as his family. Bihar is in the middle of threephase Assembly elections. The first phase was held on October 28, the second phase is on Tuesday and the third on November 7. Votes will be counted on November 10. Chirag wrote an open letter to Nitish, accusing him of faking sympathy over the death of his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan last month. “Nitish never came to see my father while he was ill, but is now showing sympathy and indulging in a farce. He never telephoned or tried to meet him while he was alive, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in touch day and night and made efforts for better treatment,” Chirag said. The LJP chief alleged that the JDU leaked raw footage of his video shoot meant for party workers to show that he was busy filming soon after his father had died. Chirag added that he could not have abandoned party men after the death of father Ram Vilas, despite the fact that he could not move out for 12 days while conducting the “shraddh” (last rituals). This made him shoot videos ahead of the first phase of the ongoing elections. “Nitishji could have criticised my ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document. Instead, he chose to leak a video to show how I was shooting videos after my father’s death. The chief minister should show the achievements of the last five years to seek votes in the ongoing polls, but he and his leaders are making personal attacks. The people have understood this,” Chirag said. The LJP chief asserted that the Munger police firing on Durga devotees was a ploy to divert public attention from the real issues. He questioned the role of Nitish, pointing out that he is also the home minister and the police report to him. Chirag has been at loggerheads with Nitish for the last several months, attacking him on development and asserting that he will not return to power. Although the BJP and Nitish are allies in this election, Chirag claims his party will form the government in the state with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||SC stays Kamal Nath star-campaigner axe||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the Election Commission’s order divesting senior Congress leader Kamal Nath of his “star campaigner” status as the top court said it is for the political party to decide who should be its lead campaigner and not the poll panel. “Who has given you the power to delist a candidate as the star campaigner?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a bench, asked senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for the commission. Though Dwivedi argued that the petition had become infructuous as campaigning ended on Monday for the 28 Assembly constituencies for which polling would be held on Tuesday, the apex court rejected the argument and said it was staying the EC’s order. “Who gives you the power to determine as to who is the leader of the party? We stay this order. You have no power…” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. The bench said though the campaigning had ended it would like to interpret the EC’s power under Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act to examine whether the panel can delist a campaigner. “How can the EC determine who will be a leader of the party having regard to section 77 of the act?” the CJI asked, while issuing a formal notice to the EC for its response on the issue. The court was dealing with a petition filed by former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath challenging the EC’s order of October 30 to delist him as the party’s star campaigner for the bypolls to the 28 Assembly constituencies. Results of the 28 constituencies will have a crucial impact on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government as 22 MLAs of the Congress had earlier resigned from the party and joined the BJP, which helped it to overthrow the Kamal Nath-led Congress government and form a new government. The EC had earlier decided to delist Kamal Nath from the campaign on account of alleged multiple violations of the model code of conduct. Besides calling a BJP candidate Imarti Devi as an “item girl”, Kamal Nath is accused of making certain intemperate remarks against chief minister Chouhan for which he was delisted as the Congress’s star campaigner. However, in his petition before the apex court, Kamal Nath assailed the EC’s order saying the allegations against him were baseless and instead accused the poll panel of being biased towards the BJP. He listed the following alleged instances of intemperate remarks by BJP leaders for which he said no action was taken by the EC despite complaints by the Congress: ⚫ On October 6, Kamal Patel of the BJP called Kamal Nath a “frog” in a well and said he was sitting over the funds of farmers like a “snake” in Ujjain. ⚫ On October 23, Kailash Vijayvargiya of the BJP called Kamal Nath elusive like “Raavan” at Muraina ⚫ On October 23, B.D. Sharma of the BJP alleged in Rajgadh that Digivjaya Singh practices “bhram jaal” and was a “conman”. ⚫ On October 24, Imarti Devi of the BJP used the words “luccha”, “lafanga”, “kabadi” and “pagal” for Kamal Nath and further called his sister and mother “items”. ⚫ October 29, Vijayvargiya in Nepanagar called the Congress “fatichar”. ⚫ On October 30, Vijayvargiya called Kamal Nath mentally “deranged” at Indore. Yet the EC chose not to take any action against the BJP, the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Cyber crime training for Odisha policemen||The National Digital Crime Resource and Training Centre (NDCRTC), Hyderabad, a unit of the National Police Academy, on Monday started imparting training on tackling cyber crime to police officers from different Odisha districts. The training will continue for five days along with hands-on practice. It will be followed by a 10-day advanced course on cyber crime investigation. DGP Abhay said, “Controlling cyber crime is a major challenge for Odisha police. There is a need to develop skills of the police personnel. At least one police personnel in every police station should be well-trained to investigate cyber crimes. The National Police Academy will provide the necessary technical knowledge for this.” Abhay inaugurated a cyber complex of Odisha police in the city. The complex comprises a cyber police station of the CID crime branch and a Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) lab-cum-training centre. The social media analysis cell will also operate from the complex. The cyber police station will have jurisdiction across the state. The DGP said, “The lab-cum-training centre in the complex will impart training to police officers as well as judicial officials of the state to enhance their knowledge as a first responder to cyber complaint, cyber crime investigator and a well-acquainted cyber crime prosecutor.” The training centre has required hardware and software equipment to impart basic to advanced level training to police personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Odisha governor tests Covid positive||Odisha Governor Prof. Ganeshi Lal and his wife have tested positive for the new coronavirus. The governor’s office in a tweet said, “Hon’ble Governor and first lady have tested corona positive and have advised all who have come in close contact recently to get themselves tested.” Wishing the governor a speedy recovery, chief  minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Concerned to know about the hospitalisation of Hon’ble @GovernorOdisha Prof Shri Ganeshi Lal ji after testing positive for #COVID19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and praying for his good health.” Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan talked to the governor and wished for his early recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||J&K govt : 90%  land still protected||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday broke its silence on the growing outrage against the new land laws that allowed outsiders to buy land here, claiming the reactions were “uncharitable” as 90 per cent of the land still enjoyed protection. The Valley and many residents in Jammu are up in arms against the new land laws introduced last month which are allegedly aimed at changing the demography of the fledgling Union Territory. There have been protests in Jammu where many Dogras claim the laws were an assault on their culture. The government’s principal secretary and chiefspokesperson, Rohit Kansal, on Monday said the reactions were “uncharitable” as theold laws were “outdated”,“regressive” and “anti-people” and have been changedby “modern, progressiveand people-friendly provisions”. “The new land laws will not only afford protection to over 90 per cent of the land in J&K from being alienated to outsiders but will also help revamp the agriculture sector, foster rapid industrialisation, aid economic growth and create jobs in J&K,” Kansal said at a news conference in Srinagar. People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Suhak Bukhari said the people of Jammu and Kashmir and not “Delhi darbar” will decide what is pro or anti-people. “What the governmentis saying is part of thepropaganda that it has unleashed after the abrogation of Article 370. The basic question is what their intent is. They have been issuing order after order to disempower and disenfranchise J&K’s permanent residents,” Bukhari told The Telegraph. Some asked if the old laws were regressive, why they were not being removed in Ladakh, which was carved out of J&K. The Centre has promised to look into the demand of Ladakhi Buddhists to include the region into the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, which will bar outsiders from buying land there. Kansal went into the technicalities of the old law — like the existence of two different laws where a ceiling of 182 kanals (a measurement of land equivalent of 0.125 acres) was fixed in Big Landed Estates Abolition Act and was superseded by 100 standard kanals in the Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976. “Both provisions continued to coexist creating contradiction and confusion,” he said. These “old laws” are believed to be the biggest agrarian reforms in any part of South Asia and gave large swathes of land to the tillers — who have been toiling for generations. While the government claims 90 per cent of the land would be unavailable for sale to outsiders, much of it comprises mountains, forests, water bodies — which form the bulk of J&K’s landscape. The 10 per cent land available for sale is the prime land in cities and municipalities. There have been several protests, mostly in Jammu, against the new land laws in the last few days. Civil society members in Srinagar staged a protest on Monday against the “sale of land” to outsiders. Many are blaming the Centre for unleashing agencies like the National Investigation Agency to pre-empt the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Amit Shah gives Bihar the miss||Home minister Amit Shah has stayed off the Bihar poll campaign that’s nearing closure, going back on his own promise and in the process raising eyebrows in Delhi’s political corridors. Giving TV interviews last month after recovering from Covid-19, Shah had said he was fit and fine and would campaign in Bihar. “I will go to Bihar after October 25,” Shah had said in an interview to ZEE News on October 20. “I’m fully fit now. I had corona and later there was weakness and due to inadequate immunity level, doctors had advised isolation,” Shah had said, seeking to dismiss rumours about his health. So far, however, he has not gone to Bihar and there are no plans yet, party insiders said. The second phase of voting is on Tuesday and the Bihar poll campaign for the last phase closes on November 5. Some party leaders said Shah was keen to campaign but had been advised not to for health reasons. “Though Shah was fit and fine, doctors have advised him precaution and rest for some more time,” a leader said. However, the home minister has been stepping out of home and attending events. He was seen with the President and the Vice-President on October 31, paying tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Before this he had also attended the Police Commemoration Day event and made a speech. Shah is also scheduled to be in Bengal for two days from November 5, to take stock of the party’s organisational preparedness for the polls next year. Earlier, BJP chief J.P. Nadda was to go to Bengal but in a change of plan the party has announced Shah would go instead. Observers are pointing to all this to question the “health reasons” excuse. People in political corridors are wondering why Shah is ignoring the Bihar polls and going to Bengal. While BJP leaders are tight-lipped, the Opposition camp privately is citing this as an indication of the NDA’s defeat in Bihar. “We too were hearing about Shah’s campaign but now he seems to have backed out. Shah seems to have sensed sure defeat,” a Congress leader said. Shah’s absence has attracted attention and led to all kinds of whispers since he was the chief strategist and campaigner in the last Bihar polls. As BJP chief then, he had led an aggressive campaign, holding rallies, road shows and backdoor strategising. His speech in the final rounds still rings in Bihar where he had said that if the Nitish-Lalu-Congress combine wins then crackers would burst in Pakistan. This was read as a sign of desperation in the BJP camp staring at a defeat. “It is a similar kind of situation now too and so Shah has pulled himself out,” an RJD leader said. In Shah’s absence, Nadda is in the lead role. He is holding rallies, road shows, giving interviews to stress that even if the BJP gets more seats, the chief minister’ post will go to ally Nitish Kumar. This reiteration, many party leaders feel, was a wrong strategy and could cost the party dearly. “Our committed voters don’t want Nitish as chief minister. So why are we repeatedly exhibiting our commitment to make Nitish CM?” a Bihar BJP leader wondered and said this could turn away upper caste voters. Conspiracy theories doing the rounds in Delhi have it that with Shah keeping off the Bihar campaign, the entire responsibility, if the NDA loses, would have to be borne by Nadda. Since Nadda took over from Shah in January this year, the BJP has lost polls first in Delhi and then Jharkhand. A hat-trick would surely cast a shadow on Nadda’s image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Govt allows campuses to stay headless||The charge of delayed appointments to key posts that has got Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi suspended also holds true of the Union education ministry which had recommended action against him. The ministry has been sitting over the appointments of several IIT directors and central university vice-chancellors for months. For example, 10 months have passed since a panel headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal interviewed candidate directors for IIT Mandi and IIT Indore on December 26 last year. No appointments have been made yet, nor has the appointment process been cancelled for lack of suitable candidates. A former education ministry official said that after an interview for an IIT director or central university VC, the file containing the shortlisted names is sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, a practice introduced by the NDA government. The delay occurs mainly at the PMO, which examines the ideological leanings of the shortlisted candidates, the official said. Several academics had last week gone on record to question the trend of senior academic officials being chosen on the basis of their adherence to the ruling establishment’s ideology. This, they told The Telegraph, led to the appointment of people with questionable credentials, as evidenced by the recent spurt in the removal or resignations of VCs over charges of impropriety. Since Pradeep Mathur’s tenure as director ended at IIT Indore on December 31 last year, senior-most professor Neelesh Kumar Jain has been officiating as the director. IIT Roorkee director Ajay Kumar Chaturvedi has had additional charge of IIT Mandi from July 1 after T.A. Gonsalves completed his tenure. “Issuing an appointment letter with the President’s approval is just a matter of a week or two after the interview,” the former education ministry official said. “Sometimes, the process may be cancelled if none of the candidates is found suitable, but it’s highly unusual to sit tight for more than 10 months after the interview.” President Ram Nath Kovind last week suspended Tygai for non-performance, which included long delays in the appointments of the registrar, pro-VC and other key officials. IIT Patna, IIT Bhubaneswar and IIT Ropar too have been waiting for a regular director for several months. The tenures of the incumbent directors have been extended in Bhubaneswar and Ropar while IIT-BHU director Pramod Kumar Jain has been given additional charge of IIT Patna after Pushpak Bhattacharyya left the institute on June 25. Another panel headed by Pokhriyal had interviewed candidate directors for these three institutes on July 14. One problem with “officiating” or “acting” directors or directors on extended tenure is that they are not allowed to recruit new faculty members, two IIT teachers said, requesting anonymity. With teacher vacancy ranging between 20 and 30 per cent at each of the 23 IITs, the absence of a regular director can hurt badly, the teachers said. Allahabad University too has been without a regular VC for the last 10 months. An expert committee had interviewed candidates for the vice-chancellors’ post at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Delhi, on August 20. Another had held a similar interview on August 23 for the Central Sanskrit University, Delhi. No decision has been taken on the appointments, and the tenures of the incumbent vice-chancellors have been extended temporarily. An email sent to the education ministry on Monday seeking the reasons for the delays in the appointments of VCs and IIT directors brought no response. During the last Parliament session, the education ministry had been asked why so many vice-chancellors’ posts were vacant and when they might be filled. “The incidence and filling up of vacancies of vice-chancellors in universities is a continuous process,” Pokhriyal had said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on September 22. “The process of appointment of vice-chancellor in (a) central university is a time-consuming exercise which involve(s) getting executive council/ court’s nomination(s) of the concerned central university, constitution of search-cum-selection committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority, etc, hence, no timeframe can be indicated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Congress: Why doesn’t PM curb MLA purchase? ||The Congress has dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to amend the anti-defection law to check the purchase of legislators, a practice that defeats the people’s mandate, after a former party MLA was allegedly caught on videotape admitting to having accepted crores of rupees from the BJP to switch sides. “We have seen Congress MLAs resigning and contesting election on BJP tickets in several states, from Gujarat to Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Now the fourth video explaining how the BJP offered them money to cross over has come up. Democracy will be destroyed in this manner,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said on Monday. On Sunday, the Congress in Gujarat had released a video in which Somabhai Patel, one of eight party MLAs who crossed over to the BJP ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections, explains why legislators resign. “Some are given money, some are also promised a ticket. Otherwise why should they resign?” he purportedly asks. The BJP, which has come to power in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh although it lost elections in both states, has all along said it had no hand in the resignations of Congress MLAs whose exit toppled those state governments. Asked about the rumour that he was paid Rs 20 crore, Patel retorted: “That’s not true. Nobody was paid more than Rs 10 crore. Anybody can quote whatever amount they wish. But I got what everybody else got.” On Monday, Singhvi asked: “Why is the Prime Minister silent on this malaise? There is a simple solution: Let the central government bring a two-line amendment to the Anti-Defection Law, saying nobody can contest an election and become a minister for one year after resigning from the Assembly. Modi keeps saying ‘na khaoonga, na khane doonga’ but remains silent on these incidents of corruption. Why is it that the Prime Minister and the home minister do not talk about this when the entire nation is concerned about this threat to democracy?” While Patel purportedly named Amit Shah and the BJP, claiming that they spent a lot of money, he said the deal was finalised at the level of the Gujarat chief minister and the state BJP president. Asked where from the BJP brought so much money, Patel laughed and purportedly said: “Sabhi to inka hi hai — Reliance, Tata… All they have to say is, ‘bring the money’.” Former Gujarat Congress president Arjun Modhwadia, who was present at the media interaction with Singhvi and Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav, said: “Of the 18-minute video, we have released a small clip because the rest of the content was vulgar.” Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil has dismissed the video as “fabricated” and accused the Congress of indulging in low-level politics. He also said that he was not in charge when the resignations happened. Modhwadia responded, saying: “He (C.R. Patil) is a virtuous personality.… He was suspended as a police constable for being involved in bootlegging. He was finally dismissed from service. He was even arrested and put in jail in a loan scam worth Rs 84 crore relating to Diamond Jubilee Cooperative Society. According to the affidavit filed by him in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, there were 107 pending cases against him. What to say about such a multi-talented person.” Modhwadia continued: “The Prime Minister talks of corruption and fighting black money. Eight MLAs were purchased in the last lot in Gujarat. That means Rs 80 crore, even if we ignore the higher amounts quoted earlier. MLAs have been bought in Gujarat during previous Rajya Sabha elections also. Governments have been changed in several states, deploying huge amount of black money. The BJP intends to trigger collapse of systems to ensure their total capture. Otherwise, why purchase MLAs despite being in power both in the state and the Centre?” Rajiv Satav asked: “From where do such huge amounts of black money come?… Let the Prime Minister break his silence on this menace. Let there be a debate on this subject — how come the BJP grabs power no matter who wins the election?” Asked why was the Congress not approaching the Supreme Court, Singhvi said: “The court will see the technicality that they have resigned on their own. The real issue is moral and political. If somebody is hell-bent on violating the Constitution, you plug one legal loophole and he will exploit another loophole. No law can be effective. These videos only illustrate a few instances. The operations are much larger; nobody knows on how many more MLAs they would have attempted this.” Madhya Pradesh will vote in bypolls in 28 constituencies on Tuesday, 25 of the vacancies caused by defections. Gujarat will have bypolls for eight constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Kerala HC halts trial in the alleged sexual assault of an actress||Kerala High Court on Monday halted till Friday the trial in the alleged sexual assault of an actress in her car, in which a top male actor is among the accused, after the survivor and the prosecution sought transfer of the case from the trial court. Both the actress and the prosecution have expressed lack of confidence in the trial judge, saying she allowed the defence lawyers to harass the victim with uncomfortable questions during the closed-door hearings. On October 30, the trial court had rejected the prosecution’s petition seeking a halt to the proceedings until it had heard from the high court, and ordered resumption of the trial on Tuesday. Now the single-judge high court bench of Justice V.G. Arun has deferred the trial till Friday. While the actress had petitioned the high court on October 28 citing the trial court’s “biased and hostile” attitude, saying it had failed to record certain key points too, the prosecution backed her contention on October 30. It’s not clear whether the defence plans to oppose a transfer of the case or to seek to be heard in the high court. A gang of men had allegedly hijacked the actress’s car while she was travelling alone from Thrissur to Kochi on February 18, 2017. They are accused of assaulting her sexually inside the moving vehicle while filming the entire sequence, apparently as part of a blackmail plot. The case has more than 10 accused, with actor Dileep charged with plotting the assault. Senior lawyer S. Sreekumar, who appeared for the actress in the high court, said that 17 lawyers, eight of them representing Dileep, were in the trial court while she was cross-examined for nine days. He said the trial court had done nothing to protect the survivor although the prosecution had objected to the way in which the defence lawyers were harassing her. It was the high court that had assigned the trial to additional sessions judge Honey M. Varghese after the actress had sought a woman judge. The trial court has also been accused of refusing to record — as “hearsay”— the survivor’s statement that another actress had sometime before the alleged assault told her that Dileep had spoken about setting the survivor ablaze. Public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy told the high court that the trial judge had agreed to record some of the prosecution’s statements only after he had threatened to walk out of the courtroom. The prosecution told the high court that it had not been provided with a copy of the forensic lab report on the visuals collected from the mobile phones of the accused. The investigations had led to the arrest of Dileep, who was granted conditional bail after spending 88 days in jail. In November last year, the Supreme Court had rejected Dileep’s plea for a copy of the mobile phone visuals and ordered that efforts be made to complete the trial in six months. Only 80 of the 359 prosecution witnesses have so far been examined, though. Besides, some of the key witnesses have turned hostile, deepening the challenge before the prosecution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Won’t ally with casteist, communal BJP: Mayawati||Mayawati on Monday said she would rather retire from politics than have a poll pact with the “casteist, communal” BJP, doing a somersault four days after announcing she would back the BJP in the state legislative council elections due early next year. “I want to tell the people, particularly the Muslim community, that I will rather take sanyas from politics instead of contesting an election in alliance with the BJP,” the Bahujan Samaj Party president told reporters at her home in Lucknow. “I cannot ever form an alliance with a casteist, communal force,” she added, making what appeared an attempt at damage control a day before by-elections are held to seven Assembly segments in Uttar Pradesh. She said she had been misquoted four days ago. Mayawati is known for reacting immediately if she disagrees with media coverage of her remarks or actions, but this time she has waited four days before issuing her clarification. “I had said last time that the BSP would support the BJP or any other party that is in a position to defeat the second candidate of the Samajwadi Party in the legislative council elections,” she said. Mayawati played down her past acceptance of the BJP support to secure the chief minister’s chair, saying she had formed these alliances “on my own terms”. She reminded Muslims that no communal riots had taken place during her four tenures as chief minister, and that she had fielded two Muslims in Tuesday’s by-elections. Mayawati portrayed herself as a BJP victim, saying Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government had set the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate after her and her family in 2003 when she decided not to continue as chief minister with the BJP support. “At that time Sonia Gandhi had called me and promised that the Congress would do justice to me after coming to power,” she said. “But the Congress turned out to be worse than the BJP. It kept suppressing me. But bowing is not in my blood.” Mayawati had become chief minister three times with the BJP support — in 1995, 1997 and 2003. Each stint had been brief: the BJP withdrew support once, she had to step down in keeping with a rotation plan in another instance, and the Samajwadis toppled her the third time. She won her fourth stint by gaining absolute majority in 2007 and served a full five years. Reacting to her latest statement, Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav said: “I fail to understand this kind of politics. The BJP wants to defeat us and the BSP too wants to defeat us. They are on the same side.” Thursday’s comment by Mayawati had come after the Samajwadis allegedly tried to engineer a split in the BSP. Seven of Mayawatis’ MLAs had purportedly met Akhilesh and five of them tried to sabotage BSP candidate Ramji Gautam ahead of the November 9 polls for 10 Rajya Sabha seats. These MLAs had accused Maya of looking to seek support from the “communal BJP” for Gautam’s victory. The BSP has only 18 MLAs and needed 18 more votes. Eventually, with the nomination of a Samajwadi-backed Independent being scrapped, all the 10 remaining candidates are expected to be elected uncontested. In next year’s legislative council polls, the Samajwadis are assured the victory of one candidate but their second nominee would need support from other parties. Mayawati can hurt them by helping the BJP defeat the second Samajwadi candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-580
03-11-2020||India||Rs 1,500cr for farmers: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said Rs 1,500 crore had been transferred to the accounts of more than 19 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana on the state’s 21st foundation day on Sunday. “We had transferred the previous two instalments of Rs 1,500 crore each to the farmers on May 21 and August 20,” the chief minister said. Rahul Gandhi joined the virtual statehood day celebrations, at which a school and a hospital scheme were also launched. Under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, Baghel said the state government would start 52 English medium schools where free education would be provided. Under the health care plan, mobile hospitals-cum-laboratories were inaugurated in 30 urban slum areas of the state. Greeting the people of Chhattisgarh, Rahul Gandhi said farmers and labourers were the foundation of the country. “The entire country is struggling in this time of pandemic, but the weaker section of the society is facing more difficulties and has become more vulnerable. The condition of farmers in our country is no secret. News about farmers’ suicides is everywhere. We need to protect the rights and interests of our farmers and labourers and stand by them through this difficult time,” he said. Rahul praised the initiatives taken by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of the farmers, labourers and the poor. He said schemes such as Rajiv Gandhi Yojana, Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme and Chief Minister’s Urban Slum Health Scheme would strengthen the foundation of the country. “Chhattisgarh has become an example for the entire country. Decisions taken by the government to support farmers and protect their land, promote the industrial sector and make villagers and youths self-employed are exemplary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
03-11-2020||India||Neighbour’s stench mars Nitish village sheen||As the smooth tarred road to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s village snakes through vast crop fields, reflectors with red, white and yellow stripes — a rare sight in the state’s interior — guide the traveller. Kalyan Bigha village in Nalanda district has a middle school and a higher secondary school in addition to an industrial training institute and a referral hospital. The buildings are sturdy and well maintained unlike most government property elsewhere. A power sub-station, a police station and an indoor shooting range are a short distance away. The village has a park with an open-air gymnasium, and a second park that displays busts of Nitish’s parents Parameshwari Devi and Kaviraj Ram Lakhan Singh and the chief minister’s wife Manju Devi. The village is surprisingly spick and span. All the houses have toilets. The lanes are concrete, the drains either running underground or covered with cement slabs. The round-the-clock tap water is an advertisement for Nitish’s “seven resolves for a developed Bihar”. Kalyan Bigha, around 65km southeast of Patna, stands as an example of what Bihar’s villages should be like. A knot of villagers is discussing the elections under a tree in front of the Durga temple for which Nitish donated a portion of his homestead land. “What did you expect? After all, this is the chief minister’s village. We have no problems here. We have water and electricity 24 hours a day,” Janardan Singh tells The Telegraph. Asked about the “quality” of the development, the group of villagers is unanimous in dismissing any hint of corruption. “The government officials and contractors would not dare execute anything of poor quality here. One complaint will send them to jail,” one of them says as the others nod. “Nitish Kumar comes here thrice every year. He keeps a watch on everything.” About 25km away, Musahri village in Domagram panchayat, Patna district, too provides an example — of all that’s wrong in Bihar. Its narrow, poorly tarred road fades into puffs of dust before reaching the village. Its last stretch lies incomplete. The stench from the excrement drying on both sides of the path comes as a warning for the first-time visitor. Open defecation is the norm here. “Where should we and our children relieve ourselves if not in the open?” says Rinku Devi. “When we heard the government would help build toilets, we pleaded with the mukhiya (panchayat chief) and all the government officials we met. Nothing happened. Many families here lack toilets; the rest built them on their own.” Government data claim the Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (rural) has achieved its target of providing toilets to all the households in every district in Bihar. In Musahri, the paved lanes and drains — part of Nitish’s “seven resolves” — have been built half-heartedly. The drains are incomplete and uncovered at places. A ramshackle community building, built decades ago, stands abandoned. The tap water is erratic. The contractors, instead of building a proper grid of pipes connected at right angles, have bent the plastic pipes to somehow divert them directly to homes. The villagers are unsure how long the twisted pipes would last. Some of the houses have hand pumps. “This water supply scheme, combined with the incomplete drainage, causes much conflict in the village. Families fight when drain water accumulates or overflows near their homes. Government schemes should be properly implemented,” says Lalan Singh, a farmer in Musahri. He alleges that local MLA and BJP politician Vinay Bhushan aka Lallu Mukhiya never visited the village in the past five years. Musahri perhaps provides a truer picture than Kalyan Bigha of the state Nitish has ruled for most of the last 15 years, and which now has a chance to give its verdict on the last 5 years of his reign. Musahri voted on October 28 while Kalyan Bigha will speak its mind on November 3. The three-phase elections end on November 7. It’s villages like Musahri that have given the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress and the Lok Janshakti Party the chance to allege corruption in government schemes by a nexus of ministers, officials, elected representatives and contractors. Raids that the income-tax department conducted on several contractors in Bihar over the past two days have provided ammunition for Nitish’s rivals. The tax officials claim to have detected undisclosed income of Rs 75 crore, seized Rs 3.21 crore in cash and frozen fixed deposits of Rs 30 crore. Some of the raided contractors have been involved in implementing the state government’s development schemes, such as tap water projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-581
