04-11-2020||India||Rahul attacks Modi & Nitish, calls Sharad Yadav a ‘guru’ ||Hitting out at his political rivals, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who did not help distressed people during the coronavirus lockdown, are now seeking votes from them. Addressing an election rally at Bihariganj, from where veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav is contesting the assembly polls on a Congress seat. He also assailed the two NDA leaders over job creation. Kumar had promised he would provide jobs to the youth and “change” Bihar, but he could not deliver, the Congress leader said. “When youths today ask Kumar during his public meetings about the jobs he had promised, he threatens them, chases them away, and gets them thrashed,” Gandhi alleged. He also raked up the issue of minimum support price for maize and paddy and said the money that the farmers should be getting is going to the middlemen. He alleged that Prime Minister and chief minister Kumar did not help poor labourers and workers during the coronavirus lockdown. Instead, they got them lathicharged and are now asking for their votes. “If the Prime Minister of India had any place for farmers and labourers in his heart, he would have died but not done what he did during the lockdown. Entire Bihar knows this,” he said. He alleged that the PM through the three recently passed agricultural laws, has “cleared the way for new middlemen”. “Not the smaller ones but the bigger ones ‑ Ambani and Adani. In 2006, mandis were destroyed here and now it is being done across the country,” Gandhi claimed. He said prices of vegetables and other edible items are shooting up because of these new agricultural laws as the grains produced here are going to the “bigger godowns” and being sold at inflated rates. Contrary to PM Modi’s arguments that the new farm laws have “freed” farmers, they have freed the millionaires. Praising Sharad Yadav, Gandhi said the veteran leader taught him a lot and was in a way a “guru” to him. Gandhi is scheduled to address another public meeting later in the day. The former Congress president had addressed two public rallies in Bihar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
04-11-2020||India||Punjab CM stages Dharna in New Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday launched a dharna here to "save" his state and its farmers with a hard-hitting attack on the Centre, alleging "step-motherly" treatment towards Punjab. Led by Amarinder Singh, all Congress MLAs and MPs from Punjab staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here. Lok Insaaf Party legislator Simranjit Singh Bains as well as Punjabi Ekta Party MLAs Sukhpal Khaira and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa participated in the protest. The Punjab chief minister said the Aam Aadmi Party had been "pressured" not to join the dharna as its government in Delhi had not passed amendment bills to protect the farmers. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against the recent farm legislations, alleging that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. The Punjab Assembly last month had adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre's new farm laws and passed four bills it said will counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. The three farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
04-11-2020||India||Congress accuses BJP of indulging in selective outrage on Arnab arrest||Hitting out at the BJP over its criticism of Arnab Goswami's arrest in Mumbai, the Congress on Wednesday said its "selective outrage" on press freedom is "shameful" and the law will take its own course in the case against the Republic TV editor-in-chief. Goswami was arrested from his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer. Several Union ministers and senior BJP leaders have criticised the Congress over Goswami's arrest and called it an "attack on freedom of press". The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra. Asked about Goswami's arrest and the BJP's criticism of it, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said she was actually very shocked with the selective outrage of the BJP of the sections of the government . Why are they silent when Prashant Kanojia is jailed for a number of months just because he exposed a scam where children were being served salt and chapati in Mirzapur?" the spokesperson asked, referring to the journalist who was arrested by the UP Police. Addressing a media briefing, she raised several other questions. Why, she asked, is the BJP "selectively silent" when sedition charges are slapped against journalists and when a case has been filed against (Scroll) journalist Supriya Sharma because she exposed the pathetic state of affairs in a village in Varanasi. And when a reporter who exposed the PPE kit scam in Uttar Pradesh is jailed and faces serious sedition charges instead of action been taken against those responsible for the scam, she added. "So this selective outrage is extremely unwarranted, is shameful and they (the BJP) should be ashamed of saying anything," she told reporters. Shrinate also hit out at Goswami, saying she herself had been a journalist for almost two decades and alleged that he had brought complete "disgrace and shame" to journalism. "What he does in the garb of journalism is not journalism, what he does in the garb of journalism is the work of a BJP frontal," Shrinate said. "To accuse people, to hurl abuses, to make any sort of allegations, to use the language that he does. Is he judge or jury? What sort of journalism is he doing in the garb of running a TV channel," she said. Shrinate said the BJP should be the last one to be talking about freedom of the press. She also accused the BJP of controlling the media through advertisements and through "intimidation and fear". "I am reasonably certain that wherever Congress is in government or we are in alliance, people will not be punished if they are absolutely innocent. I also believe that law will take its own course even in this case," she said. The Congress believes in the independence of institutions and has never compromised their independence or autonomy, Shrinate said. Goswami, who was seen being pushed into a police van, claimed he was assaulted by police at his home. BJP president J.P Nadda and various senior Union ministers, including Amit Shah, slammed Goswami's arrest, describing it as a "blatant misuse of state power" and reminiscent of the Emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
04-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested for abetment to suicide  ||Police on Wednesday arrested Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami here for allegedly abetting suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer in 2018, a police official said. The official said a team of Alibaug police picked up Goswami from his Lower Parel house in the morning. Goswami, who was seen being pushed into the police van, claimed he was assaulted by police at his home, before being taken away. In 2018, the architect and his mother committed suicide over alleged non-payment of dues by Republic TV, police said. In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced he has ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik. Deshmukh said Adnya alleged that the Alibaug police had not investigated the alleged non-payment of dues from Goswami's channel, which she claimed drove her father and grandmother to suicide in May 2018. Police said Goswami was taken to Alibaug in Raigad district in connection with the suicide case. In a viral video, police personnel who entered Goswami's home are seen asking him if he is coming along with them peacefully, following which there is a brief scuffle. While in the police van, Goswami is seen claiming that police assaulted him and his son and he was also not allowed to meet his in-laws. Police said that in a suicide note, Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had claimed that he was ending his life due to non-payment of his dues from Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Niteish Sarda of Smartworks. Police said that as per the note, the three firms owed Naiks company Rs 83 lakh, Rs four crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. Police said the two others named in the suicide note have also been arrested. Responding to the claim on non-payment of dues, Republic TV had in a statement said the entire amount owed to Concorde had been paid. Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders reacted strongly to the police action against Goswami. Condemning the arrest, BJP president JP Nadda on Wednesday said it was an attempt by Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to "silence" those who disagree with them. In a series of tweets, Nadda said, "Every person who believes in a free press and freedom of expression is furious at the Maharashtra Government's bullying and harassment of Arnab Goswami".  "This is yet another instance of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi-directed antic of silencing those who disagree with them," Nadda charged, while describing the entire incident as "shameful." Attacking the Gandhi family, Nadda said "India did not forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency. India never forgave Rajiv Gandhi for his assault on press freedom". "And now, India will again punish Sonia-Rahul Gandhi for their brazen and intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists," he said. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar described it as "an attack on press freedom" in Maharashtra and said it reminded of the "Emergency days". Javadekar tweeted, "We condemn the attack on press freedom in Maharashtra." "This is not the way to treat the Press. This reminds us of the emergency days when the press was treated like this," he said. Union minister Smriti Irani condemned Goswami's arrest, saying if those in free press don't stand up in support of him then they are tactically in support of fascism. Irani, the Women and Child Development Minister, tweeted, "Those in the free press who don't stand up today in support of Arnab, you are now tactically in support of fascism. You may not like him, you may not approve of him,you may despise his very existence but if you stay silent you support suppression. Who speaks if you are next?". Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad described the senior journalist's arrest as "seriously reprehensible, unwarranted and worrisome." He also questioned the silence of the Congress leadership when its government in Maharashtra was "blatantly suppressing freedom of press." "The arrest of senior journalist Arnab Goswami is seriously reprehensible, unwarranted and worrisome. We had fought for freedoms of Press as well while opposing the draconian Emergency of 1975," Prasad said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
04-11-2020||India||Crimes different, FB account modus operandi same||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Sikkim Police have arrested two persons whose charges are different, but both of whom adopted fake Facebook accounts to carry out their alleged activities. CID superintendent of police Tenzing Loden Lepcha told reporters in Gangtok on Tuesday that Rajesh Rai and Prakash Gurung, both from the Gnathang-Machong constituency in East Sikkim, were arrested on Monday evening. Both have been remanded to four days of police custody. While Rai has been booked under Section 153A of the IPC for promoting enmity between two communities, among others, Gurung has been charged with an attempt to outrage the modesty of woman under Section 354 of IPC and for electronically transmitting sexually explicit material under 67A of the Information Technology (IT) Act. Lepcha said that Rai was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged at the Gangtok Sadar police station on August 6, 2020, and Gurung on the basis of a complaint lodged with the CID on Monday. Rai was accused of using a fake FB account in the name of Simran Gurung to spread communal hatred. Gurung also allegedly used a fake account in the name of Devika Chhetri to spread smut. CID superintendent of police Lepcha added: “In the Simran Gurung case, there are four to five accused. Right now, we have been able to nab one… In the other case, there is only one accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Even Tulsidas wouldn’t have been safe||The Uttar Pradesh government should consider booking a case against Tulsidas, the 16th century poet. The sarcastic suggestion was made on Tuesday by a Hindi scholar while denouncing the arrest of Khudai Khidmatgar convener Faisal Khan for offering namaz at a temple to promote communal harmony. Anil Kumar Singh, a Hindi poet and associate professor at Saket Degree College in Ayodhya, said Tulsidas, the author of the epic Ramcharitmanas, would have been a “culprit in the eyes of mentally bankrupt politicians” for nurturing religious amity. “Tulsidas had written that one could call him a cunning man or a mystic or a weaver. He had said he would beg for food and sleep in a mosque as he had nothing to accept from anybody. In simple words, he had said he could be called a Hindu or a Muslim, and that he wouldn’t mind sleeping in a mosque as he did not care for fanatics,” Singh said. The teacher was referring to the following lines Tulsidas had written in the Awadhi dialect: “Dhoot kahao, awadhut kahao, julaha kahau kou…. Mangi ke khaibo, maseet ko soibo, lebe ko ek na debe ko dou.” “For the state government, Tulsidas is the fittest ca­­­se to be booked,” Singh said. Faisal, who has been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody and will for now be kept in quarantine as he has tested positive for coronavirus, was arrested from New Delhi on Monday for offering namaz at a Mathura temple on October 29. He is the national convener of Khudai Khidmatgar that was founded by Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, the freedom fighter known as the “Frontier Gandhi”. The Khudai Khidmatgar is a non-violent organisation focussing on Gandhian principles and communal amity. Singh said Faisal had been on a religious tour of the Braj region, which is known as the home of Lord Krishna. “He did a parikrama (circumambulation) of Braj and offered prayers before Hindu gods at Nandbaba temple. Since he was there at the time of the noon namaz, the priest allowed him to offer namaz on the temple premises. Later, the same priest filed a case against Faisal. We call this pandagiri, which means vultures who feed on anything and everything,” Singh said. Pandas conduct rituals on the ghats of holy rivers during Hindu cremations. Pandas have sometimes been accused of forcing family members of the deceased to pay steep sums of money. Sandeep Pandey, the Ma­gsaysay award-winning social activist and leader of the Socialist Party (India), also said the priest of Nandbaba temple had himself offered Faisal a space for namaz. Pandey said: “Faisal had attended Saryu Aarti in Ayodhya last year. Sant Morari Bapu (a spiritual leader) had honoured him in 2018 for his secular ventures. Faisal is also a trustee of a temple in the Saryu Kunj area of Ayodhya.” “On October 29, Faisal received prasad at Nandbaba temple and recited couplets from Ramcharitmanas before the priest, who had offered the Gandhian activist space to offer namaz. Unfortunately, some people with ill will asked the priest to file a police complaint against Faisal,” Pandey said in a statement. Kanha Goswami, the priest, has said he had allowed Faisal to offer namaz. Goswami, however, said he got angry when a video of Faisal offering namaz was posted on social media. Acharya Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, the mahant of Ram Janki temple in Ayodhya, said: “The Uttar Pradesh government and the police must correct the mistake they have committed by arresting Faisal, whose entire life is devoted to religious harmony. All the cases against Faisal and his friends should be withdrawn. He should be released with honour by the government.” Youths owing allegiance to Hindutva groups gathered in front of Nandbaba temple on Tuesday and raised slogans against its priests for allowing Faisal to offer namaz there. Chandra Mohan, a police sub-inspector on duty there, said: “The protesters left after half an hour when we told them that a case had already been registered and the police were doing their job.” Four youths donning tilaks barged into a Mathura mosque and recited the Hanuman Chalisa and chanted Jai Shri Ram as a “reply” to Faisal’s act of offering namaz at a temple. Saurabh Lambardar, Raghav Mittal, Kanha Thakur and Krishna Thakur have been arrested. While being taken to the police station, Saurabh told reporters: “It was our reply to those who had offered namaz at Nandbaba temple.” Nek Mohammad, a caretaker of the idgah, said: “I am not angry with the youths. I am not going to lodge any complaint against them. The police have arrested them on their own and I wouldn’t pursue the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Kovind stalls, Amarinder to stage dharna||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will sit on a dharna at Raj Ghat, Mahatma Gandhi’s resting place, in Delhi on Wednesday as President Ram Nath Kovind has refused to meet him in connection with the new farm laws despite three requests. Sources said Amarinder not only wanted to request the President to give assent to the farm bills passed by the Punjab Assembly to negate the impact of the Centre’s laws but also apprise Kovind of the grave supply crisis in the state perpetrated by the Union government’s refusal to allow goods trains to ply despite farmers lifting a rail blockade. While farmers are facing an acute fertiliser crisis, power plants are on the verge of shutdown because of coal shortage. The Punjab chief minister has decided to stage a relay protest as prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 are in force in Delhi because of the coronavirus-induced restrictions. While all Congress MLAs of Punjab will reach Delhi on Wednesday, Amarinder will sit at Raj Ghat with only four of them at a time. There is no clarity on whether the protest will continue indefinitely. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar told The Telegraph over the phone from Chandigarh: “We are saddened by the refusal of the President to meet the chief minister. This is against the spirit of the Constitution. The President usually doesn’t rebuff any chief minister like this. The Centre’s attitude is an assault on federalism. Their attitude doesn’t augur well for democracy. If we want to convey our sentiments to the President, what is wrong in it?” The chief minister’s office had made a request to Rashtrapati Bhavan for an appointment on October 21. The CMO followed it up with a reminder on October 29. It received a reply on Monday, saying the President could not meet Amarinder at this stage because the farm bills were still with the governor. The chief minister made another request on Monday itself but Rashtrapati Bhavan didn’t change its mind. Senior Punjab minister Rajinder Singh Bajwa was quoted by local media as saying: “The Centre’s attitude is unfortunate. Don’t they consider Punjab as part of India? Talks are held even with Pakistan but Punjab cannot be invited for talks? What we are facing is akin to an economic blockade of Punjab. It is as if the Centre wants to teach Punjab a lesson for protesting against the farm laws. “Rail lines — Delhi-Amritsar and Delhi-Pathankot — are all clear but goods trains are not allowed to ply. Do they want to ruin Punjab’s economy?” Farmers in Punjab have vehemently opposed the Centre’s farm laws that they fear would rob them of minimum support price and facilitate a takeover of the farm sector by big private companies. Supplies of essential commodities have been badly hit as a result of the Centre’s move to stall trains. Amarinder described the situation as grim. Supplies to other states like Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir have also been hit as goods trains are not coming to Punjab. The farmers, who have scaled down their protests after appeals from the Punjab chief minister, are planning to reach Delhi and start an agitation in the national capital. Amarinder had on Sunday written to BJP president J.P. Nadda explaining how the suspension of goods trains could trigger dangerous consequences on national security and on the armed forces, in addition to common citizens, farmers and industries. The chief minister had said the situation could become extremely dangerous for the country if the armed forces were deprived of critical supplies, amid hostile relations with China and Pakistan. Amarinder called for collective will and statesmanship to resolve the festering imbroglio and said: “The onus lies on all of us…. We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Conversion for marriage ripples||Karnataka minister and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi on Tuesday said the state government would enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. “On the lines of Allahabad High Court’s order, Karnataka will enact a law banning religious conversions for the sake of marriage. We will not remain silent when Jihadis strip the dignity of our sisters. Any one involved in the act of conversion shall face severe & swift punishment,” Ravi tweeted on Tuesday. The state BJP distanced itself from Ravi’s comment. “Neither the BJP nor the Karnataka government has so far made any comment on the matter. He made the comment in his individual capacity,” a senior party leader, who declined to be named, told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Data gaps in India’s Covid dashboard||India’s apex disease surveillance institution, handicapped by patchy data flow from states, has uploaded on a public dashboard the age distribution of only 2.8 million of the country’s 8.2 million lab-confirmed coronavirus patients. The dashboard maintained by the New Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday featured the age distribution of 2,878,618 Covid-19 patients, or only about 35 per cent of the country’s count of 8,229,313 cases. The data on other epidemiological parameters covers even smaller fractions. The dashboard featured gender distribution data on 334,471 (4 per cent), urban-rural distribution data on 186,215 (2.3 per cent), underlying health disorders data on only 37,252 (0.5 per cent) of the 8.2 million cases. Health experts say the dashboard — which has no information on the age distribution of India’s 122,000-plus Covid-19 deaths — illustrates the data gaps that are hobbling research efforts to understand features of India’s epidemic better. The data on even the geographic distribution of cases appears incomplete. Among the 334,471 cases divided into an urban-rural pie-chart, 28 per cent were classified as urban, 12 per cent as rural and 60 per cent as “unspecified”. Senior health officials point out that the NCDC — a unit of the Union health ministry — relies on states for epidemiological data and the data reflected on the NCDC portal is based on the timeliness and the completeness of data uploaded by states. “The epidemiological data is not regularly reported by states, it requires constant efforts from our nodal officers to acquire such data,” Sujeet Singh, director of the NCDC, told The Telegraph. “And the quality of the data also requires periodic communication for verification.” “The NCDC data is uploaded only after verification — hence there are gaps,” he said. Medical experts say the gaps in data are hampering efforts to resolve questions such as who is at the greatest risk of dying, how the risk of death in Covid-19 patients in the country changes with age and with comorbidities, or underlying health disorders. An international study that covered 45 countries, but not India, published on Monday underlined how Covid-19 death data can be combined with population surveys of exposure to the coronavirus infection to assess the trends in infection fatality rates. The study confirmed that the relative risk of death by age is consistent across the countries, the lowest risk of infection-related deaths among children aged 5-9 years, and the infection fatality rate increased by 0.59 per cent for every five-year increase in age. The infection fatality rate is the proportion of the dead among all people infected, which is the sum of lab-confirmed cases and people infected by the virus but who did not develop significant symptoms. “We have refined the age and sex-specific estimates of infection fatality ratio using the latest available data,” Megan O’Driscoll, a research scholar at the University of Cambridge in the UK, told this newspaper. O’Driscoll and her colleagues published their study in the journal Nature. The study included Covid-19 data from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Thailand, among countries in South Asia. “Unfortunately, we were not able to find national-level age-specific Covid-19 death data for India to include in our analysis,” O’Driscoll said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Potatoes thrown at Nitish||A person threw onions and potatoes at Nitish Kumar while the Bihar chief minister was addressing an election rally at Harlakhi in Madhubani district on Tuesday. Although the missiles, thrown to register protest over rising prices, reached the dais, they did not hit the chief minister. Nitish’s security personnel shielded him, and the chief minister asked the person to hurl more objects at him. Nitish later asked everyone not to pay attention to the thrower and let him go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||‘Overqualified’ peon setback||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to accept the contention that over-qualification cannot be a ground for disqualification as it upheld an order of Punjab National Bank terminating the service of a peon who had suppressed the fact that he was a graduate. The top court set aside two orders of Orissa High Court by which it had asked the bank to allow the peon to discharge his service, saying “a candidate having suppressed the material information and/or giving false information cannot claim the right to continuance in service”. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah allowed the appeal filed by the bank, noting that it had stated in its job advertisement that the applicant should not be a graduate. The court also observed that instead of challenging the qualification criteria, Amit Kumar Das had applied for the job and hidden his qualification. On the ground that Das “deliberately, wilfully and intentionally suppressed the fact that he was a graduate, the high court has erred in directing the appellant Bank to allow the respondent — original writ petitioner — to discharge his duties as a peon”, the court said. Referring to an earlier verdict of the top court, the bench said that the suppression of material information and making a false statement have a clear bearing on the character and antecedents of the employee in relation to his continuance in service. The bench said: “An employee is expected to give correct information as to his qualification. The original writ petitioner failed to do so. He was, in fact, overqualified and therefore ineligible to apply for the job.” The court said it was not imposing costs on Das though his mischievous act had deprived another candidate of the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||ITBP, BSF can raise 25 more battalions||The Union home ministry has given approval to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Border Security Force (BSF) to raise an additional 25 battalions to strengthen the frontiers with China and Pakistan, sources in the security establishment said. The ITBP guards the 3,488km Line of Actual Control with China while the BSF is deployed to protect the Pakistan and Bangladesh frontiers. “The ministry has recently given its go-ahead to both ITBP and BSF to raise an additional 25 battalions amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh with the Chinese troops,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. The move comes amid latest intelligence reports suggesting closer military and economic cooperation between Pakistan and China amid the border standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh since May. Chinese troops have been conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile system in the region. “The raising of additional battalions will help the two border-guarding forces to ensure better patrolling in sensitive areas and that will help in keeping a close watch on the adversaries,” the IB official said. Last week the Centre had given approval to the ITBP to set up an additional 47 border outposts to increase vigil along the LAC. “The decision to increase outposts has been taken to ensure the ITBP troops keep a close tab on the movement of Chinese troops along the disputed areas and thwart possible incursions,” said a ministry official. In a bid to bolster facilities for jawans, the ITBP have provided special lightweight winter clothing for troops deployed at higher altitude and also an extra fleet of snow scooters for patrolling. The 90,000-strong ITBP was introduced on October 24, 1962, specifically to guard the Chinese frontier after the India-China war. ITBP is the first line of defence and the Indian army remains behind it. Sources in the BSF said the work on sealing segments of borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh with a smart technology-aided fence was already in progress which would help in plugging the vulnerable gaps and check the increasing incidents of infiltration along the international boundaries with the two neighbouring countries. The sealing of borders with smart technology-aided fencing has already started in Dhubri in Assam along the Indo-Bangladesh border and also in Jammu along the frontiers with Pakistan. The smart technology-aided fencing would be a mix of surveillance and warning system. Both ITBP and BSF report to the home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Rahul migration query to Modi and Nitish||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said people of Bihar would not have migrated to other states in such large numbers in search of livelihood had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar fulfilled their promises. Accusing both leaders of fooling the people with lies and falsehood, Rahul blamed Modi and Nitish for the unprecedented miseries suffered by millions of Biharis and the highest rate of unemployment in the state. The Congress leader also tried to ignite the aspirations of farmers in Bihar by promising systems of public procurement and minimum support price if the RJD-Congress-Left alliance came to power. Addressing public rallies in Katihar and Kishanganj, Rahul said: “Why do the people of Bihar feel compelled to wander in other states in search of jobs? Why did the migrant labourers from Bihar suffer such miseries during the lockdown? People had to walk hundreds of kilometres without food and water to reach their homes. Did you see people walking towards Mumbai, Punjab and Karnataka? This happened because Modi and Nitish didn’t fulfil their promises, forcing millions to go to other states for jobs.” As Bihar voted on Tuesday in the second phase of elections, Rahul kept the focus on the miseries of people in the state instead of dwelling on larger national issues, which he usually does. The Congress-RJD alliance has realised the depth of voters’ anger and decided to avoid diversions by sticking to the twin issues of lockdown woes and unemployment. Amid loud cheer from the crowd, Rahul said: “Those who give their blood and sweat to build the country were not given even a day before the lockdown was announced. A Prime Minister cannot take such decisions. But this Prime Minister does not have compassion for the poor, he has no space for the poor in his heart. Thousands of people were dying but he was happy ordering taali-thali and flashing mobile phone torchlight.” He added: “When millions of workers wanted to go home, the Prime Minister stopped trains and buses. We were not in power, but we offered whatever help we could. Both these people — Modi and Nitish — have no shame as they come to you seeking votes.” “Modi won’t talk about his promise of two crore jobs every year, he won’t talk about sending Rs 15 lakh into your accounts. He won’t talk about the miseries he inflicted on the whole country through note-bandi. But the truth is that he works for a few capitalists. People of Punjab have understood this — they are burning the effigies of Modi, Ambani and Adani together,” the former Congress president said. Though the plight of farmers in Bihar, where the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act had been repealed in 2006, has been miserable, this issue had never become an election plank since then. But the Congress has succeeded in bringing agriculture back on the table by highlighting the raw deal farmers get in the state. Rahul asked: “The Chhattisgarh government in your neighbourhood gives Rs 2,500 for a quintal of paddy. Why are you getting Rs 1,200?” Though the Prime Minister vaguely tried to address these concerns in his speeches on Tuesday by arguing that grand plans were in the pipeline, Rahul rubbed the message in by pointing to the inaction over the last many years. “Why can’t your paddy and maize be processed in mills here; why have food processing industries not been set up here? What have Nitish and Modi done for farmers all this while? Why is the produce from Bihar sent to faraway Delhi and Mumbai for processing? We give you a commitment that our government will set up food processing industries in your districts. Youths in Bihar won’t have to wander for jobs anymore.” As both Katihar and Kishanganj have high Muslim presence, Rahul also talked of divisive politics, an issue he didn’t raise in his last four meetings. He said: “A country without unity is doomed. The RSS and the BJP divide people, but we work for peace and unity.” He also referred to Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which is threatening to slice away Congress-RJD votes, saying: “The RSS’s B-team is wandering with the same agenda, to divide people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Citizens’ panel seeks evidence from people||A citizens’ committee whose members allege that anti-CAA protesters are being framed in Delhi riots cases has called for evidence in connection with the February flare-up in which 53 people were killed. A month after it was formed, the Citizens Committee on the Delhi Riots of February 2020 last week issued a public notice calling upon people to volunteer “information and material pertaining to the Delhi riots” and send them “in as much detail as possible” to the panel. “Based on a perusal of this information, the committee may invite persons for further interactions, keeping their identity confidential,” the public notice, circulated on Tuesday, said. A member of the panel said they would follow procedures that a commission of inquiry does, although their report would not have any legal bearing. The member said the committee would bring to light facts that police might not have looked at or brought to trial. The committee is headed by retired Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur and includes Justices A.P. Shah, former chief justice of the Madras and Delhi high courts and ex-chairman of the Law Commission of India; R.S. Sodhi, a former judge of Delhi High Court; Anjana Prakash, a former judge of Patna High Court; former Union home secretary G.K. Pillai; and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, who retired as director-general of the Bureau of Police Research and Development. They are part of the Constitutional Conduct Group of retired civil servants, who have spoken out against anti-CAA activists being harassed on the pretext of riots cases, and for an increase in the percentage of paper trail votes counted. After the committee was announced last month, the Supreme Court had appointed Justice Lokur to study stubble burning around Delhi but stayed its order after the Centre promised an ordinance, which was passed last week to create a new organisation to control pollution in the National Capital Region. The police had earlier ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that accused BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of inciting the riots in February. Then minority panel chairman Zafarul Islam Khan was recently raided by the NIA for the alleged role of his NGO in funding separatists in Jammu and Kashmir. No “commission of inquiry” has been instituted for the Delhi riots so far. In Delhi, only the Centre has the power to set up such a commission before whom witnesses can be compelled to depose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
04-11-2020||India||Court glare on jail treatment of riot accused||A Delhi judge on Tuesday expressed displeasure with Tihar and Mandoli jail authorities after several accused in a case related to the February riots said they were being denied basic facilities permissible under prison rules, and warned of a physical inspection if things did not improve. The court ordered the director-general of Delhi prisons to look into the grievances of all the 15 accused, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and depute someone who can take a call on inspecting the situation at the Mandoli and Tihar prisons. It asked the authorities to apprise the court of the status on November 23. “This has to end. The director-general (prisons) is directed to take stalk of the situation, to order someone who can take a call, to look into the grievances. If things do not improve, I would go for a physical inspection myself. And the lawyers may accompany me too,” additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said. During the hearing held through videoconferencing, seven of the 15 accused said they had not been given warm clothes though it was permissible under the prison rules. The prison authorities, however, said they would need a court order for it. The minimum temperature in Delhi was 10°C on Tuesday. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Gulfisha Khatoon, said an application for supply of winter clothes had to be filed since the jail authorities had said they would not permit it unless there was a court directive. When the court allowed the application, advocate Adit Pujari, appearing for JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, requested the benefit of the order to be extended to all the accused as everyone was facing the same problem. The counsel for former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, one of the accused, said the jail authorities refused to entertain her plea for a pair of slippers from her home as those supplied in prison were slippery and she had suffered injuries because of them. “When her parents went to jail yesterday (Monday) with warm clothes for her, the jail authorities did not permit it,” Jahan’s lawyer said. While addressing the court directly, Jahan sought interim bail for two months, saying she was concerned as several inmates at Mandoli jail had developed Covid-19 symptoms. Expressing dissatisfaction, judge Rawat said: “Why do the accused have to approach the court every time for such basic things? This is too much. This is not done. Why is everyone complaining (about the facilities in jail)?” Another accused, Athar Khan, claimed that while two of the inmates had been hospitalised, a few had also been isolated after they showed symptoms of Covid-19. “There are no health facilities available and hence we are not being allowed to step out of our barracks,” Khan said. Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha alleged he was facing discrimination from the jail authorities. “I have not been allowed to meet my family for the last two-and-a-half months even though others are being allowed. The jail authorities are not approving their application for a meeting. When I complain, the jail authorities say that this is not a place for activism,” Tanha alleged. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Tanha, said the jail officials had also refused to give him a copy of the order through which his bail was rejected. “I had sent the order copy to jail for Tanha. The jail superintendent refused to give it to him. It would be better if he is given access to the court’s orders and the chargesheet. I am given 30 minutes through videoconferencing during which we discuss our matter by sharing a screen. Out of the over 17,000 pages, I have been able to share and discuss only 30 pages with him till date,” Shankaran said. Another accused, Meeran Haider, said he was down with fever because he had no winter clothes, but he had been unable to put forward his grievances to the prison authorities. Khatoon claimed that she had written letters addressed to the higher authorities two months back regarding her alleged harassment by jail staff, but they had not been forwarded to the concerned persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Plan to push Odisha’s handloom products||The Odisha government has tied up with the Flipkart, Amazon and GoCoop to sell the state’s handloom, handicraft and textile products to customers across the country and abroad. It is also planning to mobilise private investments in the handloom sector. “With focus on e-commerce, we plan to reach to a wide range of customers. This will benefit nearly 1.22 lakh weavers who make a living by contributing to the growth of textile and handloom sectors. Following the corona pandemic the state government has asked us to focus on e commerce,” director, textile, handloom and handicraft Jyoti Prakash Dash told The Telegraph. Officials said that state’s handloom market was worth Rs 600-700 crore. “We have been asked by chief secretary, Asit Tripathy to multiply the turnover,” said Dash. In order to boost handloom sales the government plans to come up with new designs. “We have planned to transform Odisha’s best products into world class brands by adding new designs, rich colours, towering quality and supreme prominence. So far 166 new designs have been developed. The process for second phase of design and reference collection has started. We have planned to rope in people like Anjali Kalia and Bibhu Mohapatra to promote Odisha’s handloom and textile designs,” he said. “Besides providing good quality yarn in advance to the weavers to keep their looms running, we have also planned to provide interest free working capital to organisations like Bayanika, Utkalika and Sambalpuri Bastralaya to purchase the produce of the weavers. It has been decided to connect more and more weavers to the GEM portal (one stop government e-Market place) to enable direct sale of their products at the best prices,” he said. Officials claimed that “Ikat”, the traditional tie and dye variety of the state, was now becoming a global brand. “In a review meeting chaired by chief secretary on Monday it was found that native handlooms products like Pasapali, Sonepuri, Bomkai and Kotpad were moving fast. These sarees have the potential of turning into ‘world class’ products,” officials said adding that these verities of sarees were mainly produced in Bargarh, Sonepur, Kalahandi and Koraput regions. The traditional weavers of these areas possess excellent traditional expertise in these tie & dye designs. Handloom and textile secretary Subha Sharma said: “The weaver makes the design by using warp or weft or by both. If it is only warp or weft it is called single-ikat, if it is both it is called double-ikat. The double ikat design is also referred as Potala sarees. Odisha’s tie and dye design (Bandhalaka) has also earned GI tag.” Odisha also plans to scale up international visibility of its handloom products by organising expo-exhibitions at prominent venues, including star hotels. The state government has also decided to develop Balijury Haat of Bargarh district in Western Odisha into the largest Open Ground Cloth Market in Asia with modern amenities and all types of market linkages. “A market has been there for sell and purchase of handloom products on a daily basis. Businessmen from the neighbouring Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand visit the market for making purchases. We have sanctioned Rs 10 crore to develop it into a modern ‘haat’ with basic amenities,” said Dash. “The state government has also decided to start internship and scholarship programmes in the fields of innovative design, motif making, banding, mixing, yarn making etc,” said officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Maoist killed in Kerala||A Maoist was killed in a gunfight with police commandos near a tribal hamlet at a reserve forest in Wayanad on Tuesday morning. Police have confirmed the death of the insurgent and are trying to establish the identity of the deceased. Wayanad superintendent of police G. Poonguzhali told a channel that rebels had fired at Thunderbolt anti-Maoist forces on a routine patrol around 7am. “There was a gunfight and one person has died. The rest of them escaped. There were six of them,” the officer said. Five men escaped into the Padinjarathara forest a few kilometres from the Meenmutti waterfalls, a tourist destination. Police sources said the deceased Maoist was aged around 35 and appeared to be from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The police have recovered a bolt-action rifle from the spot. Wayanad has for long been used as a corridor by Maoists for inter-state movements between Kerala and border areas of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Kalpetta MLA C.K. Saseendran told reporters that the Maoists were the first to open fire. “From what the police officers have told me, the Maoists opened fire, forcing the police to retaliate,” said the CPM lawmaker. Locals at Valaramkunnu, 2km from the battleground on the Wayanad-Kozhikode border, told reporters that Maoists had been frequenting the area for long. According to them, the last time Maoists had surfaced in the area was about two months ago when they collected dry rations from locals and left. Cadres from various Maoist groups active in the region usually collect rations from local people and at times also seek money. The latest killing took place more than a year after the gunning down of Maoist leader C.P. Jaleel at Lakkidi in the same district and about 30km from the spot where the gunfight took place on Tuesday. Four Maoists, including a woman, had been killed inside the Attapady forests in Palakkad district in October 2019 in an operation that lasted two days. The Adivasi Action Council had then claimed all four had agreed to surrender when the police commandos gunned them down. The Opposition Congress has consistently attacked the Left Democratic Front government over such “encounters”, or extra-judicial killings. Tuesday’s incident in Wayanad drew criticism from Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran who termed it a “fake encounter”.“This is the tenth fake encounter against Maoists after the LDF came to power. This needs to be subject to a comprehensive investigation,” he said. “The so-called Maoists in Wayanad are not like the powerful groups you see in other states. I strongly believe that shoot at sight is a wrong policy when it comes to dealing with them,” Ramachandran told reporters in Kollam. The encounter killing of Jaleel, who headed a Maoist group called Kabini Nadukani Dalam, had kicked off a huge controversy with his family and supporters alleging cold-blooded murder. Jaleel was shot dead when he and his accomplices had gone to a holiday resort in Lakkidi seeking cash and food for 10 group members. The police had then claimed that Thunderbolt forces intercepted them and Jaleel was killed in retaliatory firing. The subsequent magisterial inquiry had on October 10 this year ratified the police theory and ruled out any conspiracy. Jaleel’s family had immediately rejected the report, alleging it had not taken into consideration the ballistic and forensic examination results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Concern over Rajiv convict plea delay||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed concern on the Tamil Nadu governor sitting for more than two years over the remission plea of A.G. Perarivalan, who is serving a life sentence in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, as the top court said it would examine the law on release of prisoners in such situations. “We don’t want to exercise our jurisdiction, but we are not happy with how this recommendation has been pending for two years. Tell us what the law and cases are which can allow us to do it. We can hear this after vacation,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, heading the bench, told senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan appearing for the convict. The bench, also comprising Justices Ajay Rastogi and Hemant Gupta, was dealing with a petition filed by Perarivalan saying that though he made a plea for remission in January 2018, it had not been considered by the governor. The bench asked Sankarnarayan to do more research on the issue of jurisprudence in such matters. Additional solicitor-general K.M. Natraj, appearing for Centre, told the bench that since it was a case of larger conspiracy, the CBI was waiting for certain inputs pursuant to the letter rogatory sent by the agency to various foreign countries. “… the larger conspiracy angle is pending for 20 years and you still at the stage of getting replies!” Justice Rao said, while adjourning the matter to November 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
04-11-2020||India||Query on cracker ban||The National Green Tribunal has served a notice on the Centre and major environmental and administrative agencies in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining states asking them whether firecrackers should be banned from November 7 to 30, covering Diwali on November 14, in view of the pandemic. With green and enviro-legal activists in Bengal suggesting if such a measure should also be considered in the state and demanding a ban on fireworks, the Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday appealed to people not to burst firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali to check air pollution, which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients. The national bench of the NGT issued the notices on Monday in response to a petition praying for remedial action against fireworks-induced pollution in the NCR. The appellants had pointed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s warning of a spike in Covid cases in the festive season due to air pollution. The four-member NGT bench of Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and S.K. Singh and expert members S.S. Garbyal and Nagin Nanda referred to earlier fireworks-related cases where several directives had been issued and pointed out that they “do not consider the Covid-19 situation when the adverse effect may be… severe”. “There are also expert views on clear nexus of air pollution with Covid-19,” the bench said, referring to a scientific report and observing that “with increased air pollution, the virus can cause more damage”. “In view of the above, (we) issue notice to the MoEF&CC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change), CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board), DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee), Delhi police commissioner and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan (on) whether the use of firecrackers may be banned for the period from 07.11.2020 to 30.11.2020 in the interest of public health and environment,” the NGT order said. The matter will be heard again on Thursday. Hiralal Konar, a convener of a joint platform of doctors in Bengal, said: “Both issues raised in the NGT directive — high air pollution and a high number of Covid cases — apply equally to Bengal. Taking a cue from the NGT observations, there should be a blanket ban on the use of fireworks in Bengal as well.” Later in the day, Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay announced the state government’s appeal on crackers this Diwali and Kali Puja. Physician Ajoy Sarkar said while referring to the NGT directive: “High air pollution and Covid impact the lungs simultaneously. So, bursting of fireworks should be banned this Diwali.” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday urged residents to avoid bursting firecrackers as much as possible this Diwali in the interest of public health and environment. The minister launched an “anti-cracker” campaign and inspected various places to ensure that only “green” firecrackers are manufactured and sold in the national capital. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-579
