05-11-2020||India||Delhi becoming Covid capital of the country, cautions HC  ||The Delhi High Court Thursday expressed displeasure over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital and observed that the city could soon become the “corona capital of the country”. Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 6,842 new coronavirus cases and its total count of the number of active cases hit 409,000. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the Delhi government has gone completely haywire on the pandemic. The bench said the AAP government took the health of citizens for a ride and it will deal with it separately. The high court said the Delhi government made many claims that they are topping charts in testing but the number of cases has overshot. "The city could soon become Corona capital of the country. Thanks to the number of cases shooting up," the bench said and added We are going to take it very seriously. The remarks were made by the bench while hearing a bunch of petitions relating to non-payment of salaries to doctors, paramedical staff, safai karamcharis, teachers and retired engineers and others, employed with North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Delhi's daily Covid figures had been oscillating in the 4,000-6,000-cases range for the last few weeks, during which it reported record numbers on several days. It, however, breached the 6,000-mark on Tuesday, forcing the Delhi government to admit the third wave. The surge in cases comes as Delhi appears to be heading for a cold wave. The minimum temperature dropped to 10 degrees Celsius -- a record low this season. Along with the mercury, a huge drop has been recorded in the capital's air quality too. India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 83.64 lakh with 50,210 new cases in a day, while 77,11,809 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.20 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 83,64,086 and the death toll climbed to 1,24,315, with the virus claiming 704 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am on Thursday showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.49 per cent. There are 5,27,962 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 6.31 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,42,08,384 samples have been tested up to November 4, with 12,09,425 samples being tested on Wednesday. The Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. Of the 704 new fatalities reported, 300 are from Maharashtra, 55 from West Bengal, 51 from Delhi, 50 from Chhattisgarh, 34 from Karnataka, 30 from Tamil Nadu and 28 from Kerala. Out of the 1,24,315 deaths recorded so far in the country, 44,548 are from Maharashtra followed by 11,281 from Karnataka, 11,244 from Tamil Nadu, 7,104 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,068 from West Bengal, 6,744 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,703 from Delhi, 4,259 from Punjab and 3,737 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami moves HC, challenges 'illegal arrest' by police||Republic TV Editor-in Chief Arnab Goswami has petitioned the Bombay High Court challenging his "illegal arrest" in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer, and sought quashing of the FIR lodged against him by Alibaug police in Maharashtra. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik will hear the plea on Thursday afternoon. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday from his residence at Lower Parel in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik, and was taken to the Alibaug police station in neighbouring Raigad district. He was later produced before a magistrate's court in Alibaug which remanded him in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami is currently kept at a local school which has been designated as a COVID-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. In his petition, Goswami has challenged his "illegal arrest" and sought an urgent order of stay in the investigation into the case and also a direction to the police to release him immediately. The plea has also sought the FIR against him to be quashed. It alleged that Goswami was assaulted by the police team that barged into his house on Wednesday. "He has been wrongly and illegally arrested in a motivated, false and closed case. This is another attempt of political witch-hunt and vendetta politics against the petitioner and his channel," the petition said. "The arrest was conducted in blatant violation of the fundamental rights to life and personal liberty of the petitioner (Goswami) and his dignity. The petitioner and his son were assaulted and dragged into the police van when Goswami was arrested," it added. As per the plea, the investigation into the case was closed last year and a closure report was filed which was accepted by Chief Judicial Magistrate of the Alibaug court by an order dated April 16, 2019. "It is shocking that a case that was decisively closed has been reopened with the sole purpose of misusing power, concocting facts and forcibly arresting the petitioner in a prime facie act of revenge and vengeance for his news coverage which questioned those in power in Maharashtra," the petition said. The petition claimed that in May 2018, the police had recorded the statements of Goswami and two senior officials of the Republic TV and after conducting a thorough investigation, the case was closed. "The petitioner had at that time provided detailed documents to the police in relation to the business transactions with the deceased's company and had fully cooperated in the matter," the petition said. It also said Goswamis company ARG Outlier Pvt Ltd had paid over 90 per cent of the amount due to the deceased Anvay Naiks company Concorde Designs, as per the contract. "In July 2019, the entire balance amount due was transferred to the bank account of Naik's company but the amount returned because the account was inoperative," the petition said. It said the petitioner has been fully cooperating with the police in the past and will continue doing so in future also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Amarinder: Don’t mess with livelihood||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday warned the Centre against messing with the livelihood of the people, speaking at a protest he led in Delhi against the farm laws forced through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government. Arguing that Punjab neither wanted a confrontation nor intended to disturb peace in the country, Amarinder said: “Punjab has made huge sacrifices for the nation. Soldiers from Punjab protect India’s borders. We work to preserve the peace of the country. But when you mess with people’s religion and livelihood, people get angry. They have no option but to fight for their survival.” Although the chief minister wanted to hold a symbolic protest at Raj Ghat, Mahatma Gandhi’s resting place in Delhi, permission was denied as prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 are in force. Amarinder paid tribute to Gandhi at Raj Ghat and then sat on a dharna at Jantar Mantar along with a few hundred Congress MPs and MLAs and party leaders for four hours. The chief minister said: “It is not only for the farm bills that the Punjab Assembly has passed that I wanted to meet the President of India. It is my duty to convey to the President (concerns) about national security and food security in Punjab. All our power plants had to be shut today for want of coal. I had told railway minister Piyush Goyal to start goods trains as tracks have been cleared. I had even promised security for the trains. But they haven’t done it so far.” Punjab farmers have been protesting ever since the farm laws were brought and had blocked train tracks for weeks. Although the rail blockade was lifted after the state Assembly passed farm bills to negate the laws brought by the Centre, the railways are not running goods trains to the state, stifling essential supplies. “Supplies have to reach soldiers on the border and the high reaches before winter. We had a bumper crop but the godowns are full. Old stocks will have to be cleared. We don’t have bags. If rains come, the procured grains will go waste. There are no fertilisers for wheat and potato. Punjab has suffered a lot. Pakistan is trying to foment trouble,” Amarinder said. The chief minister has failed to secure an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind despite three requests to apprise him of the situation. The chief minister said: “We want the Centre to look at us. There is an established and successful system in Punjab; why break it? Ours is not a political battle. It is a fight for the survival of small farmers.” Although Amarinder was restrained and made conciliatory gestures, other leaders freely expressed their anguish, publicly vowing to continue the fight till the Centre withdrew the “black laws”. Senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said: “Policy has been made to help only two capitalists — Adani and Ambani. The central government wants to give the remote control of agriculture to them. But we won’t allow such monopolies to be created by snatching the rights of the farmers. We won’t allow Adani and Ambani to step into Punjab.” The Punjab government on Wednesday tried to persuade the farmers not to intensify their agitation but the unions refused to listen, reiterating their plan for a nationwide “chakka jam” on Thursday. The 30 farmers’ unions in Punjab have received support from 200 other unions from across the country. They are to block national highways across India from noon to 4pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Central varsity salary delay||Teachers and other staff at about a half-dozen central universities are yet to receive their salaries for October four days into November, marking a record delay in the history of public-funded educational institutions. Among these universities are Visva-Bharati in Bengal, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University in Delhi, Nagaland University, Jharkhand University and South Bihar University. Central university teachers and other staff are meant to be paid their salaries on the last working day of the month. Those among them who pay their EMIs on the 5th of every month now risk defaulting unless their salaries are paid early on Thursday, several teachers and other staff told The Telegraph. The teachers said the delay had resulted from the government’s introduction of a new system of sending funds to central universities from October, and the institutions’ failure to complete the technicalities of the switchover well in time before the salary date. Till September, the government transferred the money to the University Grants Commission, which deposited the required sums with the bank accounts of the central universities. But under finance ministry instructions, every university has now been asked to open a “treasury single account” (TSA) with the Reserve Bank of India, validated by the UGC. The universities are to state the monthly funds requirement through the government-managed digital platform Public Finance Management System. After this is cleared, the RBI is to transfer the salaries to the bank accounts of the teachers and other staff. An education ministry official said the new system had been introduced to prevent money lying idle in the bank accounts of the UGC and the autonomous universities — a problem often encountered with the earlier system. “The TSA system helps the government manage funds better and minimise borrowing costs,” the official said. Five teachers from Visva-Bharati, Shastri University and South Bihar University said their universities had delayed the completion of the procedural formalities. “November is a festival month, so household expenditures are usually high this month. The delay in salary payment may spoil staff’s plans for Diwali (which falls on November 14),” a Shastri University teacher said. Instances of salary delays at specific universities had been witnessed under the old system too — for instance, Shastri University staff had had to wait a week in August this year for their July salaries. But a four-day delay at half-a-dozen central universities has no precedent, teachers said. A UGC official admitted that the transfer of salary funds had been delayed because of “teething problems” relating to the migration to the new system. “Most universities have already migrated to the new system; only a few are left. They too will get the funds soon,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Sikkim  bans crackers||The Sikkim government on Wednesday imposed a blanket ban against bursting any type of firecrackers in the state so as to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the infection. A notification signed by state chief secretary S.C. Gupta in Gangtok noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the decline in the state of late and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could prove hazardous for Covid patients. “There shall be a complete ban on the bursting of firecrackers in the state till further orders,” the notification  read. Bengal had earlier this week issued an advisory against the use of firecrackers during the ensuing Kali Puja and Diwali festivities in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami arrested in suicide case ||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday arrested from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother in 2018. Late at night, Goswami was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the magistrate’s court in Alibaug, which rejected the plea for police custody. “Alibaug police arrested Goswami under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide), and 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. This (arrest) pertains to the 2018 case of a man and his mother committing suicide,” a police official said. Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had left behind a suicide note saying he was ending his life because of non-payment of dues by Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda. According to the note, the three owed him Rs 83 lakh, Rs 4 crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. An FIR had been filed against all three but the case was closed in 2019 when the BJP government was in power. On Wednesday, Naik’s daughter Adnya and widow Akshata told journalists that investigation into the case was “suppressed only because of Arnab Goswami”. “We had made applications to various people, including the Prime Minister’s Office and superintendent of police, Raigad, to get justice for my father,” Adnya Naik said. “We don’t want to get into politics.… What we want is justice for my deceased father.” A fresh probe had been ordered in the case in May by home minister Anil Deshmukh after a complaint by Adnya. “Nobody is above the law and Maharashtra police will take appropriate action as per law,” Deshmukh said on Wednesday. The other two accused have also been arrested. “I don’t know why no action was taken in 2018 when we filed the complaint... We have received numerous threat calls and we’re stalked,” Akshata said. After his arrest, Goswami was produced in the Alibaug court where he complained of assault by the police. The magistrate directed the police to take Goswami to the civil hospital for a medical check-up. The court, after perusing the medical report, noted in the order that the allegations of physical assault were incorrect and there were only minor scratches on the accused’s hand. During the day, another FIR was filed against Goswami, his wife, son and two others by Mumbai police for allegedly assaulting a police official. “When we gave the intimation (of arrest) to Goswami’s wife, she tore up the paper,” the official said. Barring Prime Minister Narendra Modi, almost all ministers, chief ministers and leaders of the BJP came out in Goswami’s defence, condemning his arrest and slamming the “Congress and its allies” for “shaming democracy”. CPM leader Md Salim tweeted: “The way Amit Shah, S Jaishankar, Smriti Irani, Dharmendra Pradhan, Devendra Fadnavis, Prakash Javdekar, RS Prasad & JP Nadda are perturbed by arrest of #ArnabGoswami, I’m confused whether he was a journalist or a National Executive Member of the BJP.” The Editors Guild of India expressed shock and condemned the “sudden arrest”. However, the Television Journalists’ Association, Maharashtra, said Goswami had been arrested in a case related to a personal matter and not his profession. “Every citizen is equal in the eyes of law. Law must take its own course…,” it said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
05-11-2020||India||Query: Why no action on other VCs? ||The suspension of Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi has prompted teachers at several other central universities to ask why the government isn’t acting against their VCs whom they accuse of similar “misgovernance”. President Ram Nath Kovind suspended Tyagi last week on “misgovernance” charges that include long delays in the appointments of a registrar, pro-VC and other key officials. But Visva-Bharati in Bengal and Pondicherry University have not had a regular registrar or finance officer for years, either. Visva-Bharati has not had a regular registrar since August 2015 and no regular finance officer since January 2016. Nor have teachers and other staff at Visva-Bharati received their salaries for October, which should have been paid on the last day of the month. “The salaries have been delayed mainly because of the absence of regular officers in key positions in the university,” a teacher said. When they receive their October salaries, most of the staff will forgo half a day’s pay because the administration, headed by VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, has decided they should contribute to the upkeep of the Upasana Griha, the campus temple. Those unwilling to pay were asked to inform the administration in writing, an option exercised by only a minority, two teachers said. “The university should have asked the Centre to provide the money to protect the heritage structures on the campus. There’s no reason to ask teachers and other staff to bear the cost,” a teacher said. “But most have agreed to pay because they don’t want to confront the administration for fear of victimisation. The teachers have written to the education ministry about all the examples of misgovernance here, but no action has been taken against the VC.” Some senior academics have, however, argued that the many VCs facing accusations of mismanagement, high-handedness or corruption were all appointed because of their ideological loyalty to the Sangh-BJP and that they face action only if they fall foul of the ruling establishment. The Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University in Delhi has had no regular registrar for about three years. The university’s finance officer has been doubling as the registrar. After masked men entered Jawaharlal Nehru University early this year and assaulted students and teachers who were protesting a proposed fee hike, vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar’s role came under the spotlight. Students and teachers say he neither visited the injured nor explained how the intruders entered the campus despite security at every gate. Kumar also stands accused of violating recruitment norms by, for example, changing the eligibility criteria after job advertisements were published and just ahead of the interviews, and by failing to invite to teacher selection panels the experts recommended by the varsity’s centres and schools. The JNU teachers’ association has complained three times to the education ministry against the VC but received no reply. Also, JNU has allowed science research scholars — but not those from the arts and social sciences — to enter the campus with the permission of their supervisors to meet them and use the laboratories. The administration has cited home ministry guidelines about phased reopening of the campuses to justify the decision. Some teachers have called this discriminatory, saying it’s hurting the arts and social sciences research scholars by denying them the opportunity to meet their guides or finish writing their theses in time. “I have three research scholars under me who will have to submit their theses in December,” said Moushumi Basu, member of the JNU executive council. “Two of them want to return to the campus to continue their work. They have their material and data in the hostels. The authorities should allow the entry of all the students. The present policy is discriminatory.” The JNU teachers’ association issued a statement last week questioning the education ministry’s silence on the complaints against the VC. “JNU faculty can thus legitimately ask why the department of higher education has remained a mute spectator to the systematic destruction of one of India’s premier universities and the unique synergy of academic excellence, social equity and democracy that became its hallmark,” it said. An email sent to the education ministry on Monday had evoked no response till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Rs 990cr investment pays off ||An investment of Rs 990 crore by India’s earth sciences ministry on research and supercomputing facilities for weather forecasting now yields annual benefits 14-fold higher through economic gains to farmers, fisherfolk and livestock owners, an economic think tank claimed on Tuesday. The National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) has, in an exercise to quantify gains from the country’s monsoon mission and an imported high-performance supercomputer, estimated the annual gains at Rs 13,300 crore for farmers and Rs 663 crore for fisherfolk. The monsoon mission, a Rs 551 crore research effort from 2012 through 2019, and the Rs 439 crore HPC acquired in 2018 were aimed at improving weather and rain forecasts and advisories for farmers, livestock owners and fisherfolk. The earth sciences ministry has said both initiatives have led to, among other outcomes, more reliable seasonal monsoon forecasts, short and medium range (8 to 10 days) forecasts of extreme weather events over very high resolution 12km grid zones. “We see evidence for significant economic gains every year to poor farmers in rain-fed areas,” said Poonam Munjal, an economist and senior fellow at the NCAER. The gains come through advisories that allow them to take actions and avoid losses they would have otherwise suffered in the absence of reliable weather alerts. The study, commissioned by the earth sciences ministry, found that 80 per cent of sampled farmers and 83 per cent of sampled livestock owners have reported “reduced losses” after improved weather advisories under the two initiatives. It also found that the proportion of sampled fishermen who used advisories pointing out fishing zones increased from 15 per cent in 2015 to 87 per cent in 2019. Nine in 10 fishermen claimed the advisories helped them avoid “empty trips”, the report said. The researchers based their estimates on a survey that questioned nearly 4,000 farmers and 1,376 livestock owners from 173 districts in 16 states and 757 fishermen from 34 districts in seven states. “We’ve always known qualitatively that advisories help farmers and fishermen — this exercise provides numbers for those gains,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary in the earth sciences ministry. The study found that 98 per cent of farmers and 76 per cent of livestock owners who made modifications to at least one of their critical practices reported gains in incomes. The practices ranged from changing crop varieties, adjusting ploughing, harvesting or fertiliser application times, or changing animal breeds or modifying shed or shelters or fodder according to advisories they received. The average annual income of farming households that adopted nine such modifications according to advisories received was Rs 3.02 lakh compared with Rs 2.43 lakh for households that changed one to four practices, and 1.98 lakh for households that did not change any practice. The NCAER had in 2012 through a similar exercise estimated that the gains from satellite-guided fishing advisories at Rs 38,000 crore, amounting to nearly 10 years of India’s space budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Kerala scraps CBI consent ||The Kerala government on Wednesday joined a slew of non-BJP states in withdrawing general consent to the CBI to register cases in the state. The Kerala cabinet’s decision came at a time when central investigating agencies, including the CBI, have been accused by the Left Democratic Front government of being partisan in their investigation of several cases. Henceforth, the CBI will require the prior consent of the state government or a court order to register a case in Kerala. However, the government has made it clear that the withdrawal of general consent would not affect the ongoing cases, including the highly contentious payoffs scandal dogging a housing project funded by Emirates Red Crescent, a UAE-based charity. Earlier, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra had withdrawn general consent to the CBI. The Kerala government had last month dragged the CBI to court over the central agency’s probe into the suspected payoffs scandal related to the Life Mission housing project funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The consulate-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram had on behalf of Emirates Red Crescent contracted a Kochi-based builder to construct an apartment complex in Wadakkanchery, Thrissur, for over 100 families who lost their homes in the 2018 floods. But following a gold smuggling bust at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, key accused Swapna Suresh — who had earlier worked as a secretary of the UAE consul-general — allegedly confessed to accepting kickbacks to the tune of Rs 4.25 crore from the builder. The top brass in the consulate had allegedly split the amount. The CBI booked a case based on a complaint by Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara of the Congress who alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. The state government eventually got an interim stay from Kerala High Court, which stopped the CBI probe for two months until December 12 based on the argument that the state had only sanctioned some land for the construction and not received any money from the UAE charity, which had directly paid the contractor. The Left parties had also questioned the eagerness of the CBI to probe the Life Mission case while ignoring a graft case involving senior Congress leaders. The Kerala government had in September 2019 referred to the CBI a corruption case related to the Rs 256-crore pollution control and expansion project of the state-owned Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy and his former cabinet colleagues Ramesh Chennithala and V.K. Ebrahim Kunju were the accused in the graft case. The CBI, however, refused to take up the case. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Monday slammed central agencies for trying to destabilise his government, calling the undue interventions in the state’s functioning a violation of federal principles. The strong remarks came after the Enforcement Directorate demanded files pertaining to several flagship projects like the Kerala Fibre Optics Network that would offer free high-speed Internet to the poor and subsidised connectivity to everyone else. Chennithala on Wednesday said Vijayan was scared of central agencies. “Why is he scared of investigations? It is cowardly to stop these agencies.” The Congress leader attributed the government’s decision to the recent arrest of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in Bangalore over a money-laundering case. The ED on Wednesday raided Bineesh’s homes in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur apart from several other properties belonging to his friends. Bineesh is in ED custody in Bangalore after being arrested last week for allegedly funding drug peddlers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Farmer on dharna in UP dies||An elderly farmer in Uttar Pradesh who had been part of a group of sugarcane cultivators organising a dharna for the past five days demanding that a procurement centre be shifted died on Wednesday. Shyoraj Singh, 62, fell unconscious around 1pm and died on the way to a nursing home. Doctors said he had suffered a cardiac arrest. Another protesting farmer, Vinod Singh, 55, suffered a heart attack around an hour after Shyoraj fell ill and has been hospitalised. Over 50 farmers have been on a dharna outside the office of the Baghpat district sugarcane officer in Baraut town since Friday, demanding that a procurement centre be shifted. “Last month, a brawl had broken out between the sugarcane farmers and some local people who live near the government purchase centre at Baraut town. Farmers, fearing they might be attacked if they go to that area again, are demanding that the centre to shifted,” said Kuldeep Singh, one of the farmers. “We had written to the government to open a sugarcane purchase centre at the Gadhi Gaon locality of Baraut. The farmers are ready to collectively donate Rs 4 lakh to the local administration to make necessary arrangements for the purchase centre,” Kuldeep added. “Today, Shyoraj Singh suddenly fell unconscious around 1pm. We took him to a nursing home in Baraut and he was referred to a medical college in Meerut. Shyoraj died on the way. Vinod Singh suffered a heart attack after an hour and was admitted to a local hospital,” Kuldeep said. Prakash Chand, another farmer, said: “We have to pass through narrow lanes in our bullock carts and tractor trolleys to reach the purchase centre near Cooperative Sugar Mill. Some locals had objected to it, saying we were damaging the roads. They prevented us from passing through these lanes. A local youth was killed during a fight in August. Thereafter, the villagers and the farmers have clashed many time.” District cane officer Anil Kumar Bharati said the administration was “discussing the problems” of the farmers with senior officials. “We hope to solve the matter soon,” he said. Prakash Chand, however, alleged that officials were misbehaving with them. “The officials use foul language and threaten us with consequences if we don’t withdraw our dharna. The police say they will book us soon under serious charges if we don’t disperse,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||J&K alliance slams govt land law claims||The Valley’s seven-party alliance on Tuesday said Jammu and Kashmir owes the absence of farmer suicides and starvation deaths to the land laws that were scrapped last week, launching a counter-narrative a day after the government claimed they were “outdated, regressive and anti-people”. People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which includes major political parties like the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party and is fighting for restoration of Article 370, said on Tuesday the official claims on the land laws are “a bundle of lies” aimed “to hoodwink people”. The government on Monday broke its silence on the growing outrage against the new land laws that allowed outsiders to buy land in J&K. The government has been trying hard to prove these laws were for the good of the people, although the perception here is that they are aimed at changing the Muslim-majority status of the state. The government is even facing opposition from Jammu’s Hindu belt where many people claim these laws were an assault on the Dogra culture. A People’s Alliance spokesman said on Tuesday that the government clarification was a “bizarre attempt to distort facts, weave lies and mislead people”. “The alliance has termed the (old) land laws regime of Jammu and Kashmir as most progressive, pro-people and pro-farmer in entire Indian subcontinent,” a statement said. “Jammu and Kashmir was first in the country to implement the concept of ‘land to tiller’ by enacting Big Landed Estates Abolition Act, 1952, followed by Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, restricting the land holding to twelve and half acres and ending the exploitative practice of ‘absentee landlordism’,” it said. The spokesman said anybody calling the old land laws archaic would be “guilty of ignorance of the history of Jammu and Kashmir”. “It is because of the timely land reforms that there are no starvation deaths… No farmer suicides have been ever reported from Jammu and Kashmir and everyone in Jammu and Kashmir has available three fundamental necessities — food, clothing and shelter, the position that is now sought to be reversed by making massive assault on the land law regime,” the statement said. Experts claim the 100-year-old Dogra rule in J&K had turned the Dogra and Kashmiri Pandit landlords into owners of a majority of land in the princely state and a vast majority of Muslims were reduced to tenants. Official figures reveal the laws introduced by Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah as “Prime Minister” of J&K had by March 1953 transferred 188,775 acres of land to 153,399 tillers, a majority of them Muslim but many low-caste Hindus. The alliance statement said the real object of repeal of the basic land laws and massive amendments to the other laws is “to push in and implement the agenda of effecting demographic change and disempowering the people of Jammu and Kashmir”. “How can Alienation of Land Act be termed as archaic when it prohibited transfer of land to a non-State Subject thus protecting the interests of Permanent Residents of Jammu and Kashmir and at the same time made a provision for transfer of land by mortgage to organisations like Industrial Development Bank of India, Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India to keep pace with industrial development,” the statement said. “The repeal of the act now allows the land to be transferred to non-State Subjects, denuding the residents of Jammu and Kashmir of their most precious rights. The claimed protection of rights in agricultural land, it is stated, is mere eyewash as the amendment introduced in Land Revenue Act provides for permission to sell the agricultural land almost at mere asking without difficulty,” it added. The government claimed on Monday that the new laws afford protection to over 90 per cent of the land in J&K, claiming agricultural land could not be sold to outsiders. The alliance claimed that “the abolition of Big Landed Estates Abolition Act, 1952, and amendments in Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, is against farmers and to remove the ceiling on acquisition”. The new rules also allow the government, on the request of an army officer not below the rank of corps commander, declare an area as “strategic area within a local area”, for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces. The government said on Monday that they were applicable to the army’s “own/legally acquired lands”. The alliance spokesman said the “security zones” are being created with the exclusion of “oversight by expert bodies, environmental activists and civil society groups” and were bound “to put at peril ecosystem in fragile environmental areas like Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonamarg already under pressure beyond their carrying capacity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Retirement, pension plan angers soldiers||A proposal by the department of military affairs, headed by Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, recommending an increase in the retirement age of officers and a reduction in pension for those opting for premature retirement has caused resentment in the armed forces and among veterans. Sources in the defence ministry said the department of military affairs (DMA) had proposed increasing the age of retirement of colonels from 54 to 57 years, for brigadiers from 56 to 58 and for major generals from 58 to 59. No change has been proposed for lieutenant generals, who retire at 60. The proposals, if accepted by the government, will be applicable to all equivalent ranks across the tri-services. The proposal dated October 9 was leaked and circulated extensively on social media on Wednesday. Sources in the army said the main cause of resentment was the proposed changes to pension entitlement for those seeking premature release (PMR). Now, an officer can seek PMR after having served 20 years and is entitled to a pension amount that is half of his or her last-drawn salary. As per the proposal, an officer with 20-25 years of service will get 50 per cent of the “entitled pension”. An officer serving for 26-30 years is to get 60 per cent of the entitled pension, those completing 30-35 years of service will get 75 per cent and only those who serve above 35 years will be entitled to the full pension, which is 50 per cent of the last pay drawn. It was not clear if the plan would apply to officers who are currently in service. The retirement of junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and other ranks (ORs) in the services (logistics, technical and medical branch) has been proposed to be 57 years. At present, JCOs and ORs retire after 17 years of service. Sources said the DMA had noted that a large number of specialists and super specialists who are trained for highly skilled jobs in the services leave to work in other sectors. “Such loss of highly skilled manpower results in a void in the services’ skill matrix and is counter-productive to the armed forces,” said an official, quoting from the letter seeking to review the pension entitlements. “The proposed reduction in the pension plan is being opposed by officers and veterans,” said an army official. Defending the plan, a defence ministry official said the idea was “to increase the retirement age to ensure productivity and also cut costs by reducing the pension outgo”. Military veteran Birender Dhanoa said in a tweet: “Plenty of angst among serving & retired mil personnel over proposed changes to retirement ages & pension qualification criteria by Secy DMA, as mentioned in a photo of a letter from the CDS’s secretariat. Question that troubles me is how and why was a photo of this proposal taken?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Twelve garment workers die in blast in Gujarat||At least 12 labourers were killed here when a portion of a godown where chemicals had been stored collapsed following an explosion on Wednesday morning. Those killed in the 11am accident had been packing readymade clothes in a unit adjacent to the section where chemicals had been stored in drums. The explosion was so intense that it destroyed the wall separating the chemicals unit and the garments section and the roof caved in, workers and officials said. The city fire brigade pulled out 12 bodies from under the rubble of the godown at Pirana-Piplaj road and rescued nine persons during the nine-hour operation that ended at 8.30pm. The deceased include five women. The injured were taken to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation-run LG Hospital. The godown is located in an industrial area on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. The explosion also ignited a fire that spread to adjoining godowns, the officials said. “Our operation has come to an end. We have pulled out 12 bodies from the debris. We have also rescued nine persons. The fire was doused within 30 minutes, the operation was mainly about rescuing people trapped in the rubble,” said chief fire officer M.F. Dastur. “An NDRF team joined us in the evening,” he said, adding that the explosion had caused the damage and loss of lives. “There was a fire but it was minor. The godown collapsed due to the explosion. We used concrete-breaker drills to break the slabs to pull out people,” Dastur said. At least 24 rescue and fire-fighting vehicles were pressed into service after a call about “a minor fire and explosion” was received around 11am, he said. “We have initiated an inquiry into the incident,” said deputy commissioner of police Ashok Munia. While the exact cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained, some local factory owners alleged that it took place in a boiler installed at the chemical godown-cum-processing unit. Relatives of some of the deceased persons told reporters that their kin were not working in the godown where the explosion took place. “My mother worked at a readymade garments unit adjacent to the godown. Because of the explosion, the entire structure, including the adjoining place where my mother worked, collapsed,” a man said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered condolences to the kin of the deceased. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a godown in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers with the injured. Authorities are providing all possible assistance to the affected,” he tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind also offered condolences. “Distressed to learn about the loss of lives in a fire that broke out in a godown in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” he tweeted. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He also appointed senior IAS officers Vipul Mitra and Sanjeev Kumar to conduct an inquiry, said a government release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||12,870km away, women connect with Kamala||More than 12,870km from Washington, Indian women have been rooting for the “America lady” in the village of US vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris’s grandfather in Tamil Nadu. As locals in Thulasendrapuram’s temple held special prayers for a Democratic win in the November 3 election, 34-year-old M. Umadevi — who was elected to the village council in December — said she related to Harris as a fellow woman politician. “She is a daughter of our village,” said Umadevi, who has a five-year-old son and sews clothes to support the income of her husband, a driver. “This must have been difficult and challenging for her. But anything new is like that. I feel both excited and nervous about my new role also.” The village, located about 320km south of Chennai, is where Harris’s maternal grandfather was born more than a century ago. Harris was born in California to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father who both immigrated to the US to study. She visited Thulasendrapuram when she was five and has talked about walking on Chennai beaches with her grandfather. The former attorney-general of California, 55-year-old Harris is the first black woman and first person of Indian descent nominated for national office in the US by a major party — and only the fourth woman on a presidential ticket. Umadevi said her priority as a member of the village council, representing some 200 mostly farming families, was to build a tarmac road. “The first thing on my list is to make sure we have a proper road,” she told Reuters in a phone interview. “It is in terrible shape and you can barely call it a road really. A good road will bring better fortune.” Unlike Harris, who has a degree in law, Umadevi dropped out of school when she was 15 on her mother’s decision. In Thiruvarur district, where Thulasendrapuram is located, literacy level is more than 82 per cent, with district education officials stating that all girls were enrolled in schools. Umadevi said education was key if the next generation of girls in the village were to become high achievers like Harris, whose smiling image is plastered on banners in the village wishing her electoral success. “Today, all our girls study, even if it means going to high school that is a few kilometres away from the village,” said Umadevi. “College is also far but many still go and get a degree,” she said, adding that young people in the area still found it hard to get well-paid jobs. At the government higher secondary school in neighbouring Painganadu village, English teacher S. Tamilselvan has been following Harris’s campaign speeches and plans to use them to motivate his students. “She is so articulate and clear,” he said. “My students know about her but I want at least some of them to succeed like her. Most of my students are first generation learners and even the brightest find it difficult to articulate their ambitions.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||SC rules on spouse maintenance||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that an estranged wife is entitled to maintenance from the day she files her application rather than from the date a court grants her maintenance. The bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and R. Subhash Reddy also made it mandatory for a spouse to reveal at any maintenance proceedings whether any other court had already granted the spouse maintenance under some other law. It also made it mandatory for both spouses to state their financial positions at any maintenance proceedings and update the affidavit whenever significant changes occur in their circumstances during the course of the hearings. “In the absence of a uniform regime, there is a vast variance in the practice adopted by the family courts in the country with respect to the date from which maintenance must be awarded,” Justice Malhotra, who authored the judgment, said. “The view that maintenance ought to be granted from the date when the application was made is based on the rationale that the primary object of maintenance laws is to protect a deserted wife and dependent children from destitution and vagrancy. If maintenance is not paid from the date of application, the party seeking maintenance would be deprived of sustenance owing to the time taken for disposal of the application, which often runs into several years.” The court added: “Even though a judicial discretion is conferred upon the court to grant maintenance either from the date of application or from the date of the order in S(ection) 125(2) CrPC, it would be appropriate to grant maintenance from the date of application in all cases, including Section 125 CrPC.” Estranged wives often seek maintenance simultaneously under various laws such as the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, Domestic Violence Act, Special Marriages Act and Section 125 of the CrPC while keeping the various courts in the dark about this, the bench noted. “It is well settled that a wife can make a claim for maintenance under different statutes. For instance, there is no bar to seek maintenance both under the DV Act and Section 125 of the CrPC, or under HMA,” the judgment said. “It would, however, be inequitable to direct the husband to pay maintenance under each of the proceedings, independent of the relief granted in a previous proceeding. If maintenance is awarded to the wife in a previously instituted proceeding, she is under a legal obligation to disclose the same in a subsequent proceeding for maintenance, which may be filed under another enactment.” This will avert “overlapping jurisdiction and avoid conflicting orders being passed in different proceedings”, the court said. It said that once disclosure is made about previous proceedings, the court hearing the subsequent proceedings “would take into consideration the maintenance already awarded in the previous proceeding and grant an adjustment or set-off of the said amount”. The bench also stressed the need for both spouses to file an “affidavit of disclosure of assets and liabilities” during maintenance proceedings at any court. The existing statutes do not mandate such disclosure. The ruling came on a maintenance dispute between a Mumbai-based couple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Coronavirus exposed insensitive PM: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said any sensitive Prime Minister would not have imposed a lockdown on a four-hour notice, as Narendra Modi had done, thereby inflicting unforeseen miseries on the poor all over the country. Addressing rallies in Bihar’s Madhepura and Araria, the former Congress president said: “It is believed that truth ultimately manifests itself. Modi’s character got exposed during corona. No sensitive Prime Minister would have announced a lockdown all of a sudden. Mar jata par wo nahin karta jo Narendra Modi ne kiya (would have preferred to die instead of doing what Modi did). This showed Modi has no feelings for the poor.” With a receptive crowd appreciating the blunt attack through repeated applause, Rahul said: “A Prime Minister knows crores of workers survive on daily wages. A Prime Minister ought to know how many poor people survive earning daily and that a sudden lockdown will destroy them. “Modi didn’t think about them for a moment; showed no concern for their plight. They walked hundreds of kilometres to their homes without food and water. But the Prime Minister said — no, I will not give them trains. That is how our Prime Minister is.” Sensing that voters in the first two phases of the Bihar elections had been deeply influenced by the agonising experience of the lockdown, the Congress leader scaled up the attack on the Prime Minister over the issue to optimise the gains in the third phase. Iterating his pet charge of Modi’s politics and policies being pro-corporate, Rahul said: “Have you ever seen Modi embracing a poor person, holding a farmer’s hand? I met migrant workers who were walking home from Haryana to Uttar Pradesh and they asked me one question — why didn’t our PM give us time? Why did he announce the lockdown on a four-hour notice? We would have reached home had we got three-four days. We would have tried even if one day was given.” Rahul added: “They told me Modi has no feelings for the poor. I know he can’t do anything for the poor, he won’t. But he has no shame. He still came seeking your vote. This man thinks the people of India have no brains, no understanding. He can get away with anything. “He said the corona battle could be won in 22 days (Modi had said 21). Then he said thali bajao to scare corona away.” When corona kept spreading, he asked people to flash mobile phone lights. He keeps saying whatever he wants. But the media supports him. They show him all day long, hail him for everything he does.” The Congress leader linked the new farm laws to the perceived pro-corporate agenda and said farmers had burnt effigies of Modi along with those of “Adani-Ambani” in Punjab. Rahul pointed to how farmers in states like Punjab and Chhattisgarh had got much more for their produce than those in Bihar. The former Congress president, who is said to have a soft corner for the Bihar chief minister, for the first time equated Nitish Kumar with Modi, saying: “Both are the same. They complement each other. Have no misgivings about any difference between Modi and Nitish. Nitish stole your vote to give it to the BJP. Nitish stabbed you in your stomach. He stabbed you in the back. He didn’t betray once, he did it several times.” The Congress appears to be working to a plan by keeping the focus on the lockdown. While Rahul also released a short film showing people’s struggle during that period, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala held a media conference on the same subject. “When sensitivities die, when an intolerant regime takes birth in the womb of cruelty and barbarism, you get something like the Modi-Nitish regime. History will remember the brutalities of Modi-Nitish on the poor workers who struggled to survive the lockdown,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-577
05-11-2020||India||Cracker ban to protect vulnerable groups||The Odisha government has prohibited sale and use of firecrackers in all parts of the state from November 10 to 30. The special relief commissioner in an order on Tuesday said, “The technical expert committee has recommended for the prohibition of burning of fire crackers to protect the vulnerable groups like elderly, children, persons with comorbidities and others.” He said that any person found violating the order will be punished as per the law. “It is a well-known fact that burning of the firecrackers releases copious amounts of harmful chemicals like nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, etc, which have severe impact on the respiratory health of vulnerable groups. Such pollutants can further aggravate the health conditions of Covid-19 positive persons besides persons staying in home isolation,” he said. He said that in some parts of India and other parts of the world, where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour has not been strictly adhered to, the resurgence of the infection had been witnessed. However, he said Diwali, which falls on November 14, may be celebrated by lighting earthen lamps, candles and other traditional materials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
05-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami remanded in judicial custody till November 18||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abetting the suicide of an interior designer, was remanded in judicial custody till November 18 by a court here. The court gave the ruling late in the night. Goswami has filed for bail and the court has asked the investigation officer to file a reply, the journalist’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar said. In the Alibaug court, police had sought a 14-day remand of Goswami, he said. Goswami, 47, was picked up by a team of Raigad police from his Mumbai home earlier in the day. He was seen being pushed into the police van and claimed he was assaulted by the police before being taken away. “The police arrested Goswami under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,” a police officer said. Soon after the vehicle carrying Goswami reached Alibaug, just over 90km from Mumbai, he was produced at a local court, which directed the police to take him to the civil hospital there for medical check-up, after his lawyer alleged the senior journalist was assaulted by the police. “Goswami was produced before a magistrate court in Alibaug where he complained of physical assault at the hands of the police team that barged into his house this morning,” Parkar said. The magistrate took note of the allegations and directed the police to take Goswami to the civil hospital for a medical check-up. After the medical check-up, Goswami was brought back to the court for hearing on his remand. The architect and his mother committed suicide in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by Republic TV, police said. In May this year, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced he had ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-578
