06-11-2020||India||JNUSU to boycott varsity's convocation ceremony over research fund cuts||The JNU Students' Union (JNUSU) has decided to boycott the varsity's convocation ceremony later this month over alleged research fund cuts and vivas of many PhD scholars not being conducted even after submission of the thesis. “In yet another brazen display of arrogance and insensitivity, despite not even conducting the viva of many of the PhD scholars more than a year post submission, the JNU administration has announced convocation on November 18,” JNUSU President Aishe Ghosh said in a statement. “Students of JNU earn their doctorates through years of undeterred hard work and overcome insurmountable odds to be able to submit their theses. However, the administration true to its character has decided to insult the research scholar community,” she said. “Despite not even conducting viva for a majority of passing out scholars, the farce of this convocation is being organized to satisfy the egotistic departing Vice-Chancellor,” she added. Ghosh claimed, “Eight hundred rupees are being extorted to attend an online session and receive an online degree with absolutely no concern for the students who have nothing in the way of experience except the empty platitudes of a VC who has worked tirelessly to try and jeopardize their research. The university has cut funds for journals, bungled recruitment and dismantled research.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||No relief for Arnab Goswami at the moment ||There was no immediate relief for Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, on Friday as the hearing on his interim bail plea before the Bombay High Court remained incomplete. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they would continue the hearing on Saturday because of lack of time. "We will assemble for this matter specially tomorrow noon," the court said. Arnab Goswami on Wednesday was arrested from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother in 2018. Later that night, Goswami was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the magistrate’s court in Alibaug, which rejected the plea for police custody. Goswami is presently lodged in a school in Alibaug which is designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug jail. Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had left behind a suicide note saying he was ending his life because of non-payment of dues by Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda. According to the note, the three owed him Rs 83 lakh, Rs 4 crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. An FIR had been filed against all three but the case was closed in 2019 when the BJP government was in power. On Wednesday, Naik’s daughter Adnya and widow Akshata told journalists that investigation into the case was “suppressed only because of Arnab Goswami”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||AAP govt's nod to prosecute Umar Khalid in Delhi riots case||Police have received prosecution sanction from the Kejriwal government against Umar Khalid, a former JNU student leader, in connection with a case related to the February communal violence in northeast Delhi, officials said on Friday. "We have given prosecution sanction in all the Delhi riots related cases registered by the police. Now, it is up to the courts to see who are the accused," a senior Delhi government functionary said. The sanction has been received against Khalid in the Delhi riots conspiracy case, in which he was booked under the stringent anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A senior police officer said that police have received prosecution sanction from both the Delhi government and the Union Home Ministry against Khalid in connection with Delhi riots conspiracy case. "We have received prosecution sanction against Umar Khalid in connection with a case registered against him under the UAPA. We have received sanctions from both the Delhi government and the Ministry of Home Affairs, the officer said. The officer said that the prosecution sanctions against Khalid were received a fortnight ago and added that the Delhi Police can now name Khalid in their supplementary charge sheet. "To prosecute one under section 13 of the UAPA, we need sanction from the Ministry of Home Affairs, which we have already received. For prosecution under section -- 16,17 and 18 of the UAPA, we have received sanction from the Delhi government," the officer said. Khalid was arrested on September 13 under the UAPA act in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||Appeasement politics hurting Bengal's glory, rues Shah ||Stressing that there was a need to restore Bengal's "lost glory", Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said the present "appeasement politics" in the state has hurt its age-old tradition of upholding the nation's spiritual consciousness. Maintaining that Bengal is the land of luminaries such as Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda, Shah said the state once used to be the centre of spiritual awakening in the entire country. "However, the politics of 'tustikaran' (appeasement) has hurt this glorious tradition of Bengal. I hereby call upon the people of Bengal to wake up and perform their responsibilities to bring back the glory of the state." The top BJP leader, who visited Dakshineswar temple on the second day of his two-day visit to the state, was taken to the sanctum sanctorum of the centuries-old shrine, where he offered puja to the goddess. "I prayed for the well being of the entire state, the country and its people. We prayed that the country retains its position of glory in the world under the leadership of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi." Shah was greeted at the temple by members of state BJP Mohila Morcha, including its president Agnimitra Paul, who blew conch shells and put a 'tilak' on his forehead. The Union minister, after offering prayers, headed to eminent vocalist Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty's music school-cum- residence 'Shrutinandan', where he met his students and family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||Lokayukta notice to Odisha official ||The Odisha Lokayukta has served a notice to chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy to submit replies to various queries on the procurement of personal protective equipment, masks and sanitisers by the state government by November 23. On Wednesday, two senior IAS officers — industries secretary Hemant Sharma, who was earlier heading the procurement committee, and managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited, Yamini Sarangi— appeared before the Lokayukta for a second time and submitted their replies. In their deposition to Lokayukta Justice Ajit Singh, the officers reportedly said everything was procured according to the government rules and there was no deviation. The two senior officers had earlier appeared before the Lokayukta on September 14. The Lokayukta had asked why Sharma had been removed from the purchase committee and under what circumstances. The alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits came to light when 20 trucks loaded with PPE, masks, and sanitisers were not allowed by the government to unload at the warehouse of the medical corporation on May 24. The trucks remained standing for a week before being allowed to unload the materials. Later, the government decided to accept the PPE kits only and returned other products like masks and protective gears. The Opposition had targeted the government on the alleged corruption in the purchase of these materials. As the issue snowballed, the Naveen Patnaik government relieved Sharma from his responsibilities as the purchase committee head. A delegation of Congress leaders led by Sudarshan Das had met the Lokayukta on July 17 and submitted an eight-point memorandum on the issue. A 12-party delegation led by the Congress had met governor Ganeshi Lal over the issue and demanded that action should be taken against the guilty officials. The BJP had also targeted the ruling BJD on the issue and alleged that the Odisha government was encouraging massive corruption in the purchase of PPE kits. Das said, “As head of the administration, the chief secretary has also been brought under the ambit of the investigation by the Lokayukta. Transparency was terribly missing in the entire process of purchase of PPE kits. We are yet to get information through an RTI application on the entire procedure of procurement.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||Modi Bihar letter betrays nerves||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday tweeted a letter addressed to the voters of Bihar, underscoring that he “needs” a Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state to ensure development. The letter, issued on the last day of campaigning for the final phase of polling on Saturday, seemed to betray desperation in the NDA camp. Ground reports from the two rounds of polling have suggested that large sections of voters were being driven by simmering discontent against the three-term Nitish-led government in Bihar. “Main Bihar ke vikas ko lekar bahut aaswast hoon. Bihar ke vikas mein koi kami na aaye, vikas ki yojnayen atke nahi, bhatke nahi, isliye mujhe Bihar mein Nitish ji ki sarkar ki zarurat hai (I am convinced about Bihar’s development. To ensure there are no shortcomings in Bihar’s development, development schemes don’t get obstructed, don’t go awry, I need Nitish’s government),” Modi said in the four-page letter on his Twitter handle. The letter was posted minutes before campaigning in Bihar closed at 5pm. Modi’s appeal came soon after Nitish sought to draw sympathy by telling a rally in Purnea that this was his “last” election. This remark of Nitish was also seen as a sign of desperation although sources later suggested he meant last election rally. Nitish anyway is not contesting the Assembly polls. The Prime Minister’s letter sought to again invoke the fear of “jungle raj” if the Opposition alliance came to power, underlining the need for order in the state for development. “Avyavastha aur arajakta ke vatavaran mein nav nirman asambhav hota hai (Development is impossible in an atmosphere of disorder and anarchy),” Modi said and stressed that only the NDA can provide this. Modi said “better infrastructure” and “rule of law” were imperative for the social and economic prosperity of Bihar. He claimed that since 2005 in the state, change has been ushered in and continuance of the “double-engine” government (the NDA at the Centre as well as in the state) was needed to take the process forward. Modi has addressed around a dozen rallies in Bihar and in almost all of them he has tried to resurrect the “jungle raj” fear. BJP managers feel that the only way to counter public anger against the Nitish government was to invoke fear of an RJD rule in Bihar. After two rounds of polling, several BJP leaders have started to concede that the strategy may not be working to the desired extent and hence the last-minute letter appeal from the top in a bid to change the drift of the voters. The BJP fears that the lure of jobs (RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav has been promising 10 lakh government jobs) may be driving young voters and blurring caste lines. Large chunks of first-time voters have no memory of the RJD rule that ended 15 years ago. “PM@narendramodi pens a heartfelt letter for Bihar’s people,” tweeted BJP general secretary and Bihar minder Bhupendra Yadav. “BJP ensured Bihar polls are fought on the issue of development, and the NDA under Shri Modi’s leadership will set Bihar on the path of unprecedented development,” he added. This was interpreted as urgency on the part of the BJP to use Modi’s assurance, despite anger against Nitish, in a last-ditch effort to get the voters to back the NDA. In his letter, Modi counted the different welfare schemes of his government to try and provide a guarantee to the voters to get them to back the NDA and ignore the failures of the Nitish government. The BJP had initially planned to undercut partner Nitish and gain the upper hand in Bihar but party strategists now worry that their plan could be going awry. They fear that if Nitish sinks beyond their calculation, he can also take them down along with him. “Nitish’s party is contesting half of the total seats. If the JDU performs very badly, as it appears to be happening, then it would be very difficult to reach the majority mark,” a BJP leader said. The party has also been banking on Chirag Paswan’s LJP to form an alliance post-poll and help the BJP form the government. But many BJP leaders fear the LJP may not win enough seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||Supreme Court glare on Covid tunnels and spray||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre to consider “within one month” a ban or regulation on disinfection tunnels, spraying, chemical fumigation and use of ultraviolet rays on people ostensibly to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah asked the Centre to exercise its power under Section 10 of the Disaster Management Act. The court said the government cannot merely issue some guidelines and then say that the responsibility for enforcing them lies with the states and Union Territories. “There are hosts of regulatory measures of radiation for use of UV rays with regard to food and other articles. We are of the view that for spraying disinfectant on human body, fumigation or use of UV rays against the human body, there has to be regulatory regime when respondent No. 1 (Centre) itself is of the view that such use is not recommended…. “In the event the use of disinfectant on human body is to cause adverse effect on the health of the people, there has to be immediate remedial action and respondent No. 1 cannot stop only by saying that such use is not recommended,” the court said in its judgment. The court said right to health was a fundamental right and a facet of Article 21 relating to life and liberty of citizens which the State was bound to safeguard. The bench passed the direction while dealing with a PIL filed by one Gurusimran Singh Narula complaining about alleged indiscriminate use of disinfectant tunnel, public fumigation and the use of ultraviolet rays, etc, all over the country in the name of preventing the spread of virus. The petitioner had cited articles from various medical journals and World Health Organisation reports expressing serious reservations over such measures and had termed their use as “dangerous” for human beings as they are counterproductive and can lead to number of health complications including severe skin and respiratory problems.
Agreeing with the petitioner’s contention, the apex court noted that on April 18, even the director-general of health services (EMR division), ministry of health and family welfare, had issued an advisory against spraying of disinfectants on people; yet several bodies and organisations started using spraying tunnels to disinfect people. “Article 21 of the Constitution provides for protection of life and personal liberty. The expression ‘life’ used in Article 21 has wide import and connotation. Article 21 encompasses a bundle of rights which have been recognized from time to time by the legislature of this Country and Courts of this Country including this Court. “Right to life as recognized under Article 21 is Right to live with dignity. Right to health is also recognized as an important facet of Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. Accordingly, the court issued the following directions: “The respondent No. 1 may consider and issue necessary directions in exercise of powers vested in it under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, regarding ban/regulation on the usage of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical/organic disinfectants for the human beings.” “…There shall be similar consideration and directions by the respondents as indicated above with regard to exposure of human being to artificial ultraviolet rays. Looking to the health concern of the people in general, the aforesaid exercise be completed by respondent No. 1 within a period of one month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||India protests Pakistan gurdwara move||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to reverse its decision to transfer the management and maintenance of the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib from the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee to the Evacuee Trust Property Board. New Delhi said that taking one of Sikhism’s holiest shrines away from the community hurt minority religious rights. The Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), set up in 1960, looks after the properties left behind by Sikhs and Hindus while migrating to India during the Partition. Pakistan had on Tuesday notified the establishment of a “project management unit”, a self-financing body, under the administrative control of the ETPB for the purpose. The ministry of religious affairs and inter-faith harmony had taken the decision purportedly because the gurdwara needed more supervision following the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from India last year. “This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “Guru Nanak spent a considerable part of his life in Kartarpur and is also buried there. We have received representations from the Sikh community expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community in Pakistan. “Such actions only expose the reality of the Pakistani government and its leadership’s tall claims of preserving and protecting the rights and welfare of the religious minority communities. Pakistan is called upon to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community its right to manage affairs of the Holy Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib.”
According to the ETPB website, it supervises and controls all evacuee land and property attached to charitable, religious or educational trusts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||University Grants Commission issues guidelines for in-person classes||Universities and colleges outside containment zones have been given the go-ahead to restart classes in person in a phased manner with precautions for certain categories of students. The University Grants Commission on Thursday issued guidelines for the physical reopening of institutions of higher learning, which have been holding online classes in view of the pandemic. “Universities and colleges may plan opening the campuses in phases, with such activities where they can easily adhere to social distancing, use of face masks and other protective measures. This may include administrative offices, research laboratories and libraries, etc,” the guidelines say. The university vice-chancellors and college principals will take the final decision on reopening in areas that state governments deem safe. According to the guidelines, students in research programmes and postgraduate students of science and technology can return to classrooms. The numbers of these students are less and it would be easy to ensure physical distancing and other precautions, the guidelines say. Final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students may also be allowed to attend classes in person in the next phase for academic and placement purposes. However, not more than 50 per cent of the total students should be present at any point of time in class. For other students, such as those in first and second-year undergraduate courses and first-year master’s programmes, online or distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching. If required, such students may visit their respective departments in small numbers for consultation with the faculty members with prior appointment. The guidelines suggest that no student can be forced to attend classes in person and the institutions can consider providing online study materials and access to e-resources to students preferring to study from home. The universities and colleges will have to follow standard precautions such as not allowing the sharing of hostel rooms, 14 days’ quarantine for returning students and conducting classes with a maximum of half the total strength. Hostels will be opened only if necessary but sharing of rooms won’t be allowed. Symptomatic students should not be permitted to stay in hostels under any circumstances, the guidelines say. Since residential students would be coming from different locations, they shall remain in quarantine and self-monitor their health for 14 days before being allowed to attend classes or other activities. This would also apply to students who furnish a negative Covid report. The UGC guidelines say that students, teachers and other staff members should download the Aarogya Setu contact-tracing app. The guidelines say the institutions have to ensure proper sanitisation at all learning sites, conduct temperature screening of students, faculty and other staff members, get everyone to wear masks and set up facilities for sanitisation of hands at entry points. Sitting places in classes, labs and libraries should be clearly marked by leaving every alternate seat vacant. Older employees, pregnant staffers and employees who have underlying medical conditions should preferably not be exposed to any frontline work, the guidelines say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Kerala: Credit card hostage charge on ED||The family of the arrested son of the Kerala CPM chief has alleged that an Enforcement Directorate team held them hostage for over 26 hours and mentally tortured them to make them sign a fake seizure list that would have linked the accused to a drug peddler. The wife and mother-in-law of businessman Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, on Thursday alleged that the six-member ED team from Bangalore that raided their home in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday tried to force them to sign a seizure record that mentioned that a credit card belonging to suspected drug peddler Anoop Mohammed had been found in the house. Anoop and Bineesh have been arrested in Bangalore in connection with a drugs case in which two top Kannada actresses have also been picked up. Bineesh is being probed over a possible money-laundering angle to the case. Bineesh’s family insisted that the ED officials had brought the credit card with them and claimed that it had been found in his bedroom. The ED team had arrived at Bineesh’s home in the Kerala capital at 9am on Wednesday and left 26 hours later at 11am on Thursday, only after police intervened and the child rights commission served notices for rights violation of a child and two women. Other than Bineesh’s wife and mother-in-law, his three-year-old daughter was also allegedly held hostage. None in the ED had reacted to the allegations till late on Thursday evening. Bineesh’s wife Reneeta told reporters that they were not allowed access to a telephone. “They mentally tortured us by insisting we sign the document if we wanted Bineesh to come back home (from custody in Bangalore),” she said. “I told the officials they should have informed me about the card if it had really been recovered from our house. But they showed it only when I asked about the card details mentioned in the document they wanted me to sign,” Reneeta said. In its application seeking extension of Bineesh’s remand, the ED had on Monday informed a court in Bangalore that he had made illegal money transactions through others to avoid detection. The agency had also claimed huge disparity in cash flow to his bank accounts and the income tax returns filed over several years. Reneeta said the officials had not taken anything other than her mother’s phone. “They took nothing else from here,” she said. The ED eventually got two independent witnesses — two officials of the agency — to sign the document stating that the credit card had been found in the house. Reneeta’s mother Mini said the raid lasted hardly thirty minutes. “They went upstairs and then came down and after that they kept idling around between breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner. All the while we were forced to remain in a room,” Mini said, adding that the officials did not even allow her to have medicines. The raiding team was expected to arrive on Tuesday evening, but came on Wednesday morning. Bineesh’s wife and child have been staying with Reneeta’s parents since his arrest, so none was present when the team came. Reneeta arrived with her child and mother to open the house, following which they were not allowed to leave. Some relatives came to the house on Thursday morning since there was no information from the two women. The relatives squatted outside the gate when officials refused to let them in. Reneeta’s father lodged a police complaint and approached the child rights commission, pointing out that the women were not accused in the case. A family lawyer had made an attempt to speak to Reneeta and Mini late on Wednesday but was forced to go back by CRPF personnel deployed outside. While being taken for questioning at the ED zonal office in Bangalore on Thursday, Bineesh told reporters: “Let them (ED) do whatever they want to.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Bread and butter over stale Pakistan menu helps Opposition||The Opposition alliance in Bihar appears to have snatched a tactical advantage by maintaining unwavering focus on bread-and-butter concerns, assiduously avoiding the diversionary trap of emotive issues laid by the ruling coalition, as campaigning for the last phase of elections ended on Thursday evening. Senior leaders of the RJD and the Congress heaved a sigh of relief after electioneering ended without a blunder as their greatest fear had been the BJP’s expertise in hijacking the discourse, which the Opposition wanted to revolve around matters of livelihood and the failures of the government. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted after the curtains came down on campaigning: “Get ready, now the Mahagathbandhan government will deliver jobs, farm-loan waiver, halved electricity bills, free education to girls, justice and development for all sections of society, new industries and businesses. We will build a new Bihar.” Such confidence at the end of the campaign had appeared unimaginable earlier as the contest had looked like a cakewalk for the ruling JDU-BJP alliance at the beginning. 
However, the ruling combine seemed to have messed up the strategy with a key ally, the Lok Janshakti Party, walking out with the professed objective of knocking incumbent chief minister Nitish Kumar out of the race. The clear numerical superiority all of a sudden degenerated into a hole-and-corner affair, sending out an insidious message to the voters that the BJP was working at cross-purposes with the JDU. Although BJP leaders soon realised the folly and tried to roll the perception back, LJP leader Chirag Paswan’s vicious attacks on Nitish and idolatry of Narendra Modi pushed the government deep into the wilder shores of farce. This also altered the perception that the Opposition was fighting a losing battle, creating the space for a new narrative before the start of the actual campaign. The RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav came up with the specific idea of giving 10 lakh government jobs, promising to sign off the plan in the first cabinet meeting. This caught the fancy of voters in a state buffeted by rising unemployment, a situation worsened by the pandemic and the resultant economic doom. Tejashwi didn’t commit the mistake of wavering into a bouquet of lofty promises and stuck to the job plan, developing it into the defining feature of this election. He struck a chord with youths and started attracting massive crowds. Videos of boisterous crowds uploaded on social media were not only feast for the eyes but also gave substance and legitimacy to the Opposition challenge. On the RJD’s Twitter handle, over 70 per cent of the posts relate to the huge crowds that the young leader drew. The enthusiastic response of the people might have helped the party draw up an uncluttered action plan with a unifocal push for jobs. The RJD’s language changed; it swiftly moved from the social justice plan to economic justice, creating a wider canvass for a party known for its Muslim-Yadav support base.
Soothing winds of inclusive politics started blowing from the RJD camp, which surprisingly described the election as a “battle for truth and justice”. An appeal from the RJD to the people to vote for “real concerns” without any reference to identity politics showcased a transformation from the Lalu Prasad era to a new Tejashwi phase, weakening the BJP-JDU’s desperate attempts to scare the voters with the spectre of previous misrule. Both the Prime Minister and the chief minister stoked the memories of “jungle raj”, entreating voters to punish Tejashwi for Lalu’s failures, a demand that sounded unreasonable. Tejashwi took care to describe the people as “maalik” and started his speeches saying: “Sabko pair chhoo ke pranam (I touch the feet of all of you.)” At no point did Tejashwi display any sense of entitlement and arrogance, blunting the efficacy of the BJP’s campaign. When onions and potatoes were hurled at Nitish during a meeting in Madhubani, Tejashwi was the first to condemn it, saying: “This is undemocratic and undesirable. The displeasure should be manifested through ballots alone.” Alliance partner Congress, which is habitually animated by a national perspective, quickly adjusted to the pressures of local dynamics and complimented Tejashwi by highlighting the miseries inflicted by the lockdown. Rahul, too, tried to assure those sections of society that fear a Yadav dominance by saying at all his meeting: “I am here to guarantee that our government will look after the interests of every caste, every religion, every class.” While jobs kept shaping the discourse, the BJP tried to inject extraneous factors like Article 370, Ram temple, jingoistic nationalism and Pakistan. But the Congress-RJD-Left avoided falling into the trap. When Union minister and BJP leader Nityanand Rai asked whether the people of India would chant ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ in Pakistan, the Opposition countered by asking whether the people of Bihar would ask for jobs, medicine and education in Pakistan. The outcome is an entirely different scenario before the final phase of voting on Saturday — while the ruling combine appears jittery, the Opposition is buoyant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Rajnath territory vow with silence on China ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India was “determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice” but desisted yet again from naming China. Singh’s statement came just a day before the scheduled eight rounds of military talks between India and China to resolve the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. So far, the seventh rounds of talks between the two sides have failed to achieve any breakthrough and the Chinese troops continue to hold on to their newly occupied zones at multiple friction points since May. In an apparent reference to the ongoing border standoff with China, he said: “India is a peace loving country. We believe that differences should not become disputes. We attach importance to the peaceful resolution of differences through dialogue. India is determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice.” Speaking on the Diamond jubilee seminar of the National Defence College, the defence minister said India had forged close relationships with like-minded countries such as the US, Japan and Australia that have common interests on security. “India has also forged a very special partnership with reliable friends like France and Israel. We value their support and will continue to build upon it in the future as well,” Singh said. He also mentioned India’s old ally Russia. “India also has strong, traditional and deep-rooted relations with Russia. Our two countries have weathered many a challenge in the past through our close understanding and appreciation of each other’s concerns and interests.” The minister also highlighted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to countries in West Asia, South East and East Asia. “We have enhanced the scope and quality of our relations with Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Oman in the West and with Indonesia, Vietnam and South Korea in the East.” On Pakistan, he said the neighbouring country remained adamant in the use of terrorism as state policy. “However, we have achieved substantial success in working with progressive and like-minded countries to not only expose Pakistan’s regressive policies but also make it increasingly difficult to continue with its previous business as usual approach.” The minister said peace could only be ensured through the ability to deter war. “Perhaps, the most fundamental lesson that the roller coaster of the rise and fall of nations taught us was that peace cannot necessarily be achieved by a desire for peace, but by the ability to deter war.” A fresh round of military talks will be held on Friday along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Chushul sector. The Indian side has been pushing for disengagement from all friction points — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains — and restoration of status quo ante during the talks, but the Chinese troops have so far refused to pull back. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates they have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India claimed territory. New commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General P.G.K. Menon, will lead the eight rounds of talks for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Nitish Kumar tugs at ‘last election’ heartstrings||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced that the ongoing polls would be his last brush with electoral politics, prompting many to wonder if the veteran leader was fishing for sympathy in the face of growing discontent. Campaigning at Dhamdaha in Purnea on the last day of canvassing for the three-phase Assembly elections, JDU chief Nitish said: “Jaan lijiye aaj chunav ka aakhri din hai. Parson chunav hai aur ye mera antim chunav hai. Ant bhala toh sab bhala (Understand that this is the last day of poll campaign. Voting will be held a day after tomorrow and this is my last election. All’s well that ends well).” Although the chief minister’s comments left some in his party “speechless”, many in the Opposition and the public pointed out that the last time he had contested an election was in 2004. That year, Nitish had won the Lok Sabha election. Since becoming chief minister in 2005, he has not contested a popular election, choosing the Legislative Council route to stay in power as an MLC elected by MLAs from the Lower House. The chief ministerial face of the NDA, Nitish is not contesting this time too. Those questioning Nitish’s assertion feel it could be a ploy to garner sympathy to sail through what could be a difficult election because of rising discontent over steep unemployment, the pandemic-induced migrant crisis, lack of development, poor health infrastructure, misgovernance and corruption. Nitish, the NDA’s chief ministerial face, is also facing 15 years of accumulated anti-incumbency and has been cornered by the Opposition RJD and the Congress over the crises on multiple fronts. The senior leader also appears hemmed in by a more powerful and ambitious BJP. At the rally in Purnea, where Nitish was campaigning for the JDU’s Leshi Singh, the chief minister immediately followed up his “last election” comment with a question to the audience whether they would “now vote for her”. Nitish also appealed to the crowd to indicate their support by raising their hands. Voting will be held for 78 seats on Saturday. The Bihar Assembly has 243 seats. Nitish is now 69 and will be 74 by the time the next Assembly elections are held. JDU state unit executive president and minister Ashok Choudhary rubbished the insinuations that Nitish had made the claim for the sake of votes. “Nitish Kumar is a serious person and has a political standing. When he says something, it is with full seriousness and thought. Had this been for the sake of votes, he would have made the announcement before the previous phases of elections,” Choudhary reasoned. Some felt Nitish could be planning to focus on national politics. He had been the Union minister for surface transport, agriculture and railways at different times in former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet. Some chose not to read too much into Nitish’s claim, given his track record of flip flops. He had famously said after breaking away from the BJP and forming a Grand Alliance government with the RJD and the Congress in 2015 that he would “prefer turning into dust than shaking hands with the BJP again”. However, he left the alliance and formed a government with the BJP in 2017. JDU leaders expressed shock art Nitish’s comments. “I am speechless. I don’t know what to say. This is a topic that was never discussed in party meetings and we do not support such announcements,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. Many JDU leaders said they would appeal to Nitish for a rethink. Bihar JDU president Bashistha Narain Singh told The Telegraph that Nitish was a person with a record of “firm decisions and a determination to implement them”. “He had played a stellar role as a leader of the students' movement of the 1970s, the JP movement, as a parliamentarian, as a Union minister and as the chief minister,” Singh said. “As the JDU national president, this could be Nitish’s decision, but he is in public life and the suggestions of his political and party colleagues also matter a lot. I do not support his decision. He has given a new dimension to Bihar, changed it with his vision and implementation. He has much more possibilities in him. We cannot allow him to retire. We will appeal to him to take back the decision,” Bashistha, who has been with Nitish since 1974, said. Another fact is that the JDU has no leader at present who can fill the void if Nitish chooses to retire from politics. Yogi snubbed Nitish, while speaking at an election rally in Kishanganj, appeared to snub Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, saying nobody could throw a person out of the country and that nobody shall be thrown out. Adityanath, at another election rally, had asserted that “ghuspaithiya (intruders or illegal residents)” would be thrown out of the country, reviving fears over the NRC-CAA-NPR citizenship troika.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal bans crackers in Diwali to counter Covid||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday banned crackers this Diwali and urged people to instead join him and other ministers from their homes in performing Lakshmi Puja on November 14 evening to spread “good vibes” to counter a marauding virus. Kejriwal made the announcement at a time the capital has been witnessing what he has described as a “third wave” of coronavirus infections. With Delhi reporting close to 7,000 daily Covid cases and experts warning of a “tsunami”, Kejriwal linked pollution to the rising number of cases. Pollution caused by firecrackers would only worsen the situation and could prove dangerous for Covid patients and also those who have recovered, health experts have warned. In a webcast on Thursday, he said: “The corona situation is deteriorating due to pollution…. If we burn crackers, we will be playing with the health of our children and our families. We are arranging for something different for Diwali this year. “On November 14, at 7.39pm, we will perform Lakshmi Puja together. I will be performing Lakshmi Puja along with the cabinet ministers, which will be telecast live on some TV channels. I wish to appeal to my brothers and sisters in Delhi to join in the puja. I believe that when the people of Delhi will perform Lakshmi Puja from their homes at the same time, celebrating the return of Lord Ram after 14 years of vanvaas (exile), celebrating the coming of Lakshmiji, it will generate a very positive atmosphere and good vibes in Delhi.” Kejriwal later tweeted: “Reviewed corona situation in Delhi and preparedness with chief secy, health officials and all DMs....Corona cases have increased due to festival season and pollution. It was decided to 1. Ban crackers in Delhi 2. Ramp up medical infra; oxygen and ICU beds are being increased in Del govt hospitals.” He said his government would move the Supreme Court to vacate a stay on the administration’s order to big private hospitals to reserve four out of every five ICU beds for coronavirus patients. On November 4, Delhi recorded 6,715 cases and 66 deaths. From October 25 to November 3, 50,616 new cases have been recorded in the capital, which is 13 per cent of all cases since the pandemic began. Of the 1,246 beds with ventilators in ICUs for coronavirus patients, only 360 were vacant on Thursday evening. Kejriwal’s office did not respond to queries on what they intended to do to curb the “third wave” besides performing Lakshmi Puja, nor did he reply to questions on whether his call to pray was congruent with constitutional secularism. In March, the chief minister had advised citizens to read the Bhagavad Gita to keep themselves occupied during the lockdown. A leading public health expert told this newspaper that if the laxity in physical distancing norms continued, the capital could face a “tsunami” of new cases that might be difficult for hospitals to accommodate. Oomen John, senior fellow at the international think tank The George Institute of Global Health, said: “We have seen a sudden frenzy of activity in Delhi, and many have completely lowered their guard. On the road, you can see 80 per cent of people not wearing masks properly. On their own, shopkeepers have decided not to restrict the number of people present inside a store.” He added: “The periodic spurts in cases are not due to any change in the behaviour of the virus but is dependent on the behaviour of people. In three to four weeks, things may get really bad in Delhi because of the behaviour of people. We may have a tsunami of cases…. We need to keep transmission of the virus at a rate where it does not overwhelm the public health outreach systems….” John said that countries like Vietnam and Taiwan had not seen any fresh Covid cases emanating within their territories in 200 days because of strict enforcement by the government and cooperation of the people. “The state needs to do strong messaging that anybody and everybody is at risk, and crowding in public places must be stopped…. If we had good data on people’s mobility — like data of mobile signals — then based on that we can see the effect of increased mobility on the number of cases. In proactive places, governments are better prepared for cases three to four weeks in advance and do positive messaging accordingly, based on such data,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Auto-delete option after 7 days on WhatsApp||WhatsApp on Thursday said it would introduce a “disappearing messages” feature on its platform that would allow new messages sent to a chat to vanish after seven days. The feature will be rolled out to all users this month. The Facebook-owned company said the goal was “to make conversations on WhatsApp feel as close to in-person as possible, which means they shouldn’t have to stick around forever”. “That’s why we’re excited to introduce the option to use disappearing messages on WhatsApp. When the ‘disappearing messages’ feature is turned on, new messages sent to a chat will disappear after 7 days, helping the conversation feel lighter and more private,” it said in a statement. In a one-to-one chat, either person can turn disappearing messages on or off. In groups, administrators will have the control. “We’re starting with seven days because we think it offers peace of mind that conversations aren’t permanent, while remaining practical so you don’t forget what you were chatting about. The shopping list or store address you received a few days ago will be there while you need it, and then disappear after you don’t,” WhatsApp said. Earlier this week, WhatsApp had said it had redesigned the storage management tool to make it more useful for people to easily identify, review and bulk delete content that may be filling their phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
