07-11-2020||India||FIR against Niira Radia, 4 others for alleged fraud||The Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Nayati Healthcare’s Niira Radia and four others for alleged embezzlement of over Rs 300 crore of bank loan, following a complaint filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajiv Sharma from whom they had acquired two hospitals. Rejecting the allegations as baseless, Nayati Healthcare said it had “duly reported” to the police certain issues of “misappropriation and maliceness” detected in a forensic audit of activities of the previous management under Sharma. Sharma’s OSL Healthcare, which had a hospital in south Delhi and an upcoming facility in Gurgaon, was acquired through Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd and later renamed as Nayati Healthcare NCR. According to the FIR dated November 4, Sharma has accused Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, Niira Radia, Karuna Menon, Satish Narula and Yateesh Wahaal of “cheating, criminal breach of trust, falsification of accounts, fraud, forgery, and embezzlement of funds” and other charges. Police sources said all the charges are subject to investigation as of now. In his complaint, Sharma has alleged that Naarayani had borrowed more than Rs 600 crore from various sources, including DHFL, and invested Rs 311 crore for acquiring a majority stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR. After taking over management of the new entity, Naarayani and the four individuals got a loan of Rs 300 crore from Yes Bank for the development of a Gurgaon hospital, but instead, they siphoned off and embezzled the loan amount using fictitious transactions, Sharma alleged. He further alleged that the accused also borrowed Rs 60 crore from Yes Bank for another hospital project, but embezzled that fund as well. Sharma also alleged that the five accused wrongfully brought down his stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR from 49 per cent to 6.3 per cent in less than a year and increased their own stake to 93.7 per cent. When contacted, a Nayati Healthcare spokesperson said, “The FIR is baseless and the allegations of Dr Sharma are also baseless.” The spokesperson further said, “Dr Sharma being a member of the board was a party and signatory to all the actions of the company. Due to differences that arose pursuant to conducting of a forensic audit of the activities of the previous management under Dr Sharma, certain issues of misappropriation and malicenses came to light.” The spokesperson also said, “Nayati Healthcare NCR remains committed to cooperating with investigations and reposes its full faith in the investigating agency. All evidence of the forensic audit that demonstrates act of misappropriation by Dr Sharma has been provided to the police.” Nayati Healthcare, set up a few years ago by PR consultant-turned-entrepreneur Radia, had in 2018 announced acquisition of 51 per cent stake in OSL Healthcare, which was at that time headed by Sharma. It also has other hospitals including in Mathura and Agra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||India launches earth observation EOS-01, nine other satellites||India successfully launched its latest earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine international customer spacecraft on board a Polar rocket from the spaceport here on Saturday, in its first mission this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Space Research Organisations workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C49) injected EOS-01, intended for applications in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support and other satellites one by one in orbit around 20 minutes after lift-off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), about 110 km from Chennai, at 3.12 pm. This is ISROs first mission this year after the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown disturbed 10 missions being planned by the agency and the nine customer satellites are from the USA, Lithuania and Luxembourg. ISRO Chairman K Sivan described the mission as a "success" and termed it as "unusual" for ISRO as a rocket launch cannot happen like work from home and all engineers and technicians had to travel from different centres and work together at Sriharikota for rocket launches. "Today, I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV-C49 successfully placed earth observation satellite EOS-01 as well as nine customer satellites precisely into 575 kms orbit" he said at the mission control centre. Subsequent to the successful launch, the primary satellite commenced operating its own functions including deployment of solar panels, Sivan said. In view of the pandemic, ISRO implemented precautions for COVID-19 and scientists, mission directors, project directors, were seen with face masks and maintaining social distancing at the mission control centre. There was no gathering of media persons and the public viewing gallery too was closed. ISRO made arrangements for live telecast of the launch through various platforms, including its website and social media sites. In a text book sequence, the four stage 44.5-metre tall PSLV-C49, in its 51st flight, blasted off from the first launch pad of SDSC at 3.12 pm at the end of the 26-hour countdown and soared into the sky. The launch, originally scheduled for 3.02 PM, was delayed as the scientists around 15 minutes before lift-off "decided to put on hold following debris on the path of the rocket and inclement weather conditions." After the 10 minute delay, the rocket blasted off amid heavy rain leaving a trail of orange fumes before vanishing into thick clouds over the spaceport. After a flawless flight with all four stages performing as programmed, the rocket first injected primary satellite EOS-01 into orbit around 15 minutes after lift off, followed by the customer spacecraft as the mood at the mission control centre turned jubilant with scientists breaking into cheers. PSLV Mission Director S R Biju announced that all the 10 satellites were separated and were placed into desired orbits. "PSLV-C49/EOS-01 mission is fully accomplished", he said amid loud cheers from fellow scientists at the centre. Noting that todays mission was "very special", "very unusual" for ISRO, Sivan congratulated the ISRO team, who had to reach here from different centres amid the pandemic and said the EOS-01 satellite team and those behind the nine satellites would now take care of the rest of the mission. Besides human resources, he also referred to availability of hardware for the launch as they had to be transported carefully from various parts of the country to Sriharikota. "Under this COVID-19 pandemic, team ISRO rose to the occasion and worked very carefully with limited staff, while at the same time meeting all protocols outlined by the government. they have worked without compromising on quality", the chairman, wearing a n-95 mask said. The Chairman also complemented the directors of ISROs various centres for taking care of the employees, their health and for defining real Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ensure work progressed. With just one week to go for Deepavali festival, the chairman in a lighter vein said that before the festival itself, ISRO has made a successful rocket launch. "Definitely, you can enjoy more on this one. Let me wish all the best for all the employees, as well as their families. Jai Hind", he said as he signed off. ISRO said it used the PSLV-DL variant, equipped with two strap-on motors, for the launch. This is the second time it was deployed after the PSLV-C44 mission which had successfully launched imaging satellite Microsat R on January 24, 2019. The customer satellites were launched under an arrangement with ISROs commercial arm NewSpace India Ltd.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated ISRO and the country's space industry for the successful launch of earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine customer satellites on board its Polar rocket and said our scientists overcame many constraints to meet the deadline during this COVID-19 time. "I congratulate @ISRO and India's space industry for the successful launch of PSLV-C49/EOS-01 Mission today. In the time of COVID-19, our scientists overcame many constraints to meet the deadline," Modi tweeted. In another tweet, he noted that nine satellites, including four each from the US and Luxembourg and one from Lithuania, have also been launched in the mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Raigad Court to hear cops’ plea on Arnab’s judicial remand on Nov 9||A sessions court at Alibaug in Raigad district on Saturday posted for hearing on November 9 the police’s revision plea challenging a magistrate’s order remanding Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami to judicial custody in connection with a 2018 abetment of suicide case. The Alibaug district sessions court passed the order after it was informed that the Bombay High Court is presently hearing petitions filed by Goswami and two other accused in the case - Feroze Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - seeking interim bail and challenging their “illegal arrest”. The police had in its application sought the sessions court to quash the lower court's order and grant them custody of the three accused. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday morning from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai in connection with the case. He was taken to the Alibaug police station and later produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Sunaina Pingle. Passing the order late on Wednesday night, the magistrate refused to remand the trio to police custody and sent them to judicial custody till November 18. The Alibaug police had sought 14 days' custody of Goswami for interrogation. Goswami is presently kept at a local school, which has been designated as a COVID-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. In 2018, interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumodini Naik had ended their lives over alleged non-payment of dues by the accused persons' companies. In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had announced he had ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of Anvay Naik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena compares BJP cry over Arnab's arrest to Trump reaction||Taking a swipe at the BJP, the ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday likened the hue and cry over the arrest of television journalist Arnab Goswami with the reaction of Donald Trump to the outcome of the US Presidential elections. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the reaction of Trump who is on the verge of defeat amounted to belittling the post he was holding. "Just like Trump's actions that included spreading fake news and demanding that counting of votes be stopped and moving the court are against the law and prestige of America, BJP leaders in Maharashtra are protesting against the arrest of a suspected accused in an abetment to suicide case," the Sena said without naming Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV. The BJP had alleged that the arrest of Goswami by Raigad police on Wednesday in the 2018 case was politically motivated and amounted to muzzling the freedom of press. "When prime minister Narendra Modi was chief minister of Gujarat, BJP leaders, including (incumbent Union home minister) Amit Shah, were tried in several cases of (2002) Gujarat riots. They were acquitted as per law, but the BJP did not say then that the actions (cases) were politically motivated or part of vendetta," the editorial said. The Sena further alleged that the BJP was maligning the image of the family members of Anvay Naik, the interior designer who had committed suicide in 2018 allegedly over non-payment of dues by Republic TV. Referring to posters showing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhhav Thackeray with Indira Gandhi, who had imposed Emergency in 1975, the Sena said the comparison with the late prime minister was a matter of pride. "The BJP has gone out of its mind by putting up posters of Uddhav Thackeray and Indira Gandhi reminding people of Emergency, in Delhi. This is not only childishness but also ignorance. Comparison with Indira Gandhi is a matter of pride. The iron lady had avenged partition of our country by breaking Pakistan in 1971," the editorial said. The Congress is one of the constituents of the Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, apart from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Sena also took a swipe at the BJP for announcing wearing of black badges by its leaders until Goswami is released. "Thankfully, they haven't resorted to jail bharo and fasting as part of protests," the editorial said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Swamy files plea seeking straw, sipper in jail||Eighty-two-year-old Father Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case, has filed an application before a special court here, seeking that he be allowed to use a straw and sipper in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he is currently lodged. Swamy, who was arrested from his home in Ranchi last month in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in January 2018, suffers from Parkinson's Disease. Parkinson's is a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause involuntary tremors, or muscular spasms, which makes carrying out even everyday actions, such as drinking, difficult. In addition, some patients also develop problems swallowing or chewing. "I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson's," Mr Swamy, who has been at the Taloja Central Jail for nearly a month and is currently in the prison hospital, said in his application. The accused, through his lawyer Kritika Agarwal, moved the plea before the special NIA court on Friday seeking straw and sipper in jail. The special court judge D E Kothalikar has asked the national probe agency to file its reply on the matter on November 26. NIA officials have said that investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA has also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. It also alleged that Swamy had received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA officials have claimed. They said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Last month, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet in the matter against eight people, includingSwamy. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case so far under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The probe into the Elgar Parishad case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. The Pune police have claimed that speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held on December 31, 2017 at Shaniwarwada in Pune city, led to the violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people having Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||UP farmers fume at stubble burning whip||A crackdown on stubble burning by Uttar Pradesh police has infuriated farmers, underlining the challenge the government faces in implementing the anti-pollution measure at a time the agricultural community is livid with the Centre over new farm laws. Scenes of officers dragging some of the accused farmers by their collar has led to the crop growers’ frustration boiling over, with farmer leader Harnam Singh accusing the government of treating the community “like criminals”. Pradeep Pal, a farmer arrested from Kishani in Mainpuri district, accused the authorities of “harassing” the community to discourage farming so they would eventually hand over their land to corporate houses. Congress politician Dwijendra Tripathi highlighted that the state government was allowing the bursting of the air-polluting crackers on Diwali between 6pm and 10pm. “The government cannot check this (source of pollution) but is victimising farmers without giving them a solution,” he said. The state police have booked at least 500 farmers in the past fortnight on the charge of burning the stubble of wheat and other crops and arrested over 100 while imposing fines of Rs 10,000 on many others. Officers said the offending farmers were being identified through satellite imagery. For the past few years, the Supreme Court has been prodding the Centre and state governments to stamp out stubble burning, especially in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, which aggravates air pollution in Delhi every October-November. The Uttar Pradesh crackdown comes after the Centre issued an ordinance last week prescribing five years’ jail and/or a Rs 1-crore fine for people violating anti-pollution norms like the stubble-burning ban in the National Capital Region. (On Friday, the apex court objected to the punishment being the same for all and said it would examine the ordinance after Diwali.) The Yogi Adityanath administration has, however, launched the crackdown across Uttar Pradesh under ordinary penal code and pollution law provisions that mandate a maximum punishment of three months’ jail and a Rs 10,000 fine. On Thursday, officers were seen grabbing farmers by the collar in Mainpuri and dragging them into a jeep. A similar scene was witnessed in the Sadar tehsil of Fatehpur district when eight farmers were arrested and 42 others fined Rs 10,000. In Topri village of Saharanpur district, 16 peasants were allegedly beaten up with batons before being arrested on Wednesday. Local police inspector Umesh Roria denied the charge of caning. “A police team led by sub-divisional magistrate Ram Sakal Maurya and deputy director of agriculture D.V. Singh arrived at our village and told me I was under arrest. An officer held me by the collar of my kurta and dragged me to a vehicle. They also slapped and threatened to shoot me,” Bhure Singh, a farmer from Kishani, told reporters at the local police station. Pal said: “Burning the stubble is the only option we have. Uprooting them costs us Rs 8,000 per bigha, with 10 labourers working two days at a wage of Rs 400 a day. Selling the stubble as fodder brings just Rs 400.” He referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 and said that instead, the government had “destroyed us”. “It’s clear the government is harassing us to discourage farming. Eventually, it will force us to hand over our land to corporate houses to grow crops on,” Pal said. Farmers countrywide have alleged that the new farm laws passed recently would facilitate their exploitation by big companies. Ajit Singh, officer in charge of Kishani police station, said: “We have instructions to arrest farmers involved in burning stubble, using force if necessary.” Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate, said: “The farmers were arrested and sent to jail for defying the government’s order and polluting the environment.” The state government had banned stubble burning through an executive order in 2018 and had made a few arrests in the past two years for violations. On Sunday, Pappu Yadav, a farmer from village Jogiyapur in Varanasi, the Prime Minister’s constituency, was arrested on the charge of stubble burning. “We traced him through satellite imagery from the control room in Lucknow,” Varanasi district agriculture officer Subhas Maurya said. “We booked him under Section 188 of the penal code and Section 39 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.” Section 188 deals with disobeying a public servant’s order while Section 39 prescribes up to three months’ jail and/or a fine up to Rs 10,000 for pollution violators, with repeat offences bringing an additional fine of up to Rs 5,000 for every day of the violation. The state government had told the Supreme Court in January that stubble burning had decreased in Uttar Pradesh, from 6,623 incidents in 2018 to 4,230 in 2019. It had added that 104 officials and employees of the agriculture, administration and police departments had been suspended in 2019 for failing to check stubble burning. It said 167 farmers had been arrested in 2019, with total fines of Rs 270 lakh imposed and Rs 97 lakh collected. Police records show the registration of about 3,000 stubble-burning cases this year and the arrest of 224 farmers. The government had also told the apex court that it was making stubble-removing machines and other equipment available to the farmers at an 80 per cent subsidy. But farmer leader Harnam Singh said that “not a single real farmer has got subsidised equipment” and that middlemen were securing the subsidy and renting out the machines to farmers at high rates. He had a litany of complaints against the government. “We want more mandis where the government can buy our produce but this demand has been denied. We are selling rice and wheat at half the support price fixed by the government because the transport charges are higher than the production costs,” he said. “The government has failed to provide us with irrigation, 24-hour electricity or quality seeds but is watching us through its satellites and treating us like criminals.” State agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi said: “We are concerned about the farmers but people should cooperate with us as burning stubble is a crime under the law.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appeared to suggest that the government should first crack down on polluting industries. “Is the farmer alone responsible for pollution? When will action be taken against those really guilty of spreading pollution?” she tweeted. “The farmer’s vote is legal. The farmer’s rice is legal. But the farmer’s stubble is illegal?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||AAP government nod for Umar Khalid trial||The Centre and Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government have sanctioned the prosecution of social activist Umar Khalid, jailed students and some others on terrorism charges relating to the February communal riots in Delhi that killed 53 people. The sanctions have cleared the decks for the trial court to take cognisance of existing and future chargesheets against the accused under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Civil rights groups have alleged the accused have been framed in riot cases because they had protested against the new citizenship regime. News agency PTI quoted an unnamed Delhi government functionary as saying: “We have given sanction to prosecution in all the Delhi riots-related cases registered by the police. Now, it is up to the courts to see who are the accused.” The report also quoted an unnamed Delhi police officer as saying: “We have received prosecution sanction against Umar Khalid in connection with a case registered against him under the UAPA. We have received sanctions from both the Delhi government and the (Union) ministry of home affairs. “To prosecute one under Section 13 of the UAPA, we need sanction from the ministry of home affairs, which we have already received. For prosecution under Section(s) 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA, we have received sanction from the Delhi government.” A source said the sanctions had been granted weeks ago. On September 16, the police had filed a chargesheet against 15 people booked in an FIR under the UAPA, under which bail is rarely granted. The accused include Jamia Millia Islamia students Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider and Asif Iqbal Tanha; Jawaharlal Nehru University students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal; former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain; former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and rights activist Khalid Saifi. Umar, a former JNU student whose trial in a 2016 sedition case is yet to begin, was arrested three days before the UAPA chargesheet was filed. His arrest had prompted former DGP Julio Ribeiro to write to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava that he should not prolong a case by arresting people just before the filing of a chargesheet. Umar was not named as an accused in the September chargesheet, and the police will need to file a supplementary chargesheet to prosecute him. On the defensive after the riots, the Delhi government had granted sanction for prosecution also in the 2016 sedition case — in which then JNU students were accused of chanting “anti-national” slogans — after having ignored the police’s requests for such sanction for a year. Legal opinion that the AAP government had received had advocated denial of sanction since a magisterial probe had found several of the videos of the 2016 sloganeering doctored, and since none of the slogans could be directly attributed to the accused. The AAP had justified the decision to grant sanction on the ground that the “judiciary alone should decide on the merits of each case”. In July, a fact-finding report by the Delhi Minorities Commission had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, of “fanning communal sentiments” in the lead-up to the February riots. Asked why the latest sanction had been granted despite the commission report, a state government spokesperson told this newspaper: “This is a purely procedural matter. The law department has given its legal opinion after due diligence to the home department of the Delhi government. The elected government has no role to play in this. The Delhi government has not stopped prosecution in any case in the last five years, including those pertaining to AAP MLAs and party leaders.” Umar’s lawyers are expected to respond in court if a chargesheet is filed. Umar has denied inciting violence. Before his arrest, he had said: “The Delhi police are not arresting the rioters who incited and caused the large-scale communal violence in the capital in February. But, instead, it is going after those who criticise the government and its policies, especially the Citizenship Amendment Act. The ones who participated in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests are being wrongly framed without proof.” In July, a fact-finding report by the Delhi Minorities Commission had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, of “fanning communal sentiments” in the lead-up to the February riots. All the 15 named in the September chargesheet also face other charges under the Indian Penal Code and riot laws. Hussain is accused of involvement in the murder of a neighbour — Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma — during the riots. He was suspended from the AAP and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation in March. He has denied involvement. Hussain’s home had been set ablaze by mobs. He is named in several other FIRs on the riots and is also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly funding the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Odisha ATM robbers held in Vizag||Two members of an inter-state gang, who were involved in looting Rs 25 lakh from Punjab National Bank’s ATM kiosk here on October 10, have been arrested by police in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam. Bhubaneswar police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said on Friday, “The duo identified as Samarjyot Singh from Punjab and Zafar Sadiq from Kerala reached here from Calcutta on October 5. They stayed in a hotel and did a recce of the bank. They looted the ATM by using the gas cutter. But we have managed to crack the case with the help of CCTV footage.” “The accused used to fly in from Bangalore to execute such crimes. After looting the ATM, they left for Delhi the next morning after returning the motorcycle. The duo then travelled to Chandigarh and Bangalore. We were constantly tracking their movements. A special team was formed to crack the case,” Sarangi said. “When the accused reached Visakhapatnam and planned to execute another crime, we informed our counterparts there. We will soon bring them on remand to Odisha and interrogate them to know about their modus operandi and other details,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||China conflict on Rawat’s lips||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat on Friday said the eastern Ladakh border “remains tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese” and warned that a “larger conflict” with China could not be ruled out if the unprovoked military actions spiralled. General Rawat stressed that the increasing “collusion” between Pakistan and China posed an “omnipresent danger” to the region. Speaking at the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of the National Defence College in Delhi, he said India would not accept any shifting of the Line of Actual Control and that status quo needed to be restored. He added that China was facing “unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s firm and strong response” but did not elaborate. Rawat’s statement, which contrasted sharply with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “no intrusion” claim on June 19, came on a day the two countries began their eighth round of military talks to resolve the six-month-old border standoff. “The situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh remains tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese,” he said. “The PLA (Chinese army) is facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s firm and strong response. Our (stand) is unambiguous — status quo has to be restored and we will not accept any shifting of the LAC.” He added: “In the overall security calculus, a full-scale conflict with China is low on probability. However, border confrontations, transgressions and unprovoked tactical military actions spiralling into a larger conflict cannot be discounted.” Since May the Chinese have altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points, having taken over an estimated 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. During the military talks, the Indian side has been pushing for disengagement from all the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — and restoration of status quo ante. But the Chinese troops have so far refused to pull back, triggering fears among military veterans that Beijing is trying to establish a new status quo in the region. Rawat on Friday referred to the increasing “collusion” between China and Pakistan as a security challenge for India along its western and northern borders. He said it posed the threat of regional instability with a potential for escalation. “Constant friction with two of our nuclear-armed neighbours, with whom India has fought wars (and who are) increasingly acting in collusion, poses an omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability,” he said. He saw a “potential for escalation threatening our territorial integrity and strategic cohesion”. Rawat said Pakistan was continuing its proxy war through cross-border terrorism. “Unabated proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir unleashed by Pakistan, a vicious anti-India rhetoric on social media and efforts to create disharmony within India has taken India-Pakistan ties to a new low.” He said “the persisting boundary dispute, China’s support to Pakistan, its increasing influence in South Asia through the Belt and Road Initiative projects and an unbalanced economic relationship are likely to ensure that in near future the Sino-India relationship will remain a fundamentally competitive one”. Rawat also underlined China’s increasing footprint in the Indian Ocean Region and said it was a serious security challenge to India. He said the “future would witness increasing militarisation of the key Belt and Road outposts” in the Indian Ocean Region. With its ambition of emerging as a global power, China is already making inroads into South Asia and its aspirations “are evident in the ever expanding Chinese military maritime footprints in the Indo-Pacific”, Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Karnataka High Court raps govt on Tejasvi Surya flouting Covid norms||Karnataka High Court has pulled up the government for not penalising BJP Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya and others for not wearing masks and flouting norms by attending political events. A divisional bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty was hearing a petition filed by city-based NGO Letzkit Foundation that had brought to light widespread violations of Covid-19 safety guidelines by political leaders. Senior lawyer G.R. Mohan, who appeared for advocate Geeta Mishra who impleaded in the case, said the bench asked the BJP government lawyer whether the state had fined Surya and the others. “The court asked why they were not slapped with fines and what signal the government was sending by penalising only common citizens,” Mohan told The Telegraph on Friday. Karnataka is the second worst-affected state in India with over 8.38 lakh Covid cases and more than 11,000 deaths. In a memo filed to implead in the original petition, Mohan had submitted news clippings showing Surya riding an open vehicle, which was part of a convoy, from Bangalore airport to the BJP party office after he arrived in the city on September 30 following his appointment as BJP Yuva Morcha national president. The visuals showed how Surya and others had neither maintained physical distancing nor worn masks. The petitioner had cited violation of the Disaster Management Act and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2000, that call for stringent punishment of up to five years in jail for such violations, said Mohan. “The court questioned the government about the rationale behind penalising common citizens with fines while not acting against politicians,” Mohan said. “Police were also taken to task for not filing FIRs against politicians who have violated the norms during public meetings and processions, especially when these are cognisable offences,” the lawyer added. The court also came down heavily on a compliance report filed by the city police that claimed that Surya had followed physical distancing protocol and worn a mask during the rally to the party office. “The court asked how could the police report say he (Surya) had complied with the norms when pictures carried by the media showed otherwise,” Mohan said, adding the procession was held without police permission. According to the police report, the force had refused permission to the BJP event to receive Surya in light of the pandemic. It further stated that party supporters had gathered at a highway tollgate on the way back from the airport and accompanied Surya in a convoy. The police informed the court that it had booked 25 BJP activists for not wearing masks at the Surya event. Surya could not be reached for comment as his secretary who handles his calls did not respond. The court sought details from the government about the number of such political rallies allowed during the recent months when safety guidelines related to the epidemic were in force. The hearing will continue on November 9. The original petition had drawn attention to safety guideline violations at social gatherings, religious places and shopping malls. The petition was filed when daily cases had touched a peak of over 10,000 in Karnataka, with the majority being reported in Bangalore. Although the number of cases has been steadily decreasing, Bangalore remains a concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Government message to women: Get married & fast||The Union ministry of culture sent out a WhatsApp message on Karwa Chauth on Wednesday, an image that came with the ministry’s name on the left hand corner and this wish in the middle: “May the moonlight illuminate your world with goodness.” At the bottom, right, were pictures of a sieve and a pot, required for the performance of the ritual, and the message, “Happy Karwa Chauth”. The ministry also put up this image on its Twitter account, with the following message: “On the occasion of #KarwaChauth, married women fast for the well-being, prosperity and long life of their beloved husband. Wishing all women a very happy Karwa Chauth.” The WhatsApp message was also sent to several organisations under the culture ministry. Question no. 1: What exactly were institutions like libraries and museums supposed to do on Karwa Chauth? Question no. 2: What exactly is the ministry saying and to whom? There we can dig into a bit of ministry history. The culture ministry has been talking about Karwa Chauth for some time. According to the ministry’s vision document 2024, India needs to compile a “National List of Intangible Cultural Heritage”. It would have been better perhaps if such heritage was recognised by the world, but Unesco accepts only one nomination per country every year for its World Heritage list, alas. Hence the need for a list made in India. What will be in that list? What does “Intangible Cultural Heritage” mean? They mean unique Indian traditions such as those that celebrate relationships between man and woman, such as between husband and wife (Karwa Chauth), and brother and sister (Bhaiya Dooj, Raksha Bandhan), says the document. On Karwa Chauth, a woman fasts for the well-being of her husband. When the moon rises, she looks at the moon through the sieve, then breaks her fast. Performed in north India (though not unknown in some Bengali homes now), it goes back to a time when men were warriors and went away for long and women would wait for them at home, praying for their safety. The website indianculture.gov.in further explains the significance of Karwa Chauth. In the language of romance and emotion, it describes marriage and the relationship between men and women and adds: “The festival is also observed by unmarried women who pray in the hope of securing a desired life partner.” It is also held that Karwa Chauth is celebrated to mark the end of the harvest season, the website says. “Whatever be the origins, the festival offers an occasion to strengthen familial ties.” It goes on to link Karwa Chauth with two Hindu mythological tales. One is that of Savitri and Satyavan in which Savitri brings her husband Satyavan back from death with her prayer and determination. “Another such story is that of Veervati, the only sister of seven loving brothers. When the brothers could not bear to see her fasting the whole day they misled her into believing that the moon had risen. Veervati broke her fast and had food but soon got the news of her husband’s death. She prayed for a whole year and the Gods, pleased with her devotion, gave back her husband’s life,” the website adds. We can attempt a few answers here. One is a no-brainer. The ministry is giving us a definition of, what else, Indian culture. It is saying that it is Indian culture for women to starve for their men, that it is the duty of women to wait for their men, that Indian women should not give up their husbands for dead and if they don’t keep their fast properly, they may immediately drop to their death. And Indian men can just come back home and eat. The ministry is also saying that all women should aspire to get married. It of course does not matter to the ministry that it is, in the process, reinforcing every gender stereotype that women have been battling for so long to break. Or that it is asking Indian women to regress into the most regressive practices. Maybe there can be an argument in favour of bringing sati back too, as it perhaps shows women at their most beautiful, making the most extreme sacrifice for men. Bollywood has done its bit for Karwa Chauth. Who can forget Raj and Simran’s stolen love on the terrace on Karwa Chauth in Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge? On Wednesday night several Bollywood leading ladies shone in their Instagram accounts in Karwa Chauth finery and they looked lovely. Which brings us to question no. 3: What did the poor women who love food, or even their drink, do? I howled at the moon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Covid link to stroke risk and severity ||A study of strokes among coronavirus disease patients in India has revealed an unusually large proportion of patients without the traditional risk factors such as high blood pressure and also pointed to greater residual disability levels than in other stroke survivors. The study by neurologists in Bangalore analysed the features and outcomes of strokes in 62 Covid-19 patients in 13 hospitals between June and August this year and compared them with those of 111 stroke patients they had treated last year during the same months. Sixteen (26 per cent) of the 62 Covid-19 stroke patients did not have any history of conventional risk factors for stroke such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or cardiovascular disease compared with only 5 (4.5 per cent) of 111 patients. “This points to a five-fold increased stroke risk for patients who otherwise had no conventional risk factor for stroke,” said John Mathew, professor and head of neurology at the St John’s National Academy of Health Sciences, Bangalore, who coordinated the study. “Our findings bolster evidence for the idea that Covid-19 itself is a risk factor for stroke,” he said. The stroke severity was also high among Covid-19 patients. None of the 62 patients had a minor stroke, while 60 (54 per cent) of the 111 stroke patients treated last year had minor stroke. And 11 (17 per cent) of the Covid-19 patients had a severe stroke, compared with only one of the 111 patients last year. The study, published in the International Journal of Stroke, also found that 37 (59 per cent) of the 62 Covid-19 stroke patients had moderate to severe residual neurological disability at the time of their discharge. Fewer proportions of the 111 patients had moderate to severe residual disabilities. Thirteen (21 per cent) of Covid-19 stroke patients died, while none of the 111 patients had died. The findings are in line with international studies that have noted that strokes associated with Covid-19 are likely to be more severe with worse outcomes and higher mortality than non-Covid-19 strokes. Neuroscientists at the University of Cambridge in the UK had last week estimated that about 14 in every 1,000 Covid-19 patients admitted to hospital experience a stroke, a rate that is higher than the incidence of stroke among older patients and other patients with severe infections. “Even though the incidence of stroke among Covid-19 patients is relatively low, the scale of the pandemic means many thousands of people could be potentially affected worldwide,” Hugh Markus, professor and neurologist at the University of Cambridge, said in a media release. Neurologists across India are concerned that as the country’s Covid-19 epidemic grows, the number of patients susceptible to stroke will also increase. The Bangalore study which found a five-fold increased risk of stroke in patients without any underlying health disorders such as hypertension or diabetes suggests that Covid-19 itself is a trigger for stroke.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Kashmiri Pandits ask: Land for industry, not us? ||The urgency shown by the Narendra Modi government to bring industry to the Valley has raised the hackles of a section of migrant Kashmiri Pandits, with a prominent community leader asking what was the priority — the return of the Pandits or industry. Satish Mahalder, a Kashmiri Pandit and chief of Reconciliations, Return & Rehabilitations of Migrants, on Friday said the Centre was walking the extra mile to woo investors but had no plan for Pandits living as migrants in different parts of the country. “Under the new land laws, the J&K government is transferring 3,000 acres of land to the industries and commerce department to invite outside investors. But it is not providing even 300 acres of land for the rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandit refugees who are living in exile for the past 31 years,” Mahaldar, who has been spearheading the campaign for the return of Pandits to the Valley, said. The Pandit leader was referring to the recent decision of the government allowing outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir, facilitated by the scrapping of provisions of Article 370. He said the Centre had made scapegoats out of Pandits by re-writing the land laws. Many Pandits have backed the abrogation of Article 370 and supported the plan to settle outsiders, which Kashmiri Muslims believe are steps aimed at changing the Muslim-majority character of the region. “Honourable Prime Minister/home minister, you brought the CAA law to rehabilitate refugees of the neighbouring countries, why do you discriminate and why don’t you rehabilitate your own in-country refugees?” Mahaldar said. Mahaldar has been working with leaders from across the separatist-pro-India divide in the Valley to facilitate the return of exiled Kashmiri Hindus. “This government has done absolutely nothing for the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley but you have still people from our community cheering for them,” Mahaldar told The Telegraph. “The members of our community have been on hunger strike at some places to force the government to take measures for our return but still nothing is happening.” The Pandit leader’s remarks came as the government on Wednesday approved a Rs 201-crore plan for the construction of transit accommodation for Kashmiri migrant employees at six locations in the Valley under the Prime Minister’s development package for the community. An official spokesman said 1,680 units would be constructed to accommodate the migrant Pandit employees. Mahaldar said the Manmohan Singh government had sanctioned 3,000 jobs for Pandits to gradually bring them back to the Valley. “The NDA government sanctioned 3,000 more jobs but no new jobs were actually given. Whatever jobs were given were given by the Congress government. There are many more families who could not get any job. Is there a plan for their return also?” Mahaldar said. Around 2 lakh Pandits had migrated from the Valley at the peak of militancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||SC/ST priests for first time in Kerala ||The Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages over 1,200 temples in Kerala, has decided to appoint priests from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. One ST and 18 SC priests will soon be appointed on a part-time basis. The board is an autonomous temple body that manages shrines across the state, including the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple. “This is the first time that the temple body is appointing a Scheduled Tribe person as a priest in shrines under the TDB,” state Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a Facebook post. So far, 310 people have been selected for the post of part-time priests from the rank list published in 2017, he said. As there were not enough eligible candidates from the SC and ST communities for the examination at that time, a separate rank list was prepared for them, which was published on November 5. Though there were four vacancies notified for the ST community, only one application was received, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||SC showcause notice to Maharashtra Assembly official on Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a showcause notice to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly assistant secretary asking him to explain in two weeks why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for his letter to journalist Arnab Goswami purportedly cautioning him against disclosing a House notice to the top court. The apex court, which also granted protection from arrest to the Republic TV editor-in-chief in the Maharashtra Assembly breach of privilege motion case, took strong note of the October 13 letter of Assembly assistant secretary Vilas Athawale and said he had prima facie committed contempt. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said: “This is a serious matter and amounts to contempt. The above statements are unprecedented and have a tendency to bring the administration of justice into disrepute and in any case may amount to direct interference in the administration of justice. “The intention of the author of the letter seems to be to intimidate the petitioner because he approached this court and to threaten him with a penalty for doing so.” The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly had initiated the breach of privilege motion against Goswami for reportage related to the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Bail hearing The hearing of Goswami’s interim bail plea in connection with his arrest over a 2018 abetment of suicide case remained incomplete in Bombay High Court on Friday. The court will continue to hear his petition on Saturday. Goswami has been in judicial custody since Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Government stealing army officers’ pensions: Congress||The Congress on Friday strongly objected to the new proposal of the Narendra Modi government which says only those officers who have spent more than 35 years in the armed forces shall be entitled to a “full pension”, arguing that the BJP’s fake nationalism used the soldiers merely for seeking votes. Accusing the government of betraying the armed forces, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The reality is that 90 per cent of army officers retire before 35 years of service. The Modi government is clearly hatching a conspiracy to deny 90 per cent of army officers their full pension. This will not only demoralise the officers but also discourage the youth from joining the service.” Referring to a letter circulated by the department of military affairs (DMA) in the office of the Chief of Defence Staff seeking suggestions for the proposal, Surjewala launched a scathing attack on the BJP, saying: “Habituated to seeking votes on the sacrifice of our brave soldiers and on the nationalism plank, this government has become the first regime in history to steal their pension and alternative career choices after ‘active service’ of those officers who protect our motherland.” Surjewala explained: “At the time of recruitment in the army, that is military commission, every officer in the Indian Military Academy has to compulsorily sign a 20-year mandatory service bond. An officer after 20 years of rigorous service presently gets 50 per cent of his last-drawn salary as pension, but the new proposal is snatching away 50 per cent of that. For instance, if an officer gets Rs 1 lakh as his last-drawn salary, he will get Rs 50,000 as pension under the existing scheme. The new proposal shall only give the officer Rs 25,000.” He added: “On an average, 65 per cent army officers are confined to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Only 35 per cent officers can aspire to reach the position of colonel or above. In such a situation, after serving for 20 years, those military officers find a second career option in life with full pension and effectively contribute to nation-building. “Thereby, the Indian Army always remains young, which in military language is called ‘lean and mean fighting force’. If the government’s devious proposal comes into force, then 65 per cent of military officers will forever lose their second career option and their creative support in nation-building in civilian areas outside the military.” The Congress leader also insisted that the terms of service of military officers cannot be modified with a back date. “When 20 years of compulsory service and full pension after 20 years have been prescribed for retirement, then how can the government revise all those conditions of service? There is already a shortage of 9,427 officers in the three armed forces of India,” Surjewala said. “The figures available for June 2019 show that there are 7,399 less officers in the army, 1,545 are wanted in the navy and 483 less in the air force. The Modi government’s agenda-driven proposal, which breaks the morale of the Indian Army, shall make our armed forces less attractive for our youth to join and ultimately the country will suffer a loss,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Supreme Court queries Rs 1cr fine, 5yr jail for pollution ||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned a new central ordinance’s prescription of a uniform five-year jail term and Rs 1-crore fine for anyone polluting the capital’s air, saying the offences and the punishments should be graded. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde was also dismissive of the Centre’s move to form a new anti-pollution commission, saying it was concerned more about how the government was going to tackle the rising smog and air pollution in Delhi and its neighbourhood. The court said it would examine the ordinance immediately after Diwali, which falls on November 14, indicating it wasn’t happy with the legislation. “We are not concerned with any commission. There are already many commissions. There are many brains working,” the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “But ensure that there is no smog. Also grade the offences. For every offence it can’t be five years’ jail or a Rs 1-crore fine.... We will hold a detailed hearing after the Diwali break.” On October 29, the Centre had promulgated an ordinance creating a high-powered anti-pollution commission, spelling out pollution norms for the National Capital Region, and prescribing punishment for violators. “There is five years’ imprisonment prescribed for all. We feel there should be a grading of offences. Here everything is one-fold. How can it be?” Justice Bobde asked Mehta. Mehta said the government would look into the matter. The law generally grades all punishment depending on the gravity of the offence. The ordinance’s failure to do so could be the outcome of a hurried promulgation. The ordinance had been sprung as a surprise after the apex court had last month decided to set up a stubble-burning monitor for the capital under one of its retired judges, Justice Madan B. Lokur. Justice Lokur’s appointment would not have pleased the Centre — he has been a critic of the misuse of the sedition law and efforts to stifle free speech, a seeker of accountability for extrajudicial killings by the armed forces, and the head of a citizens’ probe into the Delhi riots. Days after the apex court decision to appoint the Lokur committee, the government had told the bench about the proposed ordinance and got the panel to be held in abeyance. It then issued the ordinance in double quick time. At the start of Friday’s hearing, Mehta told the court the new commission on air quality management in Delhi and its neighbourhood would start functioning from Friday. But the court was unimpressed. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the public interest petitioner whose plea had secured the appointment of the Lokur committee, said the government must immediately take all the necessary measures to stem pollution in the region. “Please state that (if) any person suffer(s) from health issues, then solicitor-general Mr Tushar Mehta will be responsible…. I have already started coughing,” he told the bench in a lighter vein. Mehta responded: “I can advise you to leave a couple of things….” Both counsel laughed at the repartee. Singh told the court that the new commission lacked any health ministry representative. He requested the court to pass a few urgent directions to check pollution. But Justice Bobde said: “We don’t want to advise them (the government). They are all knowledgeable people. Whatever anyone says, ultimately we are a court of law. This problem will be dealt (with) by the executive as they have money and resources.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
