08-11-2020||India||For years on, Congress-BJP spar over demonetisation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and given a boost to transparency on Sunday, the fourth anniversary of the contentious decision to withdraw high value currency notes, as BJP and Congress sparred over its outcome. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that Modi’s move was aimed at helping a few of his “crony capitalist friends” and had “destroyed” the Indian economy, prompting a strong response from the BJP which said the exercise was an “attack” on corruption and black money that were rampant during the “lost decade” of the Congress-led UPA government. Gandhi and the Congress have been alleging that demonetisation was not in the interest of the people and had adverse effects on the economy, a charge the government has dismissed repeatedly. On November 8, 2016, Modi announced on national television his government’s decision to ban all currency notes of higher denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 from midnight. Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister listed the beneficial outcomes of demonetisation. “Demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and given a boost to transparency,” he said. “These outcomes have been greatly beneficial towards national progress,” Modi said using the hashtag ‘DeMolishingCorruption’. Along with his tweet, the Prime Minister also shared a graphic on how demonetisation has ensured better tax compliance, improved tax and GDP ratio, made India a lesser cash based economy and gave a boost to national security. But in a video released as part of the Congress’ online ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’ campaign, Gandhi said the question was how the economy of Bangladesh “surpassed” the Indian economy as there was a time when India used to be one of the most high performing economies of the world. “The government says that the reason is Covid but if that is the reason, there is Covid in Bangladesh and elsewhere in the world also. The reason is not Covid, the reason is ‘Notebandi’ and GST,” Gandhi said in Hindi. “Four years ago Prime Minister Narendra Modi began an assault on the Indian economy. He hurt farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers. Manmohan Singh ji said the economy will lose two per cent and that is what we saw,” the former Congress chief said. “The Prime Minister had stated that it is a fight against black money, but it was not so,” he added. “This was a lie. The attack was on you, Modi wanted to take your money and give it to his 2-3 crony capitalist friends. You stood in lines, not his crony capitalist friends. You put your money in banks and PM Modi gave that money to his friends and gave them a loan waiver of Rs 3,50,000 crore,” Gandhi alleged, but did not provide any evidence to support his claim on loan waiver. Hitting back, the BJP said demonetisation was good for the country and resulted in cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector and revenue aggregation. “Demonetisation had dealt a body blow to the systemic financial corruption and black money economy. Since then, it has simultaneously invigorated formal economy and brought unprecedented financial benefits to all sections of society,” BJP national spokesperson Rajeev Chandrasekhar told a press conference at the party's headquarters in Delhi. “If there is anybody who shouldn't talk about loot, mismanagement of the economy it should be people from the Congress. During the last decade of the Congress-led UPA government, there was rampant black money and corruption in the country's economy.” The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power at the Centre for two terms from 2004 to 2014. “Demonetisation had three significant and tangible impacts ‑ cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector as it helped us to reach the poor and needy, and revenue aggregation,” Chandrasekhar said. Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the BJP-led NDA government did great harm to India's economy on November 8, 2016. “The first lesson every ruler and every government must learn is ‑even if you do not do good to the people, do not do harm,” the former finance minister said. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken alleged that the Modi government has continuously changed the explanatory reasons for carrying out demonetisation and it has “destroyed” the economy. The Congress observed the fourth anniversary of demonetisation as “Vikshwasghaat Diwas (Betrayal Day)” and ran a social media campaign ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’. Maken quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s remarks on November 24, 2016, to hit out at the government. “The way this scheme has been implemented - is a monumental management failure, and in fact, it is a case of organised loot, legalised plunder of the common people,” Maken quoted. “Modi ji’s government continuously changed the explanatory reasons for carrying out demonetization,” Maken added. The Congress leader said that at different points, these were  to counter black money and corruption, to stem out fake or “counterfeit” currency, for a “digital or cashless” economy, to tackle Maoism, terrorism and separatism, to bring idle savings into banks, to expand and deepen the tax base, to arrive at a bigger, cleaner and real GDP and for faster economic growth, to bring down real estate prices and to partner with the GST. Maken also made a point by point rebuttal of the various objectives cited for demonetisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Army officer, 3 soldiers martyred in Machil||An army officer and three security personnel including a Border Security Force (BSF) constable were killed during and anti-terror operation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machil sector of Jammu  & Kashmir’s Kupwara district. The militants made an abortive bid during the night to infiltrate into the Indian side of the LoC in Machil sector in north Kashmir's Kupwara district. According to the infiltrators were challenged and three of them were killed However, three Army soldiers, including an officer, and a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan were also killed during the operation, said the officials. Meanwhile, Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said at about 1 am, a BSF patrol noticed suspicious movement near the Anti-Infiltration Obstacle System (LoC fence), about 3.5 km from the LoC. “The BSF personnel challenged the infiltrators and a battle ensued, in which a militant was killed,” he said. “A BSF soldier was killed in action (KIA) and the firefight stopped at 0400 hours,” Col Kalia said in a statement. According to him more troops were rushed to the area and the movement of the militants was tracked with the help of surveillance devices. “Contact was re-established at 1020 hours when heavy fire was drawn by own search parties approximately 1.5 km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed. Own troops suffered three KIA and two injured,” added Col Kalia. He informed that the injured soldiers have been evacuated and that the operation is in progress and further details are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil to join Congress||S. Sasikanth Senthil, former Karnataka-cadre IAS officer, who had tendered his resignation last year stating that it was “unethical” for him to continue as a public servant, when democracy was being compromised in India, has announced to join the Congress party on Sunday. The former officer had participated in many protests against the government, including the anti-NRC/CAA agitations, since his resignation. Senthil, was the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district when he resigned in September 2019. He recalled he had said while leaving service that “fundamental building blocks of our diverse democracy are being compromised in an unprecedented manner.” In a statement uploaded on his official Twitter handle, Senthil said, “Congress party is aware of the challenges that the 21st century poses for India and the world and is ready to find solutions alongside the people of the country.” “In the coming days, I look forward to building this organisation by travelling to corners of the country to spread the message of our Constitution and understanding our people and pondering on ways to make their lives better,” he said while elaborating on what to expect from him in the future. The former bureaucrat maintained that the Congress party as a movement has been consistent with the founding ideologies of the Constitution and that the “current leadership understands the spirit of this ideological fight and recognises that India has to be for all”. Senthil maintained that Tamil Nadu “is the final frontier” for divisive forces, adding Tamil people always believed in “social equity”. Senthil then stated, “I will stand with them until my last breath to protect these core values of Tamil Nadu. I have remained an activist at heart and will continue to do so within the Congress party also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Modi inaugurates Ro-Pax ferry service in Gujarat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a Ro-Pax ferry service between Hazira near Surat and Ghogha in Bhavnagar district today. The service will reduce the 375 km road distance between Bhavnagar and Surat to 90 km by sea route, Modi said while flagging off the service via video conferencing. It will save time and fuel, and boost eco and religious tourism in the Saurashtra region of the state, a release issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) earlier said. The three-deck Ro-Pax Ferry Vessel 'Voyage Symphony' connecting Hazira in Surat district of south Gujarat and Ghogha in Saurashtra's Bhavnagar has a load capacity of 30 trucks, 100 passenger cars, and 500 passengers plus 34 crew and hospitality staff, it said. The Ro-Pax terminal has wide-ranging facilities, including an administrative office building, a parking area, a sub-station, and a water tower. The ferry will make three trips daily, the release said, adding that 5 lakh passengers will be transported annually besides 80,000 passenger vehicles, 50,000 two-wheelers and 30,000 trucks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||BJP chooses 70 leaders to monitor work of civic bodies’ councilors ensuring cleanliness drive in Delhi||The Delhi BJP will start monitoring the performance of councilors in the three-party-ruled municipal corporations from Monday in a bid to give the city a "neat, clean and festive" look before Diwali and Chhath. The party has deployed 70 senior leaders in each Assembly segment to coordinate with local BJP councilors to ensure cleanliness at public places, main roads, markets, parks, religious places and cleaning of drains and urinals, Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva said. "The move is inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's emphasis on cleanliness and to promote a healthy competition among the BJP councilors to make their wards best in terms of sanitation during the festival season," he said. For three days beginning Monday, the party leaders will assess the performance of BJP councilors in their wards by checking the cleanliness of roads, parks and other public places, Sachdeva, who is the convener of the program, said. "The performance of councilors will be assessed and the best three of them in each of the three municipal corporations, who score the highest out of hundred marks, will be felicitated by party president Adesh Gupta," he said. The BJP had won 181 of the 270 municipal wards in 2017 polls and rules the three civic bodies in the city. The civic bodies are tasked to keep the city clean besides providing basic education and health facilities. Sachdeva said the special drive will ensure that city remains neat and clean during Diwali, Chhath and the upcoming festivals. The Delhi BJP leaders will also guide the councilors about steps to improve and maintain cleanliness in the wards, he added. The team of leaders deployed for monitoring the work of councilors includes many who have a long experience of working at the municipal corporations and other bodies besides serving as office-bearers in the party organization, Sachdeva said. Delhi BJP general secretaries Kuljeet Chahal (Karawal Nagar), Harsh Malhotra (Viswhas Nagar), vice presidents Virendra Shacdeva (Krishna Nagar), Ashok Goel Devraha (Rajendra Nagar) and Sunil Yadav (Patel Nagar), former MLA Subhash Sachdeva (Rajouri Garden), former mayor and general secretary Ravinder Gupta (Sadar Bazar), spokespersons Pravin Shankar Kapoor (Kasturba Nagar), Harish Khurana (Tilak Nagar) and Aditya Jha (Ghonda), are among the 70 leaders chosen for the monitoring work, he informed. The objective of the drive is to ensure that garbage and construction debris that are often dumped at open spaces, roadsides and drains is promptly cleared, regular garbage collection from markets and residential areas and cleaning of main drains so that people can see the change for themselves, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Father Stan Swamy has to go to court for a straw ||When Father Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old tribal rights activist, was arrested in haste in Ranchi in the Bhima Koregaon case and taken to Mumbai last month, he had carried a bag with him. In the bag was a sipper with a straw, which he needs to consume liquids. Father Stan suffers from several age-related ailments apart from Parkinson’s, which has left him unable to hold any open liquid container like a cup or a mug without spilling the contents. No one knows what happened to the sipper and straw in the bag. On Friday, Father Stan applied to a special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup. “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s,” his plea said, referring to a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause muscular spasms, making even everyday activities difficult to execute. Sharif Sheikh, the priest’s lawyer, told The Telegraph on Saturday: “Everything was in the bag when he was arrested. That bag is with the NIA. Yesterday, the court directed them to hand it over to him.... They (NIA) did not say why it was not given.” He could not confirm whether the bag still contained the sipper with a straw the priest had put in it. The court, whose permission is required for materials to be sent in from outside jail premises, set the next hearing for November 26, PTI reported. Later on Saturday, Satej D. Patil, minister of state for home in Maharashtra where the Congress is a ruling partner, tweeted that “necessary care has been taken regarding providing of straw and proper medical attention has also been provided as per prison rules”. After the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government had come to power in the state, the NIA, a central agency, had taken over the case. Previously, the special NIA court had rejected the priest’s plea for bail, sought on health grounds, after the prison authorities said he had been lodged in a special cell at the jail’s health facility that was equipped to take care of him. Father Stan, arrested by the NIA on October 8, is lodged at Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai, accused of Maoist links along with 12 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and litterateurs. Three women accused – lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, professor Shoma Sen, and singer Jyoti Jagtap – are in Byculla District Prison in Mumbai. “It is sad that Father Stan Swamy has to move the court for permission to use a straw to drink water or any liquid. Are the administrators of the jail department and especially the DG, Prisons so bereft of human compassion that they cannot provide straws to the old and ailing prisoner?” P. Chidambaram, Congress leader and former Union finance minister, tweeted. Some jails in the country, notorious for human rights violations, have been particularly harsh on prisoners of conscience. G.N. Saibaba, the jailed former Delhi University professor, has been put on an IV drip after he went on a hunger strike for 10 days demanding access to letters and books, his wife A.S. Vasantha told this newspaper on Saturday. Vasantha said Saibaba told her this over a phone call on Friday. She added that he had called off his strike after officials agreed to several of his demands and included physiotherapy as recommended by doctors. Saibaba, 53, is serving a life sentence in Nagpur for links to the banned CPI Maoist. He is paralysed below his waist because of polio, and his family says his arms are getting paralysed following irregular medical treatment in jail. Chidambaram, who was forced to spend over 100 days in jail last year as an accused in a money-laundering case, asked a question on Tuesday. “Why did NIA ask for 20 days’ time to respond to the application in court? Will NIA appoint a committee to do research on ‘straw’ and its use by human beings? A country that deals with persons in judicial custody as if they were convicted prisoners has thrown human rights into the rubbish pit.” It’s not that members of the Narendra Modi government have never been known to express sympathy for people taken into custody. Several senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, had only days ago slammed the arrest of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami in an abetment-to-suicide case. Goswami had been named in the purported suicide note. Shortly after the arrests in 2018, when the BJP ruled the state, a group of retired civil servants had written an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the accused had been framed to “promote partisan politics at the cost of justice”. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had condemned the arrest of Father Stan, who has during the decades spent in Jharkhand striven to empower tribal communities, helped protect their land rights and challenged the indiscriminate arrest of young tribal men under the false charge of being “Naxals”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court reserves order on Arnab Goswami plea||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on November 4 in an abetment of suicide case, failed to get relief on Saturday as the Bombay High Court reserved its order on his appeal. “We will pass the order at the earliest,” the court said after a marathon hearing. It added that Goswami was free to move the sessions court for regular bail in the meantime. If a bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide it within four days, it said. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik heard the arguments of the petitioners Goswami, Feroze Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda on interim bail. It said it would hear their petition on quashing of the FIR on December 10. Elsewhere, the Raigad sessions court said it will hear on November 9 the police’s appeal against a magistrate’s order denying them the custody of Goswami and the two other accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Joke is on you, Modi — Ab ki baar…? Grin and bear Biden||How do you get over the parroting of the slogan “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar” a little over a year ago? Answer: Ask the BJP IT Cell to dig out a 2014 clip of Joe Biden praising Narendra Modi after hosting a lunch during the Prime Minister’s US visit. As Biden stands poised to become America’s 46th President, early signs of a recalibration in the Modi government’s ecosystem to manage the optics became visible on Saturday. Amit Malviya, in charge of the BJP’s IT cell, sought to set the tone by pulling out the Biden clip from September 2014. “The Left cabal in India that is hallucinating of a blow to Modi if Biden was to be elected the President of the United States should listen to what he had to say... (smiley emoji) It may upset them no end,” Amit Malviya tweeted. No one expects a drastic change in the trajectory of the bilateral relationship, bolstered by bipartisan support in Washington and favoured by exigency — given America’s power competition with China. However, with Biden expected to reclaim America’s position as moral policeman of the world, the Modi government faces the possibility of losing the level of comfort it had with the Trump administration on human rights issues. But first things first. Ever since Biden took the pole position, video clips of a speech Modi made in Houston in September 2019 have bounced back on social media. It shows Prime Minister Modi speaking with Trump standing nearby on the stage. “Friends, we in India have connected well with President Trump, the words of candidate Trump, ab ki baar, Trump sarkar,” Modi is heard saying. The Opposition in India had accused the government of violating a time-honoured foreign policy principle of not interfering in another country’s domestic politics. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar had in reply invoked the technicality that Modi was simply quoting what Trump had said during his 2016 campaign when he had reworked Modi’s 2014 Lok Sabha election slogan to woo the Indian diaspora. But that technicality was lost on Trump's campaign team, which saw the entire event as an endorsement by Modi of the President. “President @realDonaldTrump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi as they shared a stage in Houston, walking hand in hand... to address more than 50,000 Indian Americans!!” tweeted Kayleigh McEnany, national press secretary for the President's 2020 campaign, after the Howdy Modi event. McEnany went on to become the White House press secretary. Team Trump, “the official Twitter for the Trump campaign”, had said: “President @realDonaldTrump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Modi!” It posted a Bloomberg article titled “India’s PM endorses Trump to Indian Americans” with a picture of the Prime Minister and the President in a bear hug. Despite this, the Modi government went ahead and hosted a similar event in Ahmedabad for Trump on his maiden visit to India in February this year. Although there was no repeat of the slogan, the trappings of the event were straight out of a Trump campaign rally, down to the songs that were played. Again, Trump’s team portrayed this as an endorsement, as was evident from the campaign video that was officially launched in August in the US to reach out to the Indian diaspora. On human rights, Trump seldom gave India any grief for moving away from the democratic values that both countries claim to hold dear, whether on the prolonged Kashmir lockdown or the contentious citizenship law. Although Republicans in the US Congress have voiced concern on both counts, Washington under Trump practically gave the Modi government a free pass. Things could be different under Biden, going by what is stated on his campaign website as the agenda for Muslim American communities. “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weaken democracy,” it goes. “Joe Biden has been disappointed by the measures that the government of India has taken with the implementation and aftermath of the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act into law. These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy.” Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris too has been vocal on Kashmir, which explains the less than lukewarm reaction across the BJP ecosystem to her selection for the position in August despite her Indian origins. Without going into the dilution of Article 370, she had spoken up for Kashmiris in September 2019. “We have to remind the Kashmiris that they are not alone in the world. We are all watching. There is a need to intervene if the situation demands,” she was quoted as saying by US-based media. Two other contenders for the Democratic presidential ticket — Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren — too had raised the plight of Kashmiris during the contest for the nomination, which suggests this is an issue the incoming administration is unlikely to ignore. It also raises questions about the wisdom of not just investing so much in Trump — that too at a personal level by Modi by hosting two Make-America-Great-Again-style rallies for him when the US was in its presidential election cycle — but also of foreign minister S. Jaishankar trying to brazen it out in Washington. In December, Jaishankar had cancelled a meeting with a US Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude Indian American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who has been particularly vociferous against the Modi government taking India away from its constitutional path and foundational values. Jayapal had also moved a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown. Jaishankar’s act secured the resolution 10 more co-sponsors — all Democrats. All this prompted many to question the wisdom of antagonising America’s Opposition party in an election year. Jayapal has just been re-elected to the House. Harris had not minced words while criticising Jaishankar’s move. “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill. I stand with @RepJayapal and I’m glad her colleagues in the House did too,” she had tweeted. Democrats are expected to be less strident in office, but the party tends to lean more towards liberalism than the conservative Republicans. Modi, however, had also tried to build camaraderie with the 44th President, Barack Obama, and can be expected to do so with Biden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Covid: Decline slows, surge in 2 states worrying||After steadily shrinking for eight weeks, India’s coronavirus disease epidemic is showing a slowdown in its pace of decline in multiple states, fresh surges in two states, and early deaths in at least one state, health experts said. The seven-day average of new cases detected daily nationwide has remained stable over the past week, falling to 46,423 on November 6 from 46,610 a week ago on October 30, after a much sharper fall since a mid-September peak of 93,000 daily average cases. Health experts have cautioned that a week’s trend line is too short for inferences about the country’s Covid-19 epidemic curve but said there are worrying signals of surges in Haryana and Telangana after Delhi’s third epidemic peak. Each successive peak in Delhi has been marked by higher number of daily cases detected — the seven-day average was around 3,400 daily new cases in mid-June, 4,400 in mid-September and 6,000 cases over the past week. In Haryana, the average daily cases has increased from 1,200 in mid-October to over 1,800, while Telangana’s counts have increased from 1,250 to 1,400, both over the past week. In Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the pace of decline has slowed down. “The daily counts are still falling, but the rate of decline has slowed down in several states,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist in Lucknow and a member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert group on Covid-19 surveillance. “People have to realise that they have to protect themselves through their own behaviour,” Reddy told The Telegraph. He emphasised the need for people to wear masks, adopt physical distancing norms and avoid crowds to minimise their risk of picking up the infection. A senior health official had expressed concern on Friday that in parts of Chhattisgarh, 34 per cent, or nearly one in three Covid-19 patients, have died within 24 hours of hospital admission. Health officials have iterated the need for an early diagnosis and rigorous monitoring of patients with mild symptoms at home so that they are moved to hospital quickly if their symptoms turn moderate or severe. India on Saturday recorded 50,356 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s lab-confirmed cases to over 8.46 million, of whom 7.81 million patients have recovered and 125,562 have died. The country had over 516,000 active patients on Saturday, about half of a peak count of a million in mid-September. Medical experts believe air pollution in northern India coupled with lower temperatures along with unprotected exposure to crowds are likely contributors to the spikes in Delhi and Haryana. “What we’re now witnessing in Delhi is the impact of people’s behaviour — irresponsible behaviour comes with a cost,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John said the reasons for the continued declining trend in large swathes across rural areas in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh amid the rise in Delhi, Haryana or Telangana should be probed through research. “Is there low-level transmission going on there that doesn’t lead to surges? It is possible, but needs research.” An epidemiological analysis by Sitabhra Sinha, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, has found that Delhi, Calcutta and Pune continue to have a high speed of spread of the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Kerala MLA held in jewellery scam||A Kerala lawmaker was arrested on Saturday for cheating people who invested in a gold scheme run by his jewellery group. M.C. Kamaruddin, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) lawmaker who represents Manjeshwar in Kasaragod, was arrested in four of the 115 cases booked against him. Over 800 depositors had accused him of cheating them of Rs 150 crore. The remaining cases are in various stages of investigation. The arrest came five hours after he was summoned for interrogation at the Kasaragod police headquarters. A district court in Kasaragod remanded Kamaruddin to 14 days in judicial custody. He was booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intent) and could be jailed for seven years if convicted. Sources said police had summoned the firm’s managing director P.T. Pookoya Thangal, also an IUML leader from Kasaragod. Kamaruddin had allegedly cheated depositors who invested in his Fashion Gold Jewellery that offered investment schemes. After launching his gold business in 2013, Kamaruddin started the investment schemes for common people and allegedly mobilised depositors using his clout as an IUML leader. A huge majority of the defrauded investors were sympathisers of the party with a significant presence in northern Kerala. But the firm allegedly stopped payment of interests about a year ago. The company even shuttered its three outlets in Kasaragod and one in Kannur in January this year leading to a scramble by the investors to get their money back. The company then issued cheques to many of the aggrieved investors. But the cheques carried false signature of the managing director. The case had put the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on the defensive at a time when the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) was battling several fronts opened by a gold smuggling case. An influential IUML leader, Kamaruddin, was elected to the Assembly in a bypoll held last year. With a large number of complainants being IUML sympathisers, the party had stepped in about six weeks ago when Kamaruddin was told to clear all the dues in six months. While the IUML even formed a committee in a last ditch attempt to make Kamaruddin pay the depositors, it had made it clear that only the lawmaker was responsible for his woes. But Kamaruddin allegedly liquidated all the assets leaving no chance for any repayment. He allegedly invested in real estate ignoring the solution suggested by his party. Kamaruddin termed the arrest as “politically motivated” and said he was working on clearing the dues to his depositors. “The government is covering up its own issues… this is politically motivated,” he said while being taken for the mandatory medical tests at the Kasaragod general hospital. The arrest came as a blow to the party, which is the second-largest constituent of the UDF that was aiming to do well in the local body polls scheduled in December. Congress leaders, however, sought to downplay the arrest and maintained that law would take its course. “The Congress only wants to say let law take its course,” state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran told reporters after the arrest. UDF convener M.M. Hassan echoed Ramachandran’s view but questioned the timing of the arrest. “The timing of the arrest has a political motive,” he said alluding to how the LDF government has been on the defensive ever since the gold bust on July 5. The gold case had led to sustained interrogation and later arrest of M. Sivasankar. Although the government was quick to suspend him after his links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case became clear, his recent arrest in a money-laundering case had put the LDF under pressure. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh was also arrested in Bangalore over a money-laundering case linked to a drug racket, which had put the ruling party on the back foot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir alliance to contest elections||Jammu and Kashmir’s seven-party alliance on Saturday decided to unitedly contest the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections in the Union Territory, partly shunning its two-year election boycott to prevent the BJP from capturing the political space in the region. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which comprises major political parties of the UT including National Conference and People’s Democratic Party and is fighting for the restoration of Article 370, said all its constituents unanimously chose to contest. “The PAGD has unanimously decided to fight the DDC elections unitedly. Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded n (and) marauded by divisive forces,” the alliance said in a statement issued after a meeting held in the Jammu region. The alliance was floated recently but all its members had boycotted the local body elections in 2018 and 2019 in anticipation of the Centre’s plans to scrap J&K’s special status. The BJP, which had no presence in large parts of Jammu and Kashmir, took advantage of their absence and could win many seats, uncontested or with minimal participation. The alliance has belied expectations of many in J&K who were expecting them to take a more hard-line position on elections as long as Article 370 and statehood is restored. Some even expected them to follow into the footsteps of Hurriyat by completely boycotting all elections. “But that won’t be easy because that means helping the BJP capture all the space for electoral politics in Jammu and Kashmir. The parties unanimously decided to contest the elections,” a source said. The UT will hold its first DDC polls from November 28 to December 22 in eight phases. In October, the central government amended The Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989, to establish development councils in all its 20 districts. Every district will be divided into 14 territorial constituencies, with elections in total 280 constituencies. Elections are also being held simultaneously in 228 vacant seats in urban local bodies and 13,241 panch and sarpanch seats that were left vacant as no candidates came forward to contest following the boycott by major parties. PDP spokesman Firdous Tak said the alliance has not taken any decision on contesting Assembly or parliamentary elections. “The decision will be taken on those elections when the time comes. We are only contesting DDC elections. So far as elections to leftover panchayats or municipal bodies are concerned, they are being contested on non-party basis,” Tak told The Telegraph. “What makes this election is unique is that we will field joint candidates and won’t be contesting against each other. The candidates will be announced by (NC president) Farooq Abdullah sahib (who heads the alliance) in the coming days.” A source said they expect a huge success which will “negate all the propaganda” of the BJP that people in J&K are happy with the abrogation of Article 370 and the changes in land and domicile laws. The source said the alliance leadership has met delegations in Srinagar and in Jammu and the announcement was a result of the deliberations. Apart from the NC and the PDP, other parties in the alliance include the CPM, the CPI, the J&K People’s Conference, the Awami National Conference and the People’s Movement. The Congress was also part of last year’s Gupkar declaration which had vowed to fight proposed changes in J&K’s special status. The party has, however, not joined the alliance. Separately, the J&K Congress also announced to contest the DDC and local body polls. The participation is likely to deal a major blow to the BJP’s plans to make inroads in non-Hindu belts of the UT. Muslims form nearly 70 per cent of the population and many believe the abrogation of Article 370 is aimed at changing the Muslim-majority character of the region. “Our participation does not in any way prove that we have diluted our stand for the restoration of the state’s special status. We do not want to give the BJP a free run and help its propaganda that its win was an approval of what they did on August 5 last year,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||‘Chitti’ in Narendra Modi’s message to Kamala Harris||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to the incoming administration in Washington soon after midnight with a tweet each to congratulate President-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on their election. “Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights,” the Prime Minister tweeted along with a 2014 photograph of him with the President-elect. In another tweet, the Prime Minister congratulated Harris: “Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership.” There was no picture accompanying the tweet but the reference to “chittis (aunts)” brought up the special connection that an Indian premier can claim over other world leaders who had already wished the duo. Harris had referred to her “chittis” in her nomination acceptance speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Vaccine unit soon in Bhubaneswar||Odisha plans to set up an advanced vaccine manufacturing unit at Andharua on the outskirts of the city. The unit will work on the innovation and production of improved vaccines for different diseases, including malaria and Covid-19. The state government on Saturday inaugurated the Virus Research and Diagnostic laboratory at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. Hyderabad-based M/s Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) will play the sheet-anchor’s role in setting up a ‘state of art’ biotech incubation centre in the state where common facilities and an IT corridor will also be set up to promote local start-ups. The Odisha government will provide full support to entrepreneurs willing to invest in these areas. The decision to open a vaccine manufacturing unit comes at a time when the state is battling the corona pandemic and scouting for a potent vaccine against the disease. Health workers will be given the vaccine on a priority basis once it is available. Covid-19 has so far claimed 1,410 lives, including doctors, public representatives, police personnel and journalists. These decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Tripathy on Friday evening. He directed officials to commence ground level construction work for these projects within a fortnight so that production could commence within schedule time. “We have already identified the land. For the Biotech Park land is available at Andharua. The building plan as per the design has also been approved,” said secretary Skill Development and Technical Education and Chairman & MD, Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO), Sanjay Kumar Singh. Officials said that required statutory clearances and pollution control board permission has been availed for setting up the vaccine unit. “The start-ups in Odisha are doing well and many of them have already acquired patents for their innovations. As of now around 774 start-ups are operating in various incubation centers out of which around 65 incubates have acquired patent, trademark and copyright. Around 75 start-ups are incubating in biotech and health sector,” said secretary, science and technology, Santosh Sarangi. Chairman and MD BBIL Dr Krishna Ella said, “Ours is a multidimensional biotechnology company specializing in manufacture of vaccines and bio-therapeutics. The company has taken up the development and production of new or improved vaccines against severe Rotavirus Diarrhoea, Malaria, Japanese Encephalitis, Rabies, Pandemic Influenza and drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus. The unit at Andharua in Bhubaneswar will produce ten types of vaccines, including malaria and Covid vaccine. The total investment will be around Rs 300 crore. Best possible technology will be used in this unit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Bihar exit polls put Tejashwi Yadav ahead||Exit polls on the Bihar Assembly elections, for which polling ended on Saturday, have predicted that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. Exit polls have in the past gone both wrong and right and the picture will be clear only on Tuesday when the votes are counted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the NDA’s campaign, addressing a dozen rallies and even writing a last-minute letter to Bihar’s voters appealing for support for Nitish. The BJP has been hoping to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar. The exit poll by Today’s Chanakya for CNN-News 18 projected a figure of just 55 (+/-11) seats for the NDA. It gave 180 seats (+/-11) to the Mahagathbandhan, which would be a landslide victory. The number of seats in the Assembly is 243. Axis My India for India Today TV gave 161 seats to the Mahagathbandhan, again a big victory. Chirag Paswan’s LJP, seen as the B-team of the BJP, was forecast to pick up only a handful of seats. But the big story coming out of the exit polls could be the emergence of jailed RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi as the new leader of the state. Axis My India found that he was the most preferred candidate for the chief minister’s post, with 44 per cent respondents backing him. Nitish came second, with 37 per cent support. If the polls turn out right on Tuesday, it would mean that youths across castes had backed Tejashwi, who had made unemployment the central issue this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
