09-11-2020||India||Indian Railways’ stand of linking goods train services with passenger ones ‘irrational’: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amrinder Singh on Monday said that the decision of the railways to link goods train movement to that of the passenger ones is illogical and irrational. Singh said that there was absolutely no logic in the Railways’ decision, which they have taken as a common excuse to go on with the suspension of freight services. However, the organisation has said that it will operate both goods and passenger trains at once or none, while declining to resume freight services in Punjab. Train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24, at a time when the state’s farmers started their rail roko movement against the newly enacted farm laws. According to a statement by the chief minister, passengers who want to enter Punjab can easily do so by boarding a train to Haryana’s Ambala, or Chandigarh, and reach their destinations by road in a few hours. He said that the situation was not applicable for freight services, adding if Punjab residents, including its farmers, continue to be denied their need for essential items, the situation can aggravate. Singh said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), through its move to back the railways’ decision, have been furthering the farmers’ anger towards the party. BJP state unit president Ashwani Sharma alleged that the Punjab government was arm-twisting the Centre. The CM rejected it to say that it is the BJP leadership who was provoking the farmers with its anti-Punjab stance on the matter. Instead of questioning the Railways and being by the side of the state government in convincing the Centre to allow freight services to restart, the BJP leadership carried on indulging in dirty politics without being concerned about the people of Punjab and its neighbouring states, Singh alleged. What's worse is that the BJP is not even bothered about our soldiers in Ladakh and Kashmir who are waiting eagerly for critical supplies before snowfall, which would block them off from the rest of India during winter, he added. Sharma had further accused the state government of failing to dissuade protestors from blocking train services. To this, the CM replied that in fact it is his government that persuaded the farmers to ease their blockade to let essential items come in. Even now, several members of his Cabinet are talking to farmers’ bodies to push for the complete withdrawal of their blockade, he said, adding that it is of his government’s interest to do so for the sake of its people. Singh said that the rigid stand of the Railways, endorsed by the BJP, suggested lack of interest in resolving the imbroglio on the freight services issue. Why else will the Railways be taking refuge in multiple excuses to continue to suspend the services in Punjab, especially after the farmers cleared all tracks for freight movement and he personally guaranteed full safety for the goods trains even though the Railway security rested with the GRP? he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
09-11-2020||India||BJP leads in 17 of 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh ||The BJP is leading in 17 seats and the Congress in nine in Madhya Pradesh as votes are being counted for the Assembly by-elections in 58 seats across 11 states, according to the Election Commission website on Tuesday. India's ruling party was also ahead in seven seats and the Congress in one in Gujarat, where by-elections were held in eight seats, and five in Uttar Pradesh, where polls were held in seven constituencies. The Samajwadi Party was ahead in one and an Independent candidate in another in the country's most populous state. Counting for the polling held on November 3 began at 8 am and progressed strictly in accordance with the Election Commission's guidelines, officials said. The number of people who can be present in the counting halls was restricted and extensive measures taken to ensure social distancing, they said. It's a high-stakes electoral battle, particularly in Madhya Pradesh where the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is locked in a fierce contest for survival with the Congress. Elections were held for 28 seats. The BJP which has 107 MLAs in the assembly, with an effective strength of 229, needs at least eight more MLAs for a simple majority. Votes were also being counted for by-elections in Manipur (five seats), Haryana (one), Chhattisgarh (one), Jharkhand (two), Karnataka (two), Nagaland (two), Odisha (two) and Telangana (one). According to trends on the Election Commission site, the BJP had won one seat in Manipur and was leading in two while the Congress was leading in one and an Independent in one. In Jharkhand, the BJP was ahead in one and the Congress in the other. The party was ahead in both the seats in Karnataka. In Odisha, the state's ruling Biju Janata Dal was ahead in both the seats for which elections were held. In Nagaland, Independents were leading in both seats. In the lone seat in Chhattisgarh, the Congress was leading. The party was also ahead in Haryana while the BJP was ahead in Telangana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
09-11-2020||India||NCB summons Arjun Rampal after raid at home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday carried out a search at the residence of actor Arjun Rampal, as part of its probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood and also asked him to appear before the agency on November 11. Electronic gadgets were seized during the search at the house of the 47-year-old actor in suburban Mumbai, a police official said. According to NCB sources, summons was also issued to Rampal, asking him to appear before the drug law enforcement agency on November 11. The search at the residence of the model-turned-actor came a day after the NCB arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede told PTI on Sunday that Firoz Nadiadwala was summoned by the anti-drugs agency earlier in the day, but he failed to appear. "We have arrested Firoz Nadiadwala's wife under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Further investigation is on," said Wankhede. On Sunday, a team of NCB sleuths searched the residence of the Nadiadwalas and seized 10 grams of ganja, officials said, adding the contraband was procured from one Wahid Abdul Kadir Sheikh alias Sultan who was arrested earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab ||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said "no case was made out in the present matter for the high court to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction." The HC noted that the petitioner (Goswami) has the remedy under law to approach the sessions court concerned and seek regular bail. On Saturday, the high court, while reserving its order on the petitions seeking interim bail, said pendency of the matter in the HC does not preclude the accused persons from seeking regular bail before the sessions court. The HC was hearing petitions filed by Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda challenging their "illegal arrest" in the case and seeking interim bail. Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The three were later taken to Alibaug and produced before a magistrate who refused their custody to police and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. On Sunday, he was shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody, police said. In his petition, Goswami alleged that he is being targeted and harassed by the Maharashtra government for his reportage on his news channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Bihar readies for D-day amid predictions of change||Bihar might be on the cusp of a major generational shift in politics as it braced for Tuesday's counting of votes for the assembly election, with most pollsters predicting a landslide for the five-party Grand Alliance led by the young RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Counting will be taken up at 55 centres across 38 districts where the outcome will decide the fate of the Nitish Kumar government that has helmed the state for a decade and half. Most exit polls have predicted a rout for the ruling JD(U)-BJP combine and a resounding victory for the Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) led by RJD's 31-year-old chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, who has thrown down the gauntlet at redoubtable Nitish Kumar, the battle-scarred veteran more than twice his age. The Election Commission is making sure that the winds of potential change cause no disruption in the counting process. According to Chief Electoral Officer H R Srinavasa, central armed police forces have been deployed at the strong rooms, where the EVMs have been stored since the completion of voting, and the halls where these will be unsealed Tuesday morning after counting of postal ballots gets over. The state has 243 assembly constituencies and the most keenly watched will obviously be Raghopur in Vaishali district from where Tejashwi Yadav is seeking re-election. Kumar is a member of the legislative council and has not contested the assembly election. Raghopur has been in the past represented by his parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi both former chief ministers. Tejashwi's elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav is contesting from Hasanpur in Samastipur district. In addition, Tuesday's counting will also decide the political fate of nearly a score of ministers. Prominent among them are Nand Kishore Yadav (Patna Sahib), Pramod Kumar (Motihari), Rana Randhir (Madhuban), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur), Shrawan Kumar (Nalanda), Jai Kumar Singh (Dinara) and Krishnanandan Prasad Verma (Jehanabad). With much of the NDA's election narrative focusing on RJD's association with "jungle raj", an allusion to the alleged collapsed law and order during the 15 years when Lalu-Rabri ruled the state in succession, the fate of "bahubalis", leaders known for strong arm tactics, will also be keenly watched. Two of the most notorious criminal-turned-politicians- Anant Singh (Mokama) and Reetlal Yadav (Danapur)- are contesting on RJD tickets. A win for the RJD-led coalition will bring a redemption of sorts for Tejashwi Yadav whose leadership abilities were called into question after his party failed to win a single seat in the Lok Sabha elections last year. The NDA had won 39 of the 40 seats and one had gone to the Congress, an RJD ally. It may also revive the fortunes of the three Left parties--The CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML--which were consigned to near oblivion over the past two decades. The five-party 'Mahagathbandhan' also comprises these three Left parties, which were a force to reckon with in the past. Election officials and district administrations face the daunting task of restraining supporters of political parties from crowding the counting centres amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Prohibitory orders will be be place outside the counting centres to prevent people from gathering in large numbers, officials said. According to Srinivasa, while 19 companies of the central armed police forces will be deployed at strong rooms and the halls where counting will take place, another 59 have been entrusted with maintaining law and order. Each company comprises roughly 100 personnel. Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Bihar Military Police and local police will also chip in while senior officials will keep a watch through display screens connected to CCTV cameras installed at the counting centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||India records 45,903 new Covid cases, 490 more deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 85,53,657 with 45,903 new infections being reported, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 79 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the disease climbed to 1,26,611 with 490 new fatalities being registered, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 79,17,373, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 5,09,673 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 11,85,72,192 samples have been tested up to November 8 with 8,35,401 test being conducted on Sunday. The 490 new fatalities include 125 from Maharashtra, 77 from Delhi, 59 from West Bengal, 26 from Uttar Pradesh, 24 from Kerala, 22 from Karnataka and 20 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,26,611 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 45,240 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,391 from Karnataka, 11,344 from Tamil Nadu, 7,294 from West Bengal, 7,206 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,989 from Delhi, 6,791 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,318 from Punjab and 3,760 from Gujarat. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality 'severe' for fifth consecutive day||The national capital's air quality remained severe for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, with calm wind speed exacerbating the effect of stubble burning. The city's air quality index (AQI) stood at 469 at 9 am. Its 24-hour average AQI was 416 on Sunday, 427 on Saturday, 406 on Friday and 450 on Thursday, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 458. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (462), Ghaziabad (483), Noida (476), Greater Noida (482), and Gurugram (475) also recorded severe air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 575 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 9 am, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 637 g/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. The levels of PM2.5 finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream were 366 g/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 g/m3 are considered safe. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed was 3 to 4 kilometres per hour in the morning and the minimum temperature 10 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said a significant improvement in air quality is not likely owing to slow wind speed, particularly during night time, and contribution from farm fires. The farm fire count over Punjab remains very high which is likely to impact the air quality of Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India, it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said surface winds have become calm and are predicted to remain so for the next two days. This is a major factor due to which no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place, it said. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 29 percent on Sunday. It was 42 percent on Thursday, the maximum this season so far. Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi's pollution had peaked to 44 percent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Central Information Commission veil on home secretary exit||The Central Information Commission has allowed the cabinet secretariat to withhold records of deliberations and file notes linked to the resignation of former Union home secretary Anil Goswami. Goswami put in his papers in February 2015 following allegations that he had attempted to stall the arrest of a former minister by the CBI. The panel has based its judgement on a Delhi High Court order in a separate case in which it had held that file notings and deliberations of a group of officers or the disciplinary authority could not be disclosed. The court had, however, allowed information on action taken in relation to complaints against an officer to be provided to an applicant. Chief information commissioner Y.K. Sinha buttressed his argument to withhold the information citing a Supreme Court verdict, which had held that “professional records, including qualification, performance, evaluation reports, ACRs, disciplinary proceedings, etc. are all personal information.… Such personal information is entitled to protection from unwarranted invasion of privacy and conditional access is available when stipulation of larger public interest is satisfied.” RTI applicant and IPS officer Amitabh Thakur had sought to know from the cabinet secretariat the details of action taken on a complaint against Goswami, including communication exchanged between various authorities and file notings. Not getting a satisfactory response, Thakur had appealed before the CIC. During the hearing, he argued that he wanted the information, including file notings, in public interest “to know the sequence of events which led to the forced resignation of Anil Goswami”. “The subject matter which forms the basis of the instant case is disclosure of note sheets and other correspondence exchanged by various offices in the process of considering the complaint filed against Sri Goswami,” Sinha had noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami shifted to jail for cellphone in custody||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in an abetment to suicide case, was on Sunday shifted to Taloja jail in Maharashtra’s Raigad district after he was allegedly found using a cellphone. Since his arrest on November 4 he was lodged in a school serving as a Covid quarantine centre for Alibaug jail. The Raigad crime branch found Goswami was active on social media using somebody's cellphone, despite his personal phone having been seized by police when he was taken into custody on November 4. While being escorted to Taloja jail, Goswami shouted from the police van, alleging that he was assaulted by Alibaug jailer on Saturday evening, his life was in danger and he was not allowed to speak to his lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Four soldiers killed in gunfight on LoC||Three armymen, including an officer, and a BSF constable, were killed in an overnight gunfight with a freshly infiltrated group of militants in the Machil sector of Kupwara near the Line of Control on Sunday. The clashes that broke out at midnight and continued till 1pm also left three militants dead. Searches are underway to find out if more militants are hiding in the area. Two soldiers suffered injuries. Official sources said these were the biggest casualties for the forces on the LoC after an April gun battle in the adjoining Keran sector in which the army lost five elite para-commandos. A BSF spokesperson said its soldiers had spotted a group of militants infiltrating the Machil sector around midnight and 3.5km inside the LoC on Sunday. “On being challenged, the intruders opened fire. The soldiers retaliated. In the fierce exchange of fire, one terrorist was shot dead immediately and the others managed to hide behind the cover of undulating terrain,” the spokesperson said. The first gunfight also left BSF constable Sudip Kumar Sarkar, 38, from the 169 Battalion dead. He was a resident of Tripura. The gunfight with the BSF continued for three hours. The defence spokesperson in Srinagar, Colonel Rajesh Kalia, said army reinforcements soon rushed to the area and a fierce gunfight ensued, killing an officer, two soldiers and two militants. “Terrorist movement had been tracked by surveillance devices,” Col Kalia said. “Contact was re-established at 10.20am when heavy fire was drawn by search parties approximately 1.5km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed. The troops suffered three KIA (killed in action) and two injured,” he added. The spokesperson said the two injured soldiers had been evacuated. The operation is in progress and further details are awaited,” Col Kalia added. In April, the army had lost five members of an elite special force in a four-day operation in the Keran area of Kupwara while following militant footprints on snow. The members of the Parachute unit had slipped into a ravine after snow gave way, landing on the militant hideout. A close-quarter fight resulted in the death of five soldiers. The army, however, had also gunned down five militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Modi takes two hours to congratulate Biden after poll win||Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy…. Most of the free world could not wait to congratulate Joe Biden when the American networks called the election on Saturday. But not the aspiring “Vishwa Guru”, which was a picture of equanimity and detached amusement in keeping with the best practices in high diplomacy and in contrast to the hordes going nuts about an election in a foreign country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, one of whose avowed goals is to make India a Vishwa Guru in a few years, did congratulate Biden on Saturday night for the “spectacular victory” but not before the heads of government or state of several other countries had showered praises on the President-elect. The US networks declared Biden the winner around 10pm in India. Modi took around two hours to post the congratulatory message and a picture of himself with Biden. The order of messaging need not be of much consequence in the serious business of diplomacy, especially with Chinese President Xi Jinping having been among the first to congratulate Modi when he won the 2019 election with a brute majority. Now Modi does not utter Xi’s name and India-China ties are at an all-time low. Yet Modi’s caution drew attention because he had thrown it to the winds last year when he parroted in Houston Trump’s “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar” slogan. Unwittingly or otherwise, Modi’s circumspection on Saturday night reflected the despondency that had shrouded the Right-wing ecosystem in India as soon as it became evident that Biden had beaten Trump. Some were poor losers too. One Right-wing commentator tweeted that Biden’s “win does not pass the smell test”. Among the early birds to congratulate Biden were Canada’s Justin Trudeau (no surprise) and Boris Johnson (surprise, considering Trump calls the UK Prime Minister “Britain Trump”). Johnson was not as effusive as the others but he did single out Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris for her “historic achievement”. “The US is our most important ally,” Johnson said, “and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities from climate change to trade and security. Modi’s message cannot be faulted for over-familiarity. “Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights.” Modi also resisted the temptation to follow Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London, who added in his tweet congratulating Biden and Harris: “London looks forward to working with you — it’s time to get back to building bridges, not walls.” And, of course, in keeping with the stature of the leader of the aspiring Vishwa Guru, Modi was not as audacious as Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland. Sturgeon did not wait for the race to be called, tweeting on Friday evening: “The world can be a dark place at times just now — but today we are seeing a wee break in the clouds.” For all their bonhomie, Modi had no message for Trump – at least publicly -- unlike Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. After congratulating the Biden-Harris duo in a tweet, Netanyahu posted a message of thanks to the outgoing President for his friendship and support in recognising Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, standing up to Iran and signing the recent peace accords. In the other corner, one country stood out. Saudi Arabia, which may have more to lose from Biden’s victory than other Arab states, took its time to comment. As other Arab states raced to congratulate the Democrat challenger, the kingdom’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, remained silent on the US vote for hours even as he sent warm words to the President of Tanzania on his re-election. The prince, known as MBS, has a close rapport with Modi whose West Asian policy has been a bright spot in an otherwise bleak foreign affairs landscape. MBS’s close personal ties with Trump had provided a vital buffer against a tide of international criticism over Riyadh’s rights record, sparked by the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, its role in Yemen’s war and its detention of women activists. Those areas may now become points of friction between Biden and Saudi Arabia, a major oil exporter and buyer of US arms. In India, BJP leaders on Sunday said Modi knew Biden “well” and the two would take the bilateral partnership to the next level. In an interview to PTI, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav – who used to handle the Prime Minister’s foreign visits in the early years of the Modi government – appeared to voice the sense of resignation within the party over the turn of events when he said that the people of America had made their choice and now it was for the rest of the world to welcome their decision and congratulate their leadership. “The US and India stand on a strong bipartisan bilateral relationship based on the principles of democracy, mutual benefits and global peace. I am sure (that) under the new leadership of Biden-Harris, US-India ties will continue to progress as strong as they have been,’’ Madhav said. Additional reporting by Reuters and NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Congress condemns demonetisation on anniversary||The Congress on Sunday condemned the demonetisation on its fourth anniversary, saying it was a conspiracy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to destroy India’s informal sector and small businesses to help a few corporate houses. The party held demonstrations at several places and ran a social media campaign, posting thousands of videos and messages to revive the painful memories of the note withdrawal that wrecked the economy and left millions jobless. Rahul Gandhi asked people not to presume this was a mistake, arguing it was a planned attack on the economy that continued with a flawed GST implementation and the new farm laws, all intended to destroy the informal sector to help three or four big industrialists. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram recalled how the decision had triggered a downward spiral in growth and destroyed businesses and jobs. He said every ruler should draw one lesson from this — even if you don’t do good to the people, don’t do any harm. He hoped it would be investigated one day who had benefited from the introduction of Rs 2,000 notes after Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes were scrapped. The Congress has consistently described the demonetisation as the biggest scandal in Indian history. While the Prime Minister, who defended his decision on Sunday, never mentions this “masterstroke” in his election rallies or other political interactions, Rahul uses every opportunity to tell people how the destruction of India’s economy began with the “note-bandi”. He never fails to highlight the miseries the decision had inflicted on the poor. On Saturday, the Congress paid tribute to the 125-odd people who had died as a consequence of the demonetisation. Most senior Congress leaders posted videos requesting the Prime Minister to accept that the demonetisation was a wrong decision and apologise to the nation. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said that no one with even a basic understanding of the economy and Indian society would have taken the decision. The party posted videos to show how common people, such as small traders and day labourers, were affected by the note withdrawal. Party general secretary Ajay Maken began his news conference quoting former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who had described the demonetisation as “organised loot and legalised plunder”. “The government kept shifting goalposts, giving newer reasons for the decision, like: to counter black money and corruption, to eliminate fake currency, to make the economy digital/ cashless, to tackle Maoism/ terrorism/ separatism, to bring idle savings into the banks, to expand the tax base, to make bigger, cleaner and real GDP, to bring down real estate prices, etc,” Maken said. He argued that none of the objectives had been met. “Over 99.3 per cent of the demonetised currency came back to the system. How much black money was detected? As far as corruption is concerned, we have seen a surge in the use of money power in poaching MLAs and destabilising non-BJP state governments,” Maken said. “Fake currency is on the rise after 2016. National Crime Record Bureau data show the value of fake Indian currency notes seized in 2016 was Rs 15.9 crore. From 2017 to 2019, it was Rs 116.85 crore.” Maken said that cash transactions had increased in the country since the demonetisation. “There is no justification in aiming for a cashless economy. In India, we have per-day transactions worth Rs 1 lakh crore. With 2 per cent transaction fees to a third party, it will lead to a yearly windfall profit of Rs 7.3 lakh crore. In whose benefit was this exercise conducted? ….As per the latest RBI reports, the gross saving rates have dropped from 31.35 per cent in 2016-17 to 30.11 per cent in 2018-19. It was 32.12 per cent during 2013-14.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Kolam, laddu and crackers for Kamala Harris||The hours of suspense ended at 10.30pm on Saturday, causing J. Sudhakar to jump out of his seat. “We were all praying for it and expecting it, but the official word had to come,” the headman of Thulasendirapuram-Painganadu village in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruvarur district grinned. The ancestral village of Kamala Harris, the first woman to be elected America’s Vice-President, had been conducting special prayers for her victory at the local Dharma Sastha temple since a day before the November 3 polls. But the uncertainty 8,000km away in Washington DC had begun telling on nerves. “It was around 10.30 last night that we first heard on television that Joe Biden had been elected US President, which meant that a woman with roots in our village would be Vice-President. I can’t say how pleased we are,” Sudhakar told The Telegraph on Sunday from Thulasendirapuram, about 340km south of Chennai near Mannargudi in the heart of the Cauvery delta. Tension over, the village celebrated as though Diwali had come early. Women woke up early on Sunday morning, Sudhakar said, to draw colourful kolams (rangoli or alpana) outside their homes. “Congratulations Kamala Harris: Pride of our village, Vanakkam America,” they wrote with rice paste. Laddus were distributed and crackers burst. Banners and placards were put up. “People pooled their funds for the celebrations,” Sudhakar said. A special “Abishekam” was performed at the village temple, where the deity was bathed in milk. Kamala’s relatives from Chennai keep visiting the temple during festivals, and its records show a donation made on behalf of a Kamala Harris. Thulasendirapuram had been the home of Kamala’s maternal grandfather P.V. Gopalan, a distinguished civil servant during British rule. Kamala, 56, who visited the village when she was 5, has often recalled walks with her maternal grandfather on Chennai’s beaches during annual trips from the US. Those conversations with her grandfather, a freedom-fighter, had left a profound impact, she had said in a 2018 speech. Kamala has been in close touch with her relatives in India. “Three generations have gone by since Kamala’s grandparents left the village, but their ancestral home is still there,” said panchayat president Purushottaman. “Kamala’s mother (Dr Shyamala Gopalan) went to the US (in 1958) to pursue higher studies. Kamala was born (to Shyamala and a Jamaican father) and brought up there,” Kamala’s octogenarian uncle G. Balachandran, a leading defence scholar and Delhi resident, told a TV channel. “I’m very, very happy. Kamala spoke to me on November 4 and I told her she would win.” Four years down the line, Americans could well see her running for the Presidency, he said. Balachandran told ANI at his home in New Delhi that he planned to attend the inauguration in January. Kamala had, while accepting the vice-presidential nomination in August, praised the way her mother had slogged “around the clock” to make life easier for her and stressed the importance of family. “My mother instilled in my sister Maya and me the values that would chart the course of our lives. She raised us to be proud, strong Black women, and she raised us to know and be proud of our Indian heritage,” she said. “She taught us to put family first — the family you’re born into, and the family you choose. Family is my husband, Doug, who I met on a blind date set up by my best friend. Family is our beautiful children, Cole and Ella, who call me “Momala”. Family is my sister. Family is my best friend, my nieces, and my godchildren. Family is my uncles, my aunts, and my chittis (aunts). One of those chittis, the Chennai-based Dr Sarala Gopalan, said she couldn’t speak to her niece on Saturday. “I was waiting for the announcement till late in the night.... I felt tired and had to retire for the night,” the senior consultant at the Voluntary Health Services here said. “Hopefully,” was her response when asked if she would attend the swearing-in ceremony in the US. A few years ago, after Kamala had called her with a request, Dr Gopalan had broken 108 coconuts at the Varasiddhi Vinayagar temple here to bring good luck. A rural development officer in Tiruvarur, who did not want to be named, saw a deeper significance to Kamala’s feat. “For the villagers here, the US is far away. But Kamala Harris’s success opens up fresh expectations about what education can do for women,” the official told this newspaper. Sudhakar agreed: “She has become a role model for girls from our village in the cause of women’s education. We want her to visit our village at least once.” Purushottaman reckoned that with Kamala’s achievement bringing the village global recognition of sorts, Thulasendirapuram stood a good chance of bagging the “special panchayat” status, which ensures more infrastructure development funds. “We shall certainly consider passing a resolution at our panchayat urging the state government and the Centre to grant us the special status,” he said. The entire political spectrum in Tamil Nadu barring the BJP congratulated Biden and Kamala. “I am extremely glad.... she has made Tamil Nadu proud with this astounding victory,” tweeted AIADMK chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. His deputy O. Panneerselvam said Kamala’s success reflected the “strength of Tamil women”. “A woman hailing from this small village now holds one of the highest positions in the US. It’s a proud moment,” said R. Kamaraj, state food minister, who had joined in the celebrations at the village. “Especially pleased that American people have chosen a woman with Tamil heritage as their next Vice-President,” DMK president M.K. Stalin tweeted. In Mumbai, people shot off fireworks and a group of artists painted a portrait of Biden and Harris. Dozens of prominent Indians and Americans of Indian origin took to social media to congratulate Harris, including actors Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Mindy Kaling. Kaling tweeted images of Harris and wrote: “Crying and holding my daughter, ‘look baby, she looks like us’.” Additional reporting by Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to Biden and Harris ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday wrote letters to US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris, congratulating them warmlyon their victory. To Biden, she wrote: “Like millions around the world, the Indian people have followed with great interest the course of the election during the last 12 months. We were greatly reassured by your measured speeches, stress on healing divisions among the people, and promotion of gender and racial equality, global cooperation and sustainable development of all countries.” Sonia added: “Under your wise and mature leadership we look forward to a close partnership that will be beneficial to peace and development in our region and around the world.” To Harris, whose mother was Indian and father Jamaican and who is the first woman to be elected US Vice-President, Sonia wrote: “Warmest felicitations! Your victory is a victory for the noble values enshrined in the American Constitution — democracy, social justice and racial and gender equality. It is a triumph for Black Americans and Indian Americans and for the humanity, compassion and inclusiveness that you have stood for throughout your public and political life. “I admire the unwavering courage with which you have fought for your convictions — the beliefs and values you imbibed from your remarkable mother!” Sonia added: “We hope we will have the opportunity soon to welcome you to India, where you will be warmly hailed not just as a much admired leader of a great democracy but also as a beloved daughter. The Congress party looks forward to working with you to further the bonds between the world’s two largest democracies.” In 2016, too, Sonia had greeted Donald Trump on his election, wishing him a great tenure and hoping his presidency would strengthen India-US ties. But Biden and Harris have evoked an emotional response from her. Rahul Gandhi congratulated Biden and Harris on Twitter on Saturday night, soon after the election was called and more than an hour before Prime Minister Narendra Modi did. “Congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden. I’m confident that he will unite America and provide it with a strong sense of direction,” Rahul wrote. He followed this up with a message for Harris. “Congratulations, Vice-President-elect @KamalaHarris! It makes us proud that the first woman to serve as Vice President of the USA traces her roots to India,” Rahul wrote. In 2016, he had tweeted: “Congratulations Donald Trump on being elected US President. I hope our countries continue to work together closely & remain strong partners.” The Congress on Sunday expressed fear that Prime Minister Modi’s indiscreet expression of support for Trump might affect New Delhi’s ties with Washington. “Never pick sides in the internal democratic processes of another nation. Hope this does not come back to haunt India,” former Union minister Manish Tewari, who is part of the Congress’s foreign affairs department, tweeted. He attached a report on last year’s “Howdy Modi” event in Houston at which a visiting Modi had appeared to endorse re-election for Trump by chanting: “Ab ki baar, Trump sarkar.” Asked at a news conference about Modi’s gesture, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said: “The Congress believes that we should not interfere in the internal politics of any country. Our governments never did this; they never even indicated their preference, forget campaigning, directly or indirectly. Our leaders should have taken care.” A senior Congress politician, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said: “Modi went too far by hosting the Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad (in February). He had no obligation to organise that programme. That the event was hosted amid the coronavirus outbreak showed the Prime Minister’s eagerness to bolster Trump’s prospects.” Senior party leader P. Chidambaram said: “Mr Modi believes that he can win every election on Hindutva, Ram Temple, Pulwama, repeal of Art 370, CAA, and branding every Opposition party and Opposition leader as anti-national…. The Indian nation is as divided as the United States. President-elect Biden’s thanksgiving speech is the kind of speech that we want to hear from every Indian Prime Minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
