10-11-2020||India||Jyotiraditya shines as BJP leads MP bypolls convincingly||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken a comfortable lead in the Madhya Pradesh byelections as former Congressman Jyotiraditya Scindia powering the party to a commanding position. The ruling party is either leading in, or has won, 19 out of the 28 Assembly seats for which byelections were held, while the Congress has won, or is ahead in, just eight. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which was holding on to the Morena constituency earlier in the day, has lost it to Congress’ Rakesh Mavai. Since Scindia’s exit from the Congress to join BJP, a move that took down the Kamal Nath government, he has been the face of the saffron party in the state. The elections, which are being conducted as a result of his departure as well as the deaths of sitting legislators in three constituencies, are in BJP’s favour at the moment. The BJP has 107 MLAs in the 230-member Assembly, and needs at least nine seats to stay in power. The Congress, on the other hand, needed to win all 28 seats if it had to return to power — or at least 21 in order to give itself a chance to bargain with the BSP, SP and Independent MLAs. Two ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government -- Aidal Singh Kansana (Sumaoli) and Girraj Dandotia (Dimani) -- have lost against their Congress rivals in the elections. OPS Bhadoria of the Mehgaon constituency, too, was among the ministers who were trailing but he managed to secure a comfortable lead with 54,033 votes. In other constituencies, the BJP is leading in 19 seats by margins of different ranges. Candidates of the ruling party are ahead of their rivals in  Gwalior, Gwalior East, Bhander, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mugaoli, Surkhi, Bada Malhera, Anuppur, Sanchi, Agar, Hatpiplya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Saver, Suwasara and Jaura seats. In Indore and Bhopal, BJP workers celebrated as leaders of their party took the lead for the road to the Legislative Assembly. A voter turnout of 70.72 per cent was recorded on November 3, when 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, contested for the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
10-11-2020||India||BJP leads in Madhya Pradesh, sweeps Gujarat bypolls||MADHYA PRADESH Seats: 28 BJP: 19 (13 won, 6 leading) Congress: 9 (5 won, 4 leading) BSP: 0  UTTAR PRADESH Seats: 7 BJP: 6 (won) Samajwadi Party: 1 (won)  GUJARAT Seats: 8 BJP: 8 (won) Congress: 0  NAGALAND Seats: 2 Independent: 1 (won) Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party: 1 (won) BJP: 0 Congress: 0  ODISHA Seats: 2 BJD: 2 (1 won, 1 leading)  MANIPUR Seats: 5 BJP: 4 (won) Independent: 1 (won)  CHHATTISGARH Seats: 1 Congress: 1 (won)  TELANGANA Seats: 1 BJP: 1 (won)  HARYANA Seats: 1 Congress: 1 (won)  KARNATAKA Seats: 2 BJP: 2 (won)  JHARKHAND Seats: 2 JMM: 1 (won) Congress: 1 (won)  (Tally at 9.30pm. Source: Election Commission of India)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
10-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami moves SC seeking bail in abetment to suicide case||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami moved the Supreme Court Tuesday seeking interim bail in the 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. The Bombay High Court had refused to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others on Monday and asked them to move to the local court for the relief. The appeal against the high court order has been filed in the top court through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey. Besides the Maharashtra government, Goswami who is in Taloja jail, has made the Centre, the SHO of Alibaug police station, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Akshyata Anvay Naik as parties to his appeal. The state government, through advocate Sachin Patil, has also filed a caveat in the top court to ensure that no order is passed on Goswami's plea without it being heard in the case. Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. Meanwhile, the hearing on Goswami's bail plea is also scheduled to be heard in the trial court during the day. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". "The petitioners have the efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days," it said on Monday. Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda had last week filed petitions in the high court challenging their "illegal arrest" in the case and seeking interim bail. Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought that a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai. The three accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a COVID-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody. On Sunday, Pradeep Bhandari, a consulting editor with Republic news channel, wrote to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde urging him to take cognizance of shifting of Goswami to Taloja Jail to keep him allegedly with "hardened" and "underworld" criminals and provide "some sort of safety" to him. He said Goswami has said that "his life is in danger and he has been beaten up in the morning" and urged the CJI to take cognizance of this matter and provide some sort of safety to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||In Bihar, BJP has edge, but Maha Gathbandhan catching up fast ||The RJD emerged as the single largest party in Bihar as counting for the Assembly elections continued well into the evening of Tuesday to gradually unspool an intense contest between the NDA and the Tejashwi Yadav-led Maha Gathbandhan The Opposition alliance of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties, which started the day by putting up a close fight only to later fall back from the NDA’s tally that seemed to surge after two-three hours of counting, picked up pace again and narrowed the gap by evening. Supporters as well independent poll watchers agreed the race was extremely tight in over 70 seats where the margin of leads was less than 1,000 votes. After about 10 hours of counting, no formation was clearly ahead in the race although NDA seemed to have an edge. As of 6.45 pm, the ruling NDA had won, or was leading in, 121 seats while the Opposition alliance had won, or was leading in, 114 seats, according to figures collated from the Election Commission of India website. The BJP had won, or was leading in, 73 seats and the JDU in 41. The RJD had won or was ahead in 76 seats, the Congress in 20 and the Left parties in 87 seats. As of the others, the BSP was ahead in 1 seat, the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen in 5 and Independents 2. Counting of votes will take longer than usual and continue till late in the night because of a 63 per cent increase in the number of EVMs, the Election Commission explained. EC officials told the media in Delhi that over 1 crore votes were counted till around 1.30 pm out of nearly 4.16 crore votes polled in the three-phase elections. Out of nearly 7.3 crore voters, 57.09 per cent had cast votes in the polls. To ensure social distancing norms put in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the commission had increased the number of polling stations from nearly 65,000 in the 2015 assembly polls to 1.06 lakh. This meant an increase in the number of electronic voting machines as well. "We hope to finish the counting as per procedure late tonight," said Deputy Election Commissioner in charge of Bihar Chandra Bhushan Kumar. The NDA’s show in Bihar has defied exit poll predictions that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. The broad trend in Bihar, showing the ruling NDA marching ahead of the RJD-led Grand Alliance, perked up the mood among BJP and JD(U) workers, even as RJD and Congress activists hoped for things to change in their favour. At the BJP office at Beer Chand Patel Path, where there was not much activity for the past three days after exit polls projected a majority for the Grand Alliance, several leaders and party workers started coming in with beaming faces. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal was in the office monitoring the results closely. Bihar BJP spokesman Sanjay Singh Tiger said the BJP-JD(U) coalition had worked under the "double engine" governments -- NDA dispensations at the Centre as well in the state _ and the people of Bihar had blessed it. "The people know Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar can speed up development of the state and hence they have reposed their faith in the NDA," Tiger told reporters. While Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is watching counting of votes at his official residence, some leaders and party workers started thronging the party office, a stone's throw away from the office of the BJP and the RJD in the heart of the city. Bihar JD(U) president Vasistha Narayan Singh said they were confident since the beginning that the people of the state would like the ruling coalition to continue and expedite the development process. Asked about the BJP performing better than the JD(U) and if Chief Minister Kumar will continue in the post, Singh said, "When top BJP leaders themselves have said that Kumar will be the CM irrespective of the individual scores of the alliance partners, is there any need to clarify this further?" JD(U) spokesman Ajay Alok said the people of Bihar had faith in Nitish Kumar and that was  reflected in the trends in favour of the NDA. In the RJD camp, which was on cloud nine till Monday with almost all exit polls indicating the party-helmed coalition coming to power in the state and its leader Tejashwi Yadav becoming chief minister, the initial euphoria appeared  to be dipping. A crowd of Tejashwi supporters that had gathered outside the 10 Circular Road residence of former chief minister Rabri Devi expecting a victory was thinning around noon. But some ardent supporters, carrying photographs of Tejashwi in a Delhi Daredevils jersey from his IPL days and also him taking oath as CM, stayed put in the hope that things would change for better with the progress of counting. Bihar RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said, "It's like a T-20 match. The results will be decided only when the last ball of the match is bowled." In the Congress camp, initial excitement appeared to have evaporated with the trends showing Grand Alliance trailing the NDA. Scores of Congress leaders from across the country, including general secretary Randeep Surjewala, who had arrived here in the hope of party forming a government with Mahagathbandhan partners, were glued to TV channels hoping the trends would change in accordance to the exit polls. "We are not far behind, things will change in our favour," state Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathor told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||NDA ahead of Maha Gathbandhan in Bihar, but JDU is under performing ||The ruling NDA has gone ahead of the Opposition Maha gathbandhan (Grand Alliance) of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties, moving above the half-way mark after a close fight for Bihar's 243 seats. Within the ruling NDA alliance, Nitish Kumar's JDU, however, fell far behind ally BJP -- an outcome that was expected after Chirag Paswan's rebellion and his party, the LJP’s solo contest. The Lok Janashakti Party, which is leading on less than 10 seats, was expected to eat into the JDU votes and give an upper hand to the BJP, which had been chafing under Nitish Kumar's leadership in the state, reports ndtv.com. The ruling NDA was leading in 128 seats and the Opposition alliance in 99 seats. The RJD was ahead in 67 seats, the Congress in 21 and the Left parties in 9 seats. The BJP was leading in 72 seats, the JDU in 47. The LJP was leading in 7 seats. JDU spokesman K.C Tyagi appeared to have conceded defeat early.  "This is the biggest pandemic since 1918....We haven't been defeated by the RJD or Tejashwi Yadav... we have been defeated by the coronavirus,” he old NDTV. He also slammed the role Chirag Paswan played in this election, saying the Lok Janshakti Party leader "should have been denounced and controlled from the start". Exit polls on the Bihar Assembly elections have predicted that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. Exit polls have in the past gone both wrong and right and the picture will be clear only on Tuesday when the votes are counted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the NDA’s campaign, addressing a dozen rallies and even writing a last-minute letter to Bihar’s voters appealing for support for Nitish. The BJP has been hoping to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar. The exit poll by Today’s Chanakya for CNN-News 18 projected a figure of just 55 (+/-11) seats for the NDA. It gave 180 seats (+/-11) to the Mahagathbandhan, which would be a landslide victory. The number of seats in the Assembly is 243. Axis My India for India Today TV gave 161 seats to the Mahagathbandhan, again a big victory. Chirag Paswan’s LJP, seen as the B-team of the BJP, was forecast to pick up only a handful of seats. But the big story coming out of the exit polls could be the emergence of jailed RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi as the new leader of the state. Axis My India found that he was the most preferred candidate for the chief minister’s post, with 44 per cent respondents backing him. Nitish came second, with 37 per cent support. If the polls turn out right on Tuesday, it would mean that youths across castes had backed Tejashwi, who had made unemployment the central issue this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Lady Shri Ram student suicide bares gaps||The suicide of a Lady Shri Ram College student who hanged herself last week out of fear that financial strain would scupper her studies has underlined the gaps in institutional support for disadvantaged students left overwhelmed by the pandemic. Aishwarya Reddy’s mother complained on Monday that the college had “not given any help” to the former Telangana school board No. 2. College principal Suman Sharma said Aishwarya — who had returned home to Telangana in March after the Covid-19 outbreak — had never contacted or sought support from the Delhi-based institution, which had no means of knowing her situation or mental state. Nor did the second-year BSc (maths) student receive the monthly stipend of Rs 5,000 she was entitled to under the Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (Inspire) fellowship of the central government, for which she had received a provisional offer in August. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary to the department of science and technology which confers the fellowship, told The Telegraph that Aishwayra had not furnished the documents necessary for payment of the fellowship. Aishwarya, daughter of a mechanic, had stood second in her Class XII board exams in Telangana last year and was the first from her family to pursue higher education. She hoped to be a civil servant. She hanged herself at her home in Telangana on November 2, leaving behind a suicide note in which, media reports said, she termed herself “a burden on my family”. In the Telugu note, she asked that the fellowship money be paid to her family. Sharma said that as a special gesture, a year’s fellowship amount would be given to the family. “The financial situation created a burden on her. The college has not given any help,” Aishwarya’s mother Sumathi Reddy told reporters at an online news conference, organised by CPM student wing SFI. “If the Inspire fellowship money had come, it could have relieved her stress.” She said that a second notice from the college to vacate her hostel seat by November 10 had added to her daughter’s stress. The college had last year decided it would provide hostel accommodation only to first-year students. The first year ends usually in mid-summer but when the students began leaving in March – and looked unlikely to be back anytime soon -- the college issued a notice asking them to vacate the hostels. It wasn’t clear whether the notice was issued before Aishwarya’s departure, but she did leave behind some of her belongings at her hostel. With online exams in June-July marking the end of the first year, the college issued another eviction notice in October to the freshly promoted second-year students who held hostel seats. First-year admissions are over and the University Grants Commission has allowed institutions located outside containment zones to resume in-person classes, if they think fit, any time after November 6. Although Lady Shri Ram hasn’t decided on a date yet, it wanted to keep the hostels “ready for the new batch”. “We had already taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh to support her education. Now she wanted an additional Rs 15,000 a month to be able to stay outside the campus after the college asked her to vacate her hostel,” Sumathi said from her home at Srinivas Colony, Saad Nagar village, Rangareddy district. “She said she would become a laughing stock if she discontinued her education.” Sumathi said relatives had advised Aishwarya to seek transfer to a college in Hyderabad. “But she didn’t want to lose out on her studies; she never wanted a transfer,” Sumathi said. Aishwarya seems to have faced difficulties accessing online education, including virtual classes, from her mobile at home. According to a survey conducted by the college students’ council, Aishwarya had said she neither had a laptop nor adequate Internet facilities at home. Students’ council secretary Unnimaya said 39 per cent students of the college had no stable Internet connection at home and 27 per cent lacked access to a laptop. “We had informed the college about the digital divide but there was no response,” Unnimaya said. Aishe Ghosh, an SFI leader, said India’s public-funded higher education institutions were reducing their support for the socially and economically marginalised students, and were turning into “institutions of exclusion”. Sharma, the DST secretary, said the Inspire scheme required the beneficiaries to upload the necessary documents by December. He said Aishwarya had not uploaded these documents --- the first-year mark sheet, bank details and a letter from the institution head certifying the applicant as a student. “She could have submitted the documents as early as September and got the fellowship. I have checked the records: she never uploaded the documents,” Sharma said. The college principal said the first-year results had been released in August but Aishwarya never approached the college seeking a certificate that she continued to be a student. “We had no idea about her Inspire fellowship. She did not contact us,” the principal said. She said all the students and their parents knew about the college’s new hostel policy. “We issued the notice to all the students (boarders) to vacate the hostels so that the hostels could be maintained and kept ready for the new batch,” she said. “But she did not reach out to us on the hostel issue, either. She never reached out to us on any difficulty she faced in her online studies.” Asked about the students’ council letter about the survey revealing students’ problems with accessing online education, the principal said the college was looking into the matter. Nearly 12,000 students are offered the Inspire fellowship every year to encourage them to take up science research as a career. Students who make the top 1 per cent in aggregate marks in their Class XII exams from any state or central board are eligible to apply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Arrested Kerala journalist's wife questions BJP's double standard ||The wife of a Kerala journalist arrested 36 days ago and lodged in a jail in Uttar Pradesh has questioned the double standard of the BJP leadership that has been speaking up for Republic TV managing editor Arnab Goswami but not for her husband. Raihanath Kappan, wife of Delhi-based journalist Siddique Kappan who was arrested while on his way to Hathras to cover the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl, said her husband was only trying to do his job when he was arrested. “Why this double standard? Goswami is an accused in a suicide abetment case. Why are these people not questioning the arrest of my husband and other journalists and activists jailed on cooked-up charges?” Raihanath asked during an interaction with The Telegraph on Monday. A native of Malappuram in Kerala, Siddique, 41, was arrested with three others and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other provisions of the penal code. “Our own minister in Delhi, V. Muraleedharan, decried the arrest of Goswami and called it an assault on freedom of the press. But he didn’t spare a thought for a man from his own state who has been locked up in a jail in UP,” Raihanath said. Muraleedharan, minister of state for external affairs, hails from Kerala. The only time Kappan called home was on November 2 when he spoke to his ailing, 90-year-old mother who lives with his elder brother. “From what I was told, he managed to speak to his mother for five minutes. When I checked on Truecaller (a call tracing application), I could see he had called from a landline in Mathura jail,” said Raihanath, who has been running from pillar to post to be able to get Kappan to sign his bail application. “He is a chronic diabetic who needs regular medication and medical attention. I have no idea if he is getting anything at all. Our only hope now is the Supreme Court,” she said, citing the habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists that is scheduled to come up on November 16 for hearing. Raihanath slammed media outlets that have been reporting that Kappan had received huge sums of money. “We haven’t been able to complete the construction of our house, which began eight years ago. My husband doesn’t even take a bank loan as he believes in spending what we have,” she said. The couple have three children -- two sons aged 17 and 12, and a 7-year-old daughter. “I’m surviving with the help of family and friends. But at the moment my only concern is about my husband. I want him back home at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Koshyari expresses concern over Arnab's security, health  ||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has conveyed to the state government his concern over the security and health of Arnab Goswami, managing director of Republic TV, who is in judicial custody in a suicide abetment case. Koshyari, who had started his career as an RSS pracharak and sports the outfit’s black inverted-boat cap, phoned Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and asked him to allow Goswami’s family to see him. Goswami is a staunch defender of the Modi government’s repressive measures.  Koshyari is known for the misadventure of swearing in BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis at 7.50am as chief minister and mocking current chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by asking if he had turned secular. On Monday evening, Prashant Kanojia, a journalist and Dalit rights activist who had been arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on the charge of posting a morphed image, tweeted: “My family wasn’t allowed to meet. Neither my lawyers could meet me in jail. I am a Mumbaikar but @BSKoshyari never showed such concern for me.” Kanojia added: “My SM (social media) inbox is full of threats. I am not afraid of those threats but worried about my family. Did Koshyariji ever speak about safety and security of my family? My own state governor failed to take (a) stand for me. Do I have to join BJP to be treated (as an) equal before law?” Responding to a Republic TV statement that said Goswami would spend his sixth night in judicial custody on Monday, Kanojia said: “I spent 80 nights.” Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect and interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over an alleged failure by companies of the accused to clear their dues. State government sources said relatives and lawyers are not allowed to meet those in custody because of Covid restrictions but can communicate over the phone. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said: “The way the governor has expressed concern for a special kaidi (inmate), Arnab, I think he (the governor) should understand that Arnab Goswami has been arrested for a serious offence.” If the governor wanted to express concern, he should have done so for Anvay Naik’s family, Malik said, adding that they had been seeking justice for several months. “It is not right to take sides with an accused….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||J&K People’s Conference plea for early Article 370 hearing||The Sajad Lone-led Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference petitioned the Supreme Court on Monday seeking early hearing of the pleas against the constitutional validity of the amendment to Article 370 on August 5 last year. The petition also challenged the various legal modifications the Centre had carried out since then relating to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh — for instance, enabling outsiders to acquire land there — as illegal and as violations of the permanent residents’ rights. It said that although a bunch of petitions had been moved before the Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of the changes to Article 370, the Centre had continued to carry the agenda forward by amending various Kashmir-related laws. The apex court had last heard this bunch of petitions on March 2, after which the pandemic prevented further hearings. Lone’s party was one of these early petitioners against the tweaking of Article 370, which stripped the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. Its latest petition, apart from seeking early hearing of these pleas, challenges other government moves such as splitting the erstwhile state into two Union Territories and amending its land laws. With the apex court on Diwali break, the petition is expected to be heard next week. After 11 hearings of the earlier bunch of petitions, the apex court had on March 2 rejected the plea of some of the petitioners to refer the matter to a five-judge or seven-judge constitution bench. The court held that a three-judge bench was good enough. It also declined a plea to stay the amendments to Article 370. Monday’s petition, filed through advocate Pritha Srikumar Iyer, highlights that the Centre “has continued to affect drastic changes to the legal regime applicable to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, including by way of orders issued under Section 96 of the Reorganisation Act”. “These orders extend the applicability of various central laws to the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, created under the Reorganisation Act. Further, the state laws of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir have also been repealed, adapted and modified,” the petition says. It says the changes made to Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional status “impact the vested rights of the permanent residents of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as the rights of other Indian citizens”. It complains that “the protection offered to the ‘economically weaker section’ and ‘low income group’ under the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act by way of allotment of housing sites is no longer restricted to permanent residents of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Congress weighs joining Jammu and Kashmir alliance ||The Congress seems to be cosying up to the seven-party alliance in Jammu and Kashmir that is campaigning for the restoration of Article 370, now that it is free of the compulsions of the Bihar elections. Farooq Abdullah, chairperson of the alliance, on Sunday said the Congress too was a part of the coalition. He said Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir had told him the party would jointly contest the upcoming district development council elections with the alliance. Mir confirmed meeting Farooq but said consultations were under way within the Congress and a decision would be announced by Tuesday. The Congress had been part of the “Gupkar Declaration” signed on August 4 last year, a day ahead of the amendment of Article 370, that resolved to resist any move to scrap the state’s special status. However, the Congress had skipped last month’s deliberations during which seven parties — including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference and the CPM — floated the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of statehood and special status. Congress sources said the party had stayed away from the alliance because of the compulsions of the Bihar elections. “That (the Congress joining the alliance) could have given the BJP an opportunity to repeat the claim that we are anti-national, although there’s nothing anti-national about it,” a source said. Mir, however, said it was too early to say whether the Congress would contest elections jointly with the alliance. “So far the truth is that I had a meeting with Farooq Sahib. Our general secretary in charge (of Jammu and Kashmir, Rajni Patil) has come and we’ll have a meeting with senior leaders. By tomorrow we will officially make our position clear,” Mir told The Telegraph. Farooq had told reporters on Sunday that the Congress was already a part of the alliance. “Who told you they have separated? They had come to meet me today…. You clear the misconception,” he had said in Jammu on being asked whether the alliance would have any dealings with the Congress. “We are fighting elections unitedly and the Congress is with us. Mir Sahib has told me we will fight elections together.” Leaders of the People’s Alliance are in Jammu to garner popular support against last year’s amendment of Article 370 and the new laws that allow outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir. In a surprise development on Saturday, the alliance had decided to contest the maiden district development council elections in the Union Territory, which begin on November 28. The alliance claims its decision was dictated by the need to prevent the BJP taking advantage of the vacuum and winning seats, and to let the world know that its demand for restoration of the special status enjoys popular support. All the parties in the alliance had boycotted every election since 2018 in anticipation of the Centre’s plans to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti told a news conference in Jammu on Monday that the BJP’s policies were prompting Kashmir’s youth to pick up arms. “The BJP has not only repealed (key provisions of) Article 370 but also erased the glory of Babasaheb Ambedkar, who had incorporated the article in the Indian Constitution,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Nine states told to analyse Covid deaths daily||The Union health ministry on Monday asked nine states, including Bengal, to analyse deaths among coronavirus disease patients at the level of hospitals every day and intervene to reduce mortality wherever necessary. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a meeting with state officials also urged the states to promote “health-seeking behaviour” among the public to reduce the proportions of early deaths that occur within 24-72 hours of hospital admission. Health officials are concerned that some districts in the nine states — Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bengal, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Telangana — have shown rises in daily new cases, declines in daily tests, and high mortality within 72 hours of admission. In a similar meeting with Chhattisgarh, last week, a senior health official had pointed out that 34 per cent of Covid-19 patients had died in some districts within 24 hours of admission. Bhushan said states should focus on increased testing, targeted testing in marketplaces, workplaces, and places of religious congregations that could have the potential to become super-spreaders. He also asked the states to trace an average of 10 to 15 contacts per new case detected. Health officials say daily analysis of in-hospital deaths would allow authorities to identify possible factors that might be contributing to unusually high mortality. Late diagnosis, poor clinical management or critical care infrastructure issues could lead to high mortality. The directives come amid a near-steady nationwide decline in daily new counts — only about 45,000 cases recorded on Monday compared to a peak of over 93,000 cases in mid-September — yet worrying signs of a slowdown in the pace of decline in several states and surges in others. India’s count of active Covid-19 patients has fallen steadily to about 500,000 cases on Monday from the mid-September peak of over a million cases. But this fall has not eased pressure on Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi, Haryana, or Kerala with large accumulating numbers of active patients. Delhi, which appears to be in the grip of a third epidemic peak with larger daily case counts, recorded over 7,000 new cases on Monday. Several private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the capital have reported that their full ventilator bed capacity is occupied. “The pressure never went away, but it looks like it is getting worse,” said Sumit Ray, a senior critical care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital in Delhi. Ray is among medical experts concerned over how the epidemic will change in the weeks after Diwali. Some health experts attribute the surge in cases in certain states despite the overall decline in the epidemic as largely driven by behaviour. “Human behaviour is the critical factor driving the epidemic at different places,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior researcher at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. “We could expect differences in behaviour depending on the prior experience of case loads and differences in risk perception,” Bhatnagar said. “These would be influenced by local narratives and the resultant perceptions among people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court refuses Arnab relief ||Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying the accused have the remedy of seeking bail from the sessions court concerned. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik, rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami, Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, said: “No case has been made out for us (high court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction.” Goswami and the others were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies owned by the accused. They were remanded in judicial custody till November 18 by the Alibaug magistrate’s court. The high court on Monday said: “The petitioners have an alternate and efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days.” The sessions court would hear and decide the appeals on merit, the bench said, making it clear the refusal of interim bail would not affect the chances of regular bail. The sessions court is already hearing the police’s revision petition against the magistrate’s order denying them custody of the accused, who have been remanded in judicial custody instead. Goswami’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar said the bail application, filed on Monday in the sessions court, would be taken up after the revision petition. The high court said it did not believe that the reopening of the case, closed last year, was illegal. The judges said: “In our opinion, further investigation ordered into the case by the Maharashtra government cannot be termed as illegal and without seeking permission of the magistrate.” “There is no manner of doubt in our minds that the state government can always direct a further investigation to the police officers concerned, as done in the present case.” Before carrying out the said investigation, the magistrate was intimated about the same, the court observed. “The victim’s rights are equally important like the rights of the accused,” the court said. In the present case, the informant (Naik’s wife Akshata) was neither given any notice nor heard when the “A” Summary report (closure report) was submitted by the police, it noted. “Even the order accepting the closure report was not communicated to the informant. The fact that the magistrate did not give notice and opportunity to the first informant to file a protest petition before accepting the report, goes to the root of the matter,” the high court said. The bench said two members of a family have lost their lives and allegations are made against the three petitioners. The court also said it cannot consider at this stage the submission made by Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve that the FIR does not disclose any offence against the petitioner. The petitions seeking quashing of the FIR have been posted for December 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Indian scientists develop Covid vaccine that can be stored at room temperature||Indian scientists have developed a candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease that remains active after long-term storage at room temperature, raising hopes for novel vaccines that would not need low-temperature cold chain demanded by most vaccines. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and collaborators in Faridabad and Thiruvananthapuram have designed a protein-based vaccine candidate formulation that they say looks promising and remains active at 37°C for over four weeks. Cold storage temperature for routine immunisation vaccines is typically 2 to 8°C and can be much lower for some vaccines. Their vaccine candidate uses a small fragment of the so-called spike surface protein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, to stimulate the immune system into making neutralising antibodies against the virus. In studies in guinea pigs, the vaccine generated antibody levels comparable to those observed from several other vaccine candidates currently under clinical trials worldwide. Almost all vaccine candidates against SARS-CoV-2 under development need refrigeration or are in a frozen state before they are administered. Public health experts view the need for a low-temperature supply chain as a major challenge for vaccine delivery, particularly in the rural areas of low and middle-income countries. “The protein fragment we’ve used in our candidate vaccine elicits antibodies and it is stable at room temperature,” Raghavan Varadarajan, a senior scientist at the IISc molecular biophysics unit who led the research, told The Telegraph. The stability at 37°C for at least four weeks would be a major advantage in efforts to distribute a vaccine in rural areas that lack low-temperature storage facilities. Varadarajan and his colleagues published their findings in the Journal of Biological Chemistry on Thursday. The scientists have sought funding from the Indian government for downstream development — more exhaustive pre-clinical studies in animals and toxicity studies that are critical prerequisites ahead of human clinical trials. For the animal studies, the IISc group partnered with a Bangalore-based start-up Mynvax. The other collaborators are based at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research in Thiruvananthapuram and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad. The researchers say the timeline for further development would hinge on funding. Accelerated pre-clinical and toxicity studies can typically take two to three months. The speed of efforts to develop vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 has been unprecedented. The very first vaccine candidate emerged only about two months after scientists had published the SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence. Three other vaccine candidates are already under clinical trials in India — an inactivated vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, a DNA vaccine from Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila and an adenovirus-based vaccine developed by Oxford researchers. “The more diverse the vaccine strategies in play, the better the chances of success,” said a senior vaccine researcher not associated with the IISc effort. “Until a vaccine is proven effective in protecting against the disease, no one knows which one will make it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Rail stand to link movement of goods and passenger trains is illogical: Amarinder ||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said the railways’ decision to link the movement of goods and passenger trains in the state was “illogical”. “Passengers wanting to come to Punjab can easily travel by train to… Ambala and Chandigarh…. from where they can go by road to their destinations in Punjab in a few hours,” he said, pointing out this was not possible for freight. Farmers protesting against the farm bills have lifted their rail blockade only for freight trains to allow supply of essentials. But the railways have declined to run only goods train services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Delhi woos Maldives, to offer support in UN ||Amid efforts by supporters of Abdulla Yameen to whip up anti-India passions with its “India Out” campaign, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla flew to Maldives on Monday for a two-day visit that saw him talk up the broad spectrum of New Delhi’s development partnership with Male in a competition for influence with Beijing on the atoll nation. India’s development partnership in Maldives not only includes infrastructure projects — a forte of the Chinese — but also community projects that seek to touch every aspect of life in the hope of earning the goodwill of the people that can absorb any change in government in the archipelago. New Delhi has also decided to support the candidature of Maldivian foreign minister Abdulla Shahid for the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly in 2021 when India will be a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. In two of his speeches during Day 1 of his visit, the China factor in the India-Maldives relationship was evident as Shringla sought to highlight the terms of New Delhi’s engagement without referring to Beijing. In an address at the Maldivian foreign ministry, Shringla underscored the fact that India’s partnership in the Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) will “conform to the hallmarks of India development cooperation; transparency; full participation and ownership of the host country; and competitive pricing”. He repeated this while addressing an event for the handing over of children’s parks to 67 islands of Maldives under the Cash Grants Projects. “Honouring the democratic traditions cherished by both countries, the underlying principles of India’s development cooperation of transparency, competitive pricing and ownership of the host country will be adhered to in implementation of the GMCP project. “India’s development projects in Maldives are demand-driven and will involve the Maldivian government at all stages. The tendering process and award of contract will also be done by the Government of Maldives,” he added. China is often accused of doing debt-trap diplomacy by enticing countries into taking cheap loans which they can ill afford to pay back; resulting in them remaining indebted to Beijing. This strategy has helped China increase its footprint in various parts of the world, including Maldives, during the Abdulla Yameen regime when there was a Chinese investment boom in the archipelago. India had announced its decision to invest in the GMCP — the largest infrastructure project in the Maldives in August. It will connect Male with three neighbouring islands, including a new industrial zone and is thrice the size of a similar bridge constructed by the Chinese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Congress targets Modi and Naveen at farm law rally ||The Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) on Monday organised a Kheti Bachao rally here against the new farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. Hundreds of party workers on tractors and motorcycles joined the procession that began from the Congress Bhavan here and culminated in a rally in the millennium city of Cuttack, about 23km from here. Dozens of tractors were also part of the rally. Leading the rally Odisha Pradesh Congress-in-charge Dr A. Chellakumar lambasted the Modi government for adopting anti-farmer laws. Describing the laws as draconian and anti-farmer, Chellakumar said: “ The rally is aimed to educate people what the Narendra Modi government has done to them. Its aim is to bring awareness about these draconian laws and educate the farmers on how their interests are going to be badly hit. Most of the farmers are still unaware of these laws which would only serve the purpose of the big business and corporates.” Chellakumar said during the UPA government around Rs 74,000 crore was released for the development of agriculture sector.  “All the programmes including the MGNREGS were launched during the Congress regime,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
