11-11-2020||India||Delhi Police arrest 10 for selling crackers||The Delhi Police arrested 10 people and filed 12 cases for alleged sale of firecrackers on Wednesday, said officials. The state government has imposed a total ban on crackers ahead of Diwali, from November 7 to 30, in a bid to combat the rising pollution in Delhi amid a surge in Covid-19 infections. The environmentally safer green crackers also come under the ban. "Among the 12 cases, one was registered in northeast district, one in outer-north, four in northwest, one in Rohini, two in west, two in outer and one in Dwarka," Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said.  "Total 10 people were arrested on Wednesday -- one in northeast district, one in outer-north, four in northwest, one in Rohini, one in west and two in outer," he added. Mital informed that the cops recovered 1,769.89 kg of firecrackers, of which 1,638 kg was discovered from the west district. They also registered two cases in the east and northwest district for bursting firecrackers on Wednesday. According to Mital, one person, from whom 100 grams of firecrackers were recovered, was arrested from the northwest district. Till date, 29 cases were registered and 30 people were arrested for alleged sale of fireworks. Police recovered 2,792.77 kg of crackers from their possession. Two persons were arrested and 10 cases were registered for the bursting of crackers, they said. Saying that "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases", the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the sale and use of all types of crackers from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
11-11-2020||India||Filmmakers oppose govt move to regulate OTT content||A cross-section of writers and directors have criticised the government’s decision to put online content under the  purview of the information and broadcasting ministry, saying it could put Indian content creators at a disadvantage in the international stage and curb the personal and creative freedom of creators as well as viewers. Filmmakers such as Hansal Mehta and Reema Kagti were among those who did not take the government’s decision well. The move, as per a notification issued on Tuesday night, said that films, audiovisuals, news and current affairs content aired on online providers, including Netflix and Amazon Prime, would be monitored by the ministry. It said that the decision had been taken by exercising the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution, by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules. The ministry will now have the power to regulate policies related to online content, including those of news, audio, visual contents and films. Signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the notification said the move would come into effect immediately. MX Player CEO Karan Bedi, however, said he looked forward to working with the ministry to implement the efforts towards self-regulation. "As responsible content creators, we want to ensure this act not only takes cognisance of the nature of content being released, but also ensures that we safeguard creativity in this rapidly growing sector, Bedi told PTI. But Kagti said, ""It (the decision) puts Indian content creators at a disadvantage when they are competing on the world stage. I don't know what one can do...I don't know the legal ramifications of this. It is too premature to talk about what can be done. We should wait and hope things will get clear when the guidelines or whatever is the intent comes into play." "Nothing specific has been said regarding censorship, except that it is coming under the ambit of I&B ministry. I should wait to hear what exactly this means," she said, and added that filmmakers are asked to cut several scenes even though the movie is rated ‘A’. "I believe there should be no censorship regardless of the medium. Films and series can be age certified and classified but a free and democratic country should let its adult citizens decide what they would like to watch or not watch in a theatre, or on their phones and computers. The choice must belong to the citizen," the Lipstick Under My Burkha maker told PTI, adding that she fundamentally opposed censorship. "Whatever happened to the understanding with Mr (Prakash) Javadekar that OTT will be self-regulated? The govt is giving in to the basest demands of prudes. How is this progress in any manner? Don't like it, don't watch it. Don't impose your regressive views on a billion people. Where was the public discourse before this autocratic decision was announced? And what's the process to appeal, if there's one at all?" Mirzapur writer-director Anshuman wrote on Twitter. According to Danish Aslam, who created the show Flesh on the trafficking of women on Eros Now, said the joy of OTT platforms was that one could tell a story the way it was meant to be told without any artificial restrictions imposed from outside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Cow dung emerges as major source of income for Chhattisgarh families||Cow Dung has become a major source of income for families and is emerging as a tool for providing employment, courtesy Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel government's new scheme 'Godhan Nyaya Yojana'. Godhan Nyaya Yojana, launched on 20th July 2020, on the auspicious occasion of Hareli, aims to promote organic farming and create new employment opportunities at rural as well asurban levels. Cow Dung is being purchased from the villagers and cow dung collectors, presently from 5454 Gauthans at the cost of 2 rupees per kg. To refuel the engine of rural development in the state, Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel made an online payment of Rs Rs 8.97 crore , for the cow dung purchased from 77 thousand 592 villagers and cow herders in Gauthans, from October 20th to November 5. Payment of Rs 47.38 crore has been made to the dung vendors of the state so far within the scheme. 3677 Gauthans of the state are engaged in the selling of cow dung. So far, more than 23 lakh quintals of cow dung have been purchased. Vermicompost, called 'Gaudhan Vermi Compost'. is being prepared by the self-help groups from the purchased cow dung and are being sold at the rate of Rs 8 per kg, under the scheme. To promote the production of product, ditches are being rapidly constructed in Gauthans. More than 44,000 ditches have already been built, while 16,000 ditches are under construction. More than 8 thousand quintal vermicompost manure has been produced in the Gauthans till now. Since the initiation of the scheme, many beneficiaries have registered themselves in the district with 1,84,899 registered and 88,810 benefited cattlemen in the state currently. Payments are being made directly in the account of the beneficiaries. With Diwali around the corner, villagers have received their gifts in the form of payment. One such inspiring story is of Tirath Sahu: a landless mason who worked recklessly day and night to make the ends meet with whatever little they get. He soon realized that the mason's job is hardly catering to his family's basic needs, and decided to avail an additional income with the state Government's Godhan Nyay Yojana. To his astonishment, the scheme bore fruitful results for him and his income doubled instantly. His wife Keja Bai registered under the Godhan Nyay Yojan after being forced off her job of a school cook amid the Covid-19 crisis. His family collects and sells the cow dung available in the house and neighbourhood,or to his committee under the scheme. His family is living happily now, and their purchasing power and living standards have increased after availing the scheme. Tirath bought three grams of gold leaf for his wife's Keja bai's Mangalasutra and clothes for his kids as a gift. Since the commencement of the scheme, the family has managed to earn a net income of Rs 22,150 to date. Tirath's inspiring story paves the way for two things. First, with determination and faith, one can touch the highest peaks and second, that the Godhan Nyay Yojana, which includes income generation from something as basic as cow dung, describes the futuristic vision of the Bhupesh Baghel-led state government, which is heading towards fast track Development with its grounded schemes. "The government's Godhan Nyaya Yojana has provided typical Chhattisgarhi citizen like me and many others with a golden opportunity to seek benefit with the traditional cow dung related work," said Tirath. The benefit availed by beneficiaries like Keja Bai and her family is the hallmark of the successful implementation of the Godhan Nyaya Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Delhi HC questions AAP govt on easing of Covid curbs||The Delhi High Court questioned the Aam Aadmi Party government on Wednesday for relaxing norms related to Covid-19 even though cases were increasing constantly, with no household “left untouched”. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramanium Prasad asked if the government had any strategy or policy in place to tackle the ‘alarming’ situation in the state. The Delhi government has recently allowed 200 people to attend public functions and permitted public transportation to be fully occupied. The court questioned the rationale behind this move. It asked when Delhi, as a city state, was "hands down beating" larger states like Maharashtra and Kerala in terms of new daily infections over the past two weeks, what steps had the AAP government taken to contain the spread. The bench also noted that the daily number of new coronavirus cases was at 8,593 and “still counting” as received on November 10, and the number of containment zones numbered to 4,016. The court said that the Delhi government should have done something to deal with the cases when there was an alarming rise in the number of infections over the past two to three weeks. The latest sero survey report of the government detected the presence of antibodies in 25 per cent of the people tested, meaning that one out of four persons was infected with Covid-19, the court noted. "No household has been left untouched," the bench said, while referring to the sero survey data as it pulled up the state for relaxing norms in such a situation when other similarly placed states were bringing in restrictions. The court also asked why the Delhi government, which was being represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, has not come up with any rule to enforce strict wearing of masks, which are being termed as a ‘vaccine’ till the real ones come. "Situation has surpassed advisories," the bench said, adding that the Delhi government would have by now introduced sanctions, through legislations, to ensure wearing of masks, had it been serious about the issue. The court reserved the matter for further hearing on November 19 while directing the AAP government to file a status report to describe the steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the cases were on an alarming rise. The high court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, which sought to increase the number of testing in the national capital and getting speedy results. The bench also questioned the government for preference of Rapid Antigen Testing to the much more accurate RT/PCR tests, when the "situation was as critical as it is now", with several asymptomatic people testing positive for coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||India, China set to resolve border standoff in eastern Ladakh||India and China may be on the verge of a breakthrough in resolving the over six-month-long tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh with both sides broadly agreeing on a three-step process on disengagement of troops and withdrawal of weaponry from all major friction points in a time-bound manner, authoritative sources said on Wednesday. The broad contours of the proposal include removal of armoured personnel carriers within one day of inking an agreement, withdrawal of troops from specific areas on the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh and carrying out verification of the disengagement process by both the sides, they said. The specific proposals for the disengagement and restoration of the status quo ante as existed in April were finalised during the eighth round of high-level military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies in Chushul on November 6 on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control(LAC). The sources said both the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) are looking at sealing the pact in the next round of Corps Commander-level talks as the proposals were agreed to by the two sides. The ninth round of military talks are likely to take place in the next few days. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The standoff between the two sides erupted in early May. As a first step, both sides will remove their tanks, artillery guns, armoured vehicles and large equipment from the friction points along the LAC to their rear bases within three days from inking the agreement, the sources said. Under the second step, the PLA will go back to Finger 8 areas from their current position of Finger 4 on the north bank of Pangong lake while the Indian troops would position themselves close to the Dhan Singh Thapa post, the sources said. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. It was broadly agreed to withdraw around 30 per cent of the troops every day for three days, they said. In the third step, it was agreed to complete the disengagement process in areas along the southern bank of Pangong lake like Rezang La, Mukhpari and Magar hill. Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rezang La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake, after the PLA soldiers attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. "These are all proposals. There is no agreement signed yet," said a high-level source. In the final phase of the disengagement process, both sides will carry out a detailed verification process following which normal patrolling is expected to resume, the sources said. It is learnt that the top military brass deliberated on the proposals for disengagement and de-escalation of tension in eastern Ladakh before the eighth round of Corps Commander talks with the PLA. The disengagement proposal in Finger areas will mean there will be no patrolling between Finger 4 and 8 areas till there is a resolution of the standoff. India used to patrol till Finger 8. Army chief general M M Naravane on Tuesday said he was hopeful that the Indian and Chinese militaries will be able to reach an agreement on disengagement and de-escalation of tension in eastern Ladakh. After the last round of military talks, both sides described the negotiations as candid, in-depth and constructive. They said it was agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and ensure that the frontline troops exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation. At the seventh round of talks too, both sides had agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement "as early as possible". India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. The sixth round of talks took place days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi reached a five-point agreement to resolve the row at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee also granted interim bail to two others -- Nitish Sarda and Parveen Rajesh Singh -- on personal bond of Rs 50,000 each. The bench said their release should not be delayed and the prison authorities should facilitate this. The top court directed that Goswami, Sarda and Singh shall not tamper with evidence and cooperate in the probe in the case. Goswami, Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, had challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The top court, while hearing the plea, expressed concern over state governments targeting some individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. "We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people," the bench said while hearing Goswami's plea. The bench asked Maharashtra whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, who is the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, saying the issue pertains to personal liberty . It observed that Indian democracy is extraordinarily resilient and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab's taunt on TV). "Whatever be his ideology, least I don't even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional court's do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably. "If the government targets individuals on this basis...You may not like television channels but this should not happen, ," Justice Chandrachud said, adding, the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations. The bench observed that assuming the FIR is gospel truth but that is a matter of investigation. "Is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending, the bench told senior advocate Kapil Sibal who was appearing for the state." " 'A' does not pay money to 'B', and is this the case of abetment of suicide? If the high court don't act in matters like this, there will be complete destruction of personal liberty. We are deeply concerned for this. If we don't act in matters like this then it will be very disturbing," the court said. Justice Chandrachud also observed that courts are being attacked for judgements delivered by them. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, referred to various cases lodged against him and the channel and alleged that Maharashtra government is targeting him. This is not an ordinary case and the Bombay High Court being a constitutional court should have taken note of the incidents. Is this a case where Arnab Goswami is put in Taloja jail with hardened criminals, Salve said. I would urge the case to be transferred to the CBI and punish him if he is guilty. What will happen if a person is granted ad-interim bail, he said. Sibal referred to the facts of the case and said that details of investigation conducted in the matter are not before the apex court and if it intervenes at this stage, it would set a dangerous precedent. Senior lawyer Amit Desai, also appearing for the state, said this is not a case where the court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to grant bail at interim stage. He said the state's ability to investigate a criminal case has to be respected. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The high court had, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Indian engineering student found dead at Sharjah apartment||A fourth-year Indian computer engineering student was found dead in his Sharjah apartment, The Gulf News quoted the local police, as saying. It is being suspected as a case of suicide, they said. Jyot was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his home at Al Rolla area of Sharjah on November 2, the media report said. The 21-year-old’s brother Niral, speaking to the newspaper, said that the family had no idea that he was considering such a drastic step. Jyot was alone at home at the time of the purported suicide. Officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said that forensic teams have suspected no foul play. “My parents had gone to Al Ain. We do not know what was going on in his mind. It was very unexpected. He had not left behind any note and we have not come across anything later. We are trying our best to figure out what was going on in his mind and what was troubling him," Niral told the Gulf News. The matter has been moved to Public Prosecution. However, investigators are yet to find the reason for ‘Jyot committing suicide’, and are not convinced about the angle. We checked with the college. They said he was doing wonderfully in his studies and everything was going fine. He was a favourite among the faculty and they said he was good in his studies, one of Jyot's friends told The Gulf News.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Cricketer turned politician: the story of Tejashwi Yadav||An avid cricketer whose career never really took off, a political greenhorn who got power on a silver platter but failed to keep it, a scion of Bihar's most powerful family who could not get past the 9th grade. That was Tejashwi Yadav until the 2020 Assembly polls marked the coming of age of a politician who valiantly went down fighting an army of battle-hardened veterans. He may have failed to learn the textbook lessons at Delhi Public School, R K Puram, in the national capital but showed an uncanny knack of reading the mind of voters, like his more famous father, as he led the Opposition Grand Alliance to an impressive performance in the polls winning 110 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The 31-year-old also powered the RJD to the status of the single largest party in the House with 75 seats. Analysts feel Tejashwi's poll promise of sanctioning "10 lakh government jobs at my first cabinet meeting" was a masterstroke which had the young voter swooning in a state reeling from widespread joblessness sparked by COVID-induced lockdown when the return of countless migrants home brought the state's largely agrarian economy under further stress. The promise was good but not good enough to bring down the NDA government. As part of a cleverly crafted strategy that endeared him to liberals, he chose to steer clear of contentious issues like the Ram temple, a bait thrown at him by top BJP leaders, and stuck to his core agenda of unemployment and alleged corruption in the Nitish Kumar administration. For a young man whose ability to lead the party was called into question after the RJD's unprecedented debacle in the Lok Sabha elections when it failed to win even one of the state's 40 seats, it was no mean feat that he succeeded in galvanising an organisational machinery in stupor after the battering. Doubting his leadership qualities, allies HAM of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha and VIP of Mukesh Sahni jumped the ship in search of greener pastures elsewhere. Humility is a trait which, according to those who saw him at school or later as an aspiring cricketer, defines the younger son of two former chief ministers which was reflected in the manner in which he accommodated the Congress and the Left, seen as a spent force in the state ever since it was swept over by the Mandal wave. Another hallmark of his personality is the ability to think on his feet. After deciding early on in life that studies were not for him, Yadav chose not to cling to his cricketing aspirations either after the much-needed big break eluded him. Contracted by IPL franchise Delhi Daredevils for some time he remained in the reserve list. He announced his "retirement" from cricket just a couple of years before entering politics in 2015 at the tender age of 25. The new vocation came as a perfect pitch to bat on as he won from Raghopur in the Assembly election comfortably. Soon Lalu made it clear that Tejashwi was his chosen successor, and he was appointed the Deputy Chief Minister in the Nitish Kumar government. As fate would have it, Tejashwi's name cropped up in a money laundering case related to alleged illegal land transactions when his father was the railway minister in the UPA-1 government. Tejashwi was in his teens when the alleged scam happened. The development drew heavy Opposition fire and Nitish Kumar snapped his ties with the RJD, before returning to the NDA, giving up his ambition of heading a nationwide coalition for a "Sangh Mukt Bharat" which could pose a challenge to the Narendra Modi juggernaut. Tejashwi took the sudden loss of power on the chin, transitioning seamlessly into a doughty leader of the Opposition. As Lalu landed in jail following conviction in a number of fodder scam cases, Tejashwi, by now the RJD's chief ministerial candidate, kept the party afloat and also rallied leaders as diverse as Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal and the Left bigwigs at a rally in New Delhi against the Muzaffarpur shelter home sex scandal, making his presece felt at the national level. Towards the end of 2018, he seemed bogged down by problems in the family. Much of his time and energy was spent trying unsuccessfully to prevent mercurial elder brother Tej Pratap's nasty marital dispute from playing out in the open. After the Lok Sabha poll fiasco, Tejashwi showed signs of torpor, choosing to spend most of his time away from Bihar and even giving a month-long Assembly session a miss during an outbreak of brain fever and flash floods in north Bihar, providing the Opposition with ample ammunition to attack him. Leaders of the JD(U)-BJP combine ridiculed him as an "ill prepared student afraid of facing exams" when he demanded that the Assembly elections be deferred in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. However, once the elections were announced, he steeled himself for the fight. The young leader displayed quiet ruthlessness while marginalising dissenters and guile in keeping his ambitious eldest sister Misa Bharti, a Rajya Sabha MP, away from campaign and Tej Pratap confined to his Hasanpur seat. As the NDA seemed losing its earlier surefootedness, doddering under the weight of LJP leader Chirag Paswan's rebellion, he seized the moment and launched an indefatigable campaign, addressing more than a dozen rallies a day. His frequent references to himself as "sher ka beta" (son of a lion) notwithstanding, leaders of the JD(U) and the BJP claimed he was shying away from using the pictures of his parents in his campaign as they were emblematic of the "jungle raj". Prime Minister Narendra Modi lent weight to the narrative by frequently referring to him as the "Jungle Raj Ke Yuvraj". He might have failed to lead his alliance to victory, but the Assembly polls have heralded the advent of a young leader on Bihar's political firmament who can feel the pulse of youth and has abundant promise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Over 7 lakh voters opt for NOTA option this Bihar election||A little over seven lakh voters in Bihar used the 'none of the above' or NOTA option in the assembly elections, according to the Election Commission. Nitish Kumar-led NDA was back in power in Bihar on Wednesday with a slender majority. The ruling coalition won 125 seats in the 243-member state assembly against 110 clinched by the opposition Grand Alliance to pave the way for a fourth successive term for Kumar in office. According to figures released by the EC, 7,06,252 people or 1.7 per cent of the voters opted for the option whereby they preferred not to vote for any candidate while exercising their democratic right. Over 4 crore votes were polled in the three-phase elections. Out of nearly 7.3 crore voters, 57.09 per cent had cast votes in the polls. The 'NOTA' option on electronic voting machines, introduced in 2013, has its own symbol -- a ballot paper with a black cross across it. After the Supreme Court order in September, 2013, the EC added the NOTA button on the EVMs as the last option on the voting panel. Prior to the apex court order, those not inclined to vote for any candidate had the option of filling, what is popularly called, 'form 49-O'. But filling the form at the polling station under Rule 49-O of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, compromised the secrecy of the voter. The Supreme Court had, however, refused to direct the EC to hold fresh polls if the majority of the electorate exercises the NOTA option while voting. There were several seats in Bihar where NOTA option got more votes than the winning margin of candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Govt brings online content under purview of I&B ministry||The Centre, in a notification, has brought online content under the domain of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The notification, issued on Tuesday night, said that films, audiovisuals, news and current affairs content aired on online providers including Netflix and Amazon Prime will be monitored by the ministry. It said that the decision has been taken in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution, by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules. Signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the move will come into effect at once. The ministry will now have the power to regulate policies related to online content, including those of news, audio, visual contents and films. These rules may be known as the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Three Hundred and Fifty Seventh Amendment Rules, 2020, which shall come into force immediately. In the Government of India (Allocation of Business, 1961, in THE SECOND SCHEDULE, under the heading 'MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SOOCHANA AUR PRASARAN MANTRALAYA)' after entry 22, the following sub-heading and entries shall be inserted, namely:- VA. DIGITAL/ONLINE MEDIA. 22A. Films and Audio-Visual programmes made available by online content providers. 22B. News and current affairs content on online platforms, the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||SC questions Maharashtra govt over Arnab arrest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday questioned the Maharashtra government over the 2018 abetment to suicide case against journalist Arnab Goswami and said that it would be a travesty of justice if personal liberty of a person is curtailed like this. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said if state governments target individuals, they must realise then that there is apex court to protect the liberty of citizens. The top court expressed concern over state governments targeting some individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. "We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people," the bench said while hearing Goswami's plea seeking interim bail in the case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer in 2018. The bench asked Maharashtra whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, who is the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, saying the issue pertains to personal liberty . It observed that Indian democracy is extraordinarily resilient and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab's taunt on TV). "Whatever be his ideology, least I don't even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional court's do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably. "If the government targets individuals on this basis...You may not like television channels but this should not happen, ," Justice Chandrachud said, adding, the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations. The bench observed that assuming the FIR is gospel truth but that is a matter of investigation. "Is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending, the bench told senior advocate Kapil Sibal who was appearing for the state." " 'A' does not pay money to 'B', and is this the case of abetment of suicide? If the high court don't act in matters like this, there will be complete destruction of personal liberty. We are deeply concerned for this. If we don't act in matters like this then it will be very disturbing," the court said. Justice Chandrachud also observed that courts are being attacked for judgements delivered by them. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, referred to various cases lodged against him and the channel and alleged that Maharashtra government is targeting him. This is not an ordinary case and the Bombay High Court being a constitutional court should have taken note of the incidents. Is this a case where Arnab Goswami is put in Taloja jail with hardened criminals, Salve said. I would urge the case to be transferred to the CBI and punish him if he is guilty. What will happen if a person is granted ad-interim bail, he said. Sibal referred to the facts of the case and said that details of investigation conducted in the matter are not before the apex court and if it intervenes at this stage, it would set a dangerous precedent. Senior lawyer Amit Desai, also appearing for the state, said this is not a case where the court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to grant bail at interim stage. He said the state's ability to investigate a criminal case has to be respected. The hearing in the case is going on and would continue in the post-lunch session. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 86 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 86 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 80.13 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.79 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 44,281 more people testing positive for coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, the infection tally mounted to 86,36, 011, while the death toll rose to 1,27,571 after 512 new fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases dropped below five lakh. At present, there are 4,94,657 active cases in the country which comprise 5.73 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 80,13,783, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.79 per cent, while COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,07,69,151 samples have been tested so far with 11,53,294 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 512 new fatalities include 110 from Maharashtra, 83 from Delhi, 53 from Bengal, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 25 from Tamil Nadu, 20 each from Karnataka and Punjab. Total 1,27,571 deaths reported so far in the country include 45,435 from Maharashtra followed by 11,430 from Karnataka, 11,387 from Tamil Nadu, 7,403 from Bengal, 7,261 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,143 from Delhi, 6,814 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,358 from Punjab and 3,770 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slightly improves, in 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality slipped back into the very poor category on Wednesday after remaining in the severe zone for six days on the trot, with a change in the wind direction reducing the contribution of stubble burning in city's pollution. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 388 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 476 on Tuesday. Delhi witnessed six severe air days on the trot till Tuesday. It had recorded seven severe air days in November last year. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (345), Ghaziabad (390), Noida (339), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (309), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded "very poor" air quality. The levels of PM2.5 which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases were 233 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 9 am, below the emergency threshold of 300 g/m3. The safe limit is 60 g/m3. On Tuesday, PM2.5 levels had soared to 528 g/m3 in the afternoon. PM10 level stood at 384 g/m3 at 9 pm. It had peaked to 685 g/m3 on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India and 500 g/m3 is the emergency threshold. According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered in the severe plus or emergency category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels persist above 300 g/m3 and 500 g/m3 for more than 48 hours. GRAP recommends measures such as a ban on construction activities, entry of trucks and car rationing scheme in such a scenario. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Tuesday tasked the CPCB with operationalising and monitoring GRAP measures till a mechanism is set up by the newly-constituted panel. At a meeting, the commission also decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in the NCR region, there is a need to invoke the GRAP, which has been already notified by the central government. GRAP, which is a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its vicinity towns according to the severity of the situation, came into force on October 15. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the predominant wind direction is east-northeasterly, which is not favourable for transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said, The change in wind direction and wind speed has positively impacted air quality. It is likely to remain in the upper end of the 'very poor' category on Thursday and deteriorate marginally on Friday. The farm fire count in Punjab was around 3500 on Tuesday, but the impact of stubble burning on air quality was negligible because of easterly winds, it said. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- is likely to be around 12,500 m2/s on Wednesday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. The ventilation index lower than 6000 m2/s with average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||SC refuses to interfere with Calcutta HC order banning use, sale of crackers||The Supreme Court refused on Wednesday to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order banning the sale and use of firecrackers in Bengal during Kali Puja, saying preservation of life was more important amid the coronavirus pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said though festivals were important, but "life itself has been imperilled now" amid the pandemic. It said the high court knew the local condition better and it should be allowed to do the needful. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association, challenging the high court order last week banning the use and sale of firecrackers during upcoming festivals, including Kali Puja and Chhath Puja, to curb pollution. Kali Puja will be celebrated on Saturday. "We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home," it observed. "We are in a situation where, at this time, preservation of life is more important and the high court knows what is required at the ground level." It added that the high court had taken care of the interest of citizens, especially senior citizens who may have comorbidities. The high court had directed that the ban would also be in force during the Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja, adding that the guidelines -- which were in place during Durga Puja, such as no entry to pandals -- would also be in effect. It had lauded the state government for effectively implementing the court-directed guidelines during the Durga Puja and asked the police to ensure that the norms are strictly enforced on the other festivals as well. Fifteen people will be allowed in the Kali Puja pandals having an area up to 300 sq metres, and 45 in the bigger ones, the court had said, while disallowing procession during immersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP wins 19 out of 28 seats in MP bypolls||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh won 19 out of the 28 assembly constituencies, where bypolls were held on November 3, giving it a comfortable majority in the House and providing stability to its eight-month-old government in the state. The Opposition Congress clinched nine seats. With this, the BJP now has 126 MLAs in the 230-member House, while the Congress has 96 legislators. Due to the resignation of one more Congress MLA recently, the effective strength of the House is 229 at present. The comfortable victory of the BJP, which needed only eight seats to have a full majority on its own in the 229- member House, will not only provide stability to the party-led government in the state, but also further cement the position of senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress earlier this year and joined the saffron party. Out of the 12 ministers who contested the bypolls, three were defeated by the Congress candidates. Prominent among them is woman minister Imarti Devi, who lost from Dabra by a margin of 7,633 votes. BJP minister Girraj Dandotia lost from Dimani by a margin of 26,467 votes. Another minister Adal Singh Kansana bit the dust from Sumaoli constituency by a margin of 10,947 votes. Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat won from Sanver by a margin of 53,264 votes. BJP minister OPS Bhadoria won from Mehgaon by a margin of 12,036 votes. The saffron party's Munna Lal Goyal lost by a margin of 8,555 votes against Congress Dr Satish Sikarwar from Gwalior-East. Out of the 22 MLAs who had quit the then ruling Congress in March this year in support of Scindia's move of leaving the party, 15 emerged victorious, while seven others, including three ministers, lost the poll battle. Though Congress left no stone unturned to portray Scindia as "traitor" because of his rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath government that paved the way for the return of the BJP government in the state, the campaign plank failed to find much traction among voters. Scindia has repeatedly said his decision to quit the Congress was driven by "failure" of the erstwhile Nath government to fulfil promises made to people, especially farmers. "The victory of BJP in these by-polls will certainly strengthen Scindia's position in the BJP at the Centre," a political expert said. Though the BJP fared well in 19 of these 28 seats, it suffered losses in the Gwalior-Chambal region as three of its ministers Adal Singh Kansana from Sumaoli, Imarti Devi from Dabra, whom Nath had termed "item" in the run-up to the bypolls, and Girraj Dandotia from Dimani, faced defeat. The BJP had a narrow win in Bhander, where its nominee Raksha Santram Saronia defeated popular Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya by a margin of 161 votes. Besides, a Scindia supporter also lost in Karera in Shivpuri district. "There are a total of 34 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region and among them Congress had won in 26 seats in 2018. Bypolls were held in 16 seats in this region and among them Scindia's supporters won nine seats, which were basically the Congress seats," BJP spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi said. "Earlier, the Congress had more than 80 per cent of these seats, which it had won because of Scindia factor," he said. Scindia's supporters won decisively in the assembly constituencies of Bamori, Mungaoli and Ashok Nagar, which are part of Guna Lok Sabha seat. Besides, among the six ministers that resigned from the Congress along with Scindia, only Imarti Devi lost in bypoll while his loyalists like Tulsiram Silawat, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Govind Singh Rajput, Dr Prabhuram Choudhary and Pradyumna Singh Tomar won decisively from their respective constituencies. Choudhary created a record by winning with a highest margin 63,809 votes from Sanchi (SC) seat. BJP got 49.46 per cent vote share against the Congress's 40.40 in these bypolls. Expressing happiness over the BJP's victory, Scindia said, "I express my gratitude towards the voters for giving a clear mandate to the BJP. The results of the bypolls proved that both former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh were betrayers. It has become a habit of the Congress to question the credibility of the EVMs by not accepting the mandate." Elated over the BJP's performance, CM Chouhan said that the BJP has secured 11 per cent more votes than their rival Congress and termed it as "incredible". "We won the seats by huge margins and lost few by a thin margin. We humbly accept the victory," he said while announcing to implement the roadmap for 'Aatmnirbhar Madhya Pradesh' campaign immediately. Chouhan also accused the Opposition Congress of making false allegations and using indecent words against the BJP leaders. Congress leader Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said that his party made efforts to reach out to the public. "We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to the public. I also thank all the voters who took part in the by-elections. I hope that the BJP government will take care of the interests of the farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain the respect and safety of women," Nath said in a tweet. In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly loyalists of Scindia, had resigned from the party and their Madhya Pradesh Assembly membership. This led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led state government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists had joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP sweeps bypolls across states, Shivraj safe||The dream of the Congress for the emergence of a “moral voter” who would avenge the betrayal of their mandate in Madhya Pradesh lay shattered as the BJP swept the bypolls to 28 seats on Tuesday, ensuring that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government completes the rest of its term. The BJP’s dominance was manifested across the country; while it won six of the seven seats in Uttar Pradesh, it bagged all eight in Gujarat and two in Karnataka that went to polls. While the BJP dominated by winning four seats in Manipur, it wrested the sole seat in Telangana, stamping its nationwide ascendance. It was only in Jharkhand where the ruling JMM and the Congress shared a seat each, apart from Chhattisgarh and Haryana where the Congress won the solitary seats going to polls. Former chief minister Kamal Nath poured in all his resources and energies to claw back to power in Madhya Pradesh and even received impressive crowd responses during the campaign but the results didn’t reflect that kind of support. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had led 25 Congress MLAs in defecting to the BJP, faced public anger during electioneering and there was a general perception that he would struggle to retain his base in his fiefdom of Gwalior-Chambal. Congress leaders said they would have been happier winning more seats than the BJP in the bypolls even if they didn’t succeed in toppling the Shivraj government. While Kamal Nath said he accepts the people’s verdict with humility, many senior leaders expressed surprise at the outcome, insisting that the dominant sections of the society were angry at Scindia’s betrayal and believed that the defectors were driven solely by lust for power. Scindia, on the other hand, gained some legitimacy after the results. While the outcome in Madhya Pradesh must have shaken the Congress, which expected to win at least 22 of the 28 seats, the ominous signals from Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh will leave the party leadership demoralised. While the difference in vote share in Gujarat between the BJP and the Congress is a whopping 20 per cent, the expectation that the party will significantly enhance its presence in Uttar Pradesh under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s leadership proved unreasonable. The Congress was undoubtedly the most active party in Uttar Pradesh over the past 10 months, trying to reach out to the people in their miseries and struggle. But its vote share remained at the bottom of the table with merely 7.5 per cent while the BJP polled over 36 per cent, followed by the Samajwadi Party (23 per cent) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (19 per cent). There was speculation about the BSP’s political demise and the SP’s decline because of their inaction against the Yogi Adityanath government but the assessment of the Congress’s strength was obviously overestimated. Priyanka will have to work harder if the Congress has to make inroads into frozen blocs of support in the state. While Uttar Pradesh will have Assembly elections in 2022, the Congress looks unprepared to pose any serious challenge to the dominant forces — the BJP and the SP. In Gujarat, the Congress has squandered its gains of the last Assembly elections when the BJP had scraped through to form the government. The new younger leadership has neither been able to keep their flock together nor break fresh grounds despite creating a lot of noise. The bypoll shock is bound to trigger discontent within the Congress and the demand for a full-fledged party president will intensify. Although Rahul Gandhi has led from the front despite not being in command formally, the party’s performance in the bypolls to 54 constituencies and the Bihar Assembly elections will give credence to the questions raised by dissenters, known as Group of 23, who had written to Sonia Gandhi, complaining about the drift in the party after the defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||NDA claims crown; stellar RJD fight||The NDA scraped past a breathtaking challenge by the Tejashwi-led Mahagathbandhan to retain a skin-thin hold on power in Bihar on an extended see-saw day that saw chief minister Nitish Kumar downgraded and the state’s political polarities defined between the BJP and the RJD that emerged the single-largest party. Amid bitter neck-and-neck battling, the RJD claimed late evening that 119 Gathbandhan candidates had won and accused the state administration of declining victory certificates to some after they had been declared winners by returning officers. The bare majority mark in the 243-member Assembly is 122. RJD MP Manoj Jha, one of the party’s chief strategists, said late on Tuesday night that he had been assured by the Election Commission of fair redress. “We trust the Election Commission (EC), we do not trust the state administration,” Jha said. “We are assured that the voice of the people, as reflected by the campaign, will triumph, Nitish Kumar’s efforts to hang on to the chair by hook or by crook will be defeated.” Jha  alleged pointedly that Nitish’s chief ministerial office was being “used to unfairly influence the result on at least two dozen seats” through pliant bureaucrats. The NDA retaliated, saying the RJD was carping because it knew it had “lost the election”. The Election Commission, on its part, rebuffed the RJD’s specific allegations but indicated that recounts may be required on some seats, leaving a clear verdict in the balance. Early evening, the BJP headquarters in Delhi was in ecstatic throes over the impending arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda to mark victory. But the rites were swiftly aborted as it became apparent that the NDA’s victory was far from certain. The faithful were instructed to lower the celebratory decibel and disband. Nobody could be sure which way the verdict would turn. Close to midnight, though, the BJP officially claimed victory for the NDA ahead of the formal declaration of results. The results have already pronounced a few things worthy of note. The BJP, by far the stronger NDA party now, has snatched the baton from Nitish who must now play beholden and compliant chief minister should he be given the job he has publicly been promised. Tejashwi has ensured that Bihar has an ebullient Opposition in the RJD and its partners. He came tantalizingly close to snatching power, but was pipped at the post by a combination of factors that include a significant counter-consolidation of votes to arrest his surge to the top office. The late swell in NDA votes — a consequence of widespread perception that Tejashwi might wrest power — is evident from the fact that the NDA, and the BJP in particular, did far better in the second and third rounds of polling; the first was domineered by the Gathbandhan, word went out, and the BJP resorted to remedy losses. Critical to that effort was proactive rekindling of fears of the return of “jungle raj” towards the latter half of the campaign and Prime Minister Modi played chief drumbeater of apprehension. Forever keen on Bihar, Modi spearheaded the NDA campaign with recurrent visits and multiple rallies where he performed his trademark act of stoking bogey apprehensions about the Opposition and resorting to nakedly sectarian entreaty woven around the Ram temple and the invocation of Bharat Mata. There was more at stake for the BJP than just loss of power in Bihar. The message from a reverse in a heartland state tends to resonate beyond its physical boundaries; with polls impending in neighbouring Bengal, a state the BJP desperately wants to wrest from the Trinamul Congress, losing Bihar would trigger unhelpful ripples. What looked like a romp for the NDA at the beginning of the campaign became a tricky uphill towards the end essentially because Tejashwi surprised adversaries and allies alike with a stirring turn at the hustings. Only a day older than 31, Tejashwi was able to  rally his troops and Gathbandhan forces remarkably in the absence of the RJD patriarch Lalu Prasad. Tejashwi foregrounded unemployment and economic stress as key issues, and appealed to all sections of Bihar as opposed to his party’s traditional Mandal-Minority theme. His battlefront performance was no less outstanding for the fact that he put a veteran like Nitish in the shade and was duelling single-handed against none other than Prime Minister Modi, the lead NDA campaigner. The Gathbandhan’s performance was buoyed in good measure by Left parties which led on 18 of the 29 seats they contested but dragged down by the Congress, which hogged a 70-seat share but returned less than a third. RJD leaders had conceded privately through the campaign that they had given away far too many seats to the Congress. Ahead of the campaign, odds were stacked overwhelmingly in favour of the NDA, many willing to bet it would be a one-way race; Tejashwi was dismissed as a rookie incapable of posing a credible challenge to the formidable arithmetic and resources of the NDA. The RJD scion, though, made a battling fist of it with a campaign that was not only electric of energy but also well-meditated and focused. Its fundamental theme was to upgrade the RJD talisman of social justice to the quest for economic justice, a call that resonated across the battleground and brought an exuberance to Tejashwi’s election outings that was reminiscent of Lalu at his peak. A key element of the RJD campaign was also to studiously skirt default traps set by the BJP to buttonhole opponents as “minority rights champions” and create polarisation along sectarian lines. The RJD had won 80 seats in the 2015 Assembly polls in alliance with Nitish Kumar and the Congress; that Tejashwi has run his party to sniffing distance of that number and emerged as the single-largest formation in Bihar without Nitish is a sign of how stunning his dare has been. By contrast, Nitish stands drastically diminished as a leader and his JDU relegated to a distant third on the rostrum. The campaign was peppered by signs of his growing unpopularity; electorally, he was probably hurt by the widespread perception that part of the BJP’s objective was to reduce him in stature and size. The free rein given to LJP’s Chirag Paswan to openly challenge and contest Nitish while he remained an NDA ally was a sign he was playing trojan horse at the BJP’s bidding. Nitish might yet become chief minister, as the BJP has publicly promised, but with his reduced numbers he has been hollowed out and will keep office at the mercy of his altogether larger ally. Tejashwi, on the other hand, may have suffered the consequences of being perceived leader of the Bihar race in the latter half of the campaign. Paradoxical as it sounds, the more the RJD seemed close to hitting the tape, the more consolidation it caused of adversarial votes. The spectre of “Lalu raj” remains psychologically troublesome for fair sections of voters, especially upper castes and elderly voters who retain deep and unsavoury memories of the disorder that attended most of the 15-year Lalu reign from 1990-2005. In addition, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM appears to have made significant inroads into the RJD’s ambitions in the Muslim-preponderent Seemanchal belt verging on West Bengal. Leading on a record five seats — their debut in the Bihar assembly — Owaisi’s candidates split and snatched minority votes whose default choice would have been the Tejashwi-led Gathbandhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP trumps ally, fights for top slot||The BJP on Tuesday surged ahead to emerge for the first time in over two decades as the dominant player in the Mandal-dominated politics of Bihar. The party appeared all set to bag over 70 seats, pushing ally Janata Dal United to the junior position in the NDA and giving a tough fight to challenger RJD for the “party No. 1” slot. Nitish Kumar’s JDU looked clearly subjugated before the BJP, hovering around a meagre 43-seat tally while a neck-and-neck fight was on with the RJD for the single largest party position. This was for the first time that the BJP had gained the upper hand in terms of seat tally since it aligned with Nitish in 1996. There was also good news for the BJP from the bunch of by-elections across states. The party appeared unscathed by the economic crisis inflicted by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In Bihar, a simmering 15-year anti-incumbency left ally Nitish battered and bruised but the voters seemed to have spared the BJP despite the fact that the party enjoyed power along with the JDU. At the BJP headquarters in Delhi, party workers shouted “Modi, Modi...” when asked about the startling performance that beat all predictions. Leaders said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity had shielded the BJP from the Nitish government’s anti-incumbency. Modi had addressed around a dozen rallies in Bihar and written a last-minute letter appealing to the state’s voters that he needed a Nitish-led NDA government for development. Party leaders said Modi had not only helped the BJP to gain a towering position in Bihar but also rescued Nitish from sinking. What, however, appeared to have helped the BJP gain dominance was the role played by two marginal players — Chirag Paswan and Asaduddin Owaisi. Chirag’s Lok Janshakti Party, by going alone and fielding candidates against the JDU, seemed to have battered down Nitish’s tally while Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen hit the RJD-Congress by deeply dividing the Muslim voters in the far-east or Seemanchal region. Owaisi’s AIMIM was on course to win five seats and harmed the RJD-Congress candidates’ chance of winning around 10 more seats. This strategy seemed to have damaged the two Mandal/social justice parties — the JDU and the RJD — and aided the traditional upper caste-backed BJP to rise to the top. Both the JDU and the RJD, despite being rivals, derive their strength from the backward castes. The emergence of the BJP showed the era of Mandal, or “social justice” politics that started in the nineties, was struggling to survive. The BJP, which had then pitched “kamandal” or Ram temple politics to counter Mandal, seemed to be gaining the upper hand in heartland Bihar too after Uttar Pradesh. The BJP may allow Nitish to continue as chief minister despite the JDU bagging a lesser number of seats but the BJP appears to be striving to achieve what it has already gained in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, party insiders indicated. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP had managed to woo the non-Yadav backward castes by projecting then state party chief Keshav Prasad Maurya, a backward, and also aligning with smaller backward caste parties like the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and the Apna Dal. However, after poll victory, Yogi Adityanath, an upper caste Thakur, was chosen as the chief minister. Maurya is the deputy chief minister in Uttar Pradesh but he hardly appears to have any say, overshadowed by the saffron-robed Adityanath. Now in Bihar, backward caste Nitish may sit on the chief minister’s chair but he would clearly be dominated by the BJP having the strength of around double the number of seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India|| Election Commission rejects RJD’s claim||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday night rejected the RJD’s claim that 119 candidates of the Gathbandhan had been declared elected. The deputy election commissioner in charge of Bihar, Chandra Bhushan Kumar, said at 10pm: “The results of 146 seats have been declared, and in 97 cases the trends are available.” Umesh Sinha, the Election Commission’s  secretary-general, added:  “The commission has never been under anyone’s pressure and whatever procedure needs to be followed will be done, taking the natural course of time to declare the results.” “Data comes to us after being authenticated and after being scrutinised by the returning officers and observers. It comes to us via due procedure. There can be a gap in the information they (the RJD) have and the official information,” Sinha added. This was the Election Commission’s  third media briefing on Tuesday. The votes were being counted under the new norms laid down for the pandemic. At 8.50pm, the RJD tweeted a list of 119 seats where it claimed that the Gathbandhan candidates had won after the completion of counting. “The returning officer congratulated them for the victory, but now they are not giving certificates and are saying that we have lost. They were also shown as victorious on the ECI website. Such loot will not be allowed in a democracy. After winning 119 seats, 109 are being shown on TV. Nitish Kumar is calling up the officers and getting the fraud done...,” the RJD tweet said. The party added that in Munger, the RJD candidate’s postal votes were being declared invalid and four EVMs are not being counted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Chiraj snips JDU votes||The Bihar Assembly election results have delivered a blow to Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan’s ambitions but the LJP appears to have cut into Nitish Kumar’s JDU, which the young leader had vowed to pull down. The LJP won one seat as the counting continued into the night. In 2015, the party had won two seats. Chirag had vowed to uproot chief minister Nitish, while praising the BJP and describing himself as the “Hanuman” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and gone alone in the polls. The LJP contested 136 seats, including 115 that the JDU fought. The 38-year-old Bollywood actor-turned-politician’s intentions were manifold: to eat into JDU votes, win enough seats to play kingmaker in case of a hung Assembly, and emerge from the shadows of his father, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan who passed away in October, to establish himself as a leader to reckon with in Bihar. Chirag appeared to have succeeded in one — cutting into the JDU’s votes. The JDU was on Tuesday night leading in only 43 seats, almost 30 less than its 2015 Assembly election tally, and had been pushed into third position. Asked if Chirag had failed, a senior LJP leader said on the condition of anonymity: “Has he really failed? You must not see from the prism of the number of seats won. Chirag has established our party as a force to reckon with in the state. He has shown Nitish his place.” A perception had gained ground in the run-up to the elections that Chirag had the blessings of the top BJP leadership and had been tasked with cutting Nitish to size. Although the BJP has denied such a plan, its senior leaders stayed silent when Chirag attacked Nitish. Prime Minister Modi praised Ram Vilas in one of his campaign rallies, intensifying speculation that Chirag had the backing of the BJP brass. The JDU tried to downplay the Chirag factor. “Some chirag (earthen lamp) tried to burn our party, but fizzled out in the process,” JDU leader Ajay Alok said. JDU Bihar unit executive president Ashok Choudhary said: “We were expecting that the BJP would get more seats than our party because some people were hell bent on ensuring that we get less seats. We will evaluate everything.” Although the LJP, which has polled 6 per cent votes, is likely to be in the good books of the BJP for the blow to Nitish, Chirag’s party and the leader himself appeared to have lost their stature as independent entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Congress lags behind, finger at selection||The Congress, consistently condemned as the “weak link” in the Opposition alliance, finally proved such a perception right by winning only 19 of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar, recording the worst strike rate among the main parties in the fray. Although those involved in election management insisted that holding the Congress responsible for the survival of the ruling coalition was an unfair criticism, almost every senior leader in Bihar was unhappy with candidate selection and felt even the campaign was mismanaged. The dominant view in the party was that the Congress squandered 20 seats at the very outset by picking wrong candidates. The most critical factor is the Congress leadership’s failure to understand the difference between politics and electioneering. Ask any leader what was their politics in the state for the past five years and the answer invariably is: Nothing. Little was done to strengthen the organisation even as the party remains out of power for over three decades now. The victory in 27 constituencies in the last election was presumed to be a sign of revival. Saner elements in the party know the 27 seats were won on the strength of alliance partners. That the Congress has not been able to create one strong leader from Bihar in the last three decade is not open to dispute. There is a joke in party circles that state president Madan Mohan Jha does not command the support of even 50 people across the state. One leader told The Telegraph: “Even the preparations for elections should have started at least two years ago, not just two months before voting. Had a strong team been constituted two years ago, the party would have been in a different shape. We should understanding that bombarding people with news conferences during elections doesn’t alter the ground reality.” The Congress carried on with a tired, uninspiring leadership that had failed to revive the party all these years. There is no evidence of a statewide political struggle over the last five years by senior leaders who played a key role in the party: Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh, PCC chief Jha or any other younger leader. While Sadanand Singh’s overriding concern was to field his apolitical son in the election — who eventually lost — Akhilesh Singh is known more for behind-the-scenes manipulation than mass politics. The in-charge of the state, Shaktisinh Gohil, was mysteriously sidelined as electioneering peaked and he finally quarantined himself owing to Covid-19 infection. The entire operation was taken over by Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pandey, two leaders who had nothing to do with Bihar politics, a month before polling. If such turnkey projects succeeded, politics would have become child’s play. But the Congress is not willing to concede its infirmities and the entire focus is on proving that it got difficult seats. At a time when the BJP has snatched Tripura from the entrenched Left and dreams of winning Bengal — two states where it was almost a pariah till not long ago — the Congress is crying about difficult seats in a state that it ruled for decades. The arguments by party leaders almost suggest that the RJD was obliged to give it better constituencies. Party sources said the 70 seats it contested were traditionally non-UPA/non-Congress seats, where the strike rate of the BJP-JDU combine had been more than 95 per cent. One source said: “Whenever the JDU and the BJP come together, they become a deadly combination on the strength of caste and social arithmetic in these seats. For example, in 2010 when the BJP and the JDU fought the election together, they won 65 of these 70 seats. Similarly, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP and the JDU fought together and led in 67 of the 70 Assembly segments. The Congress was up against the most challenging seats in the state.” “When the BJP fought without the JDU in 2015, they won 58 seats, of which 24 were from this chunk of 70. Congress leaders insisted the party was a force aggregator in Bihar and the RJD had performed much worse whenever it contested alone, either in Assembly or in parliamentary polls,” the source added. “If you look at the data of 2010 when the Congress and the RJD had fought separately, the latter could not secure even a single win in this area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar faces questions ||The Bihar Assembly poll results have left chief minister Nitish Kumar in a bind: his JDU has slipped sharply and there are murmurs whether he would return as chief minister even if the NDA retains its lead and comes back to power. Till late night, the JDU was leading in just 42 of the 115 seats it had contested, down by around 30 seats from its 2015 tally. Nitish’s party was in third position in Bihar and had become the junior partner of the BJP. BJP Scheduled Caste cell president Ajit Kumar Chaudhary said party workers were demanding a BJP chief minister. “The poll mandate is for the BJP. Its seats are more than the JDU’s. There is a strong feeling among our colleagues that somebody from our own party should become chief minister,” Chaudhary said. Nitish spent the day closeted in his 1 Aney Marg residence. In the evening, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and MP Bhupender Yadav of the BJP called on him. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had spoken to Nitish. The question doing the rounds is whether Nitish will accept becoming the chief minister again if the NDA wins or decide to step aside. “The very question whether Nitish Kumar will be the chief minister or not is irrelevant. The BJP has already announced him as the chief ministerial candidate of the NDA,” JDU Bihar unit chief and Rajya Sabha member Bashistha Narain Singh said. JDU state executive president Ashok Choudhary pointed out that the NDA had fought the election with Nitish as the helm. “Nitish’s face is of hope, trust, reliability, safety, peace and honesty. The polls were fought under his leadership. Whatever seats the NDA gets will be for making him the chief minister,” Ashok said. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said: “When our leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and party president J.P. Nadda have announced Nitish as our next chief minister, there is no question of deviating from it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Tourist inflow rekindles hope in Sikkim||Tourism stakeholders in Sikkim are expecting a surge in tourist footfall in the coming Diwali weekend with the Himalayan state witnessing a steady flow of visitors ever since the sector reopened early in October. It was only a month ago that Sikkim allowed entry of tourists and the inflow of visitors has rekindled the hopes of the stakeholders whose earnings had dried up since March because of Covid-19-induced lockdown. The first phase of unlocking of tourism, which contributes handsomely to the state’s economy, began on October 10 after seven months of closure. Hotels, restaurants and other accommodations, however, are allowed to operate at only 50 per cent of their capacity. There is no official data available on the number of tourist footfall, but the tourism stakeholders estimate that on an average anywhere between 1,000 and 1,500 tourists have been arriving in the Himalayan state daily. “We have taken a conscious decision not to have over 4,000 to 5,000 tourists daily. Since hotels are operating at 50 per cent capacity, the occupation rate right now should be around 60 to 70 per cent of the reduced capacity,’ said Roshan Raj Shrestha, the president of Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association (SHRA). Shrestha said the idea behind unlocking tourism was to send a message across that Sikkim has put in place safe tourism practices to deal with the pandemic. “Luckily, not a single tourist has tested positive for coronavirus so far. We are hoping this will have a positive impact on next tourism season in April, May and June,” he added. Over 16 lakh tourists, including a little less than 1.40 lakh foreigners, had visited the state last year. Which means the overall inflow of tourists was almost three times greater than the state’s 6.50 lakh population. The figure this year has suffered a drastic fall because of Covid. The tourism sector is estimated to have suffered losses running into tens of crores because of the pandemic. “It will be impossible to recover losses this year. We will have to forget 2020 as a nightmare. Hopefully, if the coronavirus vaccine is available by early next year, we should do good business in both the spring and autumn seasons in 2021,” said a tour operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Homegrown vaccine shows promise||A homegrown vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease similar in design to the candidate from Pfizer-BioNTech has shown promising results in pre-clinical animal studies and is now awaiting government approval for human clinical trials. The candidate from the Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in collaboration with US-based HDT Bio is based on genetic material called mRNA, similar to the product developed by America’s Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech that has shown 90 per cent efficacy in human trials. Pre-clinical studies, including tests on pigtail macaques, have shown that Gennova’s candidate called HCG019 is able to generate an immune response, including antibodies that can neutralise SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, scientists familiar with the studies said. “The data from animal studies look very encouraging. I’m hoping this candidate quickly goes into human trials,” said Govindarajan Padmanabhan, a senior biologist and chair of the vaccine evaluation panel of the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a government agency that provided seed funding for the development effort. Padmanabhan told The Telegraph that Gennova is also working on “an innovative delivery system” to make the vaccine stable at temperatures between 2°C and 8°C. This, he said, would be an advantage over the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that needs ultra-low temperature storage of around –80°C. Gennova has sought approval to move towards human clinical trials from the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), a panel of experts under India’s department of biotechnology, a unit of the science and technology ministry. After RCGM approval, Gennova can apply to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisationfor clinical trials. “We’re hoping to start human trials by the end of this year,” Sanjay Singh, a senior scientist and CEO of Gennova said. “RNA-based vaccines have certain advantages, they represent a new generation of vaccines that hold great promise.” Like any vaccine candidate, HCG019 will need to go through three phases — phase 1 to evaluate safety, phase 2 to evaluate its capacity to generate an immune response, and phase 3 to evaluate that it can protect people from the infection. Pfizer and BioNTech on Monday announced that their candidate vaccine — also an RNA vaccine — has shown 90 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Owaisi spoils Opposition party||The Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen, which had been seen as a “vote cutter”, appeared set to win five Muslim-dominated seats in Bihar on Tuesday. With the election results on a knife’s edge, the AIMIM appeared to have made big gains in Bihar’s Seemanchal region that was being seen as a stronghold of the Opposition Grand Alliance. AIMIM national spokesperson Asim Waqar told PTI that the final decision on who the AIMIM could back in case of a hung Assembly would be taken by Owaisi but ruled out supporting the BJP, asserting that his party’s fight had always been against the saffron camp. Ahead of the polling in the third phase on Saturday, the Congress had dubbed the AIMIM the BJP’s “B-team”. Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha had said the AIMIM would not have any significant impact on the Assembly polls as people would not “waste” their votes on it. The AIMIM said on Tuesday that its critics had got a befitting reply from the people. Asked about the assertion of the Congress and the Mahagathbandhan that the AIMIM was a “vote cutter”, Waqar said: “Those calling us that have got a befitting reply and their mouths will now be shut in the future as well.” On whether his party was likely to go with the Mahagathbandhan or the NDA, he said: “The decision will be taken by Asad (Owaisi) sahab, but the reality is that our fight is against the BJP and for the country. So the BJP and its alliance do not appear anywhere on our list.” Expressing happiness over the AIMIM’s performance, he said party workers were expecting such a result as they had toiled hard on the ground for the past five years. As per the latest available trends, the AIMIM had taken a substantial lead from Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Bahadurganj and Baisi. The AIMIM was in the fray in 20 seats, a majority of which went to polls in the third phase on Saturday, as part of the Grand Democratic Secular Front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||BJD snatches one bypoll seat from BJP||The results of the two Assembly bypolls in Odisha have reaffirmed chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s political invincibility with the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) winning both Balasore Sadar and Tirtol seats. The BJD snatched the Balasore Sadar seat from BJP, its main rival in the state. Naveen, who is in his fifth consecutive term as chief minister, did not visit any of the two constituencies for campaigning unlike the senior leaders of the BJP and the Congress who held rallies and canvassed for their candidates moving from door to door. The chief minister instead addressed two virtual rallies in these constituencies in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Balasore Sadar in Balasore district was earlier represented by the BJP’s Madan Mohan Dutt. The BJP had made Dutt’s son Manas its candidate in the hope of cashing in on the sympathy factor. BJD candidate Swarup Kumar Das, who made his electoral debut in the bypoll, won the seat by a margin of 13,351 votes. The BJD managed to retain its hold on the Tirtol Assembly seat in Jagatsingpur district which had fallen vacant following the death of veteran Bishnu Charan Das, a former minister. The party had made his son Bijay Shankar Das its candidate. The young leader defeated his nearest BJP rival Rajkishore Behera by 41,703 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Amazon bows to anger||Amazon.com Inc said on Tuesday it had taken down listings of products such as briefs and doormats with Hindu sacred symbols, which were being sold on its overseas websites, following a furore on social media in India. #BoycottAmazon was one of the top trending topics on Twitter in India, with users sharing screenshots of Amazon listings of doormats and underwear emblazoned with insignia, including Ganesha. “We are taking down the products in question,” Amazon said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Modi, Xi share platform ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday shared a virtual platform with Chinese President Xi Jinping for the first time since the face-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh — at the 20th Summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s Council of Heads of State hosted by Russia. Given the virtual format, there was no scope for any meeting on the sidelines that have in the past helped break deadlocks. And, since the SCO does not encourage bilateral issues being raised at its meetings, the Prime Minister made no direct reference to the LAC situation but stressed the need for respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity while increasing connectivity in the world. Addressing the meeting in Hindi, Modi appeared to tick off Pakistan — again without naming it — when he described as unfortunate the repeated attempts to raise bilateral issues in the SCO in violation of its charter and the Shanghai spirit. This was a reference to Pakistan’s national security adviser Moeed Peerzada having the “new” map of the country in the background during an SCO meeting of NSAs in August, prompting Indian NSA Ajit Doval to leave the session in protest. Pakistan’s “new” map shows Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir as one territory, which has been described as “Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir”. Earlier, Pakistan used to describe Jammu and Kashmir as Indian-occupied Kashmir. The map also states that the region is disputed territory, whose “final status is to be decided in line with relevant UNSC resolutions”. Further, the international boundary on the eastern side has been extended up to the undefined frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||SC lawyer Dushyant Dave questions priority to Arnab Goswami ||The Supreme Court will hold a special hearing on Wednesday during its Diwali recess to examine Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s plea for bail, prompting senior advocate Dushyant Dave to ask how Goswami gets “instant” hearing every time he approaches the top court while other petitioners languish in jail for months as they wait for their appeals to be listed. After his plea for interim bail was rejected on Monday by Bombay High Court, which said that by law Goswami should seek regular bail in the sessions court before approaching the higher courts, the Republic TV boss moved the top court on Tuesday. The Supreme Court has listed the matter before Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee on Wednesday. In a letter to the Supreme Court secretary-general, Dave, the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, drew attention to the “extraordinary urgent listing” of Goswami’s special leave petition. “I address this letter to you as the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association to lodge a strong protest with regard to the subject matter which has been listed tomorrow…. I have nothing personal against Mr Goswami and I am not writing this letter to anyway interfere with his rights to move the Supreme Court. Like all citizens he also has the right to seek justice from the highest court,” Dave wrote. “The serious issue here is selective listing of matters that the registry under your leadership is indulging in for the last eight months during the Covid pandemic. While thousands of citizens remain in jails, languishing for long periods while their matters filed before the Hon’ble Supreme Court are not getting listed for weeks and months, it is, to say the least, deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Mr Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly,” the senior lawyer wrote. “Is there any special order or direction from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India and the Master of the Roster in this regard? It is quite well known that such extraordinarily urgent listings of matters cannot and does not take place without specific orders from Hon’ble the Chief Justice. Or is it that as the administrative head you or the registrar listing is giving special preference to Shri Goswami?” he asked. Dave continued: “You are fully aware, and it is on record, that time and again I have received requests from various advocates on record to the effect that the matters filed by them are not getting listed for weeks and months though very urgent and involving serious issues requiring the Hon’ble court’s urgent intervention, including bail matters. They have even complained, giving names, that certain AOR (advocate on record) matters get instant listing while they have to wait in queue for a long time, sometimes against the same judgment being appealed against. “I must place on record that in a few cases you have kindly helped in getting such matters listed. But that is not the issue. The issue here is, why is this selective listing taking place when the system is supposedly computerised and is to work automatically? Why is it that despite the same, matters are getting circulated and that too before only a few Hon’ble benches? Why is there no foolproof system to be just and fair to all citizens and all AORs?… “…The likes of Shri Goswami get special treatment while ordinary Indians are made to suffer, including imprisonment…. “Even someone like Mr P. Chidambaram, a respected senior advocate, could not get similar speedy listing and had to spend long months in jail … “Sir, the subject matter (Goswami’s plea) was filed yesterday, it got instant diary number, though not final, and it is listed tomorrow. This is a gross abuse of administrative power, whosoever has exercised it on the administrative side. It gives an impression that clients represented by certain lawyers are getting special treatment, which does not speak well of the great institution that the Supreme Court is. “I request that till you install a foolproof system to ensure urgent listing on well-known principles, till you have listed all the matters filed by various AORs with urgent listing requests prior to November 10, you should not allow the subject matter to be heard. I request you to place my letter before Hon’ble bench hearing the matter tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
