12-11-2020||India||TN varsity removes Arundhati Roy's book after ABVP's protest||A state-run university in Tamil Nadu has removed noted writer Arundhati Roy's 'Walking with the Comrades,' book from the syllabus of MA English course following complaints, including from RSS affiliate ABVP that it glorified the ultras and was anti-national in content. Opposition parties, the DMK and CPI(M), have opposed the move to take the book off the syllabus that chronicles the author's journey to hideouts of Maoists in Chhattisgarh and the way they operated out of the jungles. The BJP, however, defended the ABVP for demanding the removal of the book from the syllabus. The book has been part of the syllabus from the 2017-18 batch for the third semester of MA in English Literature of Tirunelveli-based Manonmaniam Sundaranar University's affiliated colleges. "Last week we got a written complaint from the ABVP. Subsequently, there were lots of other representations. We received complaints from our syndicate members as well," MSU's Vice-Chancellor K Pitchumani told PTI. Such complaints underscored the 'controversial' contents in the book and wanted it to be deleted from the curriculum for students, he said. Hence, a committee comprising senior academicians was set up to look into the matter. The former chairman of the board of studies who framed the syllabus and the incumbent chief was also part of it, he said. "The committee met on Wednesday and they decided the withdrawal of the book from the syllabus for its sensitive nature and in its place, a book of Padma awardee and naturalist, M Krishnan's 'My Native Land, Essays on Nature' has been included," he said. "This has been implemented immediately," he added. Krishnan (1912-96) was a renowned naturalist, a pioneer in Indian wildlife photography and writer and he was awarded the Padma Shri in 1969. The decision would be approved at a meeting of the university's Standing Committee of Academic Affairs, he said, adding they were not for 'controversy' since academics alone were important. Asked if the 'sensitive' nature of the book was not taken into account when it was included in the syllabus, the top university official said "probably it went unnoticed". However, as soon as representations were received against the book, prompt follow-up action was taken, he said. In its complaint, the ABVP's south Tamil Nadu unit alleged Roy's book openly supported Maoists and disseminated anti-national views. "It is a matter of regret that this book has been part of the syllabus for the past three years. Through this, the Naxal and Maoist ideology has been imposed on the students," the ABVP said demanding the book's withdrawal. Roy's interaction with Maoists and her visits to forests where she met them first appeared in an English magazine in 2010 and it was later published as a book. The RSS's official organ 'Organizer' also had days ago reported on ABVP urging the university to withdraw the book from the syllabus. DMK women's wing secretary and MP Kanimozhi said in a tweet that power and politics deciding "what is arts, what is literature and what the students should read" would destroy the pluralistic feature of the society. CPI(M) Lok Sabha member S Venkatesan said on his Twitter handle that the removal of the book was condemnable and wanted the move rescinded. The Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artistes Association general secretary Aadhavan Dheetchanya condemned the removal of the book from the syllabus. National president, BJP Mahila Morcha, Vanathi Srinivasan defended the ABVP and said it was not the only organization that objected to Arundhati Roy's book forming part of the syllabus. The ABVP was one of the organizations that demanded its removal from the syllabus, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
12-11-2020||India||Fresh fiscal stimulus, combined with incentives, for critical sunrise sectors||In an attempt to spark pre-Diwali cheer, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman delivered Thursday a third round of stimulus measures to help revive the Covid-devastated economy along with an upbeat assessment of growth prospects. The government’s 12-point Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 package involves an extra Rs 2.65 lakh crore in stimulus, bringing the total amount allocated to bolstering the economy since the pandemic’s start to nearly Rs 30 lakh crore or 15 per cent of gross domestic product. The plan also includes a new job creation scheme giving subsidies to businesses making new hires. Companies with fewer than 50 workers must take on at least two new recruits to be eligible while those with over 50 must hire at least five. With the number of Covid cases declining nationwide, Sitharaman declared a “distinct recovery” now is under way, pointing to rises in goods and services tax revenues and energy consumption and she said there was good pent-up demand. But the latest stimulus plan failed to fire up the stock market. The BSE’s 30-share Sensex slipped 237 points to 43,317 points, ending eight days of gains, with traders saying they were looking for more innovative solutions to spur an economy badly hit by a slide in consumption triggered by the lockdown earlier in the year. And the key question -- about where the money will come from -- wasn’t revealed. At the moment, the government can’t afford to pay the states money owing on their share of GST proceeds. The stimulus programme endeavours to ensure “critical sunrise sectors get necessary support from the government so we are able to build an India which is strong enough to serve the domestic market and link up with the global value chain,” Sitharaman told reporters. The programme was announced after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said the economy likely contracted for a second straight quarter, pushing India into an unprecedented recession. Gross domestic product shrank 8.6 per cent in the quarter ended September year-on-year, the RBI estimated in its first “nowcast'' calculated using high-frequency data which provides a more real-time insight into the economy’s state. Growth contracted by 24 per cent in the April-to-June quarter from the same year-earlier. “India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history,” the RBI said. Focus on leather, gems & jewellery Under the 3.0 stimulus package, Production Linked Incentives (PLIs) worth Rs 1.46 lakh crore are being offered to so-called “champion sectors” the government identified last May that include leather, gems and jewellery, autos, renewable energy, pharma and textiles. “This will give a big boost to the economy, investment, exports and job creation. A total amount of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore has been earmarked across sectors, for the next five years,” Sitharaman said. The PLI programme is part of a drive to support domestic manufacturing and manufacturing self-reliance and push India as an alternate global Asian manufacturing hub and divert investment from China. “This will give a big boost to the economy, investment, exports and job creation. A total amount of nearly 1.5-lakh crore rupees has been earmarked across sectors, for the next five years,” Sitharaman said. Help for MSME, real estate sector Sitharaman’s plan also involves extension of an emergency credit line guarantee Scheme for MSMEs -- micro-, small- and medium-sized businesses -- spanning 26 sectors until next March and additional credit up to 20 per cent. In addition they will get a one-year moratorium on loans as well as four more years to repay borrowings, Sitharaman said. She singled out for help the hard-hit real-estate sector which was reeling even before Covid. To bolster residential sales, the differential between the stamp-duty circle rate and the agreement value has been doubled to 20 per cent from 10 per cent for the period up to next June 30. The move applies to primary sale of residential units valued up to Rs 2 crore. “The income tax relief provides incentive to the middle class to buy homes,” Sitharaman said. "The measure will reduce the hardships faced by both homebuyers and developers and help in clearing the unsold inventory," she added. The government is also earmarking 180 billion rupees for affordable urban housing. The real estate sector was elated by the government’s plans with Knight Frank India Chairman Shishir Baijal predicting “unbridled property purchase activity.” He said “recognition of real estate as a core sector, creating ancillary industry demand and employment, and enhanced Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban allocation, will boost the housing demand in the country.” Also, “the increase in circle rate and transaction value threshold… will remove a transaction hurdle and save tax, thereby increasing the opportunity for unbridled property purchase activity,” he said. According to ANAROCK Research, some 5.45 lakh units across the top seven cities priced up to Rs 1.5 crore remain unsold while another 49,290 units priced from Rs 1.5-crore-to-2.5 crore also are still on the market. Housing had slowed long before the pandemic struck. The finance minister also relaxed deposit and performance and security rules for government tenders. She earmarked Rs 6,000-crore for equity investment in the debt platform of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) and Rs 65,000-crore for subsidized fertilisers. In addition, she awarded Rs 10,200-crorein extra stimulus for capital and industrial expenditure. A further Rs 900-crore has been allocated for research and development on an Indian Covid vaccine. Return to positive growth Sitharaman noted the RBI believes there’s a strong likelihood the economy will swing back to positive growth in the three months to December, ahead of its previous quarter by a quarter, “If the current upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth” in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, the RBI said in its monthly bulletin. “Incoming data for the month of October 2020 have brightened prospects and stirred up consumer and business confidence. With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories,” the RBI said. Sitharaman got some support for her view that the economy is picking up from ratings giant Moody’s. The agency said it expected India’s economy would shrink by 8.9 per cent in calendar 2020, marking a marginal improvement from its previous forecast of a 9.6 per cent contraction. The RBI forecasts the Indian economy will shrink 9.5 per cent  in this fiscal year. The latest stimulus package came, though, against the backdrop of a warning by the RBI that keeping the system awash with cash is “taking a step into the unknown and could kindle inflation without reviving growth”. “There is a grave risk of generalisation of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions,” the RBI said. While inflation has been relatively subdued in recent years, historically it has been a bugbear for the economy. The RBI forecasts the Indian economy will shrink 9.5 per cent in this fiscal year while the International Monetary Fund calculates it will contract by 10.3 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Attorney General grants consent for contempt case against Kunal Kamra||Attorney General K K Venugopal Thursday granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his tweets which allegedly criticized the Supreme Court, saying the tweets are in bad taste and it is time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly will attract punishment. Venugopal said, on Thursday, people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising their freedom of speech, but under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt. I have gone through each one of the tweets which you have annexed for consent to proceed by way of criminal contempt against Kunal Kamra. The tweets which I am extracting below are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humor and contempt of the court, the Attorney General said in his letter to one of the applicants who had sought the consent of the top law officer for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra. I, therefore, grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra, Venugopal said. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. The Attorney General said the other tweets also are highly objectionable and it would perhaps be for the court to decide the question as to whether these tweets also would constitute criminal contempt of the Supreme Court of India. I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. "But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972,” Venugopal said. Referring to tweets by Kamra, he said there is also “a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron color with a flag of the ruling party, namely the BJP having replaced the Tricolor”. “This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJPs benefit. All this in my opinion constitutes criminal contempt of court,” he said. In one of the letters seeking the Attorney General's consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra, three lawyers have claimed that he allegedly attempted to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India through his tweets after the apex court had granted interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. In another letter, a Pune-based lawyer has stated that Kamra's unsavory comments on a sitting apex court judge and circulation of a morphed image of the Supreme Court premises, were published on Twitter. The apex court had on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in the 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying it will be a "travesty of justice" if personal liberty is curtailed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Asif Basra found dead in Dharamshala house||Actor Asif Basra, known for starring in movies such as Jab We Met, Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai and Kai Po Che! died on Thursday here, the police said. He was 53. The actor was found hanging in a private complex here by the police and a team of forensic experts is on the spot, said SSP Kangra Vimukt Ranjan. "He hanged himself around 12-12.30 today. We are investigating the matter. We have sent the body for post-mortem... Prima facie it is a case of suicide," he told reporters. The police are investigating the case and further details are awaited, Ranjan added. It is being reported that the actor had a property on lease for the past five-six years in McLeodganj, Upper Dharamshala, and used to visit the place regularly. "What? This is too shocking!! Shot with him just before Lockdown!!! Oh My God!!!" tweeted actor Manoj Bajpayee. "Asif Basra! Can't be true... This is just very, very sad," director Hansal Mehta said. In his over two decade-long career, Basra played supporting parts in many critically-acclaimed features like Black Friday, Parzania and Outsourced. Among his notable performances in Hindi cinema, Basra played a cunning stall owner in Imtiaz Ali's 2007 film Jab We Met, alongside the likes of Kareena Kapoor Khan and Shahid Kapoor. He played the father of Emraan Hashmi's Shoaib Khan in Milan Luthria's Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai (2010). Basra most recently starred in Amazon Prime Video's smash-hit series Paatal Lok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality to improve post Diwali due to western disturbance||The India Meteorological Department stated that the air quality in Delhi-NCR region is likely to improve post Diwali as a result of a fresh western disturbance, which may increase the wind speed. Under its influence, light rain may occur in the area on Sunday, the MET department said. Whether the rain would be enough to wash away the pollutants is still a matter of speculation, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. "However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometers per hour," he said. The IMD’s head of environment research centre VK Soni said firecracker emissions and calm winds may result in the air quality moving to the ‘severe’ zone on Diwali night. “The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-south easterly,” he explained. “There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16”, Soni said. The forecasting agency also said that on November 15 and 16, the western disturbance will set off "scattered to fairly widespread" precipitation over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh; and isolated rainfall over Uttarakhand and the plains of northwest India. Over the next few days, northwest India may witness a two or three degrees Celcius rise in the minimum temperature, which will dip after the withdrawal of the western disturbance from the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Akhilesh alleges irregularities in Bihar polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday alleged irregularities in the Bihar Assembly polls and claimed that the opposition Grand Alliance was poised to win the election but "could not do so at the last moment". "We wanted to talk about the irregularities done with us (in Uttar Pradesh), but a more serious one has happened in Bihar. Tejashwi Yadav was poised to make his government but could not do so at the last moment. All those who have faith in democratic values are unhappy today and asking if this is how elections will be fought," he told reporters here. Yadav claimed that with only 14,000 more votes, the opposition alliance would have emerged as victorious in Bihar. "The Bihar election was more nail-biting than the US (presidential) polls. I do not know which trick the BJP used. This is the speciality of the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. He said elections today have become mathematics. "The BJP uses everything to win elections. I can give an example and also play a video to prove as to how all the officials, from the DM to police, were involved (in Uttar Pradesh). At some places, even during the checking of the body temperature while the voters were going in to cast their votes, they were threatened that such a temperature would be shown which would directly shift them to a hospital and ambulances were also deployed," Yadav said. He asserted that the SP would not leave the path of development come what may and claimed that the party's schemes were being repackaged by the current BJP-led government. "I can say it on record that we had given farmers and women pension. Maximum bank accounts and bank branches were opened during the SP regime and online transfer of money had also started, but this government only indulges in publicity and we will also do the same now," Yadav said. He also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for its claims of giving 50 lakh jobs, asking it to name the departments where these jobs were provided. He also asked what happened to the claims of investments worth over Rs four lakh crore in the state, as claimed by the government. "When the time comes, we will bring a scheme and spell out the details of where we will be giving jobs to youngsters," the SP president said. At least three farmers of Ayodhya also spoke at the press conference and recounted their problems at the hands of officials over land acquisition in their villages for the Sri Ram Airport and development of Ayodhya. They alleged that the officials were harassing them for signing the agreement under which their land is being acquired at very low rates. They also said they met Chief Minister Adityanath over the issue, after which the atrocities of the officials went up. Assuring all possible help from his party to the farmers of Dharampur, Ganja and Kutia gram sabhas who recounted their problems, Yadav said the government is taking land for a pious work and needs to show a big heart and revise the circle rate as there is never any dearth of money for it to serve people. He said the compensation amount for the farmers of these villages should be six times more than what they are being offered. Citing the example of the Agra-Lucknow expressway, the SP leader said the land for it was acquired after giving compensation to the satisfaction of the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||BJP MLA from Almora dies of Covid-19||Surendra Singh Jeena, BJP MLA from Almora district in Uttarakhand, died at a New Delhi hospital early Thursday. Jeena was being treated for Covid-19 there. Admitted to the  Sir Gangaram Hospital about a week ago, the 50-year-old passed away at around 4 am, according to Pradesh BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat condoled Jeena’s death and said that the “state has lost an energetic and farsighted leader.” "He was reckoned among the most active MLAs who took keen interest in the development of his constituency. He was the voice of the deprived sections of society," he said "In his death the state has lost an energetic and farsighted leader," the chief minister said, while praying for his family. Rawat also recalled meeting Jeena at his Delhi residence following the death of his wife. Pradesh BJP President Bansidhar Bhagat, too, offered his condolences and grieved at the legislator’s untimely death. "He was a young and energetic leader always active in public interest and organisational affairs. His death is an irreparable loss for the party and the society," said Bhagat. Assuring his and the party’s support, the BJP leader prayed for the strength of Jeena's family to bear the loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Arjun Rampal’s partner summoned by NCB||Actor Arjun Rampal’s partner Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday in Mumbai for the second day for another round of questioning, an official said. The NCB is probing a case related to the alleged use of drugs in the Bollywood industry. Demetriades was questioned by the agency’s officials for about six hours on Wednesday, following which she was summoned again on Thursday. She arrived at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai on this day, said the official. The anti-drugs bureau had conducted a raid at Rampal and Demetriades' house on Monday, after which it summoned the both for questioning. According to the official, the NCB had seized electronic gadgets including laptops, mobile phones and tablets while conducting the raid and had also questioned their driver. The agency, a day before raiding Rampal’s apartment, had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after it recovered marijuana from their residence at suburban Juhu. The official also said that Demetraides’ brother Agisilaos had been arrested by the NCB last month in a drugs case from a resort at Pune’s Lonavala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||TN: Govt revokes order to reopen schools||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday decided to revoke its order of opening schools from November 16 for classes 9-12, saying that they will continue to remain closed. The move comes days after the authorities sought views of parents regarding the same. The government also clarified that colleges and universities will open from December 2  only for research scholars and final year postgraduate students of science and technology streams, diverging from its earlier schedule to start from November 16. In an official statement, it said, “"The opening of colleges for all other courses will be announced later.” Hostels will open for only those students who will resume studies from next month, it added. Revealing the outcome of statewide consultations held with parents in private on November 9 regarding the resumption of classes for the current academic year, the government said that opinions were divided. While parents of some students wanted the institutions to reopen, others were against it in view of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the release, the school education department analysed these opinions holistically and took the decision. "The order on reopening schools from November 16 for classes 9-12 is cancelled. An announcement on reopening schools will be made later based on the situation," the government said after taking feedback from the parents. Following Chief Minister K Palaniswami’s announcement on October 31 regarding the reopening of educational institutions, DMK president MK Stalin lashed out at the government for its ‘hasty’ move. The Opposition leader said that a decision on this matter should be taken only in January 2021 after analysing the pandemic situation. Till November 11, a total of 7,50,409 people in tamil Nadu had tested positive for Covid-19, with 18,655 active cases being recorded in the state. The death toll stood at 11,415, while 7,20,339 recovered from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Indian economy in recession for first time in history ||The Indian economy is likely to have entered into a technical recession for the first time in its history at the end of the first half of 2020-21, according to a Reserve Bank of India report, prompting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to blame the policies of the Narendra Modi-led government for the situation. "India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr Modi's actions have turned India's strength into its weakness," he said on Twitter. Rahul cited a report wherein a team of economists, including Michael Patra, the central bank's deputy governor in charge of monetary policy, has pointed out that the gross domestic product contracted 8.6 per cent in the quarter ended September. The Reserve Bank of India’s report is a part of its first ever published “nowcast,”' which is an estimate based on high-frequency data. The economy has slumped about 24 per cent in April to June, reports ndtv.com. In economics, when the GDP growth rate is negative for two consecutive quarters or more, it is termed recession. “Nowcasting” is the prediction of the present or the very near future of the state of the economy. "India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history," the authors wrote. The government is due to publish official statistics on November 27. The NSO estimates for the second quarter expected at the end of November 2020 will formally bear out the extent of improvement that occurred in the quarter gone by, the RBI said in a State of the Economy report, according to The Indian Express. The RBI, however, said the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in the October-December quarter of 2020-21. Incoming data for the month of October 2020 have brightened prospects and stirred up consumer and business confidence, it said. “With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories. If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in the third quarter (Q3) of 2020-21,” it said. However, "there is a grave risk of generalization of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions," the team of economists wrote in the Reserve Bank's bulletin. They also highlighted risks to global growth from a second wave of coronavirus infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Serum Institute, ICMR complete enrollment for phase-III Covid vaccine trials||Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR on Thursday announced the completion of enrolment process of 1,600 participants in the phase-III clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine Covishield in the country. SII and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are collaborating on the clinical trials of the vaccine in the country. While ICMR has funded the clinical trial site fees, SII is taking care of other expenses for the Covishield. Currently, SII and ICMR are conducting phase II/III clinical trial of the vaccine at 15 different centres across the country, SII said in a statement. The entities have completed the enrolment of all 1,600 participants on October 31, it added. "ICMR has played a huge role in coming forward and strengthening India's fight against COVID-19. The collaboration will further aid us in putting India at the forefront of developing an immunogenic and efficacious vaccine," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said. The partnership further testifies the importance of private-public institutes coming together in scaling up the management and containing the spread of the virus, he added. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the partnership is their contribution to lending expertise and support to bolster fight against the global pandemic. Based on the phase II/III trial results, SII with the help of ICMR will pursue the early availability of this product in the country. SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from Drugs Controller General of India. Covishield has been developed at the SII Pune laboratory with a master seed from Oxford University/Astra Zeneca.The vaccine made in the UK is currently being tested in large efficacy trials in the UK, Brazil, South Africa and the US. The promising results of the trials so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the pandemic. ICMR and SII have further collaborated for clinical development of another COVID-19 vaccine Covovax, which has been developed by Novavax, USA, and upscaled by SII. Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial In COVID-19 patients with its biological therapy, 'PegiHep', and it will now begin phase 3 clinical trial. In a regulatory filing, Zydus Cadila said "it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial in COVID-19 patients with its biological therapy, Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, 'PegiHep'... Based upon the results from its Phase 2 study, Zydus Cadila now plans to conduct a phase 3 clinical trial in India". Zydus Cadila, which is a part of the Cadila Healthcare group, said Pegylated Interferon alpha 2b significantly increased viral reduction and reduced the need for supplemental oxygen in moderate COVID-19 patients. "We continue to look at possible treatment options that are safe and efficacious in the treatment and management of COVID-19. Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b has shown the potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease and we will like to explore this biological option further. We are hopeful of reinforcing our treatment options to fight COVID-19," Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare Ltd said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||More than 47,000 infected in a day, Covid tally close to 87 lakh||India saw a single-day increase of 47,905 infections taking the country's COVID-19 caseload to 86,83,916, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease have surged to 80,66,501, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,28,121 with 550 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 4,89,294 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.63 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 80, 66,501 pushing the national recovery rate to 92.89 per cent, while COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,19,62,509 samples have been tested up to November 11 with 11,93,358 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 550 new fatalities include 125 from Maharashtra, 85 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 31 from Punjab, 29 from Kerala, 28 from Tamil Nadu, 25 each from Haryana and Chhattisgarh, 23 from Karnataka and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,28,121 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 45,560 from Maharashtra followed by 11,453 from Karnataka, 11,415 from Tamil Nadu, 7,452 from West Bengal, 7,281 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,228 from Delhi, 6,828 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,389 from Punjab and 3,776 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Pollution levels dip in Delhi, air quality still 'very poor'||The national capital recorded its air quality in the 'very poor' category on Thursday morning even as experts said the situation was much better compared to two days ago when pollution levels were above the emergency threshold. A change in the wind direction -- from north westerly to north-north easterly -- was the reason behind the dip in pollution levels as it reduced the contribution of stubble burning significantly, according to government agencies and weather experts. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 315 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 344 on Wednesday and 476 on Tuesday. Delhi witnessed six severe air days on the trot from November 4 to November 9, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The AQI in neighbouring cities of Faridabad (306), Ghaziabad (336), Noida (291), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (261), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), was also recorded in the poor and "very poor" categories. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the situation is much better compared to Tuesday . The wind direction has changed preventing the transport of smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, he said. The official, however, said the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally on Friday. The IMD said winds were calm in the morning and the minimum temperature was 11.6 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. There was shallow fog in the morning and the visibility was 800 metres at the Safdarjung Observatory. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the change in transport level wind direction has led to a significant decrease in stubble burning-related intrusion in spite of high fire counts. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 was almost negligible -- 3 per cent -- on Wednesday due to unfavourable transport-level winds, it said. Deterioration (in air quality) is expected on Friday towards the higher end of the 'very poor' category, it said. The CPCB had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Sikkim women’s T20 debuts||The inaugural edition of Khangchendzonga Shield, Sikkim’s first women’s cricket tournament organised by the Sikkim Cricket Assoication (SiCA), got underway at the Sikkim Cricket Ground (SiCA) near Rangpo on Wednesday with a double header. In the first match of the T20 tournament, Mount Kabru easily defeated Mount Simvo by eight wickets. Batting first, the Simvos were restricted to a modest 73 in their 20 overs, which the Kabrus overhauled for the loss of just two wickets. In the second match, Mount Pandim defeated Mount Sinolchu by a similar margin of eight wickets. The Pandims made an easy job of chasing Sinolchu’s paltry score of 70. The four teams will play a match each against each other over three days, and the top two will clash in the final slated for November 21. In all, 64 cricketers are taking part in the tournament aimed at promoting cricket among women of the soccer-mad Himalayan state. “Historically, Sikkim has never had a cricket tournament solely dedicated to women. This step will serve as a platform for young women to showcase their talent and encourage more participation in the sport in the future,” said Lobzang G. Tenzing, SiCA president. The tourney was preceded by a three-day coaching camp, conducted by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI)’s coach Atul Gaikwad. Seema Gurung, a player from Soreng-Chakung in West Sikkim, said she was excited to be part of both the coaching camp and the tournament. “We really enjoyed the coaching by Atul Sir. Unlike in the past when we had to go outside the state for training, it was nice to train in our own home ground this time,” Seema said. The Sikkim Cricket Ground (formerly Mining Ground) is hosting the first tournament after its development as the state’s only cricket-dedicated stadium. In its earlier avatar, the venue used to host multiple events, including political rallies and other jamborees. After SiCA was granted an extended lease of the ground by the previous government, the BCCI has funded its development as a cricket stadium. In the first phase of development at an approximate cost of Rs 2 crore, the entire ground has been re-laid. “Nine pitches have also been set up in the middle of the ground and eight practice pitches along the sides. The ground has a proper drainage system and the entire playing arena has been fenced,” said Roshan Gupta, a SiCA member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Many ignored, but interim bail granted to Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami who was arrested eight days ago in a suicide abetment case. “Please exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty.... Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty,” the Supreme Court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee told the high courts. The following are some Indians who have been languishing in jail without being convicted till now: Siddique Kappan, 41 Delhi-based journalist booked under UAPA by UP police Days in custody: 38 Legal status: Journalist union’s habeas corpus petition to come up in the Supreme Court (SC) on November 16. SC had earlier advised the union to approach the “correct court” to establish the whereabouts of Kappan Sudha Bharadwaj, 58 Ailing lawyer and activist arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 806 Legal status: On September 24, SC had refused to entertain a bail plea, saying: “You have a good case on merits. Why don’t you file a regular bail application?” Varavara Rao, 79 Ailing poet arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 806 In July, his family said he was unable to walk on his own or go to the washroom, and that he was hallucinating Stan Swamy, 83 Priest and tribal rights activist arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 34 The Parkinson’s Disease patient, along with Rao, is lodged in the same jail from where Goswami was released on Wednesday. Father Stan Swamy hadto move a special court for permission to use a straw to drink water Aasif Sultan, 31 Kashmiri journalist accused of aiding terrorists Days in custody: 808 His family members as well as his colleagues have denied the allegation, saying he had merely reported on militants Umar Khalid, 32 Former JNU student arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 48 On September 21, a Delhi court had dismissed his application seeking permission to meet his family during police custody||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Government control on OTT, news portals||The government has moved to regulate content on video streaming platforms such as Amazon Prime Video and Netflix besides online news portals, rejecting a code of self-regulation that 15 OTT platforms had signed in September. The audiovisual content of over-the-top (OTT) apps, and news and currentaffairs content on online media have been brought under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. The decision has raised fears of “a licence raj on the Internet”. It has also prompted calls for a “liberal approach” from the Centre, while some have expressed hope that fake news would now be weeded out. In a gazette notification by the cabinet secretariat on Monday, the President amended the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, to bring about the change. No reason was provided, and I&B minister Prakash Javadekar refused to answer questions at the briefing, saying he would speak on the subject on Thursday. The government had revealed its intent earlier in the Supreme Court during hearings in the Sudarshan TV case, when it argued the court should first focus on digital media rather than television content. The government has been particularly focused on online news portals, having been unable to control the digital media the way it has television and print. Earlier this year, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had written to Netflix complaining that some of its programmes had hurt Hindu sentiments. It had named five movies and web series: Leila, Ghoul, Chippa, Sacred Games and Krishna & His Leela. In the Sudarshan TV case, the government had said: “It is the need of the hour that the court start first with ‘web-based digital media’ which includes ‘web magazines’ and ‘web-based news channels’ and ‘web-based newspapers’. They not only have a very wide reach but are completely uncontrolled.” The print media is regulated by the Press Council of India with the stated objective of “preserving the freedom of the press” and it has representation from the media. Television has a self-regulatory mechanism in the News Broadcasters Standards Authority. However, the government has rejected the self-regulation code for Online Curated Content Providers in India, which was signed by 15 video streaming platforms including Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Zee5, Viacom 18, Disney Hotstar, MX Player and Jio. Unveiled by the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on September 4, the code sought to provide consumers with information and tools to help them decide what they wanted to see while allowing the content creators freedom to tell their stories. “By aiming to do what is best for both consumers and creators as guiding principles, the code intends for India to be one of the most dynamic and fastest growing entertainment industries in the world,” the IAMAI had said. The code provided for a framework for age classification and content descriptions for titles as well as access control tools, and a structured grievance redress and escalation mechanism for complaints of non-compliance with the guidelines. It made it mandatory for each OTT platform to set up a consumer complaints department and/or an internal committee and an advisory panel with an independent external adviser. Contacted by this newspaper for comments, an authorised representative of the IAMAI said: “We are not commenting on this issue.” Netflix declined comment while Amazon and Hotstar did not respond to requests for comment, a Reuters report said. Facebook and Twitter, whose news and current affairs content will come under the new regulatory regime, did not answer requests for comment, either, the report added. Karan Bedi, CEO of MX Player, told The Telegraph: “We look forward to working with the ministry to implement our industry’s self-regulation efforts. As responsible content creators, we want to ensure this act not only takes cognisance of the nature of content being released but also ensures that we safeguard creativity in this rapidly growing sector.” While actor Ashwin Mushran tweeted “the government just went OTT on OTT”, Aneesh Dev, founder-director of Dollywood Play — a dubbed Hindi film OTT — sought a “liberal approach” to regulating content. “The government should keep in mind the international standards in developed countries for allowing content, as there are millions of videos for which these platforms need to get scrutinised and seek necessary approvals. Hence there can be a more liberal approach of allowing content for an emerging medium like OTT.” Filmmaker Vikram Malhotra said the industry would have to “wait and watch”. “My only concern is that rules that currently govern access to content as well as its creation and distribution on other platforms cannot and should not be simply applied to the online medium,” said Malhotra, whose studio Abunduntia Entertainment produces films and shows, including some for Amazon Prime Video. The government move comes after the Supreme Court issued a notice last month to the Centre and the IAMAI on a petition from an advocate, Shashank Shekhar Jha, seeking an autonomous body to monitor and filter content on OTT platforms. Soon after the Supreme Court notice, the I&B ministry wrote to the IT ministry to explore ways of regulating online content. The Modi government had been scouting for ways to regulate OTT apps for several years. In March 2015, telecom regulator Trai had sparked outrage by floating a consultation paper that wondered if it was time to regulate OTT applications — especially communications apps — since they had started to hurt the revenues of telecom services whose networks they rode. The move fizzled out soon after. In mid-September this year, Trai told the telecom department there was no need to bring OTT platforms under any form of regulatory framework. “Any regulatory prescription in haste may leave an adverse impact on the industry as a whole. The authority is of the opinion that market forces may be allowed to respond to the situation without prescribing any regulatory intervention,” Trai said. “However, developments shall be monitored and intervention as felt necessary shall be done at appropriate time.” The latest move to regulate OTT content is a lot more sinister than the original intent. “It is a little like a licence raj on the Internet,” said cyber law expert Prashant Mali. However, another cyber law expert, Karnika Seth, cautiously welcomed the plan, saying: “It will weed out fake news.” She did not explain what litmus test should be used to identify fake news. “What kind of licensing will apply to OTT film and other providers will need to be looked into because it should not impinge on freedom of speech, yet regulate only to the extent it is necessary,” Seth said. She conceded that implementation could prove a challenge. In cinemas it’s possible to exclude certain categories of viewers, but the online platform is more open and everybody has the right to access it. “Does somebody have to prove their age to view a programme? How feasible this would be is yet to be seen,” she said. Sajai Singh, a partner at the law firm J. Sagar Associates, said: “Our hope is that the ministry of I&B will consider the recommendations made by the expert committee chaired by Shyam Benegal while trying to formulate the guidelines and procedure for certification of content on OTT platforms.” The Benegal committee, dealing with film certification, had in 2016 said the State would have to shift from the idea of censorship to that of certification. Singh said: “One key differentiator of the digital medium is the lack of public exhibition of content; rather, there is a pull factor wherein the consumer decides what content he or she wants to consume, at what time and after paying a transaction value. It is imperative that the industry is allowed to flourish and grow in a uniform, non-discriminatory and non-discretionary manner.” Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Bengal on PM’s radar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday endorsed the continued leadership of Nitish Kumar in Bihar and appeared to turn his gaze towards poll-bound Bengal where he read out the “writing on the wall” to the BJP’s rivals. “Those who can’t challenge us through democratic ways have taken to killing BJP workers in some parts of the country,” Modi said without naming Bengal, where Assembly elections are due in 2021. He was speaking at the BJP headquarters here to celebrate the Bihar and bypoll victories. “I don’t need to warn. That will be done by the people. Elections come and go, victory and defeat happen.… This dance of death can never be allowed in a democracy. It can’t win a mandate and this writing on the wall should be read,” Modi said amid loud slogans of “Bharat Mata ki jai”. The BJP believes that the victories in Bihar and the by-elections have provided the party with the perfect optics to gear up for the Assembly elections in Bengal and Assam next year. Modi appeared to be using the Bihar outcome as a launch pad to boost the morale of party workers, particularly in Bengal where the BJP has never been in power. Modi drew attention to the BJP’s rise from “two MPs and two rooms” to “every corner of the country”. He said the BJP was the only party to have increased its strength after three terms in power --- a reference to the BJP winning the highest number of seats among the NDA partners --- but backed chief minister Nitish to lead the government. “We, workers of the BJP, shall work under the leadership of Nitish Kumar and leave no stone unturned to serve the people,” Modi said. The endorsement from the BJP’s talisman would put to rest speculation over the leadership of the NDA in Bihar after the poll results pulled the BJP to 74 seats, pushing Nitish’s JDU to third spot with just 43 seats. The Prime Minister devoted the better part of his 40-minute speech to lauding the BJP for winning the trust of the people election after election. He highlighted how the BJP had won not only in Bihar but across the length and breadth of the country in the by-elections and emerged as a true national party. “Not just in Bihar, we won in Manipur in the far east, Gujarat in the far west, Karnataka and Telangana in the south, in Madhya Pradesh and in Uttar Pradesh,” Modi said. “Today the BJP resides in the heart of every citizen of the country.… If you work sincerely for the development of the country, people will bless you.” Modi seemed to be chipping away at the perception that women were “silent voters” of Nitish. Referring to discussions on “silent voters” in Bihar, he said women had been the largest backers of the BJP because the party had ensured their safety, security and dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Lalu furious, Congress on sabotage alert||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad is said to be seething with rage over the election results in Bihar, holding the Congress squarely responsible for the Opposition alliance’s failure to cross the halfway mark. While both the RJD and the Congress firmly believe that they would have been in the reckoning to form the government but for last-minute manipulations by the administration that snatched at least eight seats by force, Lalu is of the opinion that a stronger performance by the Congress would have rendered such calculations irrelevant. Although the RJD veteran and former chief minister is serving a jail term, he is currently at Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi because of illness. Sources said Lalu had called up several important persons to convey his anguish over the Congress and had accused some leaders of the party, not Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi, of messing things up. A source told The Telegraph from Patna: “Laluji is dejected. He believes this was the best chance for his son Tejashwi to become chief minister. He laments that the Congress took 70 seats and didn’t fight well. ‘Fifty-one haar gaya (They lost in 51 seats),’ he is saying. He has spoken to many persons.” The majority of Congress leaders concede they could have done better and are looking for the “mysterious forces” involved in internal sabotage. A leader said: “First, we accepted unwinnable seats. At least 35 of the 70 seats were impossible to win. Then we fielded unwinnable candidates. We should have sought seats for strong candidates instead of hunting for candidates after grabbing seats. Good seats were identified and the list was given to the negotiators. But an entirely different set of seats was accepted. We were mystified by the development.” The disconnect between planning and execution was so disturbing that Rahul and his team felt helpless and now plan to undertake a drastic overhaul of the organisational machinery in the coming months, according to the sources. Appointing a strong and “trustworthy” team has become all the more important amidst strong rumours that the BJP-JDU leadership was already in touch with several Congress MLAs to bolster their wafer-thin majority. A list of nine “suspect” MLAs has been given to Rahul and surveillance has already been increased on their activities. The absence of general secretary in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil from the battlefield has become a major concern, weakening the institutional oversight over the Bihar affairs of the party. The campaigning had been managed by chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who was sent to Patna as an emergency measure when the high command realised that the state unit had not been working efficiently. While the capability of local leaders was always in doubt, the central leadership cannot escape its responsibility as the Pradesh Congress Committee has not been formed all these years. The PCC chief has been working without an executive. The pathetic state of organisational affairs may enhance the chances of defection as MLAs don’t see any future in the party. Confirming the fear of defections, a senior leader said: “If our MLAs can be bought in states like Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat, where the leadership is much stronger, only God can save us in Bihar where there is no command and control.” Leaders of both the RJD and the Congress are talking about several candidates being allegedly defeated mischievously by the districts’ administration, with some results reversed after counting. “While the demands of our candidates for recount in several constituencies were denied, we know at least two cases where recounting was done without the rival candidate asking for it and the results were reversed. Eight cases of illegality will be challenged in court but the unfortunate part is that election petitions take years to fructify,” a Congress leader said, resigned to another tenure of BJP-JDU rule in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Resurgence perks up Left ||The Left parties bagged 16 of the 29 Assembly seats they contested in Bihar, snapping a streak of setbacks plaguing the alternative voice for years. The CPI-ML won 12 of the 19 seats it contested, the CPM two of four and the CPI two of six. The vote share of the Left also increased from around 3.5 per cent in the previous polls to 5.5 per cent despite contesting a fewer number of seats. The results are a big leap over the 2015 polls, in which the Left parties had won just three seats, all by the CPI-ML. This is also the Left’s best performance since 1995 when the parties had shared 38 MLAs in an undivided Bihar that included present-day Jharkhand. The front had slipped steadily since then. Buoyed by the latest results, the parties are now eying to expand to newer areas and conduct issue-based agitations for the common people. “It would have been more satisfying had the government changed. We would have then called it a brilliant performance. These elections have been an upsurge against the present government, an agitation by the youth and the common people and the explosion of their anger,” CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. “We had always been working on the ground irrespective of electoral outcomes, but now we have a stronger team in the legislature with several young leaders. We will try to serve the people in our constituencies better and also serve the cause of democracy in Bihar more effectively,” he added. The CPI-ML general secretary said the party would remain a part of the Grand Alliance. The party will also focus more on Bengal in coordination with the other Left parties. “The Bengal elections are very crucial this time and the people feel inspired by Bihar’s example. It is our next station. We will try to put up a fight together with other Left parties,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Six of a family found dead in Odisha||The bodies of six members of a family were recovered from a house at Sanrapada village in Bolangir district in western Odisha on Wednesday, with police suspecting they were murdered. The deceased have been identified as Bulu Jena, his wife, their three sons and a daughter. The incident came to light after residents of the neighbourhood opened the door of Jena’s house when bad smell started emanating from inside. The victims were found lying under a blanket. Later, the residents informed the police. Police have also found some sharp weapons, pots and flowers from the spot. The police suspect a number of people were involved in the crime. Patnagarh tehsildar Puspanjali Panda said, “Injury marks have been found on the heads of the deceased. It seems to be a case of murder. Investigation is on to ascertain the reason behind the crime.” “The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. We have to wait for the reports,” said a senior police officer. Jena used to collect honey and sell it in the local market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Day after, Nitish stays at home ||Nitish Kumar remained cloistered in his Patna residence on Wednesday meeting leaders close to him and purveying the changed scenario where his JDU is now the BJP’s junior partner. The JDU has won 43 seats to the BJP’s 74. In 2015, it had won 28 more seats. A JDU source said Nitish was unhappy at the way the Lok Janshakti Party had eaten into his vote base and the fact that the BJP had not taken assertive steps to rein in Chirag Paswan, who had launched a scathing attack on the chief minister and vowed to pull him down while declaring allegiance to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The LJP cut away a massive number of votes in almost every constituency our party contested. We would have won at least 30 more seats had this not happened. Our leader is aware of the fact and also that the BJP did not do much to stop Chirag Paswan from doing so,” the JDU source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Vote share: BJP-JDU slide, RJD-Cong jump||The BJP-Janata Dal United combine may have won the Bihar election but its vote share in the state has dropped by 10.5 percentage points compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Election Commission figures show. In contrast, the combined tally of the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress shows a gain of 9.5 per cent votes over the 2019 figure. This does not include the 5.5 per cent votes their Mahagathbandhan partners — the Left parties — won from 29 Assembly seats this time. According to the final results, the NDA has won 125 of Bihar’s 243 seats, narrowly surpassing the majority mark of 122, while the Opposition RJD-Congress-Left alliance has bagged 110 seats. “While there’s no established formula to predict whether (and by how much) a party’s seat tally would increase or decrease with a rise or fall in its vote share, the vote percentage does indicate a party’s popularity among the voters,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The BJP and the JDU had together bagged around 45.4 per cent of the votes in the 2019 general election, sharing 33 of Bihar’s 40 Lok Sabha seats between them. Six seats had gone to their junior partner, the Lok Janshakti Party, which broke away from the alliance in Bihar ahead of the Assembly polls. This time the BJP and the JDU together mustered just 34.9 per cent of the votes, marking a loss of around 10.5 per cent of the total votes. The BJP won 19.5 per cent of the votes, bagging 74 seats. Its vote share in last year’s Lok Sabha elections was 23.6, indicating a fall of 4.1 percentage points this time. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU has garnered 15.4 per cent of the votes and 43 Assembly seats. This represents a fall of 6.4 percentage points from the 21.8 per cent votes it had received in the general election. The two allies’ combined polling percentage shows a drop even when compared with the 2015 Assembly elections, when they were on opposite sides. The BJP then headed the NDA while the JDU led a Grand Alliance with the RJD and the Congress. In 2015, the BJP had won 24.4 per cent of the votes, which indicates it has lost almost 5 per cent of the total votes this time. The JDU had secured 16.8 per cent of the votes in 2015, which means its share has dropped by 1.4 percentage points. The RJD and the Congress have won 23.1 per cent and 9.5 per cent of the votes, respectively, against the 15.4 per cent and 7.7 per cent they had secured in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This adds up to a combined gain of 9.5 per cent of the votes. Individually, the RJD has gained 7.7 per cent of the total votes and the Congress, 1.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||SC sends ‘message’ to high court, frees Arnab Goswami ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the “forthwith” release of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying it would be a “travesty of justice” and “we are travelling the path of destruction” if personal liberty is curtailed. The apex court expressed concern over state governments targeting individuals on the basis of ideology. The court also granted interim bail to two others in the case — Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh. A vacation bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee restrained the three accused from interfering with the investigation or intimidating witnesses. Goswami and the others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused. “Whatever be his (Goswami’s) ideology… I don’t even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional courts do not interfere today — we are undeniably travelling the path of destruction,” Justice Chandrachud orally observed during the four-and-a-half-hour hearing. The court granted interim bail even as senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Amit Desai, appearing for the Maharashtra government, opposed such a relief on the ground that the regular bail application was to come up for hearing on Thursday. Desai also argued that since hundreds of such bail applications of various other accused are pending in different trial courts, no special consideration can be shown to Goswami. The Supreme Court rejected the argument, saying that as a constitutional court it was more concerned about a citizen’s fundamental right to liberty and that a message must go out to the high court that it should uphold the “personal liberty of citizens”. “…The appeals before this court arise from the order of the division bench of the high court of judicature at Mumbai dated 9 November 2020, by which the applications for the grant of the interim bail moved by the appellants pending the disposal of their writ petitions have been rejected…. “We are of the considered view that the high court was in error in rejecting the applications for the grant of interim bail. We accordingly order and direct that Arnab Manoranjan Goswami, Feroz Mohammad Shaikh and Neetish Sarda shall be released on interim bail, subject to each of them executing a personal bond in the amount of Rs 50,000 to be executed before the jail superintendent. They are, however, directed to cooperate in the investigation and shall not make any attempt to interfere with the ongoing investigation or with the witnesses,” Justice Chandrachud, who dictated the order in open court around 4.30pm, said. The court directed the authorities of Taloja jail and the superintendent of police of Raigad “…to ensure that this order is complied with forthwith”. Later in the evening, Goswami was freed. Bombay High Court had rejected Goswami’s bail plea on Monday, saying that by law he should seek regular bail in the sessions court before approaching the higher courts. Justice Chandrachud observed during Wednesday’s hearing: “We must send a message today to the high courts as well…. Please exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty…. Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty.” Observing that it would be a travesty of justice if the personal liberty of a person was curtailed, the bench expressed concern over state governments targeting individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. “We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect the personal liberty of people,” the bench said. The court asked the Maharashtra government whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, and said the issue pertains to “personal liberty”. It observed that the Maharashtra government must ignore Goswami’s comments on TV. “Yes we are with you, they (victims’ family) deserve a fair investigation, but if a state targets an individual like (this), that is not fair…. I don’t even watch his (Goswami’s) channel, never turn it on. Our democracy is extraordinarily resilient. Governments must ignore all this,” Justice Chandrachud remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
