13-11-2020||India||Delhi: Pickets, flying squads to monitor cracker ban||In a bid to implement the ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers ahead of Diwali, the Delhi Police has deployed pickets, formed flying squads and are making announcements for the same. The National Green Tribunal earlier this week ordered a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. The Delhi Police is also making sure that people follow Covid-19 guidelines. Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said that their focus has been to ensure that nobody uses or sells crackers, and to maintain peace and harmony during the festival. Special teams and flying squads have been formed at the police station and district levels respectively to ensure regular checking. "Pickets have been placed at markets and places with high footfall to sensitise the public about wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Public Address systems and banners are also being used. 'Machaans' have been set up at vantage points to check movements of suspicious and mischievous persons," he said. He added that market welfare associations have been assisting to ensure safe movement of shoppers and traffic. At strategic locations in marketplaces, the police have installed door-framed metal detectors. PCR, Prakhar, Emergency Response Vehicle and Quick Reaction Team vans will be working in tandem for successful handling of the situation. "Force has been internally mobilised to enhance police visibility. At the same time, police staff deployed on duty in market places have been advised to take full precautions while regulating the crowd. Senior officers are closely monitoring the ground arrangements," Mittal said. The Delhi Police have also taken to social media to warn the public about the NGT’s order. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said that they are ensuring that there is no congestion in public places, especially market areas, and Covid-19 norms are followed. Any defiance will be strictly dealt with, he said. “We have deployed 13 companies -- 10 from our districts and three from outside,” DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. "Shopkeepers in market places have been asked to follow COVID-19 norms. We have told them not to allow too many people inside their shops and ensure the customers maintain social distancing and wear masks. We are also issuing challans to people for not following the social distancing norm," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan steps aside as CPI(M) secretary||Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stepped aside from his role, the highest office within the party in the state level, on Friday, in a major development ahead of the state’s local body polls. The move comes days after his son was booked by the Enforcement Directorate in Bengaluru over money laundering charges linked to a drugs case. The party maintained that it had accepted the Polit Bureau member’s request for leave to receive treatment. However, Opposition leader in the state Assembly Ramesh Chennithala dubbed the move as a delayed dawning of wisdom. The BJP and the Congress have demanded CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation, following the development. The ruling LDF has been facing backlash over a number of allegations including the Gold Smuggling case, alleged corruption in the Wadakkanchery Life mission project and the questioning and subsequent arrest of Balakrishnan's son, Bineesh by the ED. Central committee member M V Govindan said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan has been given the charge of state secretary. He added that Balakrishnan’s rejoining would depend upon how long his treatment would take. On questions regarding Bineesh’s arrest, the leader said it would not affect the party in any way, and Balakrishnan had already spoken on the issue. Balakrishnan, a 67-year-old, who has been an MLA  from Thalassery in Kannur district for five times, was first appointed as party secretary in 2015 for three years, and then in 2018. Considered the second-most powerful man of the party after Vijayan, Balakrishnan has been under treatment for some time. However, this is the first time he has decided to step aside as secretary citing health reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Green crackers to have QR coding system||Green firecrackers sold this year would have a novel feature of quick response (QR) coding system to avoid manufacturing and sale of counterfeit products, the Karnataka government has said in its order. The green firecrackers were introduced to check pollution during Deepavali. The other fireworks with harmful chemicals can affect the respiratory system and prove fatal if a person is infected by coronavirus. According to the order, the green firecrackers packing can be identified through the distinct green logo of CSIR- NEERI and PESO as well as a quick response (QR) coding system. "The QR code is a novel feature incorporated on the firecrackers to avoid manufacture and sale of counterfeit products. The feature will assist in differentiating green firecrackers from the conventional ones," the order said. The order of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change reads that green firecrackers do not contain harmful chemicals, thereby reducing air pollution due to firecrackers. Besides, these fireworks are less harmful than conventional firecrackers. The green firecrackers are manufactured as per the formulation developed by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute and product approval for new formulation is given by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. Green firecrackers would be available as sparklers, flowerpots and maroons, which are made with reduction in size of shell, elimination of ash usage and reduced usage of raw materials in the compositions. The government had said that the green firecrackers would be sold till November 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Kamra refuses to retract tweets or apologise for them ||Stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra on Friday refused to retract his controversial tweets against the Supreme Court or apologise for them, saying he believes they speak for themselves. Kamra's statement comes a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to the initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against him for a series of tweets following the apex court giving interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. “The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker,” he said in a statement addressed to Venugopal and the judges on his Twitter page. "My view hasn't changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other's personal liberty cannot go uncriticized. I don't intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” he added. Kamra, who was banned by several airlines after he heckled Goswami on an IndiGo flight earlier this year, said he enjoys a platform with a captive audience but a time slot before the Supreme Court was a scarce commodity and should go to more pressing issues in front of the nation. He also referred to contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who had refused to apologise for his derogatory tweets and was held guilty of contempt earlier this year. “I wish to volunteer having the time that would be allotted to the hearing of my contempt petition (20 hours at the very least, if Prashant Bhushan's hearing is anything to go by), to other matters and parties who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue,” Kamra said. The stand-up comedian and satirist then went on to list the important petitions pending in front of the court, listing the pleas on demonetisation, the challenge to the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds and countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention. The apex court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Goswami in an abetment to suicide case, saying it will be a "travesty of justice" if personal liberty is curtailed. Terming Kamra's tweets “in bad taste”, Venugopal on Thursday said it was time for people to understand that attacking the apex court brazenly will attract punishment. “I have gone through each one of the tweets which you have annexed for consent to proceed by way of criminal contempt against Kunal Kamra. The tweets which I am extracting below are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court,” the top law officer said in a letter to one of the applicants who had sought his consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Kamra. “I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra,” Venugopal said. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Kashmir’s communication collapse: 2G services extended||Administration in jammu and Kashmir on Thursday ordered that 2G mobile data services will continue to be in force in 18 out of 20 districts of the Union Territory till November 26. The authorities cited apprehension about misusing high-speed internet to cause disharmony during the district development council as well as panchayat elections. Shaleen Kabra, the Principal Secretary of the Home Department issued an order on Thursday night saying that high speed data services will be available only in Udhampur and Ganderbal districts. The internet speed will be restricted to 2G in other parts of the UT, the notification said. “Postpaid SIM-card holders shall be provided Internet access. However, the same facility shall not be made available on prepaid SIM cards unless verified according to norms applicable for postpaid connections,” the home department said in its order. Fixed-line Internet connectivity with mac-binding shall be available, it added. The notice also stated that these directions will remain in force until November 26, and will be enacted with immediate effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Pakistani troops violate ceasefire along LOC in Jammu & Kashmir||A civilian was killed and another injured on Friday as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kamalkote sector of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The Pakistani troops fired mortars and other weapons, they said. The injured civilian has been rushed to a medical facility for treatment, they added. The officials said apart from the Kamalkote sector of Uri,ceasefire violations were reported from two other places -- Izmarg in Gurez sector of Bandipora district and Keran sector of Kupwara district. A defence spokesman also said that the Army foiled an infiltration bid, which was aided by the ceasefire violation, along the LoC in the Keran sector. Suspicious movement was observed by own troops at the forward posts along the LoC in Keran sector (in north Kashmir's Kupwara district) today. The suspected infiltration bid was foiled by alert troops, Srinagar- based defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said the infiltration bid was accompanied by initiation of an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) by Pakistan. They fired mortars and other weapons. Befitting response is being given, Col Kalia said. The defence spokesman said the ceasefire violation spread to larger areas from Keran to Uri sectors. This was the second infiltration attempt within a week. The earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid in Machil sector during the intervening night of 7- 8 November was foiled in which three militants were killed. Three Army soldiers, including a Captain, and a BSF jawan also lost their lives during the operation. India Army is well poised to defeat all attempts by Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists into J-K, the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Covid-19 situation to come under control in 10 days: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that the situation related to Covid-19 in the state should come under control in seven to 10 days. He added that the Aam Aadmi party government is taking multiple measures in this regard. "COVID-19 cases have been increasing for the last few days. I am also concerned about it. We have been taking all appropriate measures to control it. We are considering taking more steps next week. I think the situation should come under control in 7 to 10 days and the cases should start decreasing," Kejriwal said at a press conference. The chief minister blamed the increasing amount of pollution for the surge in the number of infections at the national capital. "Pollution is the biggest reason behind the spike in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. We had the situation under control until October 20," he said. Kejriwal explained, while citing a report, that the anti-stubble solution made by Indian Agricultural research Institute, Pusa, was able to decompose 70 to 95 percent crop residue in 24 Delhi villages. He said that his government will submit the report to the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas. It will also file a petition in front of the organisation urging to issue directions to all state governments to implement it. Delhi recorded 7,053 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 4.67 lakh on Thursday. The state also reported 104 fatalities, making it the highest in the period of over five months, which, according to authorities, pushed the death toll to 7,332. On Wednesday, the national capital recorded a spike of 8,593 cases with 85 new deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Central assistance to six states facing natural calamities||The Centre during a high-level committee meeting, chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah, has approved for releasing  nearly Rs 4,382 crore to six states as part of central assistance for the natural disasters they faced this year. West Bengal, Odisha, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Sikkim and Madhya Pradesh will receive the funds as assistance for the destruction caused due to cyclones, landslides and other calamities. “The high-level committee has approved additional central assistance of Rs 4,381.88 crore to six states from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF),” the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement. West Bengal will receive nearly Rs 2,707.77 crore for cyclone Amphan, while for Odisha 128.23 crore has been approved. Rs 268.59 crore has been approved for Maharashtra for cyclone Nisarga. Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Sikkim will receive Rs 577.84, Rs 611.61 crore and Rs 87.84 crore respectively for floods and landslides during the south-west monsoon in the states. Following his visit to West Bengal and Odisha to analyse the aftermath of cyclone Amphan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 500 crore to the states respectively. “In addition, the prime minister had also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 for the injured, which was over and above the ex-gratia provided through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and the NDRF”, the statement said. “In all the six states, the central government had deputed Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) immediately after the calamities, without waiting for the receipt of memorandum from the affected states.” “In addition, during the financial year 2020-21, till date, the central government has released Rs 15,524.43 crore to 28 states from the SDRF", the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||‘Inadvertent error’ in locking Shah’s profile, Twitter says||Twitter on Friday said Home Minister Amit Shah’s account was locked temporarily due to an “inadvertent error” and the decision was revoked immediately. According to a Twitter spokesperson, his account is fully functional now. The microblogging site on Thursday had removed Shah’s Twitter display picture following a "report from the copyright holder". If one tried to click on Shah’s picture, a blank page popped up with the message, “ "Media not displayed. This image has been removed in response to a report from the copyright holder". "Due to an inadvertent error, we temporarily locked this account under our global copyright policies. This decision was reversed immediately and the account is fully functional," the Twitter spokesperson said. The Union Home Minister has 23.6 million followers on the platform. The incident comes at a time when the Centre has issued a notice to Twitter for depicting Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir, rather than the Union Territory of Ladakh. Twitter has been asked to explain within five working days why the government should not initiate legal action against it and the representatives for disrespecting the territorial integrity of the country by showing a false map, sources from the IT ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Arjun Rampal reaches NCB office for questioning||Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal office here on Friday for questioning in a drug case, an official said. Rampal, who was initially summoned by the central agency on Wednesday, arrived at the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate, South Mumbai, around 11.00 am. The 47-year-old model-turned-actor will be questioned in connection with the case related to alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry, the official said. His partner Gabriella Demetriades was questioned by NCB officials for two consecutive days. The apex drug law enforcement agency, which is probing the case for the last few months, had questioned her for almost six hours each on Wednesday and Thursday. The NCB summoned Rampal and Demetriades after conducting a search at the actor's residence in suburban Bandra on Monday. The probe agency had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones and tablets during the search and also questioned Rampals driver. A day before the search at Rampal's house, the NCB had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. The NCB launched the probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June. The central agency arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and a few others under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Almost 45,000 cases in a day, Covid tally close to 88 lakh||India's COVID-19 tally rose to 87.28 lakh on Friday with a single-day increase of 44,879 cases, while the recoveries surged to 81,15,580, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 1,28,668 after 547 more fatalities were reported in the country in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.47 per cent. There are 4,84,547 active cases in the country which comprise 5.55 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. With 44,879 fresh cases, the total coronavirus cases mounted to 87,28,795, it added. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,31,01,739 samples have been tested so far with 11,39,230 samples being tested on Thursday. The 547 new fatalities include 122 from Maharashtra, 104 from Delhi, 54 from Bengal, 25 each from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, 23 from Punjab, 21 each from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, 20 from Chhattisgarh and 19 from Haryana. A total of 1,28,668 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 45,682 from Maharashtra followed by 11,474 from Karnataka, 11,440 from Tamil Nadu, 7,506 from West Bengal, 7,332 from Delhi, 7,302 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,837 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,412 from Punjab and 3,785 from Gujarat. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||No change in Delhi's air quality||The national capital recorded its air quality in the very poor category on Friday morning, and it is likely to enter the "severe" zone on Diwali night. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 330 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 314 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (327), Ghaziabad (360), Noida (331), Greater Noida (329), and Gurgaon (328), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded their AQI is the "very poor" category. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally during the day. The IMD said a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometers per hour, he said. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said calm winds and firecracker emissions may push the air quality to the severe zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the lowest in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt. It said pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the very poor category in the absence of emissions due to fireworks. SAFAR said stubble burning-induced impact on AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate in the next two days. A spike in PM2.5 in the wee hours of November 15 is likely in case of fire-related emissions, it said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Rohingya refugees ‘abducted’ in Bangalore||The small community of Rohingya refugees in the city is living in fear after some of their men were allegedly abducted for ransom and one of them is yet to be traced. Six Rohingya refugees were kidnapped on November 1 from a slum in Kempapura, a northeastern suburb of Bangalore under Amruthahalli police station, where 150 of them from 42 families live and work as rag-pickers. A gang of “illegal Bangladeshi migrants” is suspected to be behind the abductions, according to the Rohingya refugees. The FIR names Hilal and six others without mentioning their nationality. None of the accused has been arrested yet. In a letter to the UN high commissioner for refugees, the Law and Policy Research Institute, a city-based advocacy for human rights, has named Hilal, Masoom, Javed, Ali, Farooq, Kukan and an unidentified person as the attackers. The accused allegedly also assaulted five women, one of them pregnant, who tried to resist their men being taken away. The FIR has booked the assailants for outraging the modesty of women, wrongful confinement, assault and extortion. While five of the victims returned after their families paid Rs 40,000 to the kidnappers, one of them named Dil Mohammed, 24, was yet to be traced. Those released had later told the police that they had been kept at a building in Kadugodi, some 20km to the east of Bangalore, for two days. A police officer said a search was on to arrest the culprits and find the remaining victim. “The investigation is still on to trace them all. As of now, we don’t have any information if the suspects have left the city,” said the officer from Amruthahalli police station who declined to be named. Karimullah, a Rohingya who lives in the hutment colony, recounted the horror of the abduction around 4pm on November 1. “I am among those who saw these illegal Bangladeshis coming and thrashing our youths and kidnapping them. I have narrated the entire episode to the police,” Karimullah, who goes by a single name, told The Telegraph on Thursday. The matter came to light only five days later when some members of the socio-political organisation Swaraj Abhiyan intervened and got an FIR filed on November 5. The gang had sought “hafta (protection money)” for allowing the Rohingya refugees to continue with their rag picking. Karimullah said there was no trace of Dil Mohammed in any of the other slums where Rohingya refugees have been living for the past seven years. “The police say they are searching for him. But we fear the worst as the attackers would have either killed him or confined him at some place,” he said, adding such attacks had become common. “This is not the first time we are being targeted by Bangladeshis. At least we people are registered with the police and possess all documents. Yet we are being denied our right to life,” said Karimullah. He said the gangs often threatened them and collected hafta. “After we lodged the FIR in the kidnap case, they came thrice to threaten to kidnap our children and set fire to our hutments. None of us know what to do. We are ready to go to our own country (Myanmar) the moment things improve there,” said Karimullah, a father of five children who attend a government school. The Rohingya men have since been taking turns to keep night-time vigil, fearing a backlash for going to the police. R. Kaleemullah, state coordinating committee member of Swaraj Abhiyan who had helped the refugees lodge the FIR, echoed the fears of Kareemullah. “The Rohingya refugees have nowhere to go with these gangs threatening them. We have been in touch with the police to ensure the arrest of the suspects,” said Kaleemullah. “They want justice and we are trying to do our best to ensure they are not harmed by these gangs,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Modi-Biden phone conversation in due course, informs ministry||The first telephone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President-elect Joe Biden “will happen in due course at a mutually convenient time”, the Indian external affairs ministry said on Thursday. Over the past two days, Biden has spoken to eight heads of government across the world in a selection that, according to The New York Times, reflected a “return to traditional diplomatic protocol after years of President Trump’s haphazard foreign interactions”. In New Delhi, asked if Modi had requested a call with Biden, and if so when was it scheduled, foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said it would happen in due course. According to the Biden-Harris transition team, the President-elect “participated in separate congratulatory calls” with the leaders of France, Germany, Ireland, the UK, Canada, Australia, Japan and South Korea. Japan, Australia and India are part of the four-member Washington-driven Quadrilateral. Sources pointed out that Biden was going by the book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Arundhati Roy’s book too red for saffron ||A Tamil Nadu university has removed Arundhati Roy’s book Walking with the Comrades, a critical account of government action against Maoists and tribal people in central India, from its postgraduate English course following objections from RSS student arm ABVP. A senior administrator of the Tirunelveli-based MS University confirmed over the phone on Thursday that the ABVP had “given a representation” over a month ago for the 2011 book’s removal from the third semester of the course on “Commonwealth Writing”. The official, however, told The Telegraph that the institution’s decision to withdraw the book was based not just on the ABVP demand but also on similar representations, including one from the university’s syndicate members. The ABVP had said the book seemed to “glorify the Maoists” and might spawn a “culture of violence”, and that such an “anti-national” book should not be thrust on impressionable young minds, the administrator said. However, the official added: “Our own syndicate and academic council members too had expressed concern about the book.” After receiving all these representations, the official said, vice-chancellor K. Pitchumani had appointed a high-level committee to examine the matter. Its members included three faculty deans, the director of the academic council and the chairperson of the board of studies. In its report, submitted recently, the committee recommended pulling the book from the curriculum immediately, the administrator said. “It was a well-considered decision; we don’t see this as a threat to the university’s autonomy,” the official said. Roy’s book had been included in the curriculum in 2017. MS University reviews its syllabuses and texts every three years. This year’s review, scheduled in April, had been scuppered by the pandemic and the lockdown, and the university had decided to continue with the existing curricula for a year. But the ABVP’s demand seems to have forced the pace for the book’s removal. Poomani, a Tamil writer who won the Sahitya Academy Award in 2014 for his book Angnaadi, said the university’s decision was “not correct”. “How did they suddenly wake up (after three years and decide) that this book by Arundhati Roy could foster violence?” he said from his home over the phone. Poomani said the issue touched on writers’ freedom of expression and underlined that many of Roy’s writings are known for their critical stance against the establishment. Walking with the Comrades arose out of Roy’s travels through central India’s forests in early 2010. She wrote the book as a series of reports on the government’s operations against Maoists and tribal people against the backdrop of the region’s untapped mineral wealth that corporate houses were eyeing. The committee that recommended withdrawal of Roy’s book had suggested it be replaced with My Native Land: Essays on Nature by the naturalist, artist, writer and wildlife photographer M. Krishnan (1912-1996). Krishnan is known for his work on wildlife conservation in India and was part of the Project Tiger committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Centre unveils third stimulus package before Diwali for Covid-affected economy||The Centre on Thursday unveiled its third stimulus package for a Covid-battered economy that is teetering on the brink of a deep recession this fiscal, again massaging noble intent with the froth of big numbers. The funding provided by the three stimulus efforts has been computed at close to Rs 30 lakh crore — a figure conflated by estimating the value of the RBI’s pump-priming monetary measures till October 31 at Rs 12.71 lakh crore. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman claimed that the Centre had provided an overall economic stimulus worth 15 per cent of the GDP — and insisted that the claw-back to a recovery had begun. The latest package is estimated at Rs 2.65 lakh crore, which includes the Rs 1.45 lakh crore of production-linked incentives the cabinet cleared on Wednesday for 10 sectors. These incentives will be paid out over five years and, like a lot of other measures, stretches the tenure of the poorly cash-funded stimulus like a bubblegum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Attorney-general gives consent for criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra||The attorney-general, the principal law officer of the Union government, has granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra over his tweets on the Supreme Court on Wednesday when it granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal said in response to requests for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. It’s now up to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to constitute a bench to deal with the multiple contempt petitions against the hugely popular comedian who rarely minces his words. The matter is expected to come up for hearing next week. If proceedings are pursued and he is convicted, Kamra faces a maximum jail term of six months, besides a fine. In his response, Venugopal cited two tweets by Kamra: “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. Venugopal added: “Apart from this, (there) is a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a flag of the ruling political party, namely the BJP, having replaced the Tricolour. This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit. All this in my opinion constitutes criminal contempt.”
If the Supreme Court initiates proceedings against Kamra, it will mark an uncommon arena of friction straddling popular culture and the highest judiciary of the land. On Wednesday, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, part of the two-judge bench that granted the interim bail to Goswami, had given a personal insight into how he deals with sections of the media and social media posts. “I don’t even watch his channel, never turn it on,” Justice Chandrachud had said. The judge had observed that courts were being attacked for judgments delivered by them and, “I often ask my law clerk and they say that ‘Sir, please don’t look at tweets’.” Earlier this year, senior advocate Prashant Bhushan had been convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets on the CJI and the judiciary. Bhushan had refused to apologise and the court had let him off with a Re 1 fine. The consent of the attorney-general is mandatory for initiating criminal contempt proceedings. On Thursday, Venugopal gave his consent to criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra in response to separate pleas by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Referring to a few other tweets, which the AG did not quote in his letter, Venugopal said they were “highly objectionable and it would perhaps be for the court to decide the question as to whether these tweets also would constitute criminal contempt of the Supreme Court of India”. He said: “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972. “I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Sh. Kunal Kamra.” In January, Kamra had confronted Goswami in a flight over the suicide of University of Hyderabad scholar Rohith Vemula. Subsequently, several private airlines had imposed a six-month travel ban on the comedian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court orders Varavara Rao medical test||Bombay High Court on Thursday directed that doctors from a private hospital here should conduct medical examination of the jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao through video link, and a physical check-up if necessary. The court, which was hearing his bail petition, adjourned the hearing to November 17. Rao, 81, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, is lodged as an undertrial in the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. A vacation bench of Justices A.K. Menon and S.P. Tavade was hearing a petition filed by Rao’s wife Hemlata, seeking that he be shifted to the private Nanavati Hospital for better treatment, an independent medical board be set up to assess his health, and he be released on bail. Rao’s lawyer Indira Jaising claimed that his health was “fast deteriorating”, and there was apprehension that he might die in prison. Rao suffers from dementia, is confined to bed in the prison hospital since August and has no bladder control, she said. If Rao died in prison, it would be a case of “custodial death”, Jaising said, adding that his detention violated his right to life under Article 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Maoist outreach drive by Chhattisgarh NGO ||A Chhattisgarh NGO is raising funds to distribute menstrual cups and sanitary napkins to women, including Maoist rebels, in the southern part of the state with the hope that it will create an atmosphere for talks between the banned CPI(Maoist) and the state. The distribution programme will be conducted from Diwali on Saturday till Sankranti on January 14. The note by The New Peace Process — a group promoted by Bastar-based Bluetooth community radio CGNet Swara — on ketto.org says, “This Diwali, let’s extend our love to our sisters fighting strong in Bastar. After having borne the brunt of the decades-old Maoist insurgency, the beautiful district of Bastar, with its sprawling forests and vibrant culture, has seen large-scale devastation and violence…. The dearth of information surrounding menstrual hygiene adds to the regressive mindset and is thus a cause for concern. Hence, this Diwali, we wish to gift these women reusable sanitary pads and menstrual cups with the aim of initiating discussions around this topic.” They said these products can be an essential part of the kit gifted to the Adivasi women of Bastar, who roam around in jungles for most part of their day. “We plan on sending two reusable cloth pads and one menstrual cup as a gift pack, which will cost around Rs 1,000 each…. We intend on sending a portion of these gift packs as a peace offering to the Maoist female fighters as well, who joined the movement as an escape from their distressed living conditions with hopes for a better future.” Shubhranshu Choudhary, convener of The New Peace Process, said the idea came up in the quarterly “Bastar Dialogue” on October 2, which had participants from countries such as Colombia, Nepal, and the Philippines, where armed communist rebellions have taken place. In 2010, the Colombian military decorated nine trees in contested territory with Christmas lights and a message encouraging Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia cadre to come home. This was followed by Operation Rivers of Light, where people were urged to send Christmas greetings to rebels in floating LED-illuminated balls down rivers that flowed through rebel-held territory. This initiative reportedly led to one in 20 rebels leaving the forests. Choudhary, who also heads CGNet Swara, explained, “Whenever we went to the forests, the men would explain that they lose three days a month due to malarial fevers. Women say that for three days a month they additionally suffer as they cannot sit down to rest or dry the pieces of cloth used as sanitary napkins. We want to make a beginning by extending a hand of friendship.” The Process contacted several online donation sites that turned it down to avoid controversy. Police officers and politicians they spoke to were initially opposed to the idea, but Choudhary said they have come around to not preventing them from carrying out their work. “We were asked why we were trying to make life easy for the Maoists, and that this was an ‘urban Naxal’ idea. For the fighting to stop, both sides need to break the ice. Bastar division is larger than Kerala and a third of it is considered to be under Maoist control. We don’t want to fool people. A part of the kits will go to Maoists. Some of it will even reach villages in neighbouring states. We hope both sides will take it sportingly. The long-term goal is for talks to end the violence,” he explained. Undivided Andhra Pradesh had attempted talks with Maoists between 2001 and 2005, as did the Centre in 2009. These failed over the key condition by governments that Maoists must abjure violence. Hopes for talks had dimmed after the chief of the Maoist’s People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army M. Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji was killed by police in Bengal in 2011. After being elected in 2018, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had said that “talks, not bullets” will end the insurgency. Choudhary added, “In the last two weeks, two of our teams who go there to gather news and talk to people were stopped by locals in these areas. One of them was asked to return and the other was questioned by Maoists and then asked to leave. Initially, we plan to drop off the kits with locals in five or six such areas. We do not want the government to be a party to this as they are a party to the conflict.” The Process derives hope from the fact that in a recent telephone survey of locals in Hindi (mainly spoken by non-tribals), Halbi (a link language between Marathi and Odia used in markets), and Gondi (spoken mainly by forest dwellers), an overwhelming majority said the solution to the conflict is through talks, rather than military means. Around 92 per cent of respondents on Hindi and Halbi wanted talks. For Gondi respondents, it was 100 per cent for talks. “The Maoists publicly claimed that intelligence agencies are doing this survey to spy on people. But one day, a journalist came to us with a message that Maoist-controlled villages are unable to participate in survey as there is no connectivity in their area,” Choudhary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Military veterans fret over LAC ‘plan’ ||Several military veterans have aired scepticism about the reported India-China proposal to disengage from the Pangong Lake and expressed fear that if true, it could represent a Chinese attempt to push India farther away from the Line of Actual Control. The Chinese Communist Party-run Global Times newspaper on Thursday described as “inaccurate” the Indian media reports about the purported disengagement plan, based on claims made by unnamed Indian government sources on Tuesday. In the absence of specifics about the plan, a veteran suggested that China might be trying to create a buffer zone within Indian territory similar to the one in the Galwan Valley. He said the defence ministry should make the plan public if indeed one was being discussed. The July disengagement in the Galwan Valley had involved both sides pulling back 1.5km to create a 3km “buffer zone” that left the Chinese still within India-claimed territory. India, in contrast, lost its right to patrol a further strip of territory it used to control. India’s losses could be heavier if a repeat occurs at the Pangong Lake, where the Chinese are estimated to have advanced at least 8km within India-claimed lines, veterans said. “There’s a growing feeling among some defence ministry officials that the purported plan reflects a Chinese push to create another buffer zone within Indian territory,” the veteran said. “The government should come clean.” There’s been no official word from either country’s government or army about the purported disengagement plan. On Tuesday, government sources seeking anonymity had claimed a three-phase disengagement plan at the Pangong Lake. “It’s at a proposal stage and the modalities are being worked out. The big takeaway is that the Chinese are flexible this time and have shown interest in disengagement from the friction point,” one of the sources had said. A second veteran said that any buffer zone at the Pangong Lake would mean “India ceding territory and giving legitimacy to China’s claims” on the area. A retired lieutenant general sounded similar fears. He was sceptical about the possibility of a disengagement pact, however, citing how Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat had described the frontier as “tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese” and warned that a wider conflict could not be ruled out. Global Times on Thursday said: “Indian media’s reports that detailed arrangements for a proposed disengagement plan are being discussed and finalised by Chinese and Indian militaries are inaccurate and not helpful for the two sides to reach their established goals. “Some Indian media outlets are good at projecting India’s tough stance through partially true and partially false information, with the aim of stirring up domestic nationalism.”
On Thursday, India’s foreign ministry sidestepped questions about the purported disengagement plan, saying: “When we have something to share, we will share.”
It said that during the November 6 talks, “both sides exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points” and “agreed to maintain dialogue and communication”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Facebook should be regulated: Ex-employee||A former Facebook employee, who quit the company two years ago over differences over its response to the Black Lives Matter movement, told a Delhi Assembly panel on Thursday that the social media giant has a bias towards ruling governments and needs to be regulated. Mark S. Luckie, a former strategic partner manager for global influencers focused on underrepresented voices at Facebook’s headquarters in California’s Menlo Park, appeared before the Delhi legislative Assembly’s committee for peace and harmony that is looking into the alleged culpability of Facebook or its employees in communal riots here in February that killed 53 people. Luckie said: “The goal with the recruiting of heads of public policy and those who work on those teams is to find people who have already talked to or have strong relationships with the governments which with they work. Facebook would like you to believe it’s a politically agnostic platform, but that will not be true as long as it hires from particular groups. If a person has a background with a particular party or government agency, their thinking is mostly likely to be influenced by their past.” The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook’s public policy director for south and central Asia, Ankhi Das, opposed banning BJP leaders for hate speech. Another Facebook public policy executive — a role that entails both enforcing rules on hate speech and lobbying with governments — Shivnath Thukral went slow on acting against another provocateur of the BJP, Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev. Thukral replaced Das last month. Luckie explained that the trend of Facebook in several instances is that “the minority group is having their content reported at a higher rate or that misinformation is allowed to spread like what you saw in the Delhi riots… Governments have allowed Facebook to get away with as much as they like because often the government does not understand tech or how Facebook works”. Luckie said transparency would be Facebook’s downfall. “They want people to know as little information about the company as possible…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Tejashwi: NDA won by deceit ||RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav claimed on Thursday that the public mandate had been with the Opposition Grand Alliance and accused the NDA of winning the elections by “dhan, bal and chhal (money, muscle power and deceit)”. Speaking for the first time since the Bihar Assembly election results were announced, Tejashwi mocked chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose JDU has been relegated to the third position in terms of seats, and wondered whether the veteran leader would “heed his conscience and give up his attachment to the chair” and “resign to respect the decision of the people of the state and not indulge in division, addition, subtraction and multiplication”. At a media conference in Patna, Tejashwi also alleged fraud in the counting of postal ballots and demanded recounting in several constituencies. “The people have given their mandate and the Election Commission has given its results. The public mandate is for the Grand Alliance while the Election Commission’s results are in favour of the NDA. This is not for the first time. The mandate was with us in 2015 also, but the BJP used the back door to capture power in the state,” the RJD leader and Lalu Prasad’s younger son, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Ideology vs national interest in Modi’s class ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that one thing that had damaged the country’s democratic set-up heavily was the tendency to put one’s ideology over the national interest. Modi was speaking after unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at Jawaharlal Nehru University, a centre of Left and liberal thought that the Sangh parivar sees as one of its principal ideological adversaries. “Kisi ek baat jisne hamare desh ki loktantrik vyavastha ko bahut nuksan pahunchaya hai, woh hai rashtraheet se jyada prathamikta apni vichardhara ko dena (One thing that has damaged our democratic system heavily is the attachment of greater importance to one’s ideology than the national interest),” Modi said, addressing the students through videoconference. The students had broken into chants of “Modiji ko jai Shri Ram, jai Shri Ram” as soon as the Prime Minister’s face appeared on a giant screen installed on the campus. Cries of “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Vande mataram” were heard too, and Modi waved backed in acknowledgment. “Because my ideology says this, so in matters of national interest too I shall think and work according to my ideology — this is not the right path,” Modi said. “Yeh raasta sahi nahi doston, yeh galat hai (This path is not right, my friends, it’s wrong),” he emphasised. The RSS-BJP has been striving to control the JNU campus since Modi came to power in 2014 but the university continues to be dominated by Left student unions. Leaders of the BJP and its parivar partners have repeatedly described JNU’s Left student leaders as “urban Naxals” and “anti-nationals”. Modi didn’t use such terms but said that whatever pride one may take in one’s ideology, no compromise was acceptable in matters of national interest. “Today, everyone takes pride in one’s ideology. It’s natural. But in matters of national interest, it (one’s ideology) should be seen to be on the side of the nation, not against the nation,” he said, raising his index finger to stress the point. Modi highlighted how, in the past, people of different ideological beliefs had united under Mahatma Gandhi’s leadership to fight for the country’s independence. He also cited the example of the Jana Sangh — the BJP’s predecessor — Left parties and socialists joining forces to oppose the Emergency. “In the struggle against the Emergency, former Congress leaders and workers, RSS swayamsevaks, the Jana Sangh, socialists and even the communists had come together. Many people associated with JNU too had joined them. None of them needed to compromise with their ideology,” Modi said. “When it’s a matter of the country’s unity and integrity, taking a decision burdened by one’s ideology harms the interest of the country.” At the same time, compromising with one’s ideology to serve selfish interests is wrong, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Salvo in Congress at parachute leaders after Bihar election performance||Senior Congress functionary Tariq Anwar created ripples on Thursday by openly airing what was being whispered in political circles: that the NDA had retained power in Bihar because of the Congress’s poor showing. “We should accept the truth. Bihar was denied a Mahagathbandhan government because of the poor performance of the Congress,” Anwar, Congress general secretary in charge of Kerala and a former Union minister, tweeted. “The Congress should do introspection and find out what went wrong. The entry of AIMIM (Asaduddin Owaisi’s party) in Bihar is not a good omen.” Anwar is not only one of the Congress’s senior-most leaders in Bihar, he comes from Katihar, part of the region where Owaisi’s party made deep inroads into the Congress support base. His call for introspection implies he is unsure what went wrong — which can be a clever way of saying he did not play a decisive role in election management, if he was involved at all. Asked why he had posted such a tweet despite being a key office-bearer, Anwar told The Telegraph: “I have only said that our performance was weak and we will have to examine the reasons.” He added: “Who can say that we are satisfied with 19 seats, less than the 27 we won last time despite contesting more seats?” Anwar refused to discuss other issues publicly, asserting that the post-mortem can happen only at a party forum. Another senior Congress leader, asking not to be quoted, said: “None of us were involved. The level of contact with us was about mere formality, to create the excuse that everybody had been consulted. “We were treated as though we had all been infected with the coronavirus. While two or three leaders from Bihar were indeed part of election management, around a dozen seniors were deliberately kept out. A team was sent from Delhi — it managed the show from a hotel and a rented accommodation in a posh colony.” The politician added: “We used to watch on television individuals who had never come to Bihar in the past landing and taking off in helicopters at places whose names they didn’t know. “We campaigned for a few candidates on our own, only to create an impression that we were involved in the election. Rahul Gandhi speaks against parachute candidates; we saw in Bihar not only parachute candidates but parachute politics and parachute culture. We all knew that at least 35 candidates would not win under any circumstances.” The Congress contested 70 of Bihar’s 243 seats and won 19. A Muslim leader said: “We are criticising Owaisi for encroaching on (the Congress’s) Muslim votes. Should he sit at home to facilitate our victory? He is right when he says that non-Congress Muslim leaders are not there only for mushaira (poetry sessions) and biryani parties. “We had got an early warning when the AIMIM won a by-election in Kishanganj. What did we do to counter his (Owaisi’s) influence? How many meetings did we hold in the past two years with Muslims in Katihar, Kishanganj or Purnea to explain Owaisi’s politics?” The anger is so widespread in the Bihar Congress that several middle-rung leaders and workers have been heard saying that anybody coming from the high command would be taught a nasty lesson. “There was no PCC (state Congress committee) executive and the party operated through a clique,” an All India Congress Committee member said. “The local leaders were not involved; no discussion took place in the state units. We demand that Rahul Gandhi call 200 important party workers and leaders from Bihar and honestly discuss the murky affairs for two days.” Asked about the party’s performance in Bihar, P. Chidambaram told a news conference: “I agree the result is disappointing. The Congress Working Committee will review the performance.” Asked why the people had rejected the Congress’s charges about the sliding economy, job losses, unplanned lockdown and mismanagement of the Covid crisis, Chidambaram said: “I don’t think the result is a rejection of these issues.” He added: “Bihar is the poorest state and it almost voted for a change. We will anyway continue to raise those issues and talk about the plight of the bottom half of the population, which is very bad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||NDA will decide on Bihar CM: Nitish Kumar ||A sulking Nitish Kumar said on Thursday he had made no claim on the chief minister’s post after the election results. “I have made no claim. The National Democratic Alliance will decide,” Nitish said when reporters asked him who will be the chief minister. “It has not been decided when the oath ceremony will take place, whether it will be after Diwali or after Chhath Puja. We are analysing the results of this election. Members of all four parties (that are a part of the NDA) will meet tomorrow (Friday),” Nitish said. The JDU president asserted that “the people have given a mandate to the NDA and it will form the government again”. Nitish made the statements when he visited the JDU state headquarters and met the newly elected MLAs. However, sources said Nitish had agreed to take on the responsibility after entreaties by senior party leaders of his party and also from the BJP. “He was not comfortable with the idea of becoming the chief minister again in the light of the poor performance of the party in the polls. However, we reasoned with him that the elections were fought with him as the chief minister candidate and he should not back out now,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had iterated on Wednesday that Nitish would be the chief minister. Some saw in Nitish’s statements an attempt to ensure that the BJP, now the senior partner with far more MLAs than the JDU, gave him a free hand to run the government. Nitish appeared to blame Chirag Paswan’s LJP for the poor performance of the JDU.  “Our campaign was for the entire NDA, but candidates were deliberately put only in our seats. However, if people vote for others despite our work, it is their right,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Ammunition haul in Odisha's Malkangiri||Security forces have seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from Odisha’s Malkangiri during an operation to flush out suspected Maoists. During the operation on Wednesday, the security forces recovered 14 hand grenades, two land mines, 13 electronic detonators and more than 140 live cartridges. Security forces intensified their operations in the hilly terrain following the visit of director-general of police Abhay on Sunday to review the situation. Abhay, who reviewed anti-Maoist operations in the region bordering Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, along with BSF inspector-general M.S. Sharma, had appealed to the rebels to give up arms and avail of the state government’s “excellent” rehabilitation policy benefits. “People of the area want development. The government, too, wants development. However, Maoists have been trying to spread terror. I appeal to them to surrender. The government has an excellent rehabilitation policy for them,” Abhay had said. Earlier known as the “cut-off” area because of its difficult topography, this part of Malkangiri was rechristened as “Swabhiman Anchal” following the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge connecting it with the district’s mainland in 2018. The “cut-off” area shot into international headlines in 2011 when the then Malkangiri collector, R. Vineel Krishna, was kidnapped by the rebels. He was released by the Maoists following weeklong negotiations with the state government. The turning point for the residents of this once benighted belt, that got cut off from the mainland in 1960s following the construction of the Machkund reservoir, was the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge by chief minister Naveen Patnaik in July 2018. It connected 151 villages having a population of 25,000 with the rest of the district by a road after around five decades. Before the bridge was inaugurated, the only means of communication with the mainland for the people of this region were boats. While the residents faced all kinds of hardship, they were also forced to follow the diktat of the rebels who ruled the roost in the area which the security forces found hard to penetrate and government officials rarely visited for the fear of the Maoists. The scenario has changed now with the BSF setting up six camps iin the area. While the security forces are now in a strong position to step up their operations against the rebels, the area is also witnessing development for the first time in decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
