14-11-2020||India||India summons Pak Embassy’s charge-D over LoC violation||India summoned Pakistan High Commission’s Charge d'Affaires on Saturday, lodging a heavy protest over several unprovoked violations in ceasefire by the Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, also condemned the "deliberate targeting" of civilians by the neighbouring country’s forces. The statement also called out Pakistan’s act of choosing an Indian festive occasion to perpetrate violence thereby disrupting peace in Jammu and Kashmir with its coordinated attacks along the LoC. "The Charge d'Affaires of the High Commission of Pakistan was summoned by the Ministry of External Affairs today and a strong protest was lodged over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces, on multiple sectors along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir on November 13, resulting in the death of four innocent civilians and serious injuries to 19 others," the MEA said. Five security personnels were killed in the attacks along with civilians. “Indian forces retaliated strongly to the Pakistani shelling in which killing eight Pakistani soldiers and injuring 12 others”, official sources informed. "India also strongly protested Pakistan's continued support to cross border terrorist infiltration into India, including through supporting cover fire provided by Pakistan forces," the MEA said in its statement. "Pakistan was once again reminded of its bilateral commitment to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Air quality in Delhi reaches ‘severe’ zone on Diwali||Delhi’s air quality turned ‘severe’ on Saturday as stubble burning accounted for 32 per cent of the city state’s PM2.5 pollution, which was further aided by calm winds that resulted in the accumulation of pollutants, said weather officials. "Even a small increase in local additional emissions is likely to have a significant deterioration impact on Sunday and Monday,'' said SAFAR, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality watchdog. PM10 and PM2.5 levels are expected to peak from 1am to 6am in case of added internal emissions. Earlier, it had said with no use of firecrackers, Delhi’s PM2.5 concentrations on Diwali are likely to be the lowest in the last four years. Falling under the ‘severe’ category, the city recorded an overall AQI of 414, compared to 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. Last year on Diwali, which fell on October 27, Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337, followed by 368 and 400, after which the pollution levels remained ‘severe’ for three days straight. However, this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that increased wind speed as a result of western disturbances is likely to improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Under its influence, light rain may occur in the area on Sunday, the MET department had said. Whether the rain would be enough to wash away the pollutants is still a matter of speculation, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. "However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an expected increase in the wind speed on Sunday," he said. Head of IMD’s environment research centre VK Soni said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may worsen the air quality and push it to the ‘severe’ zone on Diwali night. “The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly”, he said. “There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16”, Soni added. On Sunday, the situation is likely to improve, said the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. "Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20 kmph," the central agency said. "Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday," it added. On Friday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) asked the CPCB and the states concerned to make sure that there is no gap in implementing the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order regarding the air quality issue during the Diwali days. "In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation," it directed. Asserting that "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases", the NGT on Monday had imposed a total ban on the use and sale of firecrackers in the NCR region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel while heading a bench ruled that this order will apply to all cities and towns where the average ambient air quality during the Diwali period was in “poor” or above categories. "At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the NGT had directed. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had earlier ordered the closure of stone crushers and  hot mix plants till November 17, keeping in mind the surge in pollution levels during the festive season. It also ordered the Punjab and Haryana government to take strict measures immediately to cut stubble burning and Delhi-NCR authorities to curb biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Delhi Police arrest 10, registers 12 cases for sale of firecrackers||On Diwali, the Delhi Police arrested 10 people and registered 12 cases for alleged sale of firecrackers in the national capital, officials said on Saturday. Ahead of Diwali, the Delhi government had imposed a total ban on firecrackers, including the environmentally safer green crackers, from November 7 to 30 to combat rising air pollution amid an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the city. "Among the 12 cases, one was registered in northeast district, four in southeast, two in outer-north, one in outer, three in Dwarka and one in the southwest," Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said. "Ten people were arrested on Saturday – one in northeast district, three in southeast, two in outer-north, one in outer, two in Dwarka and one in the southwest," he said, adding that 638.32 kg firecrackers were also recovered. Police also registered 14 cases for bursting firecrackers – four in east, seven in northeast, and three in northwest districts – during the day and 12 people were arrested, he said. Till Saturday, 54 cases were registered and 55 people arrested for allegedly selling fireworks in the city. A total of 3,407.852 kg of firecrackers were recovered from their possession, the police said. Thirty-two cases were registered and 21 people arrested for allegedly bursting firecrackers, they said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". All the DCPs have been asked to ensure that steps are taken against violators under appropriate sections of the law, and strict action is initiated against the staff for any non-compliance with the order, the Delhi Police had earlier said. The DCPs of all the 15 police districts will constitute police station-wise teams to supervise the implementation of the NGT order. Each staff would be properly briefed by SHOs concerned to enforce the direction in letter and spirit, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Akhilesh hints at tie-up with estranged uncle for UP polls||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday hinted at a possible electoral tie-up with his estranged uncle's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, saying Shivpal Yadav will be given a cabinet berth if his party forms the government in the state. However, he made it clear that the Samajwadi Party (SP) will not enter into any electoral alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). "Adjustment will be done with smaller parties, but there will be no alliance with larger parties," Akhilesh Yadav told reporters here. To a question whether the SP will form an electoral alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, he said, "We will adjust that party too. Jaswantnagar is his (Shivpal Yadav's) seat and the Samajwadi Party vacated the seat for him. In the coming times, we will make their leader a cabinet minister, and what other adjustment is needed? Legislative Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in February-March 2022. Shivpal Yadav, the estranged uncle of Akhilesh Yadav, was elected from the Jaswantnagar assembly constituency in the 2017 state elections. He later floated a new political party, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on its symbol from Firozabad. Accusing the BJP of using deceit for defeating the Mahagathbandhan' (led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal) in the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, Akhilesh Yadav said, "The maximum public support was seen at the Mahagathbandhan rallies and all the surveys hinted towards a historic victory for it. But, when the EVMs were opened for the counting of votes, the results were stopped midway and the victory certificates were handed to someone else." When asked about the performance of the SP in the recently held bypolls to seven assembly seats in UP, Akhilesh Yadav said, "When the elections are contested by the election officers, superintendents of police, additional district magistrates, SHOs and police jawans, who will win then. The BJP was not contesting the bypolls but the officials of its government," he added. The SP chief hit out at the BJP government, saying corruption and injustice have become rampant in the state. If someone is insulting people and giving them problems, they will overthrow that government as and when they will get an opportunity," he said. A number of leaders and workers from the Congress and the BSP joined the SP in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav on the occasion. The joining of the leaders from other parties will strengthen the SP, Akhilesh Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||On Diwali, Narendra Modi warns of India’s ‘prachand jawab’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, like every other Diwali, spent the day with Indian soldiers, addressing troops at Rajasthan’s Longewala post, where he said that if proved, India will give its enemies ‘prachand jawab’. Without taking name, but clearly indicating China, Modi said that ‘expansionist’ forces are bothering the entire world at the moment, describing their approach as a “distorted mindset” that belongs to the 18th century. "India today believes in the policy of understanding others and making them understand but if an attempt to test it is made, then the country will give a fierce reply," he said. “The country has the capability and political will to give a befitting response to those who challenge it”, the PM added. “India has become a forceful voice against forces of expansionism,” he said, while also taking a dig at Pakistan. Referring to the air and surgical strikes carried out by Indian soldiers against terror camps in the Imran Khan-led country, Modi said that the army has taken down “sponsors of terrorism” in their home. “No force in the world can prevent our soldiers from protecting our borders”, he said, adding that “India has shown that it has strength and the political will to give a befitting reply to those challenging it,” Modi asserted. The PM’s strong message came at a time when Indian troops are engaged in a month-long conflict with their Chinese counterparts at Eastern Ladakh. Modi also stressed on the significance of having a strong capability and said that despite advanced international equations, vigilance is the path to security. “Alertness leads to happiness and peace is the prize of having strength.” The Prime Minister also assured that 130 crore Indians support the country’s soldiers and pay respect to their sacrifices. "History of the world tells us that only those nations have remained safe and advanced who had the ability to take on invaders," he said, adding that their valour has got better of all adversities, in every sector. Making reference to the government’s efforts to restart the economy completely amid its efforts of battling the coronavirus pandemic, Modi said, “Your sacrifices teach the country discipline and sense of service.” "The world now knows that India will not compromise with its interests even one bit," he added. Modi said, while referring to his act of spending Diwali with soldiers ever since he assumed office, that being with the troops strengthens his purpose of protecting the country even more. He recalled the time when the Longewala post had witnessed the fierce 1971 battle with Pakistan and paid tributes to a hero of the battle, Brig Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri. The PM said that in his endeavour, the soldier has become a “rashtra deep”. "Pakistan opened the front on western border to divert the global attention but our forces gave them a befitting reply," he said. “The war was also an example of exemplary coordination among Army, Navy and Air Force”, Modi said. Pakistan was defeated by India in the war, which led to the freedom of Bangladesh. Narendra Modi has been visiting Army posts every Diwali ever since he became Prime Minister in 2014. Last year, he visited Rajouri, and before that, Uttarakhand and Gurez in 2018 and 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Active Covid cases below 5 lakh with almost 45,000 patients testing positive in 24 hours||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 87.73 lakh with 44,684 new cases in a day, while 81,63,572 people have recuperated from the disease so far, bringing the national recovery rate to 93.04 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The fresh cases pushed the number of novel coronavirus cases to 87,73,479. The death toll mounted to 1,29,188 with the pandemic claiming 520 more lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.47 per cent. There are 4,80,719 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 5.48 per cent of the national caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and surpassed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 12,40,31,230 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to November 13 with 9,29,491 samples being tested on Friday. The 520 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 91 from Delhi, 51 from West Bengal, 27 from Haryana, 26 from Kerala, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 18 from Chhattisgarh, 17 from Karnataka, 16 from Punjab and 14 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,29,188 deaths linked to the novel coronavirus have been reported so far in the country, including 45,809 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,491 from Karnataka, 11,454 from Tamil Nadu, 7557 from West Bengal, 7,423 from Delhi, 7,327 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,847 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,428 from Punjab and 3,791 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality very poor, likely to become 'severe' by night||Delhi's air quality remained very poor on Saturday morning and emission from firecrackers and calm winds may push it to the severe zone, according to government agencies and weather experts. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the lowest in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt. Pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the very poor category in the absence of emissions due to fireworks, it said. But two factors smoke from farm fires and stagnant surface winds will keep the air quality in the higher end of the very poor category to the lower end of the severe on Diwali night, it said. Transport-level winds have become northwesterly and the stubble burning-induced impact on air quality index (AQI) is expected to increase, the central government agency said. A spike in PM2.5 levels in the early hours Sunday is likely if fire crackers are burnt, it said. The city recorded an AQI of 369 at 9 am on Saturday. The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (323), Ghaziabad (412), Noida (362), Greater Noida (350), and Gurgaon (338), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded their AQI is the "very poor" and severe categories. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 the next day. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the severe category for three days on the trot. In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the poor category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the severe category on three consecutive days thereafter. In 2017, Delhi's 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the severe zone the next day. This time, the India Meteorological Department has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometre per hour, he said. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said calm winds and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the severe zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure there is no lapse in the implementation of the National Green Tribunal's directions in view of the air quality scenario during the Diwali period. In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation, it said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in "poor" and above categories. "At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the NGT had said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Will not retract tweets or apologise for them: Kunal Kamra||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra has said he intends to neither retract his tweets linked to the Supreme Court nor apologise for them, saying the silence of the court on the personal liberty of many cannot go “uncriticised”. In a statement issued on social media on Friday, Kamra suggested that the highest court of the land devote its precious time and attention to “countless” more pressing issues such as the petition on demonetisation, revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and the legality of electoral bonds. On Thursday, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had granted consent for Kamra’s prosecution for criminal contempt on the basis of multiple petitions against his tweets about the Supreme Court and the grant of interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami on Wednesday. Venugopal had referred to two tweets in which Kamra had said that “honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”, and to a morphed picture depicting the apex court adorned in the saffron colour. He said the posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”. On Friday, Kamra began his statement thus: “No lawyers, No apology, No fine, No waste of space.” The statement, uploaded on social media platforms, is being reproduced with an annotation added by this newspaper in brackets: “Dear Judges, Mr K.K. Venugopal, "The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker. “I believe I must confess I very much love holding court and enjoying a platform with a captive audience. An audience of Supreme Court judges and the nation’s topmost law officer is perhaps as VIP an audience as it gets. But I realise that more than any entertainment venue I would perform in, a time slot before the Supreme Court is a scarce commodity. “My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves. “I wish to volunteer having the time that would be allotted to the hearing of my contempt petition (20 hours at the very least, if Prashant Bhushan’s hearing is anything to go by), to other matters and parties who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue. May I suggest the demonetisation petition, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention. “To slightly misquote Senior Advocate Harish Salve (while seeking bail for Goswami) ‘Will the heavens fall if more salient matters are allotted my time?’ “The Supreme Court of India hasn’t yet declared my tweets anything as of now but if and when they do I hope they can have a small laugh before declaring them Contempt of Court. Also in one of my tweets I had asked for replacement of the photo of Mahatma Gandhi at the Supreme Court of India with that of Harish Salve. I would like to add that Pandit Nehru’s photo should also be replaced with Mahesh Jethmalani’s.” Senior lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani had called Kamra a “lowly worm”, following which a Twitter brawl had erupted. On Friday, asked for a response, Jethmalani told The Telegraph: “First of all, I don’t want to comment on the issue. I don’t want to influence the future course of proceedings that might take place after the attorney-general has given the consent. Second, I don’t want to give Mr Kamra the attention that he so desperately craves. Third, I don’t believe there is any photograph of Jawaharlal Nehru in the Supreme Court.” An official spokesperson for the Supreme Court said there was no photograph or statue of Jawaharlal Nehru in the court. Efforts to contact Salve, who is now in London, did not succeed. It is now up to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to constitute a bench to deal with the multiple contempt petitions against the comedian. The matter is expected to come up for hearing next week. If the proceedings are pursued and he is convicted, Kamra faces a maximum jail term of six months, besides a fine. Bhushan, the senior advocate mentioned in Kamra’s statement, had in August been convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets on the judiciary and the CJI, after he had refused to apologise. He was let off with a token fine of Re 1. Bhushan retweeted a tweet that had tagged Kamra and uploaded a 1990s video of VHP leader Ashok Singhal and the purported voice of L.K. Advani seeking to defy court orders in the Ayodhya case. Within five hours, Kamra’s statement had garnered close to 60,000 likes on Twitter and over 15,000 retweets. Many lauded the comedian for showing spine and pointed to the denial of bail to the elderly and ailing revolutionary poet Varavara Rao. Music director Vishal Dadlani tweeted: “Say what you like about @kunalkamra88, but he’s a vertebrate in a swarm of jellyfish. Hardly wrong to say it behoves the Supreme Court to give time to ‘more salient matters’ than 1. Urgently letting a villainous joker off the hook & 2. Prosecuting a Comic who points that out.” Kannan Gopinathan, who quit the IAS, shared Kamra’s tweets on the Supreme Court verdict and wrote: “It will be great if someone can send a letter to AG asking consent for contempt proceedings against all of us. Let it be a mass-contempt. If the Supreme Court doesn’t know how to protect freedom of expression of citizens, let them learn that fellow citizens do know how to do it.” Status report Where do the three cases mentioned by Kamra stand? Demonetisation: The Supreme Court referred the issue to a five-judge constitution bench on December 16, 2016. The bench is yet to be constituted J&K status: Case in progress since August 28, 2019 Electoral bonds: Case in progress since September 4, 2017||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Saffron flowers debut on Sikkim soil as varsity project||Sikkim University, in collaboration with the North East Centre for Technology Application and Reach (NECTAR) and an NGO in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Swami Satyananda Ashram, has successfully cultivated saffron (kesar) in Sikkim for the first time. Saffron, the world’s costliest spice by weight, costs between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh a kilogram. Derived from the flower of Crocus sativus, it is used mainly as seasoning, flavouring and colouring agent in food. It is also used in skincare. In India, saffron crop is currently grown in pockets of Kashmir. In Sikkim, as part of the pilot project, 100 kilograms of saffron bulbs were brought from Kashmir and planted in the horticulture garden of the varsity’s under-construction permanent campus at Yangang, south Sikkim, in early October. “Fortunately, the bulbs sprouted and flowered on time. So far we are satisfied that the cultivation has been successful,” said Shanti S. Sharma, a professor of botany, who headed the team of staff from the varsity’s botany and horticulture departments. Sharma added that further work and detailed scientific evaluation of diverse parameters for commercial and societal applications and outreach were needed before Sikkim could be declared a place suitable for saffron cultivation. “The next step should be to try cultivating in multiple locations of the state because (climatic and soil) conditions are not uniform throughout the state,” said Sharma. Pradip Singh, a farmer from Kashmir hired to monitor the day-to-day progress of the cultivation, said initially he had doubts about the success of the project because of the high volume of rain the area receives. “We could not sow the seeds as originally planned from September 15 because of the rain. We sowed the seeds on October 1. We saw regular progress in growth. Finally, when they began flowering, we knew it was a success,” he said. Singh, whose family is into saffron cultivation, said saffron grows best in cold and dry climate. In the Sikkim trial project, he said the climate matched Kashmir and 25 to 30 flowers were blooming every day in a scattered manner on the earmarked area. “We want more flowers to bloom next year,” Singh said. If Sikkim can grow saffron commercially, it can yield handsome results for farmers. According to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, the yearly demand of saffron in India is 100 tonnes, but average production a year only 6-7 tonnes. To meet the huge shortfall, India imports saffron mainly from Iran and Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Deadly flare-up on Pakistan border||Four Indian soldiers, a BSF sub-inspector and four civilians were killed in Kashmir on Friday in the year’s deadliest exchange of cross-border shelling. The Indian Army said “substantial damage” was inflicted on the “Pakistan army’s infrastructure and causalities”. PTI quoted Indian officials and sources as saying eight Pakistan soldiers, including two commandos, were killed. Pakistani media reported four civilian deaths in PoK. Civilian areas bore the brunt of the Pakistani shelling. Videos and pictures showed women and children running for cover, houses going up in flames, and the injured lying unattended with the dead. A man lay with a leg broken and his head smashed. An Uri resident said the shelling was the worst in two decades. “We have seen enough of it but it was like hell today. We don’t know what will happen during the night,” he said. Sources said a war-like situation prevailed, and many border residents were mulling migration. Police sources said Friday’s escalation was the worst after last year’s air strikes on militant camps in Balakot, Pakistan. “Pakistan deliberately targeted civilian areas,” defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said in Srinagar. The army released videos purportedly showing retaliatory Indian artillery fire destroying Pakistani bunkers, and claimed to have smashed Pakistani ammunition dumps, “forward operating location” dumps and militant launch pads. Kalia said that after the troops had foiled a “suspected infiltration bid” in the Keran sector, Pakistan resorted to “unprovoked” firing from mortars and other weapons in the Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam sectors in Bandipora and Baramulla. Uri in Baramulla witnessed seven deaths while two soldiers died at Gurez, Bandipora. The BSF identified the dead sub-inspector as Rakesh Doval and said a constable was injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Ram temple trust hit by unholy ripples||A mahant from Ayodhya has claimed to have written to the Union home ministry threatening to petition the Supreme Court unless more sadhus from the town are made members of the trust set up to build the Ram temple. Dharam Das, mahant of the Nirvani Ani Akhara, has alleged embezzlement of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s funds by some of its 15 members and claimed that local monks were kept out of the body to facilitate such corruption. “I have sent the notice to the home ministry, which had formed the trust (in late February) on the Supreme Court’s directions,” Das told reporters in Ayodhya on Friday. “They are keeping us away because they want to embezzle the funds. I shall approach the Supreme Court if the home ministry doesn’t give a satisfactory reply within two months.” Only one sadhu from Ayodhya — VHP leader and Maniram Chhaoni mahant Nrityagopal Das, who headed the now-defunct Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas — is part of the trust. The other 14 members include RSS and VHP leaders, bureaucrats and two outstation sadhus. “Many senior Union ministers had said that Ayodhya’s sadhus would find a place in the trust, but after eight months we are still waiting,” Dharam Das, who was one of the Hindu litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, said. It could not be confirmed from the Union home ministry whether it had received Das’s letter. A trust member said on the condition of anonymity: “We haven’t seen the notice and cannot comment on it officially. But Dharam Das must know that the trust is managed and monitored by the Centre, with auditors reviewing its spending every day.” Das alleged that Vaishnavs had been “mischievously” kept away from the trust. “They have also ignored the descendants of the saint who had placed the idol of infant Ram on the disputed premise,” he said. Das claims his late predecessor Baba Abhiram Das alias Abhinandan Mishra, mahant of the Hanumangarhi temple, had surreptitiously installed the idol on the night of December 22, 1949, setting off far-reaching events. However, a Hindu Mahasabha leader and monk, Ramchandra Paramahansa, had at the time publicly claimed responsibility for the act. It’s his claim that received wider publicity during the BJP-VHP temple movement although the FIR at Ayodhya police station names Abhiram. Abhiram had never publicly claimed to have installed the statue. He had told an Ayodhya court that the temple didn’t belong to any sect, math, akhara, mahant or any other organisation or individual and that the plot should be handed over to Hindus collectively. Continuing with the theme of embezzlement, Das said: “The title suit was between Ram Lalla Virajman and the Sunni Central Waqf Board, besides other parties. The court verdict was in favour of Ram Lalla. So why aren’t all the trusts’ assets in the name of Ram Lalla?” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced several projects for Ayodhya including a Rs 3.47-crore Ramlila centre, Rs 7.59-crore Ram Katha centre and a Rs 19.02-crore bhajan hall. He also announced a Rs 21.92-crore memorial to Huh Wang-Ock, said to be a princess of Ayodhya who had travelled to Korea in AD 48 and married the Korean king.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Suspicion of ideological filtering at IIT helm||The appointment process for two IIT directors has been cancelled 10 months after a committee headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held interviews and shortlisted the candidates, suggesting a higher authority is overriding the education ministry in the selection of academic leaders. “The cancellation of the process to appoint directors to IIT Indore and IIT Mandi after the committee had shortlisted the candidates shows that the selections are done outside the education ministry. This is dangerous for academic institutions,” an IIT professor said. Commenting on the long delay after the interviews, a former education ministry official had in September told this newspaper that the files of candidates shortlisted for IIT director or central university vice-chancellor are sent, “unofficially”, to the Prime Minister’s Office. The delays, he said, were mainly a result of the PMO busying itself in examining the candidates’ ideological leanings. Pokhriyal’s committee had held the interviews on December 26 last year after the vacancies had been advertised in September. The committee, made up of the chairpersons of the two IITs and other technology experts, had drawn up a panel of two candidates each for the two institutions. Under the rules, the government has to forward the selection panels’ shortlists to the President — the Visitor of all the IITs — who makes the final choice. This usually takes a week or two. However, the shortlists for IIT Mandi and IIT Indore were never sent to the President, two government officials said. After sitting over the shortlists for over 10 months, the education ministry this week cancelled the appointment process and advertised the vacancies again. “It’s rare for the process to be cancelled after the selection committee has interviewed and shortlisted the candidates,” the IIT professor said. He said the time lag of 10 months was very unusual too. A former education ministry official too said that the appointment process may sometimes be cancelled if no suitable candidate is found, but such decisions are usually taken shortly after the interviews and not after shortlisting candidates. In June 2019, the education ministry had cancelled the appointment process for the IIT Kharagpur director eight months after it had begun. However, the selection committee — headed by then HRD minister Prakash Javadekar — had not prepared a panel of shortlisted candidates. IIT Mandi and IIT Indore have been running without regular directors for months. Since Pradeep Mathur’s tenure ended as IIT Indore director on December 31 last year, the senior-most professor, Neelesh Kumar Jain, has been officiating as director. IIT Roorkee director Ajay Kumar Chaturvedi was given additional charge as director of IIT Mandi from July 1 after T.A. Gonsalves completed his tenure. Another three IITs — Patna, Bhubaneswar and Ropar — too have lacked regular directors for several months. The incumbent directors’ tenures have been extended at Bhubaneswar and Ropar while IIT BHU director Pramod Kumar Jain has held additional charge of IIT Patna since Pushpak Bhattacharyya left the institute on June 25. Another committee headed by Pokhriyal had interviewed candidates for directors of these three IITs on July 14. The appointments are awaited. Several central universities too have been waiting for regular vice-chancellors. An expert committee interviewed applicants for the vice-chancellor’s post at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Delhi, on August 20, and another committee did so for the Central Sanskrit University on August 23. No appointment has been made, and the incumbent vice-chancellors have been given tenure extensions. “The delays in appointments even after the interviews betray government indecision and opacity in the appointment process,” a former HRD ministry official said. An email sent on Thursday to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the late cancellation of the appointment process for the two IIT directors brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Treatment of true and ‘tamasha’ journalists ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said true journalists were being “strangled” in BJP-ruled Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh while those indulging in “tamasha” were getting protection. “Assamese journalist Parag Bhuyan, who exposed corruption of BJP leaders, died under mysterious circumstances. My condolences to his family. Those doing true journalism are being strangled in Assam, Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh while those doing tamasha are getting protection,” Rahul tweeted. The Congress leader appeared to be referring to the interim bail granted to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami by the Supreme Court while many other journalists and social activists are languishing in jail. On Wednesday, when Goswami was granted bail and the Supreme Court spoke about upholding personal liberty, Rahul had tweeted: “Uttar Pradesh journalist Vinay Tewari has been beaten up brutally by BJP goons. As rights are being discussed, I thought let us ask whether rights will be remembered only in case of select journalists or also for victims like Vinay Tewari.” Tewari was assaulted for highlighting irregularities in the MGNREGA scheme. The body of another journalist, Suraj Pandey, was found on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao. There have been several instances of journalists being arrested in Uttar Pradesh for reporting facts or posting unpalatable tweets. Journalist Pawan Jaiswal had been booked last year for reporting on children being served salt and chappatis in their midday meal in Uttar Pradesh. The Supreme Court’s swift intervention in Goswami’s case evoked widespread criticism for what many saw as selective outrage. Several politicians and activists felt that the court had not intervened when bail had been denied in more important cases. Asked for comment, Congress veteran and former finance minister P. Chidambaram said on Thursday: “Hundreds of people have been denied liberty by the high courts. They don’t seem to be on the same wavelength with the Supreme Court on the issue of granting bail. Even the Supreme Court faltered in some cases. A few judgments of the Supreme Court and the high courts have been very disappointing.” Chidambaram, who has not only been a top politician who held several cabinet portfolios but is also a senior member of the Bar, was denied bail several times and spent over 100 days in jail last year in the INX Media case. Senior lawyer and Congress leader Kapil Sibal welcomed what Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said about liberty during Goswami’s bail hearing but raised critical questions. “A judge speaks for the Supreme Court. The question is whether the other judges speak in one voice on the question of freedom of citizens. A Kerala journalist going to Hathras for coverage was denied bail by the Supreme Court as well as the high court,” Sibal said, referring to Siddique Kappan who has been in custody for 40 days now. Sibal went on: “What about the liberty of anti-CAA protesters who were put in jail? What about the liberty of JNU and Jamia students who are languishing in jail after being charged under the UAPA? What about activists Varavara Rao, Stan Swamy and others?” While the activists charged in the Bhima-Koregaon case are in jail for the last two years, both Rao and Swamy are over 80 years old and seriously ill, but their bail petitions have been repeatedly rejected. Senior lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted: “Is there more than one Supreme Court? Kapil Sibal says the journalist who went to cover Hathras did not get bail, why doesn’t the Supreme Court have a policy on bail for all? Why was P. Chidambaram’s anticipatory bail application not listed for two days?” The president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, Dushyant Dave, had in a letter to the secretary-general of the Supreme Court pointed to the perceived selective listing of matters “for the last eight months during the Covid pandemic”. Dave had said: “While thousands of citizens remain in jails, languishing for long periods while their matters filed before the Supreme Court are not getting listed for weeks and months, it is, to say the least, deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||JNU students complain to Modi about VC ||The JNU students’ union on Thursday told Narendra Modi that the vice-chancellor chosen by his government had damaged the institution’s pro-poor and liberal character, voicing grievances that underlined the students’ rejection of the ideology the Prime Minister represents. Office-bearers of the Left-dominated students’ union aired the charges in an open letter issued just before Modi unveiled a Swami Vivekananda statue on the campus. Apart from listing alleged wrongdoings by vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar since his appointment in January 2016, the letter highlighted the targeting of JNU students by the political establishment and questioned the Modi government’s record in higher education. It said the students had little hope of redress but wrote the letter anyway because they wanted to protest every act “detrimental to the interest of the university and the country” and because being “Prime Minister requires one to listen to the critics”. “We note that you always criticise politicians from other political organisations, particularly our first Prime Minister, after whom the university was named. It is, however, ironic that you choose to address that same university — because the record of your party in government on opening new universities has been dismal,” the letter said. The students stressed how, since its inception in 1970, JNU had striven to facilitate research by women and poor students, and not just by keeping the fees low. It was till two years ago the only university in the country that, while selecting students for admission, awarded “deprivation points” to them based on their gender and the backwardness of the district they came from. One of the complaints against the VC the students voiced was that he had abolished this affirmative measure for research programmes in 2018, switching to University Grants Commission-prescribed admission rules. Then, in late 2019, the VC tried to impose a threefold fee hike, triggering massive protests that culminated in masked men entering the campus “in complicity with the administration and the security company” and attacking students and teachers with iron rods in January 2020. “However, till date the police ha(ve) failed to apprehend the culprits,” the letter said. It stressed that JNU had produced some of the finest researchers in the social sciences, humanities and the natural sciences, and taught some of Modi’s ministerial colleagues (such as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar). Yet, it suggested, the authorities kept targeting it. “Why are students of JNU criminalised and called anti-national while those praising Nathuram Godse find a high place in Parliament?” the letter asked. It cited how doctored videos were used to bring sedition charges against JNU students for allegedly shouting “anti-national” slogans on campus in February 2016. In October 2016, student Najeeb Ahmed disappeared after a scuffle with ABVP students but the VC took no action against those accused of assaulting him, the letter said. Among the students’ other grievances was the university’s discontinuation of subscriptions to a host of journals and its severe funding cut for the library. “This is a long letter and we are doubtful regarding any agreement from your behalf pertaining to our concerns. But we believe that the Prime Minister of the country requires one to listen to the critics as well,” the letter said. “You have many a time stated that criticism is like a treasure which you would cherish. Hence, we would like to apprise you of the situation in JNU, caused majorly by the actions of your government and the vice-chancellor who has been placed by it.” The students argued that Modi’s acceptance of the university’s invite to Thursday’s event signalled his support for the VC’s actions. “But we shall continue to oppose every act that we feel is detrimental to the interest of the university and the country at large, because we believe that education must not be confined to the privileged few. The poison of hatred only seeks to deny people such rights as accessible education,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||BJP eyes Bihar ministry pie||The BJP and Nitish Kumar’s JDU are said to be bargaining hard with each other over a power-sharing deal in Bihar. The power scales have tipped with the JDU becoming the junior partner with 43 seats and the BJP emerging the biggest NDA player with 74. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that Nitish would remain chief minister. The NDA’s tally of 125 includes four seats each of Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s VIP. They will also have to be accommodated. The most important issue is the division of cabinet berths and government departments. The Bihar cabinet can have 36 ministers, including the chief minister. The JDU and the BJP have been following a formula of one minister for every four MLAs. The outgoing cabinet had 33 ministers — 19 from the JDU, including Nitish, and 14 from the BJP, including deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. “This situation is going to turn around this time. Our party will have 18 or 19 ministers, while the JDU will have 13 or 14 ministers. One each from HAMS and VIP will be incorporated,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph. BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said: “Only a few people will be sworn in at the beginning. The expansion of the cabinet and the redistribution of government departments will happen in due course.” The BJP is said to be eyeing home and education, now with the JDU. “We would definitely want the education department. Our party, the RSS and the ABVP have always resented not being able to run education in the state as per our policies…. The education department is coming to us. We are trying to get the home department also,” a BJP leader said. Sources in the BJP said that the party also wanted the health and urban development departments, whose work directly affects the public. The BJP is also keen on having the Assembly Speaker from the party. But Nitish is said to be keen on retaining Vijay Kumar Choudhary. The BJP is also gunning for important positions in the government boards, corporations, commissions and 20-point programme implementation and monitoring, the sources said. Senior NDA leaders met Nitish at his 1 Aney Marg residence on Friday to chalk out the government formation schedule. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal, Sushil, Manjhi and Sahni were present. “We decided that the NDA legislature party would meet on Sunday afternoon. Members of all the four constituent parties will attend it. Everything related to staking claim to form the government and other issues will be decided there,” Nitish told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Chidambaram seeks clarity on China standoff||Former Union minister and Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Friday sought clarity from the government on the border situation with China, arguing that claims and counter-claims had turned the debate into a “tragi-comedy.” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets, “The Government must explain what is going on in these never-ending talks with China. Every time India claims that there has been ‘agreement’ on disengagement, China repudiates the claim.” He added, “The latest is what India claimed in a statement yesterday and China’s statement today flatly denying any agreement on disengagement. The reality is that China has entrenched itself in the territory it has encroached upon. There is a bitterly cold winter ahead of us. If there is agreement on anything, India must insist on a joint statement so that we put an end to this tragi-comedy of claim and repudiation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Study fuels polio vaccine hope on Covid||Scientists at India’s National Institute of Immunology have detected similarities in structural proteins of poliovirus and the novel coronavirus that they say buttress existing proposals to deploy oral polio vaccines (OPV) against the coronavirus disease. Immunologist Tanmay Mazumdar and his colleagues at the New Delhi-based NII have found that two protein fragments on SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, are 80 per cent and 87 per cent similar to protein fragments of viruses used in the OPV. “The similarities in protein fragments strengthen arguments in favour of testing OPV against Covid,” said Mazumdar. The oral vaccines based on live, weakened poliovirus are routinely given to infants in India and many other countries to prevent polio. Infectious disease specialists have asserted that there is no evidence yet that OPV protects people from SARS-CoV-2, but experimental signals from multiple studies over the years have indicated that OPV has certain “non-specific” effects on the immune system. Clinical studies of OPV in the 1960s and 1970s in Russia had suggested that OPV is effective against the influenza virus and appeared to reduce influenza illness three-fold. Other studies had found that OPV could accelerate healing from herpes simplex virus and even reduce respiratory infections. Mazumdar said the protein similarities between SARS-CoV-2 and poliovirus raise the possibility that OPV can protect people from Covid-19 through a mechanism called “cross-protection”. They have published their findings in the journal Viruses. “This is for now only a hypothesis — this will need to be followed up through more detailed research on the 3D structures of proteins and human trials,” said Debi Sarkar, a senior biologist at the University of Delhi’s South Campus, who is not associated with the NII work. American biologist Robert Gallo, the co-discoverer of the HIV virus, is among proponents of assessing OPV against Covid-19. “We propose the use of OPV to ameliorate or prevent Covid-19,” Gallo and four other researchers had advocated in a report in the US journal Science in June. Gallo and his colleagues also pointed to the multiple advantages of OPV. The vaccines have a strong safety record, they are inexpensive and easy to administer and over a billion doses of OPV are produced and used in more than 140 countries. An international research team has already planned a clinical trial. Ane Fisker at the University of Southern Denmark and her colleagues plan a clinical trial in Guinea-Bissau in western Africa in which they will test the effect of OPV versus no vaccine in 3,400 people above 50 years of age at risk of Covid-19. The trial is aimed at finding out whether OPV can reduce the combined risk of hospital admission or death from Covid-19 in the six months after the vaccinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Krishna temple plea in Allahabad High Court||A Supreme Court lawyer has moved Allahabad High Court seeking the handover to Hindus of the Shahi Idgah in Mathura, which many Hindus believe to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Mehek Maheshwari, the petitioner, has told the court that a temple should be built at the place where the idgah now stands. A similar petition is pending before the Mathura district court at a time a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement”, similar to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in Ayodhya, is crystallising. Maheshwari has claimed that Lord Krishna was born in a prison that was located at the same spot in the Dwapar Yuga where the idgah now stands. The lawyer has pleaded that a temple be allowed to be built there and Hindus be permitted to worship there during Krishna Janmashtami and one or two days every week. Maheshwari has also demanded an excavation at the site where the idgah is located so that it can be proved that it is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The petitioner has challenged the Places of Worship Act, 1991, which advocates that status quo as in 1947 be maintained at places of worship. The management committees of the idgah and an adjoining Krishna temple have said that they have been coexisting amicably and have nothing to do with the petitioners. Earlier, the Mathura district court had rejected a similar plea on October 1. Ranjana Agnihotri, a lawyer in Lucknow who is considered close to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and six others had claimed that a Krishna temple existed at the birthplace of the Lord before it was destroyed several times by Muslim invaders and Mughal forces. Claiming that they were friends of “Lord Krishna Virajman”, the petitioners had stated that the place where the Shahi Idgah stands, besides the adjoining Sri Krishna Temple, was the prison of Kansa where his nephew, Lord Krishna, was born. Rejecting the petition, the Mathura court had said that being devotees of a god was not reason enough to claim ownership of His sacred place. Later, Agnihotri had moved the court of the district judge against the order of the civil judge, senior division, and the hearing is scheduled to be held on November 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Amid storm, Kerala CPM chief on leave||The CPM state secretary in Kerala has gone on leave for medical treatment, close on the heels of his son being arrested over a financial deal linked to a drug scandal and in the run-up to civic elections. The decision by Kodiyeri Balakrishnan immediately triggered speculation that the state party chief, who had succeeded current chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the state secretary in February 2015, wanted to stay away from the party as part of a damage-control effort. The change at the helm comes just weeks before the local body polls in Kerala, which is being seen as a litmus test before the Assembly elections likely in May. It is not the first time that Balakrishnan has gone on leave. He had last year travelled to the US to seek treatment for a health condition, but returned to resume his party work. The CPM has appointed Left Democratic Front convener A. Vijayaraghavan as the interim state secretary. Vijayaraghavan told reporters that medical treatment was the sole reason for Balakrishnan’s long leave. “The state CPM secretariat has very clearly explained the reason for the long leave. There is nothing more to add,” he said. Asked about the Opposition parties linking the move to the arrest of Bineesh, the son of Balakrishnan, Vijayaraghavan said he was not surprised by such interpretations. “The Opposition will not say anything to help us. They are just misinterpreting everything and I don’t need to comment on that,” he added. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala noted that Balakrishnan had not relinquished his position when he went on a long leave last time. “What this shows is the serious internal differences within their party. They had all along maintained the secretary’s son had nothing to do with the party. But now the secretary has been replaced,” Chennithala said, taking a swipe at the CPM that had shielded Balakrishnan after his son’s arrest. The Opposition parties were gunning for Balakrishan after the arrest of Bineesh. After two weeks of custodial interrogation by the Enforcement Directorate, Bineesh was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. State CPI secretary and ruling coalition partner Kanam Rajendran said it was the CPM’s decision to grant leave to Balakrishnan. “Shouldn’t a leader take leave when he is not well?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||SC eases Telangana blanket cracker ban for 2 hours||The Supreme Court has allowed celebrations with fireworks in Telangana for two hours on Diwali on Saturday and other festivals like Chaath Puja. The court, which passed the order without hearing the respondent in view of the urgency of the matter, modified the directive for a blanket ban on crackers imposed by Telangana High Court. An apex court bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna held a special hearing to pass the orders on a special leave petition filed by the Telangana Fireworks Dealers Association challenging the high court’s directive on the ground that it would adversely affect the livelihood of hundreds of dealers and mar the festive atmosphere in the state. The association had pointed out that the high court order had been passed without proper appraisal of the factual conditions in the state. The Supreme Court held a special hearing as it is on a week-long Diwali recess. The association, represented by senior advocate Salman Khurshid, submitted that Telangana High Court had passed the direction for a total ban on the use of crackers despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposing graded restrictions on different states depending on the local pollution levels. For the Delhi-NCR region, the NGT had said in the November 9 order that there would be a total ban on the use of firecrackers in view of the rising pollution levels due to stubble burning and other factors. However, in other cities and towns where pollution levels are not alarming, the NGT has permitted the sale and use of crackers for two hours in keeping with a 2019 Supreme Court judgment. Agreeing with the petitioner’s contention, the apex court said: “List this matter on 16th November, 2020, before an appropriate bench. In the meantime, the impugned judgment and order of the high court stands modified and is brought in line with the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal… which applies even to the state of Telangana…. “For, no reason, much less special reason, is noted in the impugned order for departing there from. All concerned in the state of Telangana must comply with the stated directions of the Tribunal in its letter and spirit….” The court added: “We are conscious of the fact that the respondent(s) (Indira Prakash and others on whose petition the high court had banned crackers) are not represented today, nor have they been served (notice), but in the peculiar situation and urgency involved, as aforesaid, the impugned order stands modified to bring in line with the stated directions issued by the National Green Tribunal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Odisha cabinet nod for farm ordinance ||The Odisha cabinet on Thursday gave its approval to the Ordinance on Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) that promises immediate benefits to farmers. The Ordinance has, in fact, been repromulgated after it lapsed after remaining in force for six months. The cabinet also approved around 17 other proposals. The Ordinance aims at warding off the fragmentation of the market for agriculture produce and livestock by removing the concept of the notified market areas and ensuring proper enforcement of regulations by the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee. It will also boost etrading and integration of markets and also create provisions for single point levy of market fee across the state and statewide single trading licence to realise cost effective transactions. The agriculture department will try to create a conducive market for setting up and operating private market yards and farmer consumer market yards (Kaushak Bazar), sub market yard and market yard so as to enhance competition among different market players for the farmer’s produce, to the advantage of the farmers. It will work for providing better market linkages to farmers and introduce provisions for single point levy of market fee across the state, statewide single trading licence to realise cost effective transitions. The state will also work to remove geographical restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce and allow producers to sell their produce anywhere within the state. The state will create modern infrastructure for value addition and primary processing including sorting, grading, packing, scientific storage, preservation and warehousing. The cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik also approved Rs 11,200 crore supplementary budget. The budget will be placed before the state legislative Assembly scheduled to begin from November 20. The state song of Odisha “Bande Utkal Janani” will now be a part of the school curriculum in the Classes IX and X. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday. The poem was penned by noted poet Laxmikanta Mohapatra during the freedom struggle. Additional reporting by our correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Odisha man returns after 20 years in Pakistan jail||A tribal man from Odisha’s Sundergarh, who had disappeared from his home 25 years ago and ended up in Pakistan where he spent nearly 20 years in jail, was reunited with his family on Friday. Birju Kullu, who is 50 now, was received by his younger sister, the only surviving member of his family, at their paternal house in Jangarpada village under Kutra block of Sundergarh, around 500km from here. While the entire village rejoiced and gave him a rousing welcome, Birju appeared to be ill at ease, having forgotten almost everything about his village and home. He hardly talked with anyone and kept patting the back of his sister who leaned on his shoulder. Tears of joy flowed from both their eyes but they hardly talked. “I am happy to be back home,” said Birju, who is believed to be mentally unstable. “I still remember how my parents had tried their best to trace him. They even went to Puri in search of him. We had taken him to be dead. I am happy to see my brother alive and back home,” said his sister Berena Bed Kullu, who is married. The only son of Kamlis Kullu, who died long back, Birju had run away from home 25 years ago. But how he landed up in Pakistan remains a mystery. He was arrested by Pakistan police on the suspicion of being a RAW agent and awarded a 20-year jail sentence. He was freed on October 26 and brought to Amritsar in Punjab where he was quarantined in a hospital. The ministry of external affairs informed the Sundergarh district administration about Birju’s release from a jail in Lahore and requested it to identify his village. Sundergarh superintendent of police Sagarika Nath said, “Birju left home 25 years ago. During repatriation of prisoners from Pakistan, his identity was confirmed.” Birju’s release was part of the normal exchange of prisoners between the two countries. Following his release, Birju was admitted in a Covid hospital at Amritsar where he was put in an isolation ward for 14 days on the suspicion that he might be infected with the coronavirus. After receiving his information, the Sundergarh district administration alerted all the blocks and police stations and circulated his pictures to facilitate his identification. Kutra block development officer Manas Ranjan Ray told The Telegraph, “We identified him. Birju had left home 25 years back. He then worked for almost five years in a hotel at Ranchi, which is 200km from here. From there he moved to Delhi and then to Amritsar. He might have crossed the border in Amritsar and got arrested by the Pakistan security personnel.” A team was sent by the Sundergarh district administration on November 6 to bring Birju back. As soon as he reached Kutra block on Friday around 11am, local people gathered in large numbers to welcome the son of the soil. The district administration has assured to provide Birju a ration card and a house under the Indira Awas Yojana. “We will try to ensure that he has some means of livelihood. For now, he will be staying with his relatives,” said Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
