15-11-2020||India||Pak allegation of India-aided terrorism is fabricated: MEA||India on Sunday countered Pakistan for accusing it of being involved in some terror strikes there. The former observed that the proof' cited by Pakistan is a figment of imagination with no credibility. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan's "desperate attempt" will find few takers as the international community is aware of its tactics and that "concocting" documents and peddling false narratives will not absolve Islamabad of its "sponsorship" of terrorism. This came a day after Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi addressed a press conference alongside Army spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar to claim that India was behind some of the terror attacks in that country. "This is yet another futile anti-India propaganda exercise. The so-called claims of 'proof' against India enjoy no credibility, are fabricated and represent figments of imagination," Srivastava said in response to media queries on the allegations. "This desperate attempt will find few takers as the international community is aware of Pakistan's tactics and proof of its terror sponsorship has been admitted by none other than its own leadership," he said. Srivastava described the press conference as an attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures and to justify cross-border terrorism, including ceasefire violations and infiltration along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir. "The face of global terror, Osama Bin Laden, was found in Pakistan. Pakistan's PM glorified him as a 'martyr' from the floor of Parliament, he admitted the presence of 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan. "Their science and technology minister proudly claimed involvement and success of Pakistan, led by its prime minister, in the Pulwama terror attack in the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Indian soldiers were martyred," Srivastava said. Last month, Pakistan's Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country's role in the Pulwama attack during a debate in their National Assembly. Srivastava said even distant parts of the world have seen the terror trail lead back to Pakistan. "We call upon Pakistan to end its support to cross border terrorism. Pakistani leaders have never hidden the fact that it has become a factory for producing terrorists. India is not the only neighbour to be targeted as underlined by the statements of countries similarly targeted," he said. "Distant parts of the world have seen the terror trail lead back to Pakistan. Concocting documents and peddling false narratives will not absolve Pakistan of such actions. We are confident the world will hold it to account," the MEA spokesperson added. Srivastava said Pakistani forces continue to engage in providing supporting cover fire to infiltrators despite repeated calls for restraint and adherence to the ceasefire understanding of 2003 for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the Line of Control. "The incessant infiltration of terrorists and induction of weapons to fuel terror activities continues unabated. Such activities are not possible without the support of Pakistani forces deployed along the LoC," he said. India had on Saturday summoned the Charge d'Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest with him over the unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces in multiple sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir targeting innocent civilians on Friday. Triggering a major flare-up along the LoC on Friday, Pakistan resorted to heavy shelling in several areas along the LoC in north Kashmir killing five security personnel apart from at least four civilians following which the Indian Army mounted a major retaliation pounding several Pakistani positions with anti-tank guided missiles and artillery guns. Indian military sources said at least eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 others injured in the retaliation. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir. Pakistani hostilities increased after India announced its decision to withdraw the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divide the state into two union territories in August last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Sputnik V’s second and third phase human trials to be done in a week||The first batch of Sputnik V, Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, is likely to reach next week Kanpur's Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College after which, the second and third phase of human clinical trials will be conducted. According to an official, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved of this, following which, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories took the decision to conduct the trials. "As many as 180 volunteers have registered for the trials. Head of the research Saurabh Agarwal will determine the dosage of the vaccine to be administered. One dose will be administered and the condition of volunteers will be monitored to determine whether they need further doses or not," the college principal R.B. Kamal said. The condition of the volunteers will be checked from time to time and the data will be then analysed to determine the ability of the vaccine, he added. The effect of the vaccine will be studied periodically for seven months after it is administered on the volunteers once, twice and thrice over 21 days. The effects will be monitored and the results will be reported to the authorities after which a decision will be made. “The Ethics Committee of the college has also given permission for the trails:, he said. The vaccine has to be kept at cold temperatures ranging between -20 degrees to -70 degrees Celsius. The lab entered into a partnership for the conduction of clinical trials and the Indian distribution of 100 million doses of  Sputnik V with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Covid: More ICU beds, testing in Delhi, says Amit Shah after Delhi spike review||To deal with the recent spike in coronavirus cases in Delhi, the Centre on Sunday said it will soon make available 300 additional ICU beds and double the number of daily RTPCR tests in the national capital. Union home minister Amit Shah also said some of the hospitals under the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid hospitals and doctors and paramedics of paramilitary forces will be deployed in the national capital to deal with the shortage of manpower. Shah said to save more lives, the Centre will also provide oxygen, high flow nasal cannula and other health equipments to Delhi. The decisions were taken at a high level meeting chaired by Shah and attended by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, union health minister Harsh Vardhan among others. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said daily RTPCR tests in Delhi will be doubled, the capacity of the testing laboratories will be enhanced and mobile testing vans of the Union Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be deployed in the areas where the Covid-19 threat is high. He said the meeting resolved to enhance the capacity of Delhi's hospitals and in this direction, 300 ICU beds will be made available at the DRDO Covid hospital (Dhaula Kuan) in addition to the existing 250 ICU beds. The home minister said to increase the number of oxygen beds, the 10,000-bedded Chhatarpur Covid care centre will be strengthened and some of the hospitals of the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid hospitals. The home minister reviewed the situation arising due to the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and discussed ways to deal with it, a home ministry official said. Delhi recorded 3,235 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to over 4.85 lakh on Sunday, while ninety-five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 7,614. The meeting was convened to devise a strategy to contain the spread of the virus in Delhi, especially in view of the festive season and decreasing temperatures accompanied by rising pollution, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar declared leader of NDA in Bihar; to return as CM||The NDA in Bihar on Sunday unanimously elected Nitish Kumar as its leader in the state legislature, paving the way for his return as Chief Minister for the fourth consecutive term. According to sources in the ruling coalition, an announcement to the effect was made at 1, Anney Marr, the chief ministers' official residence, by senior BJP leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh who had flown down for the occasion. The sources also said that senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has been chosen as the leader of the legislature party and is likely to return as Deputy CM while Tarkishore Prasad, the MLA from Katihar, has been elected as the party’s leader in the state assembly. Kumar is expected to meet Governor Phagu Chauhan staking claim for the formation of the new government and is likely to take oath on Monday. Suspense on deputy CM, other ministers in Bihar With the election of Nitish Kumar as the leader of the ruling NDA in Bihar, all eyes are now set on who will be his deputy and other ministerial colleagues in his government. There is some suspense whether Sushil Kumar Modi will continue as deputy chief minister or if the saffron party would choose a new face. Names of eight-term MLA from Gaya town Prem Kumar and that of Kameshwar Choupal, a Dalit MLC who had laid the foundation stone for the temple at Ayodhya in the 1990s, are also doing the rounds for the post in the political circles. However, Prem Kumar said, "I have not been staking any claim. We are all committed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of making Bihar Atmanirbhar. NDA leaders will amicably decide who should be the leader and the deputy leader. There are strong indications that Sushil Modi, who has been deputy chief minister since 2005 and is known to share an excellent rapport with Kumar, may be retained. Sushil Modi accompanied Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who is in Bihar to oversee the NDA meeting in the run-up to the government formation, from the state guesthouse to the chief minister's residence giving credence to the speculations about the deputy CM's post. Also, it will be interesting to see who all from the four NDA constituents -- the BJP, JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) form the state cabinet. The outgoing Bihar government had a total of 30 ministers, including Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi. Among them 18 were from the JD(U) and the rest 12 from the BJP. With the BJP emerging as the largest party in the NDA with 74 MLAs and the JD(U)'s tally going down to 43 from 71, it would be interesting to see if the saffron party, which has sacrificed the post of the chief minister in honor of its pre-poll promise, will insist on having a larger share in the cabinet. A total of 24 ministers of the previous cabinet had contested the polls and 10 of them, both from both the JD(U) and the BJP, lost. Kumar, Sushil Modi and four others are members of the state's Legislative Council and did not contest the polls. Among the losing ministers from the JD(U) are Shailesh Kumar, Santosh Kumar Nirala, Jay Kumar Singh, Krishnandan Verma, Ram Sevak Singh, Ramewsh Rishideo, Khursid alias Firoz Ahmed and Lakshmeshwar Rai. From the BJP, Suresh Kumar Sharma and Brij Kumar Bind are the two ministers who lost. Since, two pre-poll constituents HAM and VIP have won four seats each, pushing the NDA's tally past the magic figure of 122, there will be representation from them in the cabinet this time. Jitan Ram Manjhi, who heads the HAM has made it clear that since he has already served as chief minister he won't take up any ministerial assignment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Kashmir journalist’s plight bares paradox||Journalist Aasif Sultan lives hardly 4km from his only child, Areeba. But he has been unable to see her learn to walk, hear her first intelligible words, or watch her blossom into a 30-month-old sweetheart. Aasif and Areeba, who lives in the family home in Srinagar’s Batamaloo locality, are separated by a handful of neighbourhoods and the impregnable walls of the Valley’s biggest central jail. Aasif, a reporter with the news magazine Kashmir Narrator and the first Valley journalist booked under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), completed two years in jail in August. The police claim he was arrested for links to militants but his family and various journalists’ associations vouch for his innocence and insist he was victimised for his journalism. Aasif’s continued detention has shot back to limelight amid the debate over central BJP leaders’ selective outrage at the arrest of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami in a suicide-abetment case. Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court on Wednesday after he spent eight days in custody. Aasif, who has not been convicted so far, has spent more than 800 days behind bars. The Supreme Court cited the importance of personal liberty while hearing Goswami’s plea soon after it was filed although his bail petition was pending with a sessions court in Maharashtra. In Aasif’s case, the first hearing since the August 5, 2019, amendment of Article 370 was held last Monday — after a gap of more than 15 months, his father Sultan said. “My husband paid for it (freedom). 806 days and counting. His family paid for it. His old parents paid for it. His small child paid for it,” Aasif’s wife Umm Areeba tweeted on Monday. “He must be freed now. To Allah we raise our hands for succour!” Aasif’s father, Mohammad Sultan, said he was not surprised at BJP leaders’ differing reactions to the arrests of different journalists. “He is a Kashmiri. They (the government) can do anything with us. We never had any freedom of speech here, from the very beginning,” Sultan, a retired government official, told The Telegraph. Sultan’s other son, a doctor, lives abroad; it was Aasif who took care of the family. Sultan said: “I’m a heart patient and have to undergo surgery in the next few days. If my son were around I would have had no worries. Thank God, my nephews will accompany me to hospital. “It hurts me to see my grandchild grow up in her father’s absence. She was just a few months old when Aasif was arrested. A couple of times we took her along to see her father. Areeba is too young to understand all this but she cries ‘Baba’ when she sees the picture of her father.” The picture shows Aasif in chain-fitted handcuffs, wearing a shirt carrying the slogan “Journalism is not a crime”. Condemnation of Aasif's arrest has been stronger outside the country than within, perhaps because he has been accused of being a militant sympathiser. In October last year, the American National Press Club chose Aasif for the Foreign Press Freedom Award. The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a non-profit, non-government organisation, ran a full-page ad in The Washington Post in August this year to express solidarity with Aasif. Days earlier, the CPJ had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the second anniversary of Aasif’s arrest, seeking his release. The letter was signed by 397 journalists and civil society members, including N. Ram, Karan Thapar and Harsh Mander. On August 28, the police tweeted: “Aasif Sultan not booked for his journalism but in FIR no 173/2018 PS Batamaloo pertaining to hatching criminal conspiracy, harbouring & supporting terrorists who martyred a police constable on 12-08-2018 at #Batamaloo.” Showkat Motta, Aasif’s editor at the magazine, said the police tweet had been a reaction to the Post ad. He insisted that Aasif had been arrested for his professional work, saying his ordeal had begun after he wrote an article, “The Rise of Burhan”, for the magazine. Hizbul Muzahideen commander Burhan Wani had been killed by the security forces in July 2016. The article was written two years after his death. Motta said the police had accused Aasif of glorifying the militancy in his writings, and that this was proof he had been arrested for his journalism. He said police officers had on record accused Aasif of “writing against the uniformed forces”. Ahead of his arrest in 2018, Motta said, Aasif had received an email from “media cell/ CID J&K” that sought a clarification whether his articles were not “attempting to influence young impressionable minds” and “romanticise the terrorist”. “But when the chargesheet was filed, such things found no mention and he was straightaway framed in a militancy case,” Motta said. He said Aasif was being “framed”, and that not one of the “witnesses” the police had brought before the court had so far endorsed the prosecution’s allegations. “The police claim a Hizbul Mujahideen letterhead was recovered from Aasif’s home. But when a police constable, a so-called witness, was asked by the lawyer in front of a judge whether the recovery was made in his presence, he said he was not present there,” Motta said. “Even members of the family (at whose home) the militants had reportedly taken shelter (before carrying out the Batamaloo attack) have denied that Aasif had links with those militants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||In jail, humanity is bubbling: Stan Swamy ||The ailing and 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy, arrested over alleged Maoist links, has in a letter described how his co-accused and cellmates have been helping him in jail and added: “Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Excerpts from the letter by the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist from Ranchi, whose full name is Stanislaus Lourduswamy, have been widely circulated on Facebook this Diwali. The letter, written from Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, was received by a fellow priest on November 4, a colleague of Father Swamy confirmed. The prison was in the news recently when Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami, who picks on those he describes as “urban Naxals”, spent a few days there before being granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. The excerpts from Swamy’s letter circulated on Facebook say: “Dear friends: “Peace! Though I do not have many details, from what I have heard, I am grateful to all of you for expressing your solidarity support. I am in a cell approximately 13 feet x 8 feet, along with two more inmates. It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair. “Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira are in another cell. During the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30pm to 06.00am and 12 noon to 03.00pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates. “Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families. “Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers. Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Rao is an 80-year-old Telugu litterateur, Gonsalves a 63-year-old former Mumbai University professor, and Ferreira a cartoonist and lawyer in his late 40s. They and Father Swamy are among 16 authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists arrested for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgar Parishad Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste violence. Sources said Swamy had dictated the letter to Ferreira. Jesuit priest Father David Solomon, director of the Ranchi NGO Bagaicha — a workspace for activists where Swamy lived and worked — confirmed the authenticity of the excerpt. He said the rest of the letter’s contents were not being disclosed as they included personal information. Nor has the identity of the recipient been revealed for fear of harassment of priests and institutions run by them. Another Jesuit priest close to Swamy told this newspaper: “This is a very Fr Stan thing to do. He always remembers people he loves during festivals. Even in the worst circumstances, it’s his nature to see the positive side of things.” Jawaharlal Nehru University linguistics professor Ayesha Kidwai shared the excerpts on Facebook and said: “I can’t do any Diwali greetings after reading this heartbreaking note. Humanity is to be celebrated but it is no antidote to injustice. “Just as in Rama’s story, there is happiness only when the people can celebrate a return home, it will only be Diwali for me when all the jailed human rights defenders come home.” Swamy, who suffers from Parkinson’s Disease, recently petitioned a court to be given his straw and sipper. These were in the possession of the National Investigation Agency, which had arrested him last month. The priest cannot hold any open liquid container, like a cup or a mug, without spilling its contents. On November 6, the court gave the agency 20 days to reply to his plea. Maharashtra junior home minister Satej D. Patil tweeted on November 7 that a straw had been given to Swamy. The NIA reports to the BJP-led central government while the prison is run by the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government. The NIA has chargesheeted Swamy for allegedly channelling funds to Maoists through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||PM thunders ‘prachand jawab’ but won’t utter China’s name||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that India will give a “prachand jawab” (fierce reply) if provoked, as he flew to Longewala Post to celebrate Diwali with soldiers, a tradition he has been following since assuming office in 2014. Modi took a swipe at China without naming it, saying the world is troubled by “expansionist forces” and expansionism shows a “distorted mindset” that belongs to the 18th century. The Prime Minister was addressing soldiers at the forward post, which has become a part of military legend after troops here successfully thwarted numerically higher Pakistani forces in the 1971 war. India has become a forceful voice against forces of expansionism, Modi said and took aim at Pakistan, adding that Indian soldiers have hit “sponsors of terrorism” in their home, a reference to air and surgical strikes against terror camps in the neighbouring country. “No force in the world can prevent our brave soldiers from defending our borders. The world today knows that we will not compromise with our interests even one bit at any cost,” he said amid a standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. He said India today believes in the policy of understanding others and making them understand but if it is tested, it will give a fierce reply. The country has the capability and political will to give a befitting response to those who challenge it, Modi added. He also underlined the importance of having strong capability, saying despite advanced international cooperation and equations, vigilance is the path to security, alertness leads to happiness and peace is the prize of having strength. “History of the world tells us that only those nations have remained safe and advanced who had the ability to take on invaders,” he said, adding that 130 crore Indians stand with the country’s soldiers and bow to their bravery. “They are proud of your valour,” he told the soldiers, saying their bravery has got the better of all adversities, be it in deserts, forests or deep oceans. Modi said his Diwali is complete only after he comes among the soldiers, adding he cannot stay away from his own on this festival. He said the more time he spends with the soldiers, the stronger his resolve to serve and protect the country gets. “Your sacrifices teach the country discipline and sense of service,” the Prime Minister told soldiers, referring to his government’s efforts to combat the coronavirus and also to restart the economic activity fully. Urging soldiers to make innovation and yoga a part of their daily lives, he also asked them to learn one language other than Hindi, English and their mother tongue, saying it will enrich their lives. The Prime Minister referred to his government’s stress on self-reliance and “vocal for local” campaign, and complimented the armed forces for the decision to bar imports of over 100 weapons and defence equipment. Recalling the glorious battle of Longewala, Modi said it will always be remembered in the annals of strategic planning and military valour. He said this was the time when the ugly face of Pakistan was exposed as its army was terrorising innocent citizens of Bangladesh and committing atrocities against women. “Pakistan opened the front on western border to divert the global attention but our forces gave them a befitting reply,” he said. On the occasion, he recalled the fierce fight the post had witnessed in the 1971 war against Pakistan and paid tributes to Brigadier Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri, a hero of the battle who was then a Major, saying he became “rashtra deep” with his feat of bravery. Modi noted that the battle will mark 50 years in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate chief tenure extended||The Centre has extended by a year the tenure of Enforcement Directorate chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra, believed to be close to the political leadership. The government has modified his appointment order on completion of two years of his tenure at a time the agency is probing a large number of sensitive cases including against political opponents. Mishra’s tenure was to end next week as the ED director’s post comes with a fixed term of two years. A government order on November 13 said the previous order dated November 19, 2018, through which Mishra had been appointed ED director had been modified with the President’s approval. It will now be read as Mishra’s appointment as the director of ED for a period of three years. Mishra, who is said to be close to Nripendra Misra, former principal secretary to the Prime Minister, is supervising probes into high-profile cases including that of the National Herald newspaper that involves members of the Gandhi family. The agency is also investigating a money-laundering angle to Jammu and Kashmir terror-funding cases linked to FIRs registered by the National Investigation Agency. The ED has attached and seized assets in the case. After the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014, it had ordered reopening of the National Herald case. Besides, the ED is probing alleged money-laundering cases against several Opposition leaders. The ED is also investigating the AgustaWestland chopper deal, the INX Media and Aircel-Maxis cases in which senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram and his son Karti are accused, and the Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya money-laundering cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Delhi air turns fouler on Diwali||Delhi’s air quality turned “severe” on Diwali with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of the city’s PM2.5 pollution and calm winds worsening the situation as they allowed accumulation of pollutants, weather officials said. The ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said, “Even a small increase in local additional emissions is likely to have significant deterioration impact on Sunday and Monday.” It said peak levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1am and 6am in case of additional internal emissions. Earlier, it had said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the “lowest” in the past four years if no firecrackers are burnt. The city recorded an overall AQI (air quality index) of 414 on Saturday, which falls in the “severe” category. The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 in the next two days. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the “severe” category for three days on the trot. In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the “poor” category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the “severe” category on three consecutive days thereafter. In 2017, Delhi’s 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the “severe” zone the next day. This time, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said. “However, Delhi-NCR’s air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an expected increase in the wind speed on Sunday,” he said. V.K. Soni, head of the IMD’s environment research centre, said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the “severe” zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said the situation is likely to “improve significantly” on Sunday. “Under the influence of a western disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20kmph,” it said. “Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday,” the central agency said. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure there is no lapse in the implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s directions in view of the air quality scenario during the Diwali period. “In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation,” it said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||LoC: Caught between shells and hardening winter||An uneasy calm prevailed along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir on Saturday, a day after the deadliest flare-up of the year left five soldiers and four civilians dead on the Indian side, but the ordeal for the victims on both sides appears to have just begun as winter sets in. The exchange of fire also claimed the lives of five, including a two-year-old boy and an unspecified number of soldiers, in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Dozens have been injured on both sides. Social media was flooded with videos and pictures revealing the extent of the damage. There are houses up in flames, injured children writhing in pain and animal carcasses lying scattered. Officials said there were no reports of fresh shelling in any of the sectors along the LoC on Saturday. The Uri area of north Kashmir bore the brunt of Friday’s day-long shelling. All the four civilians who died in the Pakistani shelling were from the area. Two died in Kamalkote village, one in Guhalan village and one in Balkoot village of the Hajipeer sector. The four deceased persons include seven-year-old boy Afrar and a woman identified as Farooq Begum, 36. Balkoot resident Abdul Samad Parrey, whose wife Saibi Begum is the local sarpanch, said the shelling had claimed the life of Farooqa Begum, the mother of four young children. “She was in an upper storey of her house when it was hit by a shell. She died immediately. Other family members, including her children, were on the ground floor and survived,” Parrey told The Telegraph over phone. “The woman’s youngest daughter is only 18 months old. They are all crying and God knows what is in store for them in the future.” Parrey said the area was rained with shells and four houses in his village caught fire. “The woman died around noon but for the next five hours nobody could go to her home as shells continued to land on our village. We had seen such firing in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Most residents stayed awake through the night but thankfully there was no more shelling,” he said. The cross-border shelling on Friday started in the Kiren sector of Kupwara district after a group of militants tried to infiltrate. The firing soon spread to border areas of Baramulla and Bandipore districts in Kashmir and Poonch in Jammu. Churanda resident Lal Din Khatana said dozens of houses were damaged in Uri in Friday’s shelling and the winter would worsen their woes. “It rained today in Uri and amidst this several families have been rendered homeless. The families who have lost their homes have shifted to the houses of relatives or neighbours. Some are staying in their partially damaged houses,” he said. The fierce exchange of fire has left four soldiers and a BSF sub-inspector, Rakesh Doval, dead. The defence spokesman in Srinagar on Saturday identified the four slain soldiers as Havaldar Hardhan Chandra Roy and Naik S.B. Rameshrao from the Maratha Light Infantry who died in Gurez, and Gunner Subodh Ghosh and Sepoy J. Rushikesh Ramchandra from an artillery regiment based in Uri. The death and destruction have triggered outrage in the Valley, with politicians calling for calm. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said it was high time for India and Pakistan to begin talks. “Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of the LOC. If only the Indian & Pakistani leadership could rise above their political compulsions & initiate dialogue. Restoring the ceasefire agreed upon & implemented by Vajpayee ji & Musharraf sahab is a good place to start,” Mehbooba tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Officer who caught killer Raman Raghav dead||Retired assistant commissioner of police Alex Fialho, credited for the arrest of dreaded serial killer Raman Raghav in Mumbai in 1968, died at his residence here on Friday, a police official said on Saturday. He was 92. Fialho is survived by his wife, sons, daughter and grandchildren. His last rites were performed at St Andrews Church in Bandra, he said. Fialho had detected several cases, but he is best remembered for the arrest of Raghav, for which he was awarded the President’s Police Medal. Fialho, who was a police sub-inspector posted at Dongri police station at that time, had apprehended Raghav from Bhendi Bazar area of South Mumbai in 1968. After the arrest, Raghav had confessed to committing at least 41 murders. Most of his victims were pavement and hut dwellers. Raghav terrorised Mumbai between 1966 and 1968, during which he bludgeoned to death several poor men and women with a hard and blunt object like an iron rod while they were asleep, police said. Fialho had apprehended Raghav in September 1968 merely on the basis of suspicion, a police official said. “The police had launched a nationwide hunt for Raghav. PSI Fialho had studied the serial killing case and he used to carry the photo of Raghav along with him,” he said. “When Fialho spotted Raghav in Mumbai, the latter was in blue shirt, khaki pant and canvas shoes. Raghav was carrying an umbrella. As Fialho wanted to see his reaction on spotting a police officer in uniform, he went close to Raghav. But on seeing him, Raghav crossed him and walked calmly,” the official said. “Fialho then turned around and started following him. After walking some distance, he tapped Raghav on his back and asked him to come with him. As the umbrella that Raghav was carrying was wet although it was not raining in that area, Fialho verified and found out that it was raining in Malad suburb,” he added. “He was informed that the man with that description was last spotted in Malad area. He then took Raghav to police quarters in Dongri for interrogation, where he identified himself as Sindhi Dalvai. On verification, it came to light that this was one of Raghav’s assumed name and fingerprints experts also confirmed his identity,” the officer said. “Fialho was a very professional, knowledgeable and skilful police officer. He had the responsibility of handling cases of political importance at that time,” said retired ACP Suresh Walishetty, who worked under Fialho in 1980-82, when the latter was a senior police inspector in the crime branch. After that, Fialho got promoted as ACP in Colaba division, he said, adding that he will always be remembered for the arrest of Raghav. “The then Mumbai police commissioner E.S. Modak, who was happy with the arrest of Raghav, had even announced a cash reward of Rs 1,000 for Fialho,” he said. Raghav died in 1995 due to kidney failure at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Polypill ‘reduces’ stroke risk by 30 per cent||A four-in-one “polypill” containing a statin and three blood pressure lowering drugs taken with aspirin can reduce deaths from heart attacks and strokes by 30 per cent, doctors from nine countries, including India, reported on Saturday. While earlier research has shown that polypills can lower risk factors such as high blood pressure and cholesterol, the new study with 39 participating hospitals across India is the first to demonstrate that those benefits help save lives. The doctors have observed about 30 per cent lower incidence of deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure or other cardiovascular events among people who took the polypill along with aspirin compared with people who received placebo pills. “Our new results tell us that the polypill can prevent deaths,” Denis Xavier, professor of pharmacology at the St John’s Medical College, Bangalore, one of the study’s principal investigators, told The Telegraph. The polypill contains the statin simvastatin with three blood pressure lowering drugs — atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide and ramipril. In their study, the doctors distributed over 5,700 people with moderate risk of cardiovascular disease into different groups — some received a polypill alone, some received aspirin alone, while others received placebos for the aspirin, for the polypill, or for both. The combination of polypills with aspirin had the greatest benefit measured through reduction in mortality from cardiovascular events. About 4.1 per cent of the participants who took the polypill with aspirin experienced a serious cardiovascular event compared with 5.8 per cent of those who received the double placebo. “These results are very encouraging — the polypill needs to be considered for widespread use,” said Balram Bhargava, a senior cardiologist and director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, who was not associated with the study but is familiar with its findings. Doctors say the findings suggest that people at moderate risk of cardiovascular events — those who have not been able to control high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels or obesity through lifestyle changes — could significantly benefit from the polypill. “The results indicate that the polypill is effective in primary prevention of heart attacks or strokes or other serious cardiovascular events in people at intermediate risk,” said Prem Pais, professor of medicine and co-principal investigator at St John’s. Doctors say multiple versions of polypills are in the market. The formulation used in this study contained 40mg simvastatin, 100mg atenolol, 25mg hydrochlorothiazide and 10mg ramipril that was combined with 75mg aspirin a day. The daily cost of a polypill with aspirin could range from Rs 30 a day to Rs 60 a day, depending on the brand, Xavier said. “We could save millions of people from experiencing serious heart disease or stroke each year with effective use of the polypill and aspirin,” Salim Yusuf, a co-principal investigator and a professor of medicine at McMaster University in Canada, said in a statement. The researchers followed-up 5,733 people for an average of four-and-a-half years to observe how the various combinations of medications or placebo would influence the incidence of cardiovascular events. The participants were men aged above 50 years and women aged above 55 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Musician alleges Kerala temple caste bias||A renowned Kerala temple that refused entry to then President Giani Zail Singh and celebrated singer K.J. Yesudas because they were non-Hindus is now embroiled in controversy over its ban on musicians from outside certain approved castes from performing within its perimeter. “Temple percussionist” Kalamandalam Chandran Peringode has castigated the famous Guruvayur Sri Krishna Temple near Kozhikode for refusing to let him perform on its premises. Chandran, a professional player of the traditional temple instrument thimila who regularly performs at Hindu shrines during festivals and rituals, happens to be a Dalit. The controversy comes two years after a bitter legal and political battle over the centuries-old ban on women of childbearing age at another famous Kerala temple, the hilltop Sabarimala shrine 180km south of Guruvayur. “Only musicians from castes that come under the ‘ambalavasi’ category are allowed to perform inside the perimeter of the Guruvayur temple,” Chandran told The Telegraph on Saturday. The designation “ambalavasi” — literally “those who reside within temples” — covers certain non-Brahmin higher castes that traditionally engage in non-priestly activities, such as playing music, at temples. “I have performed several times at the Guruvayur temple but always outside the boundary walls. My question is, if I’m capable enough as a temple percussionist, why not allow me to play inside?” Chandran said. Chandran had been the leader of a 301-member panchayavadyam — a percussion ensemble with five kinds of instruments — that made it to the Limca Book of Records in 2012 by playing non-stop for 3 hours and 45 minutes. He said he had written several complaints to the temple administration “but they never even acknowledged my complaints, let alone act on them”. The “ambalavasi” rule is not widely known, nor has it historically triggered much controversy — unlike the temple’s ban on non-Hindus or other shrines’ discriminatory practices against the lower castes or women. While Chandran first raised the subject in 2018, he was unable to garner much support. This time he is backed by an NGO, Anadhija. “Neither the LDF (Left Democratic Front) nor the UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front) did anything to remove this injustice,” Chandran said. The temple, where a strategically placed signboard reads “No entry for non-Hindus”, has often attracted controversy. In the 1980s, it had denied permission for a visit by President Zail Singh because he was not a Hindu. Yesudas, a Christian, was refused entry multiple times despite several of his devotional songs to Krishna having been embraced without reserve by temples and devotees. In January 2008, the temple had conducted a “purification” after a Briton entered its premises. The priests went ahead with the ritual despite the visitor producing a certificate that said he had converted to Hinduism at the Arya Samaj in Thiruvananthapuram. The priests argued that they accepted conversion certificates only from the Arya Samaj in neighbouring Kozhikode. During the “temple entry agitation” by lower caste Hindus in the early 1930s, devotees had thrashed communist leader P. Krishna Pillai and left him bleeding from the head for daring to ring the Guruvayur temple’s bell — a preserve of Brahmins. K.B. Mohandas, chairperson of the temple’s government-appointed management panel — the Guruvayur Devaswom Board — denied receiving any complaints from Chandran. “Ideally, he should have come to us with his complaint rather than go to the media,” Mohandas, a lawyer, said. He claimed ignorance about any caste discrimination against musicians at the temple. “I’m not certain about such a practice. But I need to point out how the high priests are always Namboothiri Brahmins from a few families,” he said, apparently playing down Chandran’s complaint. “I’m not for creating any friction between caste groups. But I assure them that the administration will allow individual rights as enshrined in the Constitution.” Anadhija president V.A. Krishnan said the group was “planning to go to court as this is a denial of a citizen’s constitutional right”. He said his group’s research showed that there was no scriptural basis to the ban imposed by the temple, but added that such discrimination was rampant in the state. Mohiniyattam dancer R.L.V. Ramakrishnan, a Dalit, had attempted suicide in October alleging caste discrimination by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Congress adrift, Group-23 resigned to fate||The Congress’s disastrous performance in Bihar has not only allowed the BJP-JDU to retain power in the state but has also given a fresh lease of life to the forces within the party that lament that nothing was done to revitalise the organisation after the humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. “It is obvious we are adrift,” was the terse reply of a senior leader who painted gloomy prospects for the Congress despite what he described as a “pathetic performance” by the Narendra Modi government over the past year. “Modi dragged India into economic recession for the first time in post-Independence history but we are in political recession for too long now,” he added, conceding that leadership crisis was one of the critical factors behind the Congress’s slide. While the restructuring of the organisational machinery hasn’t triggered any positive change, the dominant opinion is that the revival process cannot be initiated without a full-fledged party president. The process has been set in motion and a new president is expected within the next two-three months but the Bihar performance has swivelled the focus on the wasted year-and-a-half after the Lok Sabha polls in May 2019. The unpleasant Bihar election outcome has given credence to the stand taken by “Group-23” — comprising leaders who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi about the state of affairs in the Congress and were sidelined after that. These leaders are now asking if demanding sincere efforts to strengthen the party was wrong and insisting that heightened social media activity wasn’t a substitute for political action. Asked about the Bihar elections, one of these 23 leaders said: “We were not consulted. We were not told to campaign or give inputs. We know only what we read in the media.” While Sonia’s long-time aide Ahmed Patel used to act as a bridge, talking to these leaders in his efforts to unite the party, the communication has completely halted because of his illness. Patel came down with Covid-19 and later developed complications, prolonging his stay in hospital. None of these 23 leaders are now even asked to brief the media. Sources said those close to Ghulam Nabi Azad were not even given tickets in the Jammu and Kashmir panchayat elections. These leaders haven’t met recently as Azad is also not keeping well but appear to have lost interest in carrying on the fight. Demonstrating a sense of resignation, one leader said: “If they want to destroy the party, how can we help? The quest for unity can’t be one-sided. There has to be a unity of purpose before you attempt to forge unity. Despite Sonia Gandhi promising no discrimination, we see a clear attempt to humiliate those who raised questions.” Another senior leader who was not part of Group-23 said: “We are witness to a sad spectacle — a new clique has taken over and there is no attempt to forge solidarity despite this grave crisis. The sentiment is negative, it appears the new group is determined to push the entrenched forces out. “I can tell you this is a destructive path. Sonia Gandhi should intervene and take everybody along. There is no denying the fact that the BJP is still the dominant force in the country because of our weaknesses.” The leader added: “Look at Tejashwi (Prasad Yadav), he gave a massive jolt to them because the BJP-JDU combine was so vulnerable. Anybody rising in any state will be able to rattle the BJP. The Congress alone can do this at the national level and we don’t even have a leader.” Referring to former US President Barack Obama’s unpalatable observations on Rahul in his memoir, the leader said: “Rahul Gandhi has done irreparable harm to his own leadership. You just can’t leave the driver’s seat and continue to drive from the back seat. If Barack Obama today says something, all these vacillations might have contributed to such impressions.” Many leaders are pointing to the absence of a membership drive before the election of the new president. “Ten crore new voters have been added since our last organisational election. The focus is on changing the membership list to enhance their (existing players’) dominance instead of enrolling new members. Organisations aren’t strengthened by fraud,” a former general secretary said, arguing that the present state of affairs doesn’t inspire confidence for a revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Box Office Home||Just as this story was being wrapped up, a cryptic gazette notification by the Government of India brought all content streaming on OTT platforms under the purview of the ministry of information and broadcasting and, therefore, subject to review and refereeing. The move could have far-reaching implications for OTT platforms and content creators. It could curb creativity, prompt self-censorship, and bring biased value judgement to what is henceforth permissible and what is not, and curb viewer choice. The high-stakes industry has, unsurprisingly, been cautious to react, and will probably take time to come to grips with what it means to be swept under a governmental regime. When the lockdown began in March, Prankur Johri, a data analytics professional based in Delhi, had a lone Netflix subscription. He shared it with three other friends. At Rs 799 per month, it was the most expensive plan for an OTT platform in India, but he barely managed to watch the complete season of even a single Web series in a month. Eight months on, much has changed. Johri, who has been working from home all through, has shifted to the family home in Allahabad to save on rent. A pay cut has necessitated the trimming of personal expenses. But one tab that has kept growing is the one marked “OTT subscription”. An over-the-top or OTT media service is the streaming media service offered to viewers via the Internet. First, Johri purchased an Amazon Fire Stick. Plugged in, it transforms a television into a smart TV with access to a bouquet of OTT platforms — Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+Hotstar, Zee5... While there is no monthly cost incurred, many of the apps and channels available on the Fire Stick require subscriptions. At the moment Johri has subscriptions to six platforms in all. The 29-year-old talks about how his father watches Kaun Banega Crorepati and The Kapil Sharma Show every night using the Fire Stick. His mother, who had never been aware of Pakistani serials, is now hooked to them. And the father-son duo watched the IPL matches on Hotstar every evening the last two months. Since March, Johri has spent more than Rs 11,000 on OTT subscriptions and subscription-related purchases. For the longest time in India, movie-going was the grandest form of entertainment. But the last five to six years things started to change. Walks, stand-up comedy acts, live gigs, travelling ballets, cook-offs, paintball. The movie experience was of course even more elaborate and multiplexified — tubs of popcorn in 10 flavours, nachos with dips, luxury recliners, silver and gold tickets… Then came the pandemic, and poof — overnight all of it disappeared. In good old Hindi film style, the hero —  in this case entertainment — was reborn. And this time in an OTT parivar. Movies — Serious Men, Shakuntala Devi, The Old Guard, Enola Holmes, the Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Gulabo Sitabo and even Sushant Singh Rajput’s last film Dil Bechara — were released on OTT platforms. There were OTT originals too such as Holidate (American rom-com), Denting Kematian (Indonesian horror), The SpongeBob Movie (for kids), Raat Akeli Hai (Hindi thriller). Then there is more than one Web series — The Man In The High Castle (historical), The Queen’s Gambit (drama), Fleabag (tragi-comedy), Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story (biopic), Too Hot To Handle (reality show). Audio OTT platforms — Jio Saavn, YouTube Music, Spotify, etc. — also witnessed a 42 per cent increase in time spent on them in the first week of lockdown. “On Hungama Music (audio OTT platform), we launched the virtual version of our original property, Hungama Music Room, which features renowned musicians delivering acoustic performances while talking about their lives and careers,” says Siddhartha Roy, COO, Hungama Digital Media. Since March, Shaan, Udit and Aditya Narayan, Salim-Sulaiman and many more have appeared on the show. Hungama also launched Hungama Artist Aloud, which features a popular artiste performing live every day and there was a digital concert too featuring Akshay Kumar, Kapil Sharma, Shaan, Swanand Kirkire and so on. When OTT platforms debuted in India in 2008 with BigFlix, it was a limited experience. It was free but the library was small. In 2010, came nexGTv, India’s first OTT mobile app. It provided access to live TV and downloaded content. In 2011, BigFlix announced a monthly subscription of Rs 250, but there were not enough takers. In 2013, nexGTv gained popularity; IPL matches were live-streamed on it. SonyLIV entered the competition the same year. A lot of people downloaded the app to catch up with episodes of TV serials they had missed on the Sony channels. And then it became the official mobile and Internet broadcaster for all Fifa World Cup matches. It was only in 2020 that the platform started offering original content. Sometime in 2016, Netflix entered India and Amazon Prime Video was also launched. Also came along Balaji Telefilms-owned ALTBalaji, Viacom 18-owned Voot, Eros Now, Disney+ Hotstar, TVF, Arre, MX Player. Post-2017 there was a rise in players specialising in regional content — Hoichoi (Bengali), Manorama Max (Malayalam), Aha Video (Telugu) and Simply South (Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam). Planet Marathi is to be launched soon. Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, both American companies, started investing heavily in local original content. In 2019, Hotstar, which is owned by Star India, invested Rs 120 crore in generating original content. No matter what the platform, originals became the flavour of the season. Part of the distinctiveness of the indigenous OTT content is that it ventures into areas mainstream barely ever acknowledged. So there is a Panchayat that looks in on rural India, streaming as it were through the consciousness of a city boy posted there. Then there is Chaman Bahar, Rasbhari and Selection Day that depict small-town lives. There are gory, gritty crime thrillers such as Mirzapur, The Family Man, Aarya and sheer nostalgia in the form of Taj Mahal 1989 and Yeh Meri Family. From the scamsters in Jamtara to the wedding planners in Made In Heaven, there is something for everybody. Apratim Chatterjee, who acted in the steaming series on Hoichoi, Dupur Thakurpo, makes the point that many new talents like himself arrived on these platforms to a rousing reception such as would have been unlikely on traditional ones. Even though the three members of the Johri household prefer watching different things, something like Fauda (an Israeli series on the their defence forces) or Special Ops (an Indian spy thriller) keeps them glued to the screen together. Apart from the content, audiences across ages are exulting in freedom from the tyranny of television time slots. Add to this the novelty of the intuitive navigation — the previews, the trending-nows, the recently-addeds. The mails in the inbox with subject lines such as “Top suggestions for...” or “We’ve just added a film you might like” or simply “Enjoying My Christmas Inn”. Says Johri, “It’s a democracy in there.” Add to that dialogue, and free choice, and engagement. Once it became clear which way the audience was headed, electronics companies tweaked associated gadgetry — HD monitors, TV sets with USB ports, remote controls with Netflix and YouTube buttons. No more stuttering Internet, telecom companies offered silken connections tied up with OTT platforms. Free subscriptions to the streaming services with postpaid and broadband plans followed. Soon users started to opt for OTT plus telecom bundled services. All this was happening when the coronavirus appeared. Nachiket Pantvaidya, who is CEO of ALTBalaji, agrees that “the lockdown has acted as a catalyst in transforming the content consumption habits of the audience, converting fence-sitters to subscribers and making existing subscribers interact more frequently with the platform”. He says, “One of the major trends we’ve seen is that 60 per cent of our consumers would come from the tier 1 cities, and 40 per cent from tier 2 and 3 cities in the months preceding the lockdown. Today statistics show that 65 per cent of the consumers are from tier 2 and tier 3 towns and cities.” Anindo Banerjee, content head at Hoichoi, tells The Telegraph, “The time it would have normally taken us to get here — which would have been another four to five years — has come down to now.” Just like every OTT platform, Hoichoi too had problems producing new content at first. But then they started to innovate. Banerjee talks about the series Case Jaundice, a farcical take on the coronavirus, with ten 10-minute episodes. “The actors shot it on their smartphones. We kept the script ready. We definitely had to compromise a little on the quality but as fresh content it wasn’t too bad,” says Banerjee. Wakaalat From Home on Amazon Prime follows a similar template. The story of a divorce case happening over Zoom during the lockdown has actors come together for a 10-episode show shot entirely indoors. Of course, the backend had to be tweaked to take on the added load. Manish Kanojia, CCO of Iridium Interactive, a New Delhi-based digital marketing agency, explains, “When you are watching a video, it catches the bandwidth of the user and streams it. It can be 480p, 2,160p, 4,000p, etc. (p stands for pixel). When Covid happened, the OTT platforms downgraded all their streams to 1,080p... if everyone would stream at 4,000p it would be difficult.” Netflix India added 10.1 million paid memberships in its second quarter this year as compared to 2.7 million same time last year. Indians are among the highest downloaders and viewers of content on Netflix. After English and local language content, Spanish, Korean and Japanese titles drive the highest viewing here. In August, Netflix also launched its user interface in Hindi to reach out to more people. Hoichoi witnessed a spike in membership in and around March. Banerjee says, “I know that when television resumes full-fledged, a lot of people will go back but a lot of them will stay back too and a lot of them will watch both.” By September 2020, Hoichoi had reached 13 million viewers worldwide. Amazon Prime Video witnessed a 67 per cent surge in subscriptions, while ALTBalaji witnessed an average of 17,000 new subscribers each day of the lockdown. Pantvaidya holds forth on how streaming services are now trying to ensure that subscribers are retained for the long term, through “a pool of immersive content”. This year’s Diwali releases went off with a bang on OTT platforms. Johri, in the meantime, is waiting for the release of Uncle Frank, a comedy drama; his father is waiting for Varun Dhawan’s Coolie No. 1 remake; and his mother is happy to repeat-view episodes of Zindagi Gulzar Hai and Humsafar in between household chores. Popcorn is now a permanent item on their monthly grocery list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
