16-11-2020||India||Kapil Sibal's comments have hurt Congress workers' sentiments: Ashok Gehlot||Congress leader Kapil Sibal's comments to the media criticising the leadership after the Bihar elections defeat has "hurt the sentiments" of party workers across the country, senior leader and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Monday. With a few leaders echoing the views expressed by Sibal, Gehlot said in a series of tweets, "There was no need for Mr Kapil Sibal to mentioned (sic) our internal issue in Media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country." "Congress has seen various crises including (in) 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996, but every-time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programs, policies and firm belief in party leadership. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too," the chief minister said. Sibal, a former union minister, tagged his media interview and tweeted, "We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual." The Congress won 19 out of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar as part of the RJD-led grand alliance. The opposition alliance ended up with 110 seats, while the NDA retained power bagging 125 seats in the 243-member assembly. Sibal was part of a group of 23 senior Congress leaders who had in August written to party chief Sonia Gandhi making suggestions on ways revive the organisation. Countering Sibal, Gehlot said, "There are various reasons for electoral loses. But each time rank and file of the Congress Party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises. Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this Nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development." Backing Sibal, Congress Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha said it is time to act now, else it will be too late. He also said that for democracy to survive, the Congress has to survive. Tankha was also a part of the 23 leaders who had sought overhaul in the party. "Kapil ji is an iconic lawyer and hard core congress personality. Together and individually we have fought countless battles and continue to fight ag BJP shenanigans. For our democracy to survive Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late," Tankha tweeted while tagging Sibal's interview. After the party's poor show in Bihar polls, Karti Chidambaram also pitched for introspection and asked for an internal discussion on the losses. Karti, son of former union minister P Chidambaram, in a tweet said: "It's time we introspect, ideate, consult & act @INCIndia." The Lok Sabha MP from Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu made the cryptic comment while tagging a tweet by Sibal on his interview. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam demanded that party leaders who were responsible for taking decisions in Bihar polls should be held accountable for the dismal show, but defended Rahul Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi only went to campaign for the party but was not responsible for the decisions taken in Bihar, Nirupam added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Chirag hopes Nitish continues to remain 'NDA's CM'||LJP president Chirag Paswan Monday congratulated Nitish Kumar on becoming the Bihar chief minister once again, saying, tongue-in-cheek, that he hopes the JD(U) leader will "continue to remain the NDA's CM". In an apparent swipe at Kumar becoming the chief minister despite having way too less MLAs than the BJP, he said, "I congratulate you on becoming the chief minister and the BJP for making you one". "Congratulations to respected @NitishKumar ji for becoming the chief minister once again. Hope the government will complete its term and you will continue to be the NDA's chief minister," Paswan, a bitter critic of Kumar, said in a series of tweets in Hindi. Paswan, during the acrimony-filled campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, had claimed Kumar might ditch the BJP after the results were out, join the RJD-led Grand Alliance, and make yet another attempt at posing a challenge to the NDA in the 2024 general elections. Paswan, who had chosen to plough a lonely furrow, had said the LJP was and will remain loyal to the BJP, which was staring at the spectre of yet another "paltimaar" (volte- face) by the JD(U) president. In another tweet on Monday, the LJP chief termed the NDA's victory in the state polls "a big win for Prime Minister Narendra Modi", and took a swipe at Kumar, saying "There are some people who have been in power for 15 years but still have to take help of three friends (to stay there)". The NDA in Bihar includes the JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of backward class leader Mukesh Sahni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar sworn in as Bihar Chief Minister in presence of Shah, Nadda||Nitish Kumar was on Monday sworn in as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time in two decades, in presence of top leaders of the NDA including Union Home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda. Kumar, who heads the JD(U), was administered the oath of office at Raj Bhavan by Governor Phagu Chauhan, a day after he staked claim for the formation of a new government in the state, armed with unanimous support of all legislators of the NDA despite his party's plummeted tally. The 69-year-old, who has had a continuous run since November, 2005, except for the period in 2014-15 when Jitan Ram Manjhi kept the chair warm for him, is on course to becoming the longest serving Chief Minister of the state, surpassing the record of Shrikrishna Singh who held the top post since before Independence till his death in 1961. Kumar was first sworn in as CM in 2000, for a term that lasted barely a week as he failed to muster a majority and returned as a minister at the Centre in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Five years later, he returned with the JD(U)-BJP alliance winning a majority and upon completion of his tenure returned in 2010 when the coalition won a landslide victory in the assembly polls. He stepped down in May, 2014, owning moral responsibility for the JD(U)s debacle in Lok Sabha polls, only to return in February, 2015 when a rebellious Manjhi was elbowed out. In November, 2015, the assembly polls were fought and won by the Grand Alliance which then comprised JD(U), Lalu Prasads RJD and Congress with Kumar back as the Chief Minister. He, however, abruptly exited the alliance in July, 2017, citing irreconcilable differences with the RJD and resigned as Chief Minister only to return in less than 24 hours armed with the support of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Indian students flocking in numbers to pursue education in US, says study||United States is quickly emerging as the most preferred destination to pursue education among Indian students with nearly two lakh of them choosing the country in the 2019-20 academic year, according to the Open Doors Report released by the US Embassy on Monday. Indian students comprised nearly 20 per cent of the over one million students from around the world, and the US has seen a steady increase in the number of undergraduate students from India, the report stated. "Over the last 10 years, the number of Indians studying in the United States has roughly doubled, and we know why the US is the gold standard for higher education, providing practical application and experience that gives our graduates an advantage in the global economy," said Minister Counsellor for Public Affairs David Kennedy. To assist Indian students, the US Department of State offers advising services to prospective students through seven EducationUSA  advising centres throughout India - in New Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. "Early next year, a second Education USA Center is opening in Hyderabad hosted by Y-Axis Foundation. All centres are staffed by EducationUSA advisors who offer accurate, comprehensive, and up-to-date information about opportunities to study in the United States, helping Indian students find the best programme and the right fit from among the 4,500 accredited higher-education institutions in the United States," an official statement by the Embassy said. Students seeking additional facts about studying in the US can download the EducationUSA India app, available for free on iOS and Android devices, it said. At the click of a button, the app provides the latest information about the college application process and is a quick and easy first step to planning higher education in the US," the statement said. The Institute of International Education (IIE) publishes the Open Doors report every year. It also compiles the number of international scholars at US universities and international students enrolled in pre-academic Intensive English Programs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Pollution levels down in Delhi courtesy rain, gusty winds||Delhi experienced light rain and favourable wind speed, working as a catalyst to bring the pollution levels down significantly in the national capital and its suburbs on Monday, while weather experts said the air quality is likely to improve further. The city's air quality index (AQI) improved to 300 at 9 am, which falls in the poor category, from 467 around the same time on Sunday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (256), Ghaziabad (292), Greater Noida (302), Gurgaon (314) and Noida (312) recorded their AQI in poor and very poor categories after braving severe air quality on Saturday and Sunday. Delhi had recorded the worst pollution levels on Diwali in the last four years due to the combined effect of stubble burning, firecrackers and unfavourable meteorological conditions. The air quality on the day after Diwali was also the poorest since 2016. The city recorded an overall AQI of 414 on Saturday (Diwali). On Sunday, the 24-hour average AQI stood at 435. In a special report, the Central Pollution Control Board said that almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali day this year as compared to 2019. It could be attributed to bursting of firecrackers, higher share of stubble burning and unfavourable meteorology during the festival season, the CPCB said. However, rain and high-velocity winds came to Delhi's rescue this year. Winds gusting up to 40 kilometre per hour swept away the pollutants, while light rainfall in the afternoon and evening on Sunday washed everything down. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department, said the wind speed will be favourable for dispersion of pollutants on Monday as well. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, had also predicted that pollution levels may recede to the poor category in case of enough rains and washout". The air quality is likely to stay in the very poor category on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Seven Bihar labourers dead in an accident in Himachal Pradesh||Seven labourers were killed when a vehicle in which they were travelling fell into a rivulet in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district on Monday, police said. One labourer was also injured in the accident that occurred at around 2.30 am near Mandi town, they said. The Mahindra pickup vehicle was on its way to Sundernagar from Mandi when it fell into Suketi Khud (rivulet) at Pulghrat, Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said. Six people died on the spot, while two injured were taken to a zonal hospital where one of them succumbed to his injuries, the police said. All the passengers were labourers from Bihar, Agnihotri said. The police have registered a case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person) and 304 A (causing death by negligence). Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his grief over the loss of lives in the accident and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.   In a tweet, he said the government is carrying out a rescue and relief work, and wished a quick recovery to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Covid caseload close to 90 lakh mark with 30,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 88,45,127 with 30,548 infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 82,49,579, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Monday. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,30,070 with 435 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 4,65,478 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprise 5.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total number of recoveries has surged to 82,49,579, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.27 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 12,56,98,525 samples had been tested till November 15 with 8,61,706 being tested on Sunday. The 435 new fatalities include 95 from Delhi, 60 from Maharashtra, 51 from West Bengal, 30 from Punjab, and 21 each from Karnataka and Kerala. The total 1,30,070 deaths reported so far in the country include 45,974 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,529 from Karnataka, 11,478 from Tamil Nadu, 7,661 from West Bengal, 7,614 from Delhi, 7,372 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,868 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,458 from Punjab and 3,803 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand traders' call to open Nepal bridge||Traders in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district have been holding protests demanding the reopening of a border bridge so that they can resume business in Nepal. The suspension bridge over the Kali river that links Dharchula town in Uttarakhand to Darchula town in Nepal’s Sudurpashchim Pradesh is closed since the coronavirus-induced lockdown began on March 25. Indian traders, who have shops selling garments, jewellery and coffee in the Nepal town, used to take the bridge to travel to and fro every day. Although the lockdown has been lifted, the bridge has not been reopened, halting business and causing mounting losses to the Indian traders. The development comes amid tensions between the two countries over the Nepal government approving a new map that includes several areas in Pithoragarh within Nepalese territory. Over 100 traders in Dharchula held a meeting on Sunday and decided to begin a movement to mount pressure on the government to reopen the bridge. The government now allows the use of the bridge only in emergencies, that too for a short period. On Friday, the traders had organised a dharna near the bridge and prevented the local administration from opening it for an hour in the afternoon for some Nepal students. The traders accused the governments of India and Uttarakhand of “dancing to the tune of Nepal” and “sacrificing the businesses of the traders of Dharchula”. “We came to know on Friday morning that the bridge would be opened for an hour as people from Nepal wanted to cross it. So we sat on a dharna there, demanding that the bridge be either opened permanently or kept closed for everybody,” said Bhupendra Thapa, the president of the traders’ association. The authorities of Pithoragarh and Sudurpashchim Pradesh districts open the bridge occasionally on the request of students and those seeking urgent medical services in India. Indian citizens also have to seek permission and cite emergency reasons to use the bridge. Thapa said: “Our businesses have been destroyed because of the lockdown. We had thought we would try to recover our losses when the unlocking begins. But this bridge has not been reopened to facilitate our business.” V.K. Jogdande, the district magistrate of Pithoragarh, told local reporters: “A decision is to be taken by the government before we open the bridge permanently.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Congress poll tie-up with Article 370 alliance||The Congress on Sunday announced it would contest the upcoming District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir in partnership with the seven-party alliance campaigning for the restoration of Article 370. However, the Congress left for another day the decision whether to formally join the alliance. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration views the polls, beginning November 28, as a referendum on last year’s amendment of Article 370. Much, however, depends on whether the voters choose to boycott or participate in the elections. Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Sunday met the leaders of the alliance at the home of their chairman, Farooq Abdullah. Mir later told reporters his party had decided to join hands with the alliance for the elections to try and defeat those imposing “black laws” on the Union Territory. “Like-minded parties have decided to go in for seat-sharing. There have been discussions over this for the past two or three days. Farooq sahib had called today’s meeting to give the final touches,” Mir said. “By and large the meeting was satisfactory, although in politics a person is never 100 per cent satisfied.” Mir said a discussion on formally joining the alliance would be held some other time. “These are things to be decided later. First (things) first. It’s true and practical that the crux of all politics is elections,” he said. “If we are joining hands to contest elections with an agenda in mind, I think we should focus on it and other things will naturally follow.” The Congress’s central and Jammu and Kashmir leaderships have been sending conflicting signals about the party’s stand on Article 370. A senior Valley Congress leader, Ghulam Nabi Monga, had on Friday claimed his party was part of the alliance and the battle for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A. Farooq too had claimed that the Congress was a part of the People’s Alliance. But it now appears that the tie-up is restricted to seat-sharing for the upcoming polls. The alliance recently decided to contest the elections, stressing the need to prevent the BJP winning seats, and to demonstrate to the world that the demand for restoration of Article 370 had popular support. All the parties in the alliance had earlier boycotted elections from 2018 onwards, anticipating the Centre’s plan to scrap the then state’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Mayawati changes Uttar Pradesh unit chief||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati has replaced Munkad Ali with Bhim Rajbhar as the party’s state unit president after reviewing the results of the bypolls to seven Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. The BSP president announced the decision on Twitter on Sunday while emphasising on Bhim’s Rajbhar caste. “Bhim Rajbhar, who belongs to UP’s most backward class (OBC) of Rajbhar community, is a resident of Mau district (Azamgarh division). Associated since long with the party and the movement as a dedicated and disciplined soldier, he has been appointed as new president of the BSP Uttar Pradesh unit. Congratulations and best wishes to him,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Party sources said Ali has got a less important assignment as the BSP coordinator of Uttarakhand. The BSP had contested all seven seats where bypolls were held and lost all. The BJP won six seats and the Samajwadi Party retained one. The BSP was runner-up in one seat and third on four seats. It stood fourth on two seats. The BSP got 23.62 per cent votes in the 2017 Assembly elections. In the bypolls, it got 18.97 per cent of the polled votes. Mayawati had tried to woo the Muslims in the bypolls, held on November 3, by declaring that they would be given their due respect in the party. However, the bypoll results suggested that the Muslims sided with the SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar to take oath, suspense on deputy chief minister||Nitish Kumar is to be sworn in as Bihar chief minister on Monday after being unanimously elected leader of the NDA legislature party, but senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi appeared to have lost his job as deputy chief minister. Soon after the NDA reposed faith in him on Sunday, Nitish met governor Phagu Chauhan and staked claimed to form the new government. He will become chief minister for the seventh time since 2000, when he held the position for a week. Nitish said he would be sending to Raj Bhavan the names of the cabinet members to be sworn in on Monday. He said Sunday’s NDA meeting had not discussed the new Speaker of the Assembly. Sources in the Janata Dal United said Nitish wanted parity in the number of cabinet berths with the BJP, which was seeking proportional representation. The BJP has won 74 seats to the JDU’s 43. Nitish also wants to retain party colleague Vijay Kumar Choudhary as the Speaker, they said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh flew in to Patna as an observer for the NDA meeting, indicating the BJP was willing to accept Nitish’s demands to ensure smooth government formation. A tweet from Sushil saying he would “discharge whatever responsibility is given to me” and that “nobody can snatch the position of a karyakarta (party worker) from me” fuelled speculation that he would no longer be Nitish’s deputy in the government. Nitish and Rajnath ducked queries about the next deputy chief minister. However, BJP sources suggested the post could go to Tarkishore Prasad, elected as leader of the BJP legislature party — a position Sushil held after the 2005 and 2010 poll victories. Some suggested that Renu Devi, deputy leader of the BJP legislature party, could share the post with Tarkishore. “The governor has nominated me as chief minister. The oath-taking ceremony will be held tomorrow (Monday) afternoon,” Nitish said. “We’ll have to work in a better manner because the people of Bihar have given us another opportunity to bring about further development. We’ll work together and ensure that no area or segment of society suffers from any deficiency.” Sushil congratulated Tarkishore for his unanimous election as leader of the BJP legislature party and tweeted in Hindi: “In the 40 years of my political life, the BJP and the Sangh parivar have perhaps given me more than anyone ever got. I shall discharge whatever responsibility is given to me in future. Nobody can snatch the position of a party worker from me.” The tweet, especially the use of the word “snatch (chheen)”, appeared to buttress the impression that Sushil had been dropped as deputy chief minister. Rajnath, asked who would be deputy chief minister, said: “They all will sit and decide about the deputy chief minister.” To the same question, Nitish said: “You will get to know in some time.” Sources in the BJP said Sushil may have paid for his perceived closeness to Nitish and his lack of qualms about playing second fiddle to him, which allegedly kept the party on the backseat of governance and obstructed its growth. However, a senior BJP leader said Sushil could be given a Rajya Sabha seat and a Union cabinet berth. “Sushil Modi has been an educated, well-read, well-informed and articulate leader. It will be tough to replace him. However, the final decision is always taken by our central leadership,” the leader said. Tarkishore, 64, a four-time MLA from Katihar constituency, studied till Class XII and is close to the RSS. Being from the Baniya (trading) community, he is an OBC like Sushil. Renu, 60, too is a four-time MLA, from the Bettiah seat in West Champaran and studied till Class XII. She belongs to the Nonia (salt makers) community, one of the Extremely Backward Castes, and comes from a family of alleged “bahubalis” (toughs). Tarkishore and Renu denied having been sounded out about any government post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
