17-11-2020||India||Centre imposes withdrawal cap at Lakshmi Vilas Bank||The Centre on Tuesday imposed a withdrawal cap for depositors of Lakshmi Vilas Bank at Rs 25,000 per person, after placing the institution under a one-month moratorium and suspending its board. In view of the plummeting financial health of the financial lender, the Reserve Bank of India had advised the government to take the decision. The RBI in a statement said in the unavailability of a substantial revival plan, with a view to protect depositors’ interest and keeping in mind the financial stability of banking, there was no other way but to urge the government to introduce a moratorium under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. "Accordingly, after considering the Reserve Bank's request, the Central Government has imposed a moratorium for thirty days effective from today," the statement read. As per the directions in the moratorium, Lakshmi Vilas Bank will not "make, in the aggregate, payment to a depositor of a sum exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees lying to his credit, in any savings, current or any other deposit account, by whatever name called," without the RBI’s permission. Former non-executive chairman of Canara Bank TN Manoharan has been appointed as the administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank. The RBI has also publicly introduced a draft scheme proposing the merging of Lakshmi Vilas Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Terrorism biggest problem in the world: Modi at BRICS summit||In a veiled reference to Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that there is a need to make sure that countries that support and assist terrorists are held guilty, calling terrorism the "biggest problem” the world is facing. The prime minister was addressing the 12th five-nation BRICS summit hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin, where he said that there was a need for tackling terrorism in an organised way. "Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing. We have to ensure that the countries that support and assist the terrorists are also held guilty," the prime minister said, without naming anyone. Chinese President Xi Jinping, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa were also present at the summit. Modi also called for the need to reform the United Nations Security Council, as well as multilateral bodies including the World Trade Organisation and the International Monetary Fund. Detailing about the Covid-19 situation, Modi said that the vaccine production and delivery capabilities in India will work in the interest of humanity. He highlighted the initiatives taken by the Indian government under the ‘self-reliant’ movement. "We have started a comprehensive reform process under the 'Self-reliant India' campaign. The campaign is based on the belief that a self-reliant and resilient India post-Covid can be a force multiplier for the global economy and make a strong contribution to the global value chains,", the PM said. Host Putin backed Modi's statements on terrorism and said that some countries were like the "black sheep of the family" adding that the world can afford to show no smugness in dealing with problems including terrorists and pandemic. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa), with its combined GDP of $16.6 trillion, is seen as an influential council which represents half the world’s population, or 3.6 billion people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Bombay HC to hear Varavara Rao relief plea on Wednesday||Jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is "fully conscious and oriented", the Maharashtra government stated in a medical report submitted before the Bombay High Court. However, on the submission of Rao's counsel Indira Jaising that the report "did not shed any light on Rao's neurological condition and the urinary tract infection he is said to have developed while at the Taloja prison", the HC directed the government to file a "complete report detailing the type of medical exam conducted through video conferencing, and all other findings". Rao, 81, is currently lodged as an under-trial in the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. Rao had filed a bail application and a writ petition seeking he be shifted to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai immediately, owing to his "diminishing neurological and physical health condition". The high court will hear both pleas of Rao on Wednesday. Jaising told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar that the state government's report was an "eyewash" as it is "silent on Rao's dementia". She also told the bench that doctors at Nanavati Hospital who had examined Rao on November 12 via a video link, had also suggested that further tests, including a complete blood count and sonography of the abdomen, be done on him. "The state has yet to get the tests done. Besides, the doctors examined Rao through the video link only for 15 minutes. He needs to be examined by specialists. A neurologist needs to examine him physically and these tests can't be done at the Taloja prison hospital," Jaising said. "...Rao was not examined by a specialist so how can the video examination tell this court whether he needs to be shifted out of the prison to the hospital?" she said. Jaising also said the state government should apprise the HC about Rao's complete medical condition in light of his application seeking bail on medical grounds. The HC then directed the state government to submit a complete report, detailing the "type of medical exam conducted through video conferencing, and all findings". The HC will now hear both the pleas filed by Rao via a physical hearing on Wednesday to avoid any further delay and technological hindrances, after Jaising faced issues with the audio arrangements during the day's hearing conducted via video link. "We know the seriousness involved in this matter and that is why we will hear it physically tomorrow itself," the bench said. Jaising sought the HC's directions to the state government to submit details of Rao's current neurological condition too, but Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), told the court that it could "examine the issue tomorrow itself. Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said. Last week, Jaising had urged the high court to direct the state government to shift Rao to Nanvati Hospital immediately in view of the apprehension that "Rao might lose his life while in prison". Jaising had said "Rao had dementia, had lost control of his bladder, was in diapers, and that his condition was deteriorating with each passing day". Jaising had alleged that the state government had been negligent in taking care of Rao in prison, "and if he died, it would be a case of custodial death". Following the submissions, the HC had ordered the video examination while giving the Nanavati doctors the liberty to examine Rao physically at the prison if needed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Journalist Patricia Mukhim quits Editors Guild of India||Veteran journalist and Padma Shri awardee Patricia Mukhim, who is also the editor of The Shillong Times, has resigned from the Editors Guild of India, alleging that the top journalists' body "defends" only celebrity journalists. In her resignation letter, accessed by NDTV, Mukhim gave the example of how the journalists' body responded with "alacrity", and issued a statement condemning TV news anchor Arnab Goswami's arrest but did not issue any statement in her case. Last week, the Meghalaya High Court had refused to act over a police complaint filed against her for a Facebook post she had put out in July. Mukhim claimed that she had briefed the top journalists' body in detail about this case. "I now wish to resign from its membership. There are several reasons for doing so. First, as a journalist, I don't belong to that august league of celebrity editors whose newspapers are widely read and web-based news portals are hugely popular," she said in her letter. "I come from the fringes both geographically and in terms of my own status in an association I consider hierarchical by its very composition. I had shared this High Court order with the Guild hoping that it would at least give out a statement condemning it but there was and has been complete silence from the executive," she added. "Ironically, the Guild responded with alacrity and issued a statement condemning Arnab Goswami's arrest (a non-member), not on grounds of journalistic pursuits but on an abetment to suicide case. I see this as a classic case of the Guild playing to the gallery to defend celebrity editors/ anchors whose voices matter while choosing to deliberately ignore a plea (unstated) from one of its members," Ms Mukhim wrote in a strongly-worded letter to Seema Mustafa, the newly elected President of Editors Guild of India. On July 4, in a Facebook post, Ms Mukhim had criticised the Lawsohtun village council for failing to identify the "murderous elements", when masked people attacked five boys at a basketball court in the village. No one was arrested in the case. She had asked Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and the Dorbar Shnong, the traditional local body, to take action against the accused. The village council in Meghalaya filed a complaint against Ms Mukhim for allegedly trying to rake up sentiments. Based on this, the police filed a criminal case against her. She was also accused of defamation. Later, she approached the High Court to cancel the case against her. Mukhim has now decided to challenge the High Court order in the Supreme Court. "Clearly this is also a case of prejudice and a deliberate attempt to push those in the margins even further away so that they disappear completely from the national discourse (since the Guild is a national association of editors) and leave them to deal with the matter in their personal capacity. A Facebook post is also another form of media to draw attention to a serious issue. It may not be a purely 'journalistic' pursuit but it still is a platform of communication which is taken seriously by the powers that be, hence an FIR (First Information Report) being filed because of it," she further wrote to the journalists' body in her resignation letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||UP junior engineer in CBI net for alleged sexual abuse of children||The CBI has arrested a junior engineer of Uttar Pradesh irrigation department for alleged sexual exploitation of children for last 10 years and selling videos and photographs of nefarious acts on dark net to other paedophiles across the globe, officials said on Tuesday. He is alleged to have victimised about 50 children in the age group of 5-16 years in the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur, they said. He was arrested from Banda and is likely to be produced before the competent court soon. During searches, the CBI has recovered eight mobile phones, cash around eight lakh, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of child sexual abuse material. It is alleged that the junior engineer was operational for the last 10 years, mainly contacting and sharing child sexual abuse material with other paedophiles globally using dark net and cloud services abroad, they said. He is understood to have told the investigators that he used to bribe the children with mobile phones and other electronic gadgets to keep their mouth shut about his activities, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||10 Trade unions to hold strike on November 26||Ten central trade unions announced Tuesday that they are moving forward with their plan to observe a general strike across the country on November 26, while also declaring support for a two-day farmers’ agitation in the coming week. Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) and Sectoral Independent Federations and Associations virtually met on November 16. According to a statement by the joint forum, the union expressed its satisfaction over the huge response to the ongoing campaign for the nationwide strike from workers and people at large. The campaign is in motion for the general strike against the "the anti-people, anti-worker, anti-national and destructive policies of the BJP government led by Modi has been going on with great enthusiasm all over the country", said the statement. Unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) are part of the forum. The statement said that the strike notices have been served, adding that other than workers, people from all sections of the society including youth, students, women and peasants have been coming forward to extend their full support to the November 26 strike. "It is heartening that the peasants, who are already in the midst of struggle against the draconian farm laws passed by the Modi govt, support the workers fighting against the anti-worker measures of this government," added the statement. The list of demands by the CTUs in their general strike includes the call to revoke the draconian farm laws. The Joint Platform and Sectoral Federations and Associations, too, has extended its active support to the general strike and the  AIKSCC’s subsequent call to march to Delhi on November 26 and 27. “Along with the demands directly related to the workers, the trade unions have also been campaigning on this demand,” the statement added. In a bid to oppose the privatisation policies of the central government and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has also declared that power engineers will protest on November 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Artificial intelligence to aid Facebook prioritise reported content||Social Media giants Facebook on Tuesday said it has stepped up the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to "prioritise reported content", a move that will help them take action faster on harmful and violative content. Facebook, which has 1.82 billion daily users globally, has drawn flak in the past for its handling of hate speech on the platform in India, which is among its biggest markets. Facebook Product Manager (Community Integrity) Ryan Barnes said the company is using AI to prioritise reported content, and that this prioritisation is important to help its over 15,000 reviewers. She explained that the prioritisation is important for four reasons -- not all harmful content is equal, some enforcement decisions are complex, people do not always report harmful content and the reports aren't always accurate. Speaking to reporters in a virtual briefing, she said the company has moved from relying on user reports alone to add use of technology to help aid the process. "We've moved away from just reviewing things chronologically to using AI to help us prioritise what we review. We have looked at severity which has been a factor in our prioritisation, but now we have other factors such as virality, severity and likelihood of violations," she said, adding that this will help "act" on reports faster. Barnes said the community integrity team is focussed on reducing the prevalence of bad experiences by taking action on violating content and abusive actors proactively and with fewer mistakes. She added that over 95 per cent of such content is spotted by the company's technology before anyone reports it to Facebook. Facebook Engineer (Community Integrity) Chris Palow said using AI will help in getting to the "most harmful content faster" and give human review teams more time to spend on complex decisions. He added that this will also help identify new trends, and respond to people attempting to post violating content. Asked if AI can help in handling hate speech, Barnes said Facebook has no tolerance for hate speech on its platform. "We realise this is an important issue, and we in fact think that that AI technologies can help with this in terms of how do we determine if a piece of content needs human moderation...depending on how viral that piece of content is or how severe that piece of content is or its likelihood of violating," she said. Barnes added that the company is using and relying on its technology to bump up such content in terms of ranking as to what reports are reviewed first. The company's decisions on ‘dangerous persons’ are a comprehensive process, including consultation with partners on ground and review of online and offline behaviour. "We don't use AI to make decisions about designating people as dangerous individuals under our policy. But AI can help us find content that may help to inform that decision, but it's not actually making the decision outright," a company spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that while the community guidelines are uniform globally, local context and cultural nuances are kept in mind as these policies are developed and enforced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Amit Shah calls J&K alliance ‘Gupkar Gang’, Opposition reacts||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday termed the political party alliance at Jammu and Kashmir as the “Gupkar Gang”, saying that it is an "unholy global gathbandhan" against India’s national interest. He added that the Union territory will always remain an integral part of the country. Taking to Twitter, Shah also asked Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi if they support the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is an amalgamation of national and regional political parties in Jammu and Kashmir established to restore Article 370 that was revoked last year. "Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy 'global gathbandhan' against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it," the home minister tweeted. The Congress and the ‘Gupkar Gang’, Shah said, want to take back Jammu and Kashmir back in the years of turmoil and terror and they "want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing Article 370." "The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India's Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang ? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India," he wrote. Reacting to his comments, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah said that Shah’s frustration is a result of the coalition’s decision to contest the upcoming local body polls and not giving the BJP and its allies a free run. "We are not a gang Amit Shah Ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment,” the president of the National Conference said. He also took a dig at the UT’s newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, saying, “"I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon'ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People's Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP and newly formed King's party a free run in J&K. We didn't oblige them." PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister said that Shah’s comments were meant to divert attention from rising unemployment and inflation. According to her, the "BJP's stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours and political opponents as internal and imagined enemies is far too predictable now." "Love jihad, tukde tukde and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of (issues) like rising unemployment and inflation," Mufti said. "Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP's narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India's sovereignty and they are now using 'Gupkar Gang' euphemism to project us as anti-nationals. Irony died a million deaths since it's BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out," she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||People of Bihar voted to discard 'goonda raj', asserts Nadda||BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday asserted confidence on the party's growing influence after winning the Bihar Assembly elections and said the people of Bihar voted to keep "goonda raj" out of power and chose the path of development instead. Inaugurating six party offices in Odisha, Nadda said the people of Bihar gave their "stamp of approval" to the development agenda of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. "They strongly supported Narendra Modi's policy of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas' (with all, development for all)," he said. The new offices inaugurated by Nadda are located in Angul, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar, Baripada in Mayurbhanj district, Sundergarh and Bargarh. Then BJP chief Amit Shah had laid the foundation stone for the party offices on April 5, 2018. Work for six other new party offices in Odisha will start soon, Nadda announced. "BJP gives priority to even the construction of party offices. Some parties run offices from home. Thus, they become a family party," he said in an apparent swipe at the Congress. "For us, our party is our family, while some others use their family as the party," the BJP chief said. Stating that the BJP prepared an ambitious plan to construct 700 party offices across the country after Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014, Nadda said 400 of them are ready, while work is in progress for 200 others and the process of land acquisition is on for the rest. "The party office is a proper place for imparting informal training to the party cadres... It functions as a source of major inspiration," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Kejriwal seeks power to impose lockdown in Delhi markets||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked permission from the Centre on Tuesday to impose lockdowns in market areas susceptible to become Covid-19 hotspots. He also decided to revoke an order allowing 200 people to attend wedding ceremonies. The chief minister, while addressing an online press briefing, informed that the AAP government had sent a proposal to Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to permit only 50 guests at wedding functions,as opposed to the earlier 200-guests limit. He said that every agency as well as the Centre are making “double efforts” to curb the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. "We are sending a proposal to the Centre to give power to the Delhi government to impose lockdown in market areas which may emerge as COVID-19 hotspots," Kejriwal said. With folded hands, the chief minister appealed to the citizens to follow social distancing norms and wear masks, while also thanking the central government for assisting Delhiites in “such difficult times”. The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily number breaked the 5,000-mark for the first time. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded more than 8,000 cases of Covid-19 in a single day. A total of 104 deaths related to the infection were recorded on Thursday, making it the highest in over five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||SC unsatisfied with Centre's affidavit over Tablighi congregation media reporting||The Supreme Court Tuesday expressed displeasure over the Centre's affidavit in the case related to media reporting of Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, and said the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism to deal with such content on TV. The apex court, which asked the Centre to consider creating a regulatory mechanism and apprise it, said the government should also inform as to what steps have been taken on the issue under the Cable Television Network Act (CTNA). First you did not file a proper affidavit and then you filed an affidavit which did not deal with the two important questions. This way it cannot be done Mr Mehta, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr Mehta, we are not satisfied with your reply. We wanted you to tell as to what actions you have taken under the Cable TV Network Act, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The top court said the Centre, in its affidavit, has not dealt with the aspect of applicability of the CTNA and the legal regime concerning this. We want to know as to what is the mechanism to deal with these contents on television. If there is no regulatory mechanism then you create one. Regulation cannot be left to organisation like NBSA (News Broadcasters Standards Authority), the bench said. The bench, which was hearing the pleas filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind and others alleging that a section of the media was spreading communal hatred over Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of pandemic, asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit dealing with mechanism to regulate electronic media under the CTNA. Mehta told the bench that several actions have been taken under the Act. You have to tell us how you have acted under Cable TV Act in some prior incident, the bench sought to know and questioned Mehta as to why the Centre has not created a body to regulate these things. The bench said it had asked the Centre to specify how CTNA could be used to control the content of cable TV network and also about steps which could be taken to deal with such complaints but the affidavit is silent on these aspects. The top court has posted the matter for hearing after three weeks. In its affidavit filed in the apex court, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has said that majority of leading national newspapers of the country have carried largely factual reports on the issue. Online news portals such as The Print and The Wire have also undertaken objective reporting, through news reports, and analysis, through opinion and editorial articles of events concerning the Tablighi Jamaat. By and large, issues relating to health, law and order and the action taken by the central government and the various state governments for handling the pandemic have been discussed, the affidavit said. It also said that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has issued orders for blocking fake or misleading content related to issue of coronavirus on the social media. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz Nizamuddin in central Delhi in March was accused of accelerating the spread of the novel coronavirus, with its attendees allegedly carrying the infection to different parts of the country. On October 8, the apex court had observed that freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times and pulled up the Centre for its "evasive" and "brazen" affidavit on media coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat event earlier this year. The top court was irked over the fact that instead of secretary of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, an additional secretary filed the affidavit which contained unnecessary averments with regard to media reporting in Tablighi Jamaat issue. In August, the Centre had told the apex court that a Muslim body's attempt to obtain a blanket "gag order" on the entire media to prevent them from reporting of the Nizamuddin Markaz issue would effectively destroy the freedom of the citizenry to know and the right of journalists to ensure an informed society. The government had said that in the absence of any specific information about any objectionable news published or aired by a specific news channel/agency, the Constitution and the applicable statues do not give it any authority to unilaterally pass any censure order under the Cable Television Networks Rules. In its affidavit filed earlier in reply to the plea of Jamiat, the Centre had said: "Attempts to seek a blanket 'gag order' against the entire media in respect of Markaz Nizamuddin issue will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizen to know about the affairs of respective sections of the society in the nation and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society." The Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has filed a plea in the apex court seeking directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" related to a religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin and take strict action against those responsible for it. It has alleged that unfortunate incident of Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame entire Muslim community and sought to restrain media from publishing/airing such reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||SC dismisses plea seeking CBSE exam fee waiver||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to hear a plea seeking an order to the Delhi government and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to waive the examination fee for students appearing for their class X and XII board exam in the current academic year. Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation and the subsequent financial problems faced by some parents, the plea was filed before the top court. "How can the court direct the government to do this? You should give a representation to the government...Dismissed,” a bench Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R Shah told an NGO called “Social Jurist”, who filed the petition against the September 28 order of the Delhi High Court. The High Court had directed the state government and the CBSE to treat the appeal as a representation and take a call within three weeks "in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case". The plea said that due to the economic effects of the lockdown, income of several parents had disappeared to a level that they cannot even arrange meals for their family, adding that the HC’s direction had resulted in denial of relief to three lakh students in Delhi, and 30 lakh in the country. Filed through lawyer Ashok Agarwal, the PIL sought the waiver of the fees and said that the Centre should pay them through the PM Cares fund in the country, and the AAP government should do the same. "In the current year 2020-21, CBSE has demanded Examination fee from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 from students of class X and Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,400 from class XII students depending upon number of subjects, practical, etc,” it said. The Delhi government had paid the examination fees of CBSE students appearing for their board examinations last year, but this year it has refused to do so citing financial crunch, the PIL said. Starting in 2019, the education board had hiked the examination fees for classes X and XII. According to the new structure, students had to pay Rs 1,500 — double the Rs 750 they paid until 2018. In case of students abroad, the amount had doubled as well from —  Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 — as had the fee for appearing for any extra paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Rain, stronger winds help clean up Delhi's air||The national capital's air quality improved significantly to the 'moderate' category on Tuesday as rain and stronger winds helped bring down pollution levels, authorities said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's mobile application SAMEER, the city recorded an air quality index of 168, which falls in the 'moderate' category, much better than Monday's AQI of 221, which falls in the 'poor' category. However, Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the improvement will be short-lived and the AQI is likely to slip back into the 'poor' category on Thursday. The city's 24-hour average AQI was 435 on Sunday and 414 on Saturday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. According to SAFAR, the overall air quality of Delhi is in the 'moderate' category as of Tuesday morning. "Surface winds are west-southwesterly and energetic, very favourable for pollutant dispersion. Rainfall along with stronger winds under the influence of western disturbance helped clean the build-up of pollution in the Indo-Gangetic Plain," it said. It also said effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are significantly reduced to around 98. "Boundary layer wind direction is North north-westerly. However, since the fire-related emissions have significantly reduced, a significant impact is not expected. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air is almost negligible and estimated marginal three per cent for today," SAFAR said. It, however, said the significant AQI improvement will be short-lived. The AQI is likely to slip back into the 'poor' category on Thursday. "AQI is forecast to further deteriorate to the higher end of 'Poor' to the lower end of 'Very Poor' category on 19th and 20th November," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||India records dip in new Covid cases||The number of new coronavirus infections reported in a day dropped below 30,000 after four months, taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 88.74 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The last time India reported less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases was on July 15. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 88,74,290 with 29,163 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,30,519 with 449 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 82,90, 370 while the number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. There are 4,53,401 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.11 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 82,90,370 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.42 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,65,42,907 samples have been tested up to November 16 with 8,44,382 samples being tested on Monday. The 449 new fatalities include 99 from Delhi, 60 from Maharashtra, 53 from West Bengal, 26 from Chhattisgarh, 22 from Punjab and 21 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,30,519 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,034 from Maharashtra followed by 11,541 from Karnataka, 11,495 from Tamil Nadu, 7,714 from West Bengal, 7,713 from Delhi, 7,393 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,881 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,480 from Punjab and 3,808 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Sabarimala opens for devotees||Wearing masks and strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol, devotees of Lord Ayyappa trekked the holy hill and offered prayers at the Sabarimala temple as it opened for the annual two-month Mandala-Makaravilakku season on Monday. It is the first annual pilgrimage season at the hill temple after the coronavirus outbreak and authorities have decided to restrict the number of devotees to 1,000 per day and to 2,000 on weekends. However, the sannidhanam, the temple complex which used to witness a sea of devotees on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrichikam, saw only a few devotees this morning. Pilgrims with Covid-19 negative certificates were allowed to trek starting 3am from Pampa, the base camp, through a virtual queue system, temple officials said. Devotees from neighbouring states flocked to the shrine in the initial hours, sources in the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that manages the hill shrine said. Unlike the usual rush and jostling for a glimpse of the presiding deity, only a few devotees in batches could be seen having a relaxed darshan. Wearing masks, employees of the board and police personnel, some of them clad in personal protection equipment (PPE) kit, kept vigil at various points from the base camps to the temple complex to ensure that the devotees followed the protocol. The rituals began with tantri (head priest) Kantaru Rajeevaru performing the ashtadravya Mmaha ganapathy homam at the sannidhanam, they said. A TDB official said around 650 devotees offered prayers at the hill temple till noon on the first day. Two devotees tested positive for the viral infection on Monday and both were sent to a first line treatment centre at nearby Konni, he said. “Both the devotees — one from Punalur in Kerala and the other one from Chennai — tested positive for the virus while undergoing a test at a health department kiosk at Nilakkal, another base camp,” the official said. State devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said all arrangements had been completed to ensure a smooth darshan for the devotees during the pilgrimage season. “Arrangements have been made in compliance with the Covid-19 norms and in accordance with the directions of the Kerala High Court,” he told reporters at the temple complex after taking part in a review meeting of various government departments. The minister said floor markings have been made at various points and steps have been taken to make devotees abide by the instructions. Though the shrine opened on Sunday evening, there was no special puja on Sunday and devotees were permitted inside the complex only on Monday. Marking the beginning of the 62-day-long pilgrimage season, Melshanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboothiri had opened the doors of the sanctum sanctorum and lit the lamps in the presence of the tantri on Sunday evening. The newly-elected Melsanthi V.K. Jayaraj Potti and Malikkapuram Melsanthi M.N. Raj Kumar, who were the first to climb the holy 18 steps and offer prayers, took charge Sunday evening itself. Covid-19 kiosks were opened at the base camps for testing and the pilgrims won’t be allowed to stay on the temple premises, official sources said. The health department has made elaborate arrangements for rapid antigen tests in various centres, including all bus stands and railway stations, at Thiruvananthapuram, Tiruvalla, Chengannur and Kottayam, where pilgrims arrive to proceed to the Ayyappa temple. Doctors, including specialists, would be posted on a rotation basis for seven days each while all other staff have been posted on a rotation basis  for 15 days from November 15 to January 19, sources added. The auspicious mandala puja would be held on December 26.  After the makaravilakku ritual on January 14, the temple would be closed on January 20, marking the end of the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Dalit students wait endlessly for stipend||Manish Kumar, a first-year BSc student at S.N. Sinha College in Bihar’s Nawada district, has been applying for the Post-Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Caste students for the past two years. He never received the scholarship last year. He hopes he gets it this year so he can afford private tuition. “I’d like to take private tuition as no classes are being held now. But the money is not coming,” Manish said over the phone. Manish and many other Dalit higher secondary and undergraduate students are being deprived of the Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) since a rule tweak in 2018 steeply increased the states’ share of the funding and lowered the Centre’s. This has prompted many states like Bihar to go slow on the scholarship, having received very little or nothing at all from the Centre for the scheme this financial year. Dalit students whose parents earn less than Rs 2.5 lakh a year are eligible for this scholarship from Class XI till graduation. The monthly stipend varies depending on the course, from Rs 230 (HS without hostel) to Rs 1,200 (professional course). Manish, being an undergraduate who stays in a hostel, would have expected to receive Rs 570 a month. An estimated 70 lakh or so Dalit students are eligible for the scholarship across the country, provided they apply with all the necessary documents. Data that the Union social justice ministry provided last year to a parliamentary standing committee showed nearly 60.29 lakh Dalit students as beneficiaries of the scheme. What this means is that these 60 lakh are registered for the scholarship and have received the stipend in the past. It does not mean they are getting it regularly now, nor that they would be paid the arrears anytime soon — or ever, if they have graduated while waiting for the money to come. Manish, the eldest of a day labourer’s five children in Chainpura village, is a first-generation learner. His Class X board results won him the Bihar government’s one-time scholarship of Rs 10,000, given to Dalit and tribal students who secure a first division. He heard about the PMS last year and applied, furnishing all the required documents. Pancham Kumar Das, a third-year BSc student from Manish’s college, too had applied for the PMS last year. This year he could not submit the documents because the cyber cafes were closed during the lockdown. “If I get the scholarship on the strength of last year’s application, I shall use the money to get coaching. I’m preparing for a stationmaster’s job with the railways,” Pancham said. “Payment delays are a regular feature with the PMS for Dalit students,” said Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights, a think tank and NGO. Official data show that the social justice ministry has released Rs 1,028 crore under the scheme this financial year so far although the budget allocation stands at Rs 2,987 crore. However, only 16 states have received any funds while Odisha, Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir are among those that have received none. Bihar has received just Rs 2.3 lakh. Tricky formula The then British government had started the scholarship in 1945 following a demand from Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Till the 1980s, the Centre bore a fixed 60 per cent of the cost of the scheme and the states bore 40 per cent From the ’80s till 2017-18, a variable share was worked out based on a formula. It said that during any five-year plan, a state’s burden would be the total sum spent by it and the Centre on the scheme for its Dalit students in the last year of the previous five-year plan. This prompted many states to deliberately keep the expenditure on the scholarship very low in the last year of each five-year plan, using very little of the central allocation or its own funds (at the expense of the Dalit students). When the next five-year cycle started, the state’s share dropped because of this trick. However, with the state reverting to its usual spending on the scheme, the Centre’s burden shot up. That the Centre’s share of the funding had crossed 70 per cent in most states suggests that these states tended to keep the entire spending on the scheme below 30 per cent of the usual in the fifth year of the plan periods. So, when the five-year plans were abolished in 2018, the Centre worked out a new fund-share formula for the scheme to get round the problem. It decided that the highest amount spent on a state’s PMS scholarship for Dalits in any particular year during the 12th plan (2012 to 2017) would be that state’s “committed liability” (share of the burden). The Centre would pay whatever sum the state demanded over and above this “committed liability” in any particular year. This caused the Centre’s burden to drop to around 10 per cent in many states. And many other states, unable to cough up anything close to their new “committed liability”, were in no position to demand any additional amounts – so the Centre wasn’t obliged to provide them any funds for the scholarship. With lakhs of students unable to apply this year because of the lockdown, the sums spent on the scholarship in many states were anyway going to be less than their “committed liability”. So, these states were not eligible for any central funds for the scheme this year. No such problem plagues the PMS for tribal or minority students since the Centre provides 100 per cent and 75 per cent, respectively, of their funding, a government official said. The parliamentary standing committee on social justice, headed by BJP member Rama Devi, had in a report in September expressed displeasure at the delay in funds release for the PMS for Dalits. It had asked the social justice department to plug the gaps in securing and utilising funds, in paying the beneficiaries on time, and in clearing arrears. Pallical said the new funding policy was discriminatory and should be revised. “When other ministries are bearing the lion’s share of the funds for the PMS for tribal and minority students, the social justice ministry too must do so for the PMS for Dalits,” Pallical said. R. Subrahmanyam, secretary, ministry of social justice and empowerment, said the government was taking a relook at the funding pattern. “Our ministry has proposed that the Centre bear 60 per cent of the expenses and the states 40 per cent. It’s under consideration,” Subrahmanyam told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Supreme Court to bail applicant: Go to HC  ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain the bail plea of a man who was arrested in Gujarat for posting allegedly objectionable comments on Twitter against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian asked the counsel for Sameer Thakkar to approach Bombay High Court. “The high court can also uphold your fundamental rights. It can also transfer the case and grant you bail. Then why are you coming under 32 (under Article 32 of the Constitution, writ pleas are filed in the Supreme Court)? You please go to the high court,” the bench told senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani who was appearing for Thakkar. Jethmalani said Thakkar had been arrested for “bailable offences” and this will “shock your Lordships”. “We are quite immune from shock. We see it every day. Nothing shocks us,” the bench observed. The counsel for Maharashtra said the state would not oppose the bail plea of the accused in the magisterial court on Monday as the custodial interrogation of Thakkar was over in the case. Jethmalani said as many as three FIRs had been lodged against Thakkar for his tweets and he was arrested on October 24 from Rajkot. He was taken to Nagpur on transit remand and was quizzed in police custody. “His neck was tied with rope and he was paraded on roads,” the senior lawyer said. The bench responded: “What makes you think that we are approving all this. We are only telling you repeatedly that you can make these arguments before the high court. Let us have the view of high court.” Jethmalani then withdrew the plea of Thakkar, who besides seeking bail, had sought consolidation of three FIRs registered against him for the posts. Thakkar has 59,000 followers on Twitter and is followed by some prominent government functionaries on the social media platform. He has been granted bail in one case by a Nagapur court and was arrested by Maharashtra police in connection with another FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Youth dies in Kanpur clash||A youth was killed in a clash that erupted between two communities in Kanpur district on Sunday night over water being splashed on one youth. Pintu Nishad, 25, a worker in a tannery, accidentally stepped on a pouch of water lying on a road in Vajidpur-Jajmau area while he was going somewhere with his elder brother Deepak Nishad and friend Sandeep Kumar. The water spattered on the face of Mohammad Arman, who was standing at a paan shop along with his two friends, sparking a brawl. “Arman and his friends reacted sharply to it and a fight broke out between them…. The brawl turned into a violent clash,” said Ravi Srivastava, in-charge of Chakeri police station. “Both sides threw bricks and attacked each other with lathis in which Pintu suffered injuries. He was declared brought dead at Lala Lajpat Rao Hospital in the city,” the officer said. Rajkumar Agrawal, superintendent of police of Kanpur East, said: “We have taken in custody half-a-dozen people from both sides and are probing the case. The police and  the paramilitary force have been deployed at the site and near the house of Sri Ram Nishad, father of the deceased, to avert any escalation of the dispute. “Residents have come forward to sort out the dispute amicably because it is related to two communities. The police have registered a murder case.” Deepak has mentioned in his police complaint the names of Arman, Faiz Mohammad, Mohammad Farman, Mohammad Alam, Mohammad Iqbal, Mohammad Meraz and Mohammad Mohsin as the main accused. The police have formed teams to arrest them as they had fled when the cops reached the spot. An eyewitness said: “The electricity supply was severed soon after the violence erupted. The police knocked the doors of local people but the majority of the residents  didn’t open them. There were two or three residents who opened their door and told the police that they didn’t see anything.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Covid: fresh boost to vaccine hope||A US biotechnology company announced on Monday that its candidate vaccine against Covid-19 was over 94 per cent effective against the infection, becoming the third company in a week to report efficacy levels exceeding expectations. Moderna Therapeutics said its first interim analysis of 95 Covid-19 patients among 30,000 participants in its clinical trial had observed 90 cases among volunteers who had received a placebo and 5 among the candidate vaccine recipients, or a vaccine efficacy of 94.5 per cent. Of the 95 Covid-19 cases, 11 were severe cases, all in the placebo group and none among the candidate vaccine recipients. The trial’s data safety monitoring board, which analysed the results, did not find any significant safety concerns, the company said. “This analysis has given us the first clinical validation that our vaccine can prevent Covid-19 disease, including severe disease,” Stephane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna, said in a statement. The company said it intended to submit “in the coming weeks” an application for emergency use authorisation to the US Food and Drug Administration. Moderna also plans to submit applications for authorisations to global regulatory agencies. This is the third announcement of an efficacy level of 90 per cent or higher since November 9, when Pfizer-BioNTech announced over 90 per cent efficacy with their candidate vaccine. On November 11, Russia’s Gamaleya Institute announced a 92 per cent efficacy with its candidate vaccine. The higher than 90 per cent efficacy in three candidates has surprised scientists because regulatory authorities had set clinical trial efficacy thresholds of 50 per cent. However, researchers have underlined that these are early and interim results, which could change over the coming months as more data from trials come in. Moderna said it expected to have 20 million doses ready to ship within the US by the end of 2020 and remained on track to manufacture 500 million to one billion doses during 2021. Media reports in the US have cited Moderna as saying it would price the vaccine at $32 to $37 a dose, which could mean the two-dose vaccine would cost $64 to $74 per recipient. Medical experts in India have said the high-efficacy results are encouraging but cautioned that it is unclear whether, and how much of, the Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech candidates would be available for use in India. Russia has offered India 100 million doses of its candidate vaccine but clinical trials to assess the efficacy of the Russian candidate in India are yet to be conducted. Health minister Harsh Vardhan had said last month that India hoped to immunise 250 million people with a Covid-19 vaccine by July 2021. The health ministry has asked the states to draw up lists of high-priority groups, such as healthcare workers, to receive the earliest doses. But members of an expert panel tracking Covid-19 vaccines have asserted that until India knows which vaccine will be available for a domestic roll-out, such numbers are “tentative” and only part of multiple scenarios discussed for advanced planning. An analysis by health researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre, released earlier this month, had cautioned that advance orders for Covid-19 vaccines from high-income countries could leave hundreds of millions of people in the developing countries without vaccines in the early years of the roll-outs. But scientists say the high efficacy observed with three different candidates appears to validate a core vaccine design strategy adopted also by other candidate vaccines, including efforts in India. What the three sets of results suggest collectively is that “the spike protein antibodies protect people”, Gagandeep Kang, a senior microbiologist and vaccine science expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. A Pune-based company, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, has developed an m-RNA-based candidate vaccine against Covid-19, similar to the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech candidates, and is awaiting approvals from central government panels to initiate human trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot clue to churn in Congress||Congress veteran and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has told off party colleague Kapil Sibal in a series of tweets at a time a view is growing in the party that matters may be heading to a “logical conclusion”. “There was no need for Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country,” Gehlot tweeted after Sibal said in an interview to The Indian Express newspaper that the party’s problems were not being addressed and people no longer saw it as an effective alternative. Gehlot added in his tweets: “The Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996 — but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programmes, policies and firm belief in party leadership. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed the UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too.” “There are various reasons for electoral losses. But each time, the rank and file of the Congress party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crisis. Even today, the Congress is the only party which can keep this nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development.” A few hours earlier, a senior functionary had said in private in New Delhi that the Congress leadership was aware of the “mistakes” and “misdeeds” committed in Bihar and was determined to take corrective measures. But the leadership is anguished that a fresh eruption of dissent is dragging unconnected issues into the discourse, he had added. “We are aware that something went terribly wrong in Bihar, primarily with the selection of seats and candidates. Nobody denies that. We are aware of both mistakes and misdeeds,” the source, a key All India Congress Committee functionary, told The Telegraph. “But dragging the leadership question into the discourse to blame Rahul Gandhi is opportunistic and driven by mala fide intention. All these issues would have become irrelevant had we won a few more seats in Bihar. Logic based on situations is often driven by a negative agenda.” He also referred to what Sibal had said in the interview about organisational affairs, the alleged lack of introspection and the Congress not being seen as an alternative anywhere in the country. “These issues have been resolved; the process for a new president has been set in motion,” the AICC functionary said. "Public bickering cannot be allowed. One person speaks and then others start. This will have to be taken to the logical conclusion. Morale is anyway low after the Bihar results, and internal sniping makes it worse.” He did not explain what he meant by “logical conclusion” but appeared to be hinting at tough action that could put the Congress at the crossroads. That the leadership is prepared to confront the dissenting voices was reflected also in the reactions from other office-bearers. Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said Sibal should not have spoken about the party leadership and other unconnected issues. Spokesperson Pawan Khera and Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas asked those who deliver sermons on the party’s plight what they had done in the past few years to strengthen the Congress. There seemed a determination to crush dissent if it came through the media. Sources close to the leadership said the “Group of 23” dissenters were no longer united. The term refers to 23 senior politicians who had written to Sonia Gandhi in August about the drift in the party and were sidelined after that. They included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Veerappa Moily. “There is no doubt a divide, though many of those 23 leaders who signed the letter to Sonia Gandhi have realised their mistake and don’t want to intensify the internal rift,” a source said. “We are aware that some leaders aren’t willing to reconcile. That’s unfortunate. But we hope there will be corrective measures. Those who break party discipline, those who violate laid-down processes of candidate selection, those who underperform --- none of them will be spared. We have also taken note of the poor performance in the by-elections and action will follow.” Congress leaders believe that it’s because of the internal bickering that the attacks are coming from outside as well. RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary had on Sunday questioned Rahul’s handling of the party and his interest in the Bihar election, accusing him of picnicking in Shimla instead of campaigning in the state. He said Rahul had visited Bihar just three times and that the Congress’s performance had hamstrung the alliance. Tejashwi Yadav didn’t endorse the attack, asking party spokesperson Manoj Jha to immediately issue a clarification. Jha dismissed Tiwary’s outburst as his personal opinion and insisted that all the alliance partners had fought the election with unity of purpose. Some Congress leaders wondered why such swift actions didn’t come from Sonia. While many Bihar Congress leaders were openly playing the blame game, general secretary Anwar had said the alliance had lost because of the Congress’s poor performance. Sibal, in his interview, regretted that it was business as usual in the party despite the successive setbacks. “For six years the Congress has not introspected; what hope do we have for introspection now? We know what is wrong with the Congress. Organisationally, we know what is wrong,” he said. “I think we have all the answers. The Congress party itself knows all the answers. But they are not willing to recognise those answers. If they do not recognise those answers, then the graph will continue to decline. That is the sorry state of affairs that the Congress is in, and that is what we are concerned about.” Vivek Tankha, Rajya Sabha member and head of the party’s legal cell, tweeted in response: “Kapil ji is an iconic lawyer & hardcore Congress personality. Together & individually we have fought countless battles & continue to fight against BJP shenanigans. For our democracy to survive Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram’s son and Lok Sabha member Karti Chidambaram quoted Sibal’s interview and tweeted: “It’s time we introspect, ideate, consult & act.” Rahul avoided the debate and remained focused on his pet theme. Posting a news report that said industrialist Gautam Adani’s wealth had increased by 230 per cent since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, Rahul tweeted a query: “And Yours?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||After reluctance, Supreme Court notice on Kerala journalist||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on a plea to grant immediate bail to Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan who has been in custody since October 5 after he was detained on his way to Hathras where a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has posted the matter for hearing on Friday, although the court was initially reluctant to entertain the plea on the ground that it wanted to discourage citizens from directly approaching the top court for relief. The matter had drawn attention recently when Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court after he was in custody in Maharashtra for eight days. The high court had asked Goswami to approach the sessions court. Kappan has been incarcerated for over 40 days now. Uttar Pradesh police have booked Kappan under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after accusing him of being associated with the Popular Front of India, which is considered an extremist organisation but which is not banned. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that had sought Kappan’s release, said that there were a number of occasions on which the court had directly entertained petitioners for relief. When the bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, asked Sibal why the petitioner did not approach Allahabad High Court for bail, he said lawyers were not being allowed to meet Kappan, now lodged in a Mathura jail. “I (Kappan) am inside the jail since October 6. The FIR does not mention me,” Sibal told the bench. He said the local magistrate had refused to grant permission for lawyers and family members to meet him. Justice Bobde asked Sibal: “Why did you not approach the high court? We are not on merits at all, but we are trying to discourage Article 32 petitions… there are a spate of Article 32 petitions every day.” Article 32 empowers any person to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of his or her fundamental rights. Sibal said that unless lawyers were allowed to meet Kappan, they would not be able to understand the factual position. “This is about a journalist who continues to be in jail. These are exceptional circumstances,” Sibal said. The KUWJ had filed a habeas corpus petition, which is invoked for producing any person whose whereabouts are not known. Since it is known that Kappan is now in  judicial custody, the court wanted the petition before it to be amended. “We issue notice. Let the matter be listed this Friday. You have not filed their amended petition,” Justice Bobde said. Sibal responded: “We could not meet the gentleman.  How do we amend? We have filed an affidavit to this effect.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Bihar alliance without a single elected Muslim||Bihar has for the first time since Independence got a ruling coalition without a single MLA from its largest minority community. None of the four parties in the National Democratic Alliance — the BJP, Janata Dal United, Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party — has a single MLA from among Muslims, who make up over 16 per cent of the state's population. Of these four, the JDU alone had fielded Muslim candidates, all 11 of whom lost. Nitish Kumar, who on Monday took oath as chief minister for the seventh time and who flaunts his “socialist-secular” credentials, will therefore have to form a council of ministers without a single Muslim member elected directly by the people. He has, of course, the option of engaging in the “tokenism” of appointing a Muslim minister and then nominating them to the state legislative council. All the non-NDA parties or combines that have won seats — apart from the Lok Janshakti Party — have their share of Muslim MLAs. The Rashtriya Janata Dal has 8 Muslims among its 75 MLAs, the Congress has 4 out of 19, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has 5 out of 5, and the Left parties have 1 out of 16. The Bahujan Samaj Party’s lone MLA is a Muslim. Veteran socialist leader Shivanand Tiwary, who has worked with both Lalu Prasad and Nitish for over 40 years, put in perspective the loss of the JDU’s Muslim candidates despite their party’s origin and upbringing in Bihar’s socialist tradition. He referred to developments at some of the joint campaign meetings held by Nitish and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Seemanchal and Mithila areas. “Nitish remained a silent spectator to Modi shouting ‘Jai Sri Ram’ and demonstrating his ‘victory’ in (amending) Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir to polarise the voters on communal lines from the dais,” he said. “Faced with anger and anti-incumbency, Nitish’s JDU banked on the benefits of the polarisation that the speeches by the Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath delivered. Obviously, the minorities found the BJP and the JDU to be on the same page and didn’t vote for his candidates.” Yet the JDU is in no way similar to the BJP in terms of origin, growth or larger ideology. Abdul Ghafoor, who was Bihar chief minister in the 1970s, was one of the founders of the Samata Party, from which the JDU was born in 1999. Socialist stalwart George Fernandes, a Christian from Mangalore, had been chief of Samata and later the JDU. When Samata struck an alliance with the BJP in 1996, it had recorded its reservations about the BJP’s agenda of repealing Article 370, introducing a uniform civil code and building a Ram temple on the disputed plot in Ayodhya. Muslims have held key ministerial and other constitutional posts ever since the first Assembly elections in Bihar in 1952, whether under the rule of the Congress, Samyukta Socialist Party, Janata Party, Janata Dal or the RJD —  even under the BJP-JDU alliance headed by Nitish until the latest election. From a larger perspective, the community has played a key role in Bihar’s history over the centuries. The road leading to Patna airport is named Peer Ali Marg after a hero of the 1857 revolt. Socialist revolutionary Taqi Rahim was the right-hand man of Jayaprakash Narayan who led the 1970s movement from Bihar that led to Indira Gandhi’s Congress losing power at the Centre in the post-Emergency 1977 election. Muslims have presided over both Houses in Bihar. Ghulam Sarwar was Speaker of the Assembly during Lalu Prasad’s first term as chief minister and Jabir Hussein was chairperson of the legislative council during the later years of RJD rule. “While Nitish is on the verge of creating history by logging the longest tenure as Bihar chief minister after Sri Krishna Sinha, he will also go down in history as the one who led a coalition without a single Muslim MLA,” Shivanand said. “He (Nitish) has actually achieved the larger goal of the RSS to relegate the minorities to second-class citizens and deny them representation in political governance.” When Nitish led the Mahagathbandhan of the JDU, RJD and the Congress to power in 2015, his cabinet had the prominent Muslim face, Abdul Bari Siddiqui, from the RJD as finance minister. After Nitish returned to the BJP in 2017, he had Khurshid Feroz, a JDU lawmaker from Sikta, in his council of ministers. Khurshid was known for chanting "Jai Sri Ram" and donning saffron. Nitish has also had to accept the BJP central leadership's decision of replacing Sushil Kumar Modi with Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as deputy chief ministers. Sushil, one of the last stalwarts from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-L.K. Advani era, had stuck with Nitish throughout his career as BJP-JDU chief minister -- even at the cost of angering the Hindutva hardliners in his own party. Tarkishore represents the politics of polarisation and is the MLA from Katihar, which has a large Muslim population and borders election-bound Bengal. “Nitish’s oft-repeated motto of observing the triple Cs -- that is, a policy of no compromise with communalism, crime or corruption -- now sounds like a joke,” D.M. Diwakar, social economist and professor at the AN Sinha Institute of Social Sciences, said. "The results of this election have proved beyond doubt that the BJP, which bears the signature of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, has thoroughly subsumed Nitish’s JDU.” Nalin Verma is a veteran journalist and media educator||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Shaheen protesters at Supreme Court door||A group of people who were among the Shaheen Bagh protesters against the Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 on Monday urged the Supreme Court to review its judgment of October 7 that such protests can be held only at “designated” areas, arguing that such a direction will “lead to abuse of authority by the government”. “Prima facie the observations of this Hon’ble Court in the order under review appear to be giving way to an unrestricted sanction to the police to take action by misusing these observations. This is all the more troublesome when the police has in the recent past acted arbitrarily by beating students and protesters. The above observations, it is submitted, have clothed the police with an arbitrary discretion to attack any peaceful protester,” the review petition, which is yet to be listed for hearing, stated. According to the petition, the only way for citizens in a democracy to show their dissent towards legislations, policies and other governmental acts and omissions is by way of peaceful protests. So to put any kind of curb on this freedom to show dissent leaves the citizens with no resort whatsoever to voice their concerns. “…Propositions like holding protests at ‘designated places alone’ coming from judicial pronouncements shall upset the very concept of dissent and protest. In case of administrative action coming up with such propositions, the citizens still may approach the courts of law. However, in the present situation, the citizens are vulnerable and helpless. This is an obvious error on the face of it which requires review,” the petition said. According to the petitioners, the impugned judgment also sought to vest extraordinary powers on the police and political representatives to hold negotiations with the protesters which it said would be counter-productive as the authorities would never go against government’s policies. “Protests of this nature ought not to be subjected to the atrocities at the hands of a muscular administration which has targeted vulnerable citizens of this country wherever any peaceful protest have become politically inconvenient to the elected representatives in power. “In a liberal democracy, questions of serious importance such as the threat to a person’s citizenship cannot be confined to the mercy of political representatives without the protesters having a reasonable choice of location to protest so that their voice may be heard effectively,” the protesters in their joint petition said. The petitioners submitted that the impugned judgment is contrary to a 1972 five-judge constitution bench ruling in  the Himat Lal Shah case that there cannot be any excessive restrictions on public protests in a democracy. It quoted paragraph 70 of the said constitution bench judgment wherein it was observed: “Public meeting in open spaces and public streets forms part of the tradition of our national life. In the pre-Independence days such meetings have been held in open space and public streets and the people have come to regard it as a part of their privileges and immunities. The State and the local authority have a virtual monopoly of every open space at which an outdoor meeting can be held. If therefore, the State or municipality can constitutionally close both its streets and its parks entirely to public meetings, the practical result would be that it would be impossible to hold any open-air meetings in any large city… streets. “…Public parks existing primarily for other purposes and the social interests promoted by untrammeled exercise of freedom of utterance and assembly in public street must yield to social interest which prohibition and regulation of speech are designed to protect. But there is a constitutional difference between reasonable regulation and arbitrary exclusions…” Hence it urged the apex court to review its recent judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Adityanath, Rawat  stuck in Kedarnath due to snowfall||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his Uttarkhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat were stuck in Kedarnath for around nine hours because of snowfall and could not return to Lucknow and Dehradun respectively on Monday. After waiting for the weather to improve since 7.30am, the chief ministers flew in two helicopters along with some of their officers and security personnel to Gauchar, 50km from Kedarnath. Sources in the Uttarakhand government said they would be able to fly to Badrinath on Tuesday if the weather improved. Adityanath had gone to Kedarnath on Sunday afternoon to worship in the Kedarnath temple and witness its closing ceremony on Monday morning. However, his chopper could not take off in the morning. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister is supposed to lay the foundation stone of a tourist guesthouse in Badrinath before returning back to Lucknow. The gate of the Badrinath temple is expected to close on November 19. The Kedarnath and Badrinath temples in Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts respectively are being closed in winter because of snow. Even the residents leave the places and spend about five months in the plains before returning back to their homes in April. While there was a rumour that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend the closing ceremony in Kedarnath, Adityanath’s programme was made public two days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||BJP attacks Congress over Jammu & Kashmir tie-up||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said the Congress was joining the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and asked the party’s top leadership to clarify if they supported the restoration of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. “Madam Sonia ji and Shri Rahul Gandhi ji, please tell the nation clearly and categorically, does the Congress party want the restoration of Article 370 in the original form?” Prasad, who was fielded by the BJP, asked. Though senior Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram has already said the party supports the demand for the restoration of the special status that Jammu and Kashmir enjoyed before August 5, 2019, Sonia and Rahul have not spoken on the issue. The BJP wants to push the Gandhi family to clarify its position over the demand for the restoration of Article 370 in a bid to derive political mileage. The BJP has been doggedly trying to paint the Congress “anti-national” and the saffron party feels Article 370 can be effectively used to corner their political and ideological opponent. “We will not leave the issue. We will raise it across the country,” Prasad said. Prasad said People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, with the National Conference and the PDP as main players, was contesting the local body polls and now the Congress is joining it. He said the main agenda of the alliance is the restoration of Article 370. “Does it mean, the Congress party is going to support the annulment of all the pro-people and pro-poor laws being made applicable to J&K by Parliament?” Prasad asked, underlining that the annulment of Article 370 was in the interest of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The law minister also picked statements by National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah saying he had no compunction about seeking even China’s help for the restoration of Article 370 and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s remark that she won’t hoist the Tricolour unless the Jammu and Kashmir flag is restored to target the Congress. “Does the Congress support the statements of Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti?” he asked while terming them “zabardast desh virodhi baatein (strongly anti-national statements)”. Along with the Congress, the BJP leader also slammed Abdullah and Mufti for “disrespecting the constitutional parliamentary process”. Prasad accused the Gupkar alliance of trying to push Jammu and Kashmir back and deprive the people of the benefits of the central laws. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir unit chief Ravinder Raina on Monday said the decision of the Congress to join hands with the “Gupkar gang” is akin to joining hands with China and Pakistan”. “They are the people who speak the language of Imran Khan, Xi Jinping….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath with 2 deputies from BJP||Nitish Kumar took oath as Bihar chief minister for the seventh time on Monday but if he looked a little disenchanted as he gazed down from the Raj Bhavan dais, he had good reason. Not only was his trusted deputy Sushil Kumar Modi gone, the BJP had replaced the veteran with not one but two deputy chief ministers — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — in what seemed an attempt to clip Nitish’s wings. Also, the Janata Dal United looked likely to lose the Assembly Speaker’s post, with outgoing Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary — who Nitish had been keen to retain — taking oath as a minister. Sources in the BJP said former minister Nand Kishore Yadav could be appointed Speaker. Twelve ministers apart from Nitish, Tarkishore and Renu were sworn in. Six of the 15 who took the oath were from the JDU (including Nitish), seven from the BJP and one each from the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and the Vikassheel Insan Party. The cabinet is expected to be expanded later since Bihar is allowed 36 ministers. If Nitish felt undermined during the oath-taking, the BJP seemed to add insult to injury soon after. Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda, who had flown in to attend the swearing-in, returned to Delhi immediately after the ceremony without spending some time with Nitish at the Raj Bhavan. The portfolios are yet to be distributed. Nitish’s stature and clout in a government where his party is now the junior partner will become clearer once the important ministries like home, education and finance have been allotted. Already the BJP has engaged in a bit of “social engineering” that could weaken Nitish politically. While Tarkishore — from the Baniya (trading) caste — is an OBC like Sushil, Renu’s Nonia (salt maker) identity makes her an Extremely Backward Caste, so far seen as a promising vote bank for Nitish. The BJP has chosen its other ministers from an assortment of castes, keeping in mind identity arithmetic. It has retained only one minister, Mangal Pandey, from the previous cabinet, signalling a move at a new beginning. Nitish’s plight owes to his party winning just 43 seats against the BJP’s 74, with the Morcha and Vikassheel notching four seats each to give the alliance 125 of the Assembly’s 243 seats. Asked for his reaction at becoming chief minister again, Nitish said: “What else can be the reaction? Once again the responsibility is there and it has to be discharged.” He ducked the question whether he was missing Sushil and whether his former deputy’s vast experience should be utilised in some other capacity. “This (keeping Sushil away) is a BJP decision. You should ask the BJP about it,” Nitish said. Although Sushil attended the swearing-in, he stayed somewhat aloof and silent in the crowd of politicians. Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was present, said: “Nitish is our leader. The government will run strongly under his leadership.” Main Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal, the largest party in the Assembly with 75 seats, boycotted the ceremony. “We boycott the oath-taking ceremony. The public mandate for change is against the NDA. It was changed by the administrative order,” the RJD said. “The people are angry over the fraud committed by the NDA. We are public representatives and we stand with the people.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Congratulations to Nitish Kumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as ministers in the Bihar government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||RSS-Congress plot cry in Kerala||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Monday accused the Congress of aligning with an RSS plot to sabotage key infrastructure development in the state. The finance minister attacked state Congress general secretary Mathew Kuzhalnadan — a lawyer by profession — for appearing for a leader of RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch that moved the high court against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) borrowing funds from the bond market. State convener of Swadeshi Jagran Manch Ranjith Karthikeyan had recently moved Kerala High Court against the KIIFB, with Kuzhalnadan appearing for the petitioner. The petitioner had sought judicial intervention in freezing all funds the KIIFB raised by issuing bonds. Isaac said in a media statement that it was RSS leader and BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav who gave the clearance to file the case against the KIIFB and described Kuzhalnadan as the hatchet man in the plot to sabotage the infrastructure development in the state. The KIIFB has so far committed Rs 60,000-crore worth projects covering government schools, roads and bridges. While projects worth Rs 5,400 crore are complete, tender process is on for public works costing about Rs 30,000 crore. Kuzhalnadan rubbished the allegations and said he was only doing his job as a lawyer and would quit public life if the finance minister could prove his allegations. “If the finance minister can prove that I had met any RSS leader anywhere in the country over the KIIFB or any other matter, I will end my political career then and there,” said Kuzhalnadan. The Congress leader insisted that he stood by his arguments that the KIIFB borrowings did not have proper approvals from the Reserve Bank of India. “From what I know, the RBI had only given an NOC (no objection certificate) and not an approval for such borrowings,” said Kuzhalnadan. But the finance minister, who addressed a news conference in Alappuzha, countered by pointing out how the KIIFB was allowed to raise Rs 2,150 via masala bonds (rupee denominated bonds) in London Stock Exchange last year. “Does he think that we could have enlisted the bonds in London Stock Exchange without the RBI’s approval?” Isaac asked. “This is about the rights of a state to borrow money,” he said adding that nowhere was the state proscribed from seeking loans to the KIIFB. Isaac reminded the Congress that has taken up cudgels on behalf of Kuzhalnadan that even the states ruled by the party had been fighting the Centre’s attempt to stop them from taking loans. “Even Congress governments in various states had joined us in fighting against the Centre for trying to deny states the right to take loans,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Delhi health minister rules out fresh lockdown||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday ruled out the possibility of any more lockdowns to curb the rapid increase of coronavirus cases in the national capital. He told reporters on Monday: “The lockdown was a learning exercise. What we learnt is that the benefits of a lockdown can be obtained simply by wearing masks. Despite the lockdown, cases increased from a few hundred to thousands in the country. I don’t think it can be contained by a lockdown.” Daily cases crossed 8,000 here last week. Jain attributed some of these cases to patients from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. “The month on month comparison of deaths with previous years does not show an increase in deaths this year. If a person is ill, and he also has Covid then his death is attributed to the virus. The percentage of deaths is around 1 per cent,” he said. Jain also claimed that the third wave of the pandemic in Delhi had peaked. The positivity rate for Saturday was 15.3 per cent, the highest in 140 days. However, Jain said that he expected it to subside now as the crowds of Diwali shoppers have subsided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Odisha all-party meet on Question Hour||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro has called an all-party meeting on November 18 to discuss the procedures to be followed during the winter session, which will begin from November 20 and continue till December 3. Patro will seek the opinion of the MLAs on the vital issue of whether Question Hour should be held or not. “We will discuss whether there will be a Question Hour or not. However, efforts will be made to follow the practices adopted by Parliament,” Patro told reporters. According to the programme, the Assembly will have two sittings and the total duration of the sittings will be four-and-a-half hours every day. The MLAs attending the session physically will have to go through mandatory Covid tests. Even police officials and journalists will be subjected to Covid tests. Legislators also have the option to take part in the proceedings using the virtual platform. On the first day of the winter session, the supplementary budget of Rs 11,200 crore will be placed before the Assembly for approval. In a significant move, the Assembly secretariat has planned to go paperless this time. “All the employees of the Assembly are undergoing training for online file management. The Odisha Computer Application Centre is providing them training. The file work will be done using a software called Odisha Secretariat Workflow Automation System,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
