18-11-2020||India|| Bengaluru riots: NIA conducts search in 43 places across city||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted several search operations at Bengaluru in connection with the August 11 riots and attacks on the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations, said an official. The searches were conducted in 43 locations across the city, including four offices of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which is the political outfit of the Popular Front of India (PFI). “The cases pertain to large-scale rioting, causing injuries to police personnel, destruction of public and private property, including the police stations' buildings and public and private vehicles,” the NIA official said, while also informing that the rioters were carrying lethal weapons. The attacks, which set off fear and panic in the nearby locales, were aimed to cause terror in the society, the spokesperson said. The central agency recovered incriminating material relating to the SDPI and the PFI, including swords, knives and iron rods, which were seized during the searches, he added. On August 11, over 3,000 rioters went on a rampage and set fires to the residences of Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, his sister Jayanthi and the two police stations. The incident took off due to an alleged offensive post by the nephew of the Congress MLA, and resulted in the death of four persons. While three of them were killed in police firing, one sustained abdominal injuries during the violence, which led to his demise. Former Congress mayor R Sampath Raj, an accused in the violence, was recently arrested, while further investigation regarding the case is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||12 civilians injured in grenade attack at J&K’s Pulwama||At least 12 civilians were injured when militants launched a grenade attack on security personnel in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday, said the police. According to a police official, the incident took place in the Kakapora area of Pulwama. The grenade, he said, missed its intended target and hit the road, which resulted in the incident. The civilians, who sustained splinter injuries due to the explosion, were rushed to a nearby hospital, the official added. According to media reports, no security personnel was hurt in the attack. The official said that the area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the militants. This comes days after India had summoned Pakistan High Commission’s Charge d'Affaires,lodging a heavy protest over several unprovoked violations in ceasefire by the Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir last Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, also condemned the "deliberate targeting" of civilians by the neighbouring country’s forces. The statement also called out Pakistan’s act of choosing an Indian festive occasion to perpetrate violence thereby disrupting peace in Jammu and Kashmir with its coordinated attacks along the LoC. Five security personnels were killed in the attacks along with four civilians, while 19 others were seriously injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||Varavara Rao to be shifted to Nanavati Hospital||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that it will move jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao to Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for his treatment. The state, following an intervention of a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar, said that it will shift the 81-year-old to the Nanavati hospital as a “special case”. Rao is currently lodged at the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, as an unter-trial in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Deepak Thakre, the state’s counsel, had told the court that the decision was taken as per the directions of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who said that the state had no problem in moving Rao to the Nanavati Hospital, which is a private facility. The court directed the state to bear the cost of the poet’s treatment, adding that he should not be discharged from the hospital without the HC being notified. Rao’s family members should be able to meet him, the court instructed. It further said that the state should produce all medical reports of him before the bench. The court, while also hearing a bail plea filed by him on medical grounds, asked his counsel, senior advocate Indira Jaising, to restrict her arguments to the interim permission to move Rao to the hospital. Jaising did not press on the matter after the suggestion. Jaising, however, said that Rao had developed a urinary tract infection in prison, suffered from dementia, and his "mental and physical health condition was fast diminishing". She warned that Rao might die in prison, and his condition cannot be treated in the Taloja prison and needed specialists’ care. Following this, the court asked the National investigation Agency (NIA) why rao cannot be moved to nanavati hospital. "Ultimately the man is on almost his deathbed. He needs some treatment. Can the State say no we will treat him in Taloja?" "We are only asking to transfer him to the Nanavati Hospital for two weeks. We will further see after two weeks," said the bench. Initially, both the NIA and the state had objected to shifting him to the Nanavati Hospital, saying that other prisoners will want the same as well. The court will next hear the case on December 3. Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||Indian Railways to arrange 800 beds for Delhi's Covid-19 treatment||In a bid to help Delhi in its fight against the rising cases of Coronavirus, Indian Railways have decided to make available coaches with 800 beds at a station here to be used as Covid care-cum-isolation facilities while as many as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces are on standby in the national capital for deployment on Covid-19 duties, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is going to add 250 ICU beds to the existing 250 in addition to creating 35 BIPAP beds in the next 3-4 days at its Covid-19 hospital near the Delhi airport, a home ministry spokesperson said. These developments come in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday after Delhi saw fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. The spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi has been witnessed since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. Delhi recorded 6,396 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.95 lakh, even as 99 new fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, authorities said. The rising coronavirus cases in Delhi are attributed to the festive season, non-compliance of COVID-19 safety behaviour and rising pollution in the city. Forty-five doctors and 160 paramedics from paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi for deployment at DRDO hospital near Delhi airport and at a COVID care centre at Chhatarpur, the spokesperson said. More doctors and paramedics will reach Delhi in the next few days. The home ministry has constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit more than 100 private hospitals in Delhi for assessing bed utilisation and testing capacity and to identify extra ICU beds. Visits by the teams are underway. The Railways is making available coaches with 800 beds at Shakur Basti railway station while doctors and paramedics from paramilitary forces will man the coaches which will act as Covid care-cum-isolation facilities. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Delhi government are working together to enhance RT-PCR testing capacity to 60,000 tests by end of November. Testing capacity has already been enhanced by 10,000 tests per day on November 17, the spokesperson said. The planning for house-to-house survey in Delhi is in the advanced stage. The survey is expected to begin by the end of the week and completed by November 25. According to the spokesperson, Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has dispatched 250 ventilators from Bengaluru and these are expected to reach Delhi by the end of the week. The Union health ministry has delivered 35 BIPAP machines to DRDO Covid facility near the Delhi airport. To bring testing closer to Delhi residents, the ICMR will help Delhi government in deploying 10 mobile testing laboratories with a total capacity of 20,000 tests in a phased manner beginning next week. The ICMR will also help in augmenting capacity by 2,000 tests of existing Delhi laboratories by deploying more manpower, increasing number of shifts and placing more equipment and through engagement with private sector laboratories so that per day 60,000 RT-PCR tests could be done by November end. Five RT-PCR laboratories including at AIIMS, Delhi have already started functioning round-the-clock. Orientation meeting of deputy commissioners, municipal corporations officials and other stakeholders were conducted by the union health ministry. As many as 25 BIPAP machines for the Delhi government will be provided by health ministry, the spokesperson said. Sunday's meeting was convened in the wake of the rising number of cases, which is being called the 'third wave' of Covid-19, in Delhi and it noted the increasing strain on medical infrastructure in the city. Apart from Shah, those who attended the meeting include Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan among others. It was the second major intervention by Shah, who had stepped in and announced several steps in June to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital after criticism in different quarters of the Delhi government's handling of the crisis. Shah had said that the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi, as also in the neighbouring areas of the National Capital Region (NCR), would be reviewed on a continuous basis over the coming weeks. The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases till date here was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were recorded. Ninety-nine fatalities were recorded, pushing the toll in the national capital to 7,812. The active cases tally on Tuesday rise to 42,004 from 40,128, previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 4,95,598, while the recovery rate stood at over 89 per cent. The number of containment zones in Delhi increased to 4,449 on Tuesday. The National Centre for Disease Control, in a report drafted recently, had warned that Delhi needed to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases per day, taking into account the winter-related respiratory problems, a large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings. In June, when the number of Covid-19 cases was on the rise in Delhi, there were complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals and difficulty in getting tests done in laboratories. Leading from the front, the home minister ensured that the facilities were augmented by increasing the numbers of daily testing, hospital beds and setting up of temporary hospitals and COVID care centre. A committee set up by Shah also fixed the rates for testing, beds in private hospitals, ICUs and isolation beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||No Chhath Puja at public places, Delhi HC backs state govt||The Delhi High Court Wednesday refused to interfere with AAP government's decision to ban Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The high court said the third wave of the infection was already underway in the national capital and allowing a large gathering would result in people becoming super spreaders. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad dismissed a petition by Durga Jan Seva Trust, challenging the November 10 order of chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) not to allow any gathering in public places for Chhath Puja on November 20. The trust sought permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people for Chhath Puja. To this, the bench remarked, "Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons. How come?" The bench said the authorities passed the order after considering the spread of infection in Delhi and the petition was meritless. "In today's day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality," the bench said, adding that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city. The high court said it appeared that the petitioner is not alive to the COVID-19 situation. The infection rate is hovering around 7,800 to 8,593 and the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases, it noted. Chhath Puja is celebrated by thousands of people in the capital, especially those hailing from Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister summoned by Mumbai police again ||Mumbai police on Wednesday asked actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel to appear before them on November 23 and 24 respectively over their "objectionable comments" on social media aimed at "spreading communal tension". This is the third time Mumbai police have asked them to appear before the Bandra police in the matter. They were earlier asked to be present on October 26 and 27 respectively but failed to appear. They were later asked to appear on November 9 and 10 but did not do so. Kangana had informed police that she was busy with a wedding in the family and will be available after November 15. Mumbai police had issued the second notice to Kangana Ranaut and Rangoli Chandel on November 3 and ordered them to appear before it on November 9 and 10 respectively. Both the sisters were booked for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through posts on social media. Bandra police on October 21 issued a notice to Kangana and her sister to record statements in the case. Ranauts lawyer then informed police that she was in Himachal Pradesh and busy with the wedding preparations. The Bandra metropolitan magistrate's court last month ordered police to investigate a complaint filed by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer Munawwar Ali Sayyed, referring to the tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister. Police filed an FIR against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention) and also asked Kangana and her sister to appear before the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality 'moderate', no sudden change likely||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the moderate category on Wednesday morning, while government agencies said no significant change is likely in the next three to four days. The mercury is also predicted to dip to single digits by Saturday. On Wednesday morning, it was 10.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department. The air quality index (AQI) stood at 414, in the severe category, on Diwali day. But rain and high-velocity winds under the influence of a Western Disturbance brought relief from high pollution levels. The city's 24-hour average AQI improved from 435 on Sunday to 221 on Monday. On Tuesday, it was 171. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to remain in the moderate and the lower end of the poor category on Thursday and Friday. On Wednesday, the prominent surface wind direction will be northwesterly and the maximum wind speed will be 10 kmph, it said. The wind speed will continue to be favourable for dispersion of pollutants over the next three to four days, according to IMD. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed will be around 5,000 m2/s on Wednesday and 7,500 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said very few farm fire were observed over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday and their impact on air quality of Delhi is likely to be negligible . The IMD said the minimum temperature in Delhi is predicted to drop to 9 degrees Celsius by Saturday, as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Ten dead, 16 injured in a truck collision in Vadodara||At least 10 people died and 16 others were injured when a mini-truck in which they were travelling rammed into another truck on the outskirts of Gujarat's Vadodara city early Wednesday morning, police said. The accident took place at Waghodia circle near the city around 2.45 am when the victims were heading towards Pavagadh in Panchmahal district, Vadodara Deputy Commissioner of Police Karanraj Vaghela said. "At least 10 persons, including five women, died in the accident. The mini-truck, carrying around 25 people, rammed into a truck trailer from behind," Vadodara Police Commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said. The injured persons were rushed to a civil hospital, Vaghela said. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident near Vadodara. Instructed officials to do needful. May those who have been injured recover at the earliest. I pray for the departed souls. Om Shanti," Rupani tweeted. The victims, all from Varachha area of Surat city, were heading towards Pavagadh, a famous religious place in Panchmahal located near Vadodara, Vaghela said. Some families from Varachha in Surat had hired the mini-truck to visit temples at Pavagadh, Vadtal and Dakor (in Kheda), he said. An investigation was underway to find out the cause of the accident, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed grief over a road accident in Gujarat's Vadodara that left at least 10 people dead and said that the administration is providing all possible assistance to the needy. In a tweet, Modi said, "Saddened by the accident in Vadodara. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. Praying that the injured recover soon. The administration is providing all possible assistance at the site of the accident."  Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressed deep anguish over the loss of lives in a road accident in Gujarat saying he has spoken to the local administration which is providing all assistance. "Deeply anguished to learn about the loss of lives in a tragic road accident in Vadodara, Gujarat. Have spoken to the local administration they are providing all possible assistance. Condolences with the bereaved families. May injured recover at the earliest," Shah tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Some countries supporting cross-border terrorism amid Covid, says India in UN||The Covid-19 pandemic has not prevented some countries from supporting cross-border terrorism and spreading religious hatred, India has said at the UN, in an apparent reference to Pakistan, asserting that the United Nations must speak decisively and not take sides among religions or justify terrorism in any way. India's Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti, said on Tuesday that India condemns all forms of anti-semitism and all forms of discrimination on religious grounds anywhere in the world. "We now have countries taking advantage of the ongoing pandemic and spreading divisive hatred to other parts of the world on the basis of religion. COVID has not prevented them from supporting cross-border terrorism to kill innocent people and spread religious hatred, he said, without naming any country. Tirumurti said India calls on those countries to stop spreading anti-semitism and hatred and stop dividing the world on the basis of religion. "We ask them to look inwards to promote harmony within their own societies, stop sectarian violence and ensure the protection of minorities. We believe it is important for the United Nations to speak decisively and not take sides with one group of religions vis-a-vis the others or justify terrorism in any way," he said. Tirumurti was addressing the virtual high-level event by World Jewish Congress on combating anti-semitism. India co-sponsored the online side event, which was held in partnership with the Permanent Mission of the Germany to the UN in collaboration with Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Israel, Romania, Slovakia and Uruguay. He said India is a country which is home to all major religions of the world and is a nation that has given birth to several religions -- the most prominent of them being Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism. "I also come from a country which does not have any trace of anti-semitism, Tirumurti said, highlighting India's thriving Jewish community that goes back more than 2,000 years. He said the Jewish community is an integral part of the pluralistic fabric of India, and it has enriched this fabric as much as any other community. "In this river called Indian civilization, every faith and every denomination is embraced in the framework of our democratic structure, pluralism, harmony and mutual acceptance, the Indian diplomat said. Tirumurti also highlighted the numerous milestones over the period of 2,000 years of Jewish community in India -- from the Jewish community being granted sanctuary by the Hindu Maharaja of Cochin Rama Varma in Kerala when it faced persecution from some European powers in the 16th century and the King of Jamnagar Maharaja Digvijaysinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja who in 1942 provided refuge and protection to more than 1,000 Polish children, including Jewish children when they were denied entry by other countries, bringing them up as his own. He also spoke about the dastardly" Mumbai terror attacks in November 2008 carried out by Pakistani terrorists. Tirumurti said the whole of India prayed for baby Moshe Holtzberg, who was saved by his Indian caregiver, Sandra Samuel, when terrorists stormed Nariman House and killed the little baby's father Rabbi Gavriel and mother Rivka, who was five months pregnant at the time. He added that there are many well known Jewish-Indians who have distinguished themselves in all walks of life, including General J F R Jacob, a national hero in India who led the Eastern Command of the Indian Army during India's victory in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. The World Jewish Congress held the high-level online event on the role of the UN in combating antisemitism as a side event to the 75th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. Antisemitism poses a threat to democratic values, peace and stability, and the World Jewish Congress has long worked with the United Nations to ensure that the fight against antisemitism is a priority of the UN's human rights agenda, it said in a statement. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 89-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 89 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.52 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 89,12,907 with 38,617 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,30,993 with 474 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 4,46,805 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.01 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 83,35,109 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.52 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of more than 12.74 crore samples have been tested up to November 17 with 9,37,279 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 474 new fatalities include 99 from Delhi, 68 from Maharashtra, 52 from West Bengal, 30 from Punjab, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Haryana. A total of 1,30,993 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,102 from Maharashtra followed by 11,557 from Karnataka, 11,513 from Tamil Nadu, 7,812 from Delhi, 7,766 from West Bengal, 7,412 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,890 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,510 from Punjab and 3,815 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||India hopes ride on vaccines on trial at home||India at best will have limited access to the promising vaccines against the coronavirus disease from Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech and will need to depend on one or more of the five vaccine candidates under trial in the country, researchers said. Clinical trial results have found the Moderna vaccine to be over 94 per cent effective and the Pfizer-BioNTech product over 90 per cent effective in protecting people from the Covid-19 infection and bolstered hopes for early vaccine roll-outs. But Indian health officials and vaccine researchers are convinced that any mass vaccination campaign against Covid-19 in India would have to hinge on other vaccine candidates under evaluation here. In addition to their high observed efficacy, both, the vaccine from Moderna, a US biotech company, and the one developed by US-based Pfizer in collaboration with BioNTech in Germany, use genetic material called RNA, a vaccine “platform” that comes with certain advantages. But, experts say, the anticipated high costs of these RNA vaccines as well as advance purchase orders already made by the high-income countries will, if at all, make only limited inventories available for the developing countries, including India. The Pfizer-BioNTech product demands ultra-cold storage temperatures of minus 70 degrees, which experts have pointed out would make distributing the vaccine across India a serious challenge. “Our hopes are in the other vaccines,” said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine expert panel, referring to the five candidates under test or soon to be tested in India. “We will get more doses from them. We will get the doses we need to address the pandemic.” India is currently testing three vaccine candidates — a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, a DNA vaccine from Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, and the Oxford vaccine produced in India by Pune-based Serum Institute. Clinical trials on two more vaccines — a candidate from Russia and one from the Hyderabad-based Biological E — are also set to begin. Members of the vaccine expert panel have told The Telegraph that they expect one or more of these vaccines to support large-scale immunisation in the country. Bharat Biotech has indicated that it can currently produce 300 million doses annually and raise capacity to 500 million doses. Health officials said Serum had indicated a capacity of over 70 million doses a month. But as Serum is producing the vaccine under licence from AstraZeneca, only 50 per cent of its production capacity will be available for the Indian market. “Any timelines on vaccine rollout in India can be determined once we know which vaccine will be available,” said another member of the expert panel. While the results on the Oxford vaccine are expected in December, Bharat’s efficacy trial results are expected during the first or second quarter of 2021, scientists familiar with the trials said. While India also has an RNA vaccine candidate from a Pune-based company that has shown promising animal results, the candidate is still awaiting government approval for human trials. An analysis earlier this month of advance purchase orders had found that high-income countries and some middle-income countries have reserved 8.8 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines, with some high-income countries booking more doses than needed by their populations. Canada, for instance, has booked vaccines to cover its population five times. While Indian health officials have not revealed details of any deals with vaccine companies, the analysis by researchers at the US-based Duke University Health Innovation Centre had said India had confirmed 600 million doses — enough for 300 million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Plea to rights panel for Stan Swamy treatment||A disability rights group has written to the National Human Rights Commission chairperson demanding that the ailing and elderly Fr Stan Swamy, who is lodged in a Maharashtra jail over alleged Maoist links, be given the treatment and facilities he needs to survive. In the letter to NHRC chairperson Justice H.L. Dattu on Tuesday, the CPM-backed National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) said that the condition of the 83-year-old Catholic priest was worsening because of the improper care he was receiving for Parkinson’s Disease. The letter, written by NPRD general secretary Muralidharan, says: “Those living with Parkinson’s often have tremors (involuntary, uncontrollable muscle contractions manifesting as shaking in body parts, most often the hands)…. He has trouble eating because of the tremors. He is unable to take bath, bring water or wash clothes on his own. “Fr Stan also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids for both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past and hence may not be in a position to go through a strenuous schedule as demanded in the jail. He used to take daily steam inhalations too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Supreme Court frowns on government report on Tablighi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up the Centre after it filed an affidavit glossing over television coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in the capital in the summer and focused largely on the print media and news portals to give a blanket clean chit to the reporting. The court suggested that the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism under the Cable Television Network Act to deal with such content on news channels. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde expressed displeasure with the affidavit, prompting the Centre to offer to file a fresh one. The matter will be heard again after three weeks. “What is shown on TV channels is of great consequence for the country,” Justice Bobde said. The Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind and others had approached the court alleging that a section of the media had spread communal hatred over the Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of pandemic. The Union government as well as the Right-wing ecosystem had tried to create an impression that the Tablighi delegates were primarily responsible for the spread of the virus in the country. Some television channels had used terms such as “Corona Jihad” and “Corona Bombs” and whipped up an atmosphere in which Muslims were stigmatised. However, the Centre, choosing to selectively play the champion of freedom of expression, had filed an affidavit that confined itself to the print media and a few portals. Based on their coverage, the Centre said  the newspapers have “carried largely factual reports in this context” and online news portals undertook objective reporting. “The media has made a clear distinction between the organisers and attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat event and the larger Muslim community in general,” the Centre’s affidavit said. On Tuesday, the bench headed by Chief Justice Bobde, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre: “We are not happy with the reply of the central government. You have not dealt with the applicability of the Cable Television Networks Act and the legal regime concerning this…. First, you did not file a proper affidavit and then you filed an affidavit which did not deal with the two important questions. This way it cannot be done, Mr Mehta.” The bench includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. When Mehta, along with the Centre’s counsel Rajat Sharma, said a majority of media houses had observed sobriety and there was no communal tinge to the reports, Justice Bobde observed: “You have to tell us how you have acted under the Cable TV Act in some prior incident.   We want to know the mechanism employed by you and this affidavit has nothing on it.” The court turned down Mehta’s suggestion that the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) be permitted to deal with violations of the provisions by the channels if any. “Why should we refer to the NBSA etc… when you (the Centre) have the authority to look into it? If it does not exist,  then you create an authority, else, we will hand it over to an outside agency,” Justice Bobde said. The NBSA is a self-regulatory body and the concerns raised by the court can be addressed by it, the solicitor-general submitted. The Centre has ample powers to regulate the content of TV channels but it takes a “…very cautious approach as right to free speech as a fundamental right is available to media”, Mehta said. But the court said the Centre must create a mechanism for addressing grievances against fake news circulated by TV channels and media. Mehta offered to file a fresh affidavit, following which the bench adjourned the matter by three weeks. The latest affidavit filed by the Centre had stated that the government till date had issued 743 orders for blocking fake or misleading content on Covid-19  on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Kerala finance minister alleges ‘massive conspiracy’ to scuttle development work ||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Tuesday alleged a “massive conspiracy” to scuttle development work in Kerala, pointing out that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India had added several pages of previously not discussed remarks against an ambitious project without even seeking the state’s explanation. The minister corrected himself and said the “draft” CAG report he had been referring to for the past three days was in fact the final report of the central audit machinery. On how he had earlier concluded that it was a “draft” report, Isaac told a media conference in Alappuzha on Tuesday that he had never seen a final report that contained remarks that were not addressed in the draft report. “Never before had I seen anything in a final report that had not been discussed or explained in a draft report. The CAG has added four new pages of remarks against the KIIFB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board),” the finance minister said. “How can I assume that certain remarks that were not even made during the exit meetings with the CAG would find place in the final report?” Isaac asked. The CPM veteran said the four additional pages in the CAG report dealt with the constitutionality of floating masala bonds in the London Stock Exchange to raise funds for the KIIFB, registered as a corporate body under the state government. “They added these pages in Delhi without even informing the state government…. This is not a small game but a massive conspiracy to destroy Kerala,” Isaac alleged. “It’s not whether this is a draft or final report. The issue is how it will affect development work in Kerala,” he added. The finance minister said one of the three points raised by the CAG was about loans taken by the KIIFB to fund infrastructure development in Kerala. The CAG has described the borrowings as “off-budget loans”. It has also remarked that the loans taken by the KIIFB were as good as state loans and hence created a liability and was in violation of Article 293 (1) of the Constitution that makes central approval mandatory for all such borrowings. The third point was about the KIIFB’s Rs 2,150 external borrowings via masala bonds listed last year at the London Stock Exchange. Isaac refuted the CAG’s charges and said the KIIFB loans were entirely “on-budget”. “A separate agency is taking this loan just to circumvent the borrowing ceiling on the state government. But the government provides money for the KIIFB to repay the loans via 50 per cent of the motor vehicles tax and petrol cess,” the finance minister noted. But the admission that Isaac was in possession of the final report of the CAG before even tabling it in the Assembly became a whip in the hands of the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed it a “gross violation of his oath of office” and demanded Isaac’s resignation. “He has committed a grave violation of procedures and insulted the Assembly,” Chennithala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||‘Celebrity bias’ in Editors Guild of India||Latent disquiet in newsrooms about the way some celebrity anchors are being defended with alacrity and others being left to fend for themselves has spilled out in the open with an editor resigning from the Editors Guild of India. Patricia Mukhim, editor of The Shillong Times, has sent her resignation letter to the Guild, saying the association was playing to the gallery to defend celebrity anchors while choosing to ignore the plea of one of its members. In the resignation letter, Mukhim mentioned Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami who was recently arrested in a suicide abetment case. The Guild, founded 42 years ago with “the twin objectives of protecting press freedom and for raising the standards of editorial leadership of newspapers and magazines”, had condemned the arrest of Goswami and found it “extremely distressing”. The Guild had called upon the Maharashtra chief minister to ensure that Goswami, who has been granted interim bail by the Supreme Court since then, was treated fairly and state power was not used against critical reporting by the media. Mukhim said she sent her resignation letter as a member to Guild president Seema Mustafa on Monday but declined to reveal details.  Mustafa could not be contacted by this newspaper for comment but sources said efforts were on to persuade Mukhim to stay on. Two executive committee members of the Guild called her on Monday and requested her to reconsider her decision, Mukhim said. Mukhim added that she was firm on her decision. The resignation letter accessed by this newspaper shows Mukhim was upset with the Guild for “maintaining complete silence” after Meghalaya High Court on November 10 refused to quash an FIR filed against her. The Shillong Times is the second oldest English daily in the Northeast. The FIR was filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional institution) for her July 4 Facebook post following an attack on a group of non-tribal youths playing basketball in a Shillong locality. The court had observed that the post  “apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities”. Defending her post, Mukhim had said earlier that she only raised the issue of “continued” attacks on non-tribal persons in her post. “I had shared this High Court order with the Guild hoping that it would at least give out a statement condemning the HC order but there was and has been complete silence from the executive. Ironically, the Guild responded with alacrity and issued a statement condemning Arnab Goswami’s arrest (a non-member), not on grounds of journalistic pursuits but on an abetment to suicide case,” Mukhim’s resignation letter said. Sources said Goswami had resigned from the Guild earlier but it had not been accepted yet. Mukhim added in the letter: “I see this as a classic case of the Guild playing to the gallery to defend celebrity editors/anchors whose voices matter while choosing to deliberately ignore a plea (unstated) from one of its members. Clearly, this is also a case of prejudice and a deliberate attempt to push those in the margins even further away so that they disappear completely from the national discourse (since the Guild is a national association of editors) and leave them to deal with the matter in their personal capacity. “A Facebook post is also another form of media to draw attention to a serious issue. It may not be a purely ‘journalistic’ pursuit but it still is a platform of communication which is taken seriously by the powers that be, hence an FIR being filed….” “As such, it is no longer tenable for me to be part of this hallowed group of editors whose loyalties are to those that occupy a certain elite space. In fact, I feel completely out of place; almost an outlier in the Guild. Kindly therefore accept my resignation…,” Mukhim’s letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Riot arson cuffs on Karnataka councillor ||A Congress leader and former mayor was on Tuesday arrested in connection with rioting that left a party MLA’s house gutted and four dead in August. The arrest of Sampath Raj, an influential councillor, ended a two-week hunt that followed his escape from a private hospital where he had been treated for Covid-19. Raj has been named in the chargesheet on the August 11 violence that rocked parts of Bangalore over an offensive Facebook post by the nephew of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. Murthy had then claimed he had nothing to do with his nephew P. Naveen, who was arrested over the post. Naveen is believed to have Hindu Right-wing leanings, apparently the reason why Murthy distanced himself from his nephew. Four youths, alleged to be among the rioters, were killed when police opened fire at a mob that attacked a police station in an eastern neighbourhood of the city. The rioters had burned down Murthy’s house and attacked the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in a pitched street battle with riot cops. While the police had rounded up more than 150 suspects, Murthy had maintained that some of his own party colleagues had masterminded the attack to capitalise on a political rivalry. Raj gave the slip on October 30 after spending nearly a month in the private hospital where he was treated for Covid. The police later arrested his aide, Riyazuddin, and councillor A.R. Zakeer who had helped Raj escape from the hospital and hide at Nagarhole in Mysore district. The delay in arresting Raj had led a city-based lawyer to Karnataka High Court, which had on Friday sought an action-taken report and ordered the police to trace the absconding councillor at the earliest. The chargesheet had alleged that political rivalry between Murthy and Raj had led to the rioting. It had cited a conspiracy involving Raj and his supporters who instigated youths in the area to resort to violence and target Murthy’s house. The rivalry between Raj and Murthy started after the latter switched to the Congress from the Janata Dal Secular and went on to bag a party ticket to contest the 2018 Assembly polls from Pulakeshinagar in the city. The party had then favoured Murthy over Raj who had risen up the Congress ranks and boasted of a huge following. Murthy had told the police about the enmity and how Raj had been trying to damage his political career. Soon after Raj’s arrest, Murthy told reporters that he just wanted the guilty to be punished. “I have been pleading for justice for over three months (since the arson attack). Punish whoever is guilty of the crime,” the MLA said. Murthy said he would meet state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah on Tuesday to once again brief them about why he was seeking action against Raj. Shivakumar urged his partymen to respect the law and not do anything to mar peace. “Everyone should respect the law. I am for those who are on the right side of the law,” he said when reporters sought his comment on the arrest. Siddaramaiah observed that it would not matter if the arrested person was from his party. “It’s not important who is from which party. Nobody is above the law. He has to face the law if he has done anything wrong,” the former chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Covid: Daily count under 30,000||India’s count of new coronavirus disease cases on Tuesday fell below 30,000 for the first time in four months, but experts have cautioned about localised surges elsewhere, citing Delhi’s third peak that has dangerously overwhelmed hospitals. The Union health ministry recorded 29,163 new Covid-19 cases and a new overnight fall in the number of active patients to around 450,000 after a steady decline since mid-September peaks of 96,000 daily new cases and a million active patients. However, instead of an average of over 10 lakh daily tests, the total number tested across India was 8.44 lakh on Monday after the Diwali weekend. Health experts and officials are apprehensive about the epidemic’s direction in the coming weeks. “We may yet see the impact of festivals and the (Bihar) elections — the impact may not be over. We need to watch new cases in the coming weeks,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Despite the nationwide decline, the seven-day average of  daily new cases has increased over the past week in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Delhi’s average increased from 4,300 daily cases in mid-September to nearly 7,000 this week. Amid Delhi’s rising counts of Covid-19 patients, central and local health authorities have announced plans to increase the national capital’s number of intensive care unit beds from 3,500 to 6,000 within the next three days and double the number of daily tests to nearly 120,000. The Centre is flying in over 250 doctors and paramedical personnel from central police forces to assist local doctors. Ten health teams will visit private hospitals across the capital to ensure “optimal use of resources and facilitate transparency in bed allocations”, a health official said. “The surges we’re seeing in Delhi and elsewhere appear to be direct outcomes of non-adherence to precautions such as masks and physical distancing,” said Oommen John, a senior physician with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John and others point out that crowds have thronged city markets ahead of festivals, many people continue to appear maskless in public, and there are no restrictions on the number of people inside shops. Surges are inevitable under such circumstances, John said. The Centre’s recommendations to Delhi to “enforce” quarantine of contacts and standard operating protocols such as house-to-house search for people with symptoms within containment zones, experts say, iterate steps authorities should have been taking anyway under guidelines issued in April. Community medicine experts had cautioned in August that when a local epidemic grows in counts beyond a certain threshold, lack of human resources and fatigue would limit the efficiency of efforts to trace and quarantine contacts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah brands Kashmir alliance a ‘gang’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday used the phrase “Gupkar Gang” to describe the seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370, insinuating that it was “anti-national” and attacked the Congress for joining hands with it. “The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah said, issuing a series of tweets. Shah’s offensive comes two days after the Congress decided it would have a tie-up with the alliance for the maiden District Development Council polls beginning on November 26. The Congress has not formally joined the alliance, which calls itself the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party are its lead players. “Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” the home minister said in another tweet. This triggered a war of words, with former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti unsparing in their response. “I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP and newly formed king’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” Omar tweeted. “We are not a ‘gang’ Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment.” The grapevine in Jammu and Kashmir is that the Centre announced the DDC polls, thinking that the alliance would boycott these in protest against the scrapping of Article 370 and the BJP would get the advantage. But the alliance surprised many when it decided to contest the elections. The decision has also angered many in Jammu and Kashmir who were expecting them to follow in the footsteps of pro-azadi leaders. Omar further said: “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt & anti-national’.” Mehbooba Mufti, once an ally of the BJP, hit back, tweeting: “Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the ‘tukde tukde’ gang threatened India’s sovereignty and they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out.” She also wrote: “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front.” The PDP president said: “BJPs stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours & political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now. Love jihad, tukde tukde & now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of (issues) like rising unemployment & inflation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Congress slams Kejriwal over ICU beds||The Congress on Tuesday said 600 intensive care unit (ICU) beds could have been readied for critical Covid-19 patients in Delhi with “Rs 32 crore” that the Arvind Kejriwal government spent on the publicity of his Diwali event. The party also criticised the plan to selectively close markets. “A market becomes the hotspot because of the customers who come there. If you close that market, the same customers will go to other markets. If four markets are closed and two are open in an area, crowds will swell and infections will rise,” general secretary Ajay Maken said. “Either close down all markets or keep all open. Even Metro train should not be closed on selective routes….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Covid: Delhi sets wedding curb, mulls mini lockdowns ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approached the Centre to permit mini lockdowns at markets and restrict the number of guests at weddings, a day after the state government claimed that the “third wave” of the coronavirus had peaked in the capital and that wearing a mask alone would be enough. Kejriwal said in a webcast: “Following the central government’s guidelines and considering the marriage season, the Delhi government had earlier allowed 200 guests at weddings.… Only 50 people will now be allowed at weddings in the capital considering the spike in the number of Covid cases in Delhi. I have sent the proposal to the lieutenant governor of Delhi for his approval.” The chief minister added: “Secondly, we witnessed massive crowds at some of the popular markets of Delhi before Diwali. At these markets, no social distancing was followed and due to this situation, the number of Covid-19 cases has surged significantly in the capital. “In the last order passed by the central government, it was noted that permission to impose local lockdowns in the state should be taken from the Centre. In view of the recent situation and considering the last order of the central government, we have requested the Centre to permit shutting down market places if necessary. I do believe that such harsh measures would not be required.” The AAP traders’ wing has called a meeting of 200 trade bodies on Wednesday to allay fears that a total lockdown could be imposed again. The AAP government has not offered any explanation so far for the steep drop in the number of tests conducted since Diwali on November 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Differences surface in Congress on trade pact||Serious differences have come to the fore in the Congress on the critical issue of India’s refusal to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a free trade agreement in the Asia-Pacific region between the 10 Asean nations. The differences have caused embarrassment to the leadership, which is anyway struggling to harmonise varying perceptions within the party on political and organisational issues. Two former Union ministers who have held key portfolios in the economic policy sphere — finance and commerce — P. Chidambaram and Anand Sharma, have expressed unease over India’s position on the RCEP. However, another former minister, Jairam Ramesh, who ran the rural development department that might have legitimate concerns about the ill-effects of joining a half-baked RCEP, has hailed the position taken by the Narendra Modi government. Chidambaram tweeted on Monday: “RCEP born, it is the world’s largest trading body. Fifteen nations in our region are members of RCEP, India is not among them. There are pros and cons to India joining RCEP. But the debate has never taken place in Parliament or among the people or involving the Opposition parties. It is another bad example of centralised decision-making unacceptable in a democracy.” Chidambaram followed it up with a series of tweets on Tuesday: “My guarded tweet yesterday on India not being member of RCEP has been noticed by many. Every English language newspaper that I read has carried an editorial today that India would be better off by being a part of RCEP. I would reserve a final view until the Congress party has taken a considered position on the issue.” The Congress veteran further said: “I must, however, express my dismay on the speech by foreign minister S. Jaishankar yesterday at the ‘Deccan Dialogue’ when he railed against trade agreements and praised the virtues of protectionism. Mr Jaishankar is speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s!” Sharma, sidelined in the Congress for signing a letter written to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party, was more forthright. He tweeted: “India’s decision of not joining RCEP is unfortunate and ill-advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration. Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP. We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap.” Ramesh, however, had a different view. “On Oct 21, 2019, I had described India’s imminent membership of RCEP as a third jhatka for the economy after demonetisation and the botched GST. A year later, the position the Congress took then in demanding that the Prime Minister not drag India into an unfair RCEP, as was being planned, stands vindicated,” he tweeted. What is intriguing is that the positions taken by both Chidambaram and Sharma are viewed as open defiance and being linked to the “rebellious posturing” of a group for the past few months. While Chidambaram was not part of the “group of 23” which signed the controversial letter to Sonia, many office-bearers argued his tweets were part of calculated messaging that the party position was flawed. When pointed out that Chidambaram had clarified he would finalise his stand after the party articulated its position, a Congress spokesperson said on the condition of anonymity: “The party position is clear. If somebody is not clear about the party’s mind on this subject, he or she should have consulted the top leadership before taking a public stand….” On October 21, 2019, Ramesh had tweeted: “Demonetisation. Botched GST. Now a third jhatka (shock) with India likely to join new trade accord called RCEP. This means: 1. More imports from China impacting Indian MSME (micro small and medium enterprises); 2. Dairy imports from New Zealand & Australia hurting farmers/cooperatives; 3. Free data flow compromising data security.” The Congress later articulated its opposition to the RCEP at a media conference, arguing that the agriculture sector was not ready for the fallout and such experiments could be carried out only when the economy was on a sound footing. Congress chief Sonia on November 2 called a meeting of office-bearers where she said: “As if the government’s economic decisions have not damaged the economy enough, it is now ready to deal a body blow to it by signing the RCEP…. This will result in untold hardship for our farmers, shopkeepers, small and medium enterprises with serious repercussions for the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar has his way with portfolio allocation||Bihar chief minister and JDU president Nitish Kumar on Tuesday refused to yield further to ally BJP and distributed ministerial portfolios in line with his wishes. He also struck a deal on “an equal number of departments” with the BJP, signalling that there may not be too much difference in the number of ministers from the two parties when the cabinet is expanded despite a vast gap between the BJP’s 74 MLAs and the JDU’s 43. In the portfolio allocation, the JDU has kept 20 departments with itself while leaving 21 for the BJP. Two departments have been given to minister Santosh Suman from the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and one to Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni. The BJP had been gunning for the home and education departments, but Nitish refused to budge and kept both with his party. Nitish retained the home department. The JDU’s Tarapur MLA, Mewalal Chaudhary, who has been vice-chancellor of various agriculture universities, has been made education minister. The BJP has already clipped the wings of Nitish by sidelining his trusted deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, assigning two deputy chief ministers to breathe down his neck and taking away the post of the Assembly Speaker. However, the chief minister put his foot down when it came to the allocation of portfolios to his cabinet colleagues — five from the JDU, seven from the BJP and two each from HAMS and VIP. Nitish retained all the major departments, including home, cabinet secretariat, vigilance, general administration and election. He just shed the law department in favour of the BJP. “This ensures that police, law and order, bureaucracy, intelligence agencies, anti-corruption, cabinet and aviation-related institutions remain under him. He will have wide-ranging powers now, and will be able to steer the state as per his decisions. These departments are connected to day-to-day governance as well,” a senior JDU leader said. Several other departments like agriculture, urban development, health and road construction have been left with the BJP like earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Rivals break Bihar government stupor on murder||Rahul Gandhi, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and other Opposition leaders on Tuesday castigated the newly formed Bihar government for inaction over the murder of a young woman from the minority community for resisting molestation, following which police arrested one of the accused over a fortnight after the election-time crime. Rahul, Tejashwi and the others accused the Nitish Kumar-led BJP-JDU government of brushing the October 30 crime under the carpet for electoral gains. The woman from Vaishali district died on Sunday after battling for life for 16 days. Rahul’s tweet on Tuesday highlighting the crime and the perceived apathy of the government set off a chain of events that led to the arrest of accused Chandan Kumar Rai within hours. His cousin Satish Kumar Rai and father Vijay Rai are absconding. All  the three belong to the dominant Yadav caste. The 20-year-old victim, a resident of a village under Desari police station in Vaishali, had gone to discard garbage on the evening of October 30 when the three youths allegedly caught and molested her. She resisted and threatened to complain to her mother and get the accused thrashed, according to the FIR. Angered by this, Satish took out a bottle of kerosene from his pocket, poured it on her and lit a match. They escaped when the woman started screaming and people rushed in to save her. She was taken to a private hospital in Hajipur and admitted to the emergency ward. The victim gave her statement to the police the same day. She also said that the accused had harassed her earlier too. She was later shifted to Patna Medical College and Hospital when her condition deteriorated. The police registered an FIR on November 2, three days after the incident, but no arrests were made. Bihar was in the middle of elections at that time and two of the three phases — on November 3 and 7 — were due. The woman later succumbed to the burns. Her family members demonstrated with her body in Patna for some time before returning home. They had initially refused to bury her till the culprits were brought to book. The crime had gone largely unaddressed till Congress MP Rahul tweeted about it on Tuesday. “Whose crime is more dangerous? Those who indulged in the inhuman act or those who hid it for electoral benefits so that they could lay the foundation of their false ‘good governance’ over this mis-governance,” Rahul asked. Soon, RJD leader Tejashwi re-tweeted Rahul’s comments, adding: “Where are those who came from Delhi to look for ‘jungle raj’ in LED light in Bihar? The nation wants to know who is the ‘maharaja’ of the jungle raj,” Tejashwi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said during the campaign that the days of the lantern, the RJD’s poll symbol, were over as LED lights had come. AIMIM parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi, whose party won an unprecedented five seats in Bihar, also tried to corner the state government. “Unbelievable cruelty. Prayers for victim & her family. These men ‘punished’ her for resisting molestation. It’s been 15 DAYS & there’s still no action. Men like Satish are emboldened by the fact that there’s never any action. @NitishKumar where’s your “tough on crime” policy now?” Owaisi tweeted. Under fire, the police swung into action and arrested two of the three accused. “We arrested the main accused, Chandan Kumar Rai, on Tuesday. The other two also will be arrested soon. All three are related to each other. We have also suspended the Chandpura police outpost in-charge, V.D. Dubey,” Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh told The Telegraph. The Vaishali SP said the police were camping in the victim’s village in view of the law-and-order situation, and that an armed guard had been provided to her family. The victim’s mother and younger sister alleged that musclemen from the village had threatened them with consequences for approaching the police. “We are continuously being threatened by musclemen from the village. We have no faith in the police as they are also pressurising us to strike a compromise with the accused. There are around 150 police personnel camping in our village and they are not allowing us to go outside,” the mother said. The family conducted the burial rites on Tuesday after assurances from the district administration that the accused would be brought to justice. The CPI-ML has announced that it would hold demonstrations across Bihar on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Push for homestay on Odisha nature trails||The Odisha government has decided to promote homestay facilities at nature trails and eco-tourist spots in the state. Homestay facilities will be developed in remote areas untouched by the hotel network. The project will be supported by the state government for a period of 10 years. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Tripathy. “Nature trails and experiential tourism is the current fad, and Odisha has much to offer in this sector. Homestay facilities will be linked with global online travel aggregators such as Airbnb, Oyo, MakeMyTrip, etc, and onboarded onto their respective sites,” said Tripathy. Development commissioner Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said, “Presently homestay facilities in Magalajodi in Khordha district and at Dangmala in Kendrapara district have shown encouraging results. Such facilities at other places will attract more tourists and will expand economic activities in the rural sector. It can be tapped as a sustainable source of livelihood and an income generation activity.” Homestay facilities will be developed in places like Diam-ond Triangle Buddhist circuit (Ratnagiri–Udayagiri–Lalitgiri); Onkadelli in Koraput district; Khola, Gupti, Dangmala and Bhitarkanika National Park in Kendrapara district; Daringibadi and Belghar in Kandhamal; Simlipal, Pithabata and Jashipur in Mayurbhanj; Tikarpada and Satakosia in Angul; Magalajodi and Chilika in Khordha district and Dhodrokusum and Zero point in Bargarh district. Around 80 homestay providers at these places will be incentivised each year with financial support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
