19-11-2020||India||Bihar minister Mewa Lal Chaudhary quits role hours after assuming charge||Just three days after taking charge at Nitish Kumar’s newly formed cabinet, Bihar education minister Mewa Lal Chaudhary resigned from his post, amid controversies regarding his appointment despite being charged with corruption. According to informed sources, Chaudhary, who was allocated the position on Tuesday, immediately sent in his resignation after assuming the role at 1 pm. The JD(U) member had been named in a five-year old case in connection with alleged irregularities appointment of teachers and technicians at Bihar Agricultural University, Bhagalpur, where he served as the Vice Chancellor. On Wednesday, RJ(D) along with its allies threw heat at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for appointing Chaudhary to his cabinet despite him facing corruption charges and being suspended from the party earlier, and demanded he should be sacked. RJ(D) leader Tejashwi Yadav said that the first-time minister faces serious charges under the Indian Penal Code including cheating and dishonestly (section 420), and criminal conspiracy (120B). Taking to Twitter, he asked, “"Has Chief Minister Nitish Kumar awarded Mewalal Choudhary for corruption and given him the freedom to loot?” The 67-year-old was suspended from the Kumar-led JD(U) in 2017 following the registration of an FIR against him in the irregularities case in February that year. The BJP, which currently has an alliance with JD(U), had also expressed strong opposition against Chaudhary at the time. "Look at the irony, the BJP which was attacking the JD (U) over Mewalal until now, is silent today," RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is currently lodged in prison, tweeted in Hindi. The former vice chancellor had then left his job to contest the 2015 Bihar polls on a JD(U) ticket, following which he was elected from Tarapur Assembly seat in Munger district and retained the seat in the 2020 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||Parliamentary committee grills Twitter over Kunal Kamra’s comments||A parliamentary committee on Thursday sought reply from Twitter within seven days after grilling the social media giant over recent ‘obscene’ tweets by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the Chief Justice of India (CJI), said the panel's chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi. The incident came days after Twitter apologised to the same parliamentary committee in written for wrongly showing Ladakh as part of China and promised to rectify it by month-end. Representatives from Twitter India testified before the panel on Thursday. "It is shameful that Twitter is allowing its platform for obscene remarks like the one by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the CJI," Lekhi told reporters today. "Twitter is allowing its platform to be misused for abusing top constitutional authorities, such as the Supreme Court and the CJI,” she added. She disclosed that members of the committee across the political array, including Congress MP Vivek Tankha, BSP MP Ritesh Pandey and BJD MP Bhatruhari Mahtab, questioned Twitter representatives over the issue. She added that the social media giant’s explanations to ban such tweets and handles were found to be inadequate. Kamra, however, has refused to withdraw his comments against the Supreme Court and the CJI, saying that he believes that his tweets “speak for themselves”. Last week, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had granted consent for Kamra’s prosecution for criminal contempt on the basis of multiple petitions against his tweets about the Supreme Court and the grant of interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami on November 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||In Delhi, fines hiked, beds increased to fight Covid||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, in a bid to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital, announced that the fine for not wearing face masks in public has been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. He also declared that the number of beds for Covid patients have been increased amid the surge. From November 19, Delhi government is implementing its call to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds in private hospitals for those infected with Covid-19, Kejriwal added, while urging people not to celebrate Chhath at public water bodies in the city. Addressing a virtual press briefing, the CM said the government had directed private hospitals to increase the number of non-ICU Covid-19 beds from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. Announcing the fine hike for not wearing the masks, Kejriwal informed that he had met  Lt Governor Anil Baijal to brief him about the steps taken by his government to curb the spread of the infection. “Arrangements are being made for over 1,400 ICU beds, including 663 in Delhi government hospitals and 750 at a Central government facility,” he said, adding that about 7,500 general and 446 ICU beds are available for the city’s Covid-19 patients at the moment. “The hospitals have also been asked to postpone non-critical planned surgeries for the time being,” said Kejriwal. Talking about the all-party meeting regarding the pandemic situation in Delhi, the chief minister said he had received assurance of cooperation from all political parties regarding the control of the same. He said that he had urged them to distribute masks among the masses to help better the situation. Kejriwal urged people to stop doing politics over the pandemic and appealed to them to perform Chhath Puja at their homes. “Even if one COVID-19 infected person enters the water during Chhath Puja, all others might get infected by the virus”, the CM said. “The Delhi government is being forced to restrict Chhath Puja celebrations at riverbanks, ponds and other public places due to the threat of the infection,” he added. The Delhi government has also directed all district magistrates (DMs) to take appropriate measures to double the number of testing centres in their areas immediately, after discussing the same with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The national capital has witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases since October 28, and recorded 7,486 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to over 5 lakh. A total of 133 people died on this day, making the death toll the highest in the city as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||High court slams Delhi govt for Covid negligence||The Delhi High Court castigated the AAP government on Thursday, asking if it could explain to those who had lost their near and dear ones to COVID-19 in the last 18 days why the administration did not take steps when cases were spiralling in the national capital. The high court, which also asked the government to look at the situation with a "magnifying glass", observed that it was "disheartening" to see that the number of daily deaths due to the virus had increased to 131 and fresh COVID cases have risen to 7,486. Pulling up the Delhi government, a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked why it waited till the court intervened to take steps such as reducing the number of people attending weddings to 50 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "You (Delhi government) saw from November 1 which way the wind was blowing. But you turn turtle now because we asked you some questions. The bell should have rung loud and clear when the numbers were spiralling. Why did you not wake up when you saw the situation was deteriorating? "Why did we have to shake you out of your slumber on November 11? What did you do from November 1 till November 11? Why did you wait 18 days (till November 18) to take a decision. Do you know how many lives were lost during this period? Can you explain it to those who lost their near and dear ones," the bench asked. It also noted that Delhi government statements, with regard to the rising COVID cases, to the Press appear to be contrary to the submissions made in court. The bench said that while Delhi government ministers were giving Press statements to the effect that third wave of COVID infections had reached its peak and the numbers were going down, the same "is not reflected" in the daily figures and the status report before the court. "We can take judicial note of the statements your ministers are making," the bench told senior advocate Sandeep Sethi and Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam, who were representing the AAP government. The bench also noted that crematoriums were "overflowing" and "funeral pyres were burning throughout the night" and asked the Delhi government whether adequate arrangements were in place to cremate or bury the rising number of people succumbing to COVID-19. It said that Delhi government ought to reduce its reliance on the Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) and focus on increasing tests by the more accurate RTPCR method as more and more asymptomatic persons are testing positive and the number of COVID-19 cases are spiralling in the city. "Delhi government should have been alive to the fact that RAT is not effective," it said. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. The bench directed the Delhi government to file a status report, before the next date of hearing on November 26, indicating the funeral/burial arrangements, increase of ICU beds in its hospitals by an additional number of 663 and number of care homes for accommodating those who cannot home quarantine themselves.Fines not a deterrent On implementation of social distancing norms, prevention of spitting and wearing of masks, the court was not satisfied with the monitoring being done by the Delhi government in some districts where COVID-19 numbers were high. The bench also said the fines being imposed -- Rs 500 for first violation and Rs 1,000 for every subsequent violation -- did not appear to be a deterrent. It said there appeared to be substantial disparity in monitoring and imposition of fines in certain districts as compared to others. "What kind of monitoring and marshalling are you doing? Look at the situation seriously with a magnifying glass. You have crossed cities like New York and Sao Paolo," the court said. The high court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increase in the COVID-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.Situation ‘alarming’ The court on November 11 had pulled up the Delhi government for relaxing norms for public movement and gatherings even as COVID-19 cases were increasing with no household "left untouched", and sought to know if it had any policy or strategy in place to deal with the "alarming" situation. It had directed the Delhi government to file a status report explaining steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the COVID-19 cases have risen alarmingly, to contain the spread of the infection.Govt status report In its latest status report filed on Wednesday, the Delhi government said that it was not allowing all the activities, like reopening of schools, higher educational institutions and swimming pools, that have been permitted by the Central government. It also told the court that it banned bursting of firecrackers during Diwali with the view to prevent increase in air pollution and crowding of people and also prohibited celebration of Chhath Puja in public places, open grounds, river banks and temples. The Delhi government also told the court that it had approached the Centre seeking its sanction for closing certain markets in the city during certain days or hours of a week. It told the court that it was alive to the situation and was making every effort to arrest the spread of COVID-19. However, the bench said that whatever the Delhi government was doing was not enough in the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||State nod mandatory for CBI probe in its jurisdiction: SC||Noting that the provisions are in accordance with the federal character of the Constitution, bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and BR Gavai said that it has to be one of the basic structures of the CBI. "It could thus be seen, that though Section 5 enables the central government to extend the powers and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE beyond the Union Territories to a State, the same is not permissible unless a State grants its consent for such an extension within the area of State concerned under Section 6 of the DSPE Act," the bench said. The said sections of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act deal with the extension of powers and jurisdiction of special police establishments to other areas and consent of state government to exercise powers and jurisdiction. The top court’s observation emerged significant amid the recent withdrawal of “general consent” to CBI investigations in states including Punjab, Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The Supreme Court on Thursday said the state government’s consent is compulsory for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry in its jurisdiction and that the agency cannot probe any case without its permission. The SC’s verdict came in view of an appeal filed by a few accused private and public servants, who challenged the top agency’s validity in probing a corruption case against them saying that the CBI had not taken permission from the state governments. The appeals challenged an August 2019 verdict passed by the Allahabad High Court against Fertico Marketing and Investment Private Limited and others. The HC had said that the Uttar Pradesh government had issued post-facto consent against the two public servants who were later named in the chargesheet, adding that it was enough to proceed with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Four suspected Jaish militants killed in encounter at J&K||Four suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed militants were killed in an encounter with security forces early Thursday near the toll plaza in Ban area of Nagrota on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, officials said. They added that  a huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered from the slain terrorists’ possession. According to a top police officer, the militants were on their way to the Kashmir Valley to disrupt the District Development Council (DDC) which will be held later this month, as the neighbouring Pakistan has been trying to cause trouble in the political process. For the last few days, Pakistan has increased attempts to infiltrate militants into this side and to disturb the elections for which the process is on. In this context, Jammu Police and security forces have done a good job by neutralising four Pakistanis (militants). Their (militants') aim was to come to Kashmir to disturb the election process,” Vijay kumar, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, told reporters. He added that the security forces were fully prepared to tackle any militant attack during the polls. “Whether there is an election or August 15 or January 26 or even a VIP visit, apprehensions are always there, but we are fully prepared... We are providing security to the candidates and they have started going to the field for campaigning from yesterday and there is nothing to fear,” Kumar said. However, according to the IGP, providing security to each candidate in the November 28 polls would be difficult. “Providing security to each candidate is difficult. We are providing them collective security and they are being put up in secure areas. Whenever any candidate goes out for campaigning, we provide a double escort with him and secure the area for him to campaign, he said when asked that the candidates were alleging they had not been provided security.” On being asked about the number of terrorists waiting at the launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC) to infiltrate the Indian side, Kumar informed that that according to inputs, about 250 of them, adding that the security forces are prepared to foil Pakistan’s intentions. “Other security forces have already given the figures that about 200 to 250 militants are ready to infiltrate, but the security forces are alert. The endeavour of Pakistan is to push more militants into this side, but the security forces are prepared to foil their designs,” he said. The IGP also informed that the militant behind Wednesday’s grenade attack in Pulwama has been identified as well. “It was an unfortunate incident. The target was CRPF and police, but 12 civilians were injured -- out of whom four were rushed to a Srinagar hospital, but their condition is stable. We have identified the militant who threw the grenade and we are after him and will arrest him soon,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||More than 45,000 fresh infections takes Covid caseload past 89.5 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 89.58 lakh with fresh 45,576 infections, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to over 83.83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 89,58,483, with 45,576 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,31,578 with 585 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 4,43,303 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which accounts for 4.95 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 83,83,602, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 12,85,08,389 samples have been tested up to November 18, of which 10,28,203 samples were tested on Wednesday. The 585 new fatalities include 131 from Delhi, 100 from Maharashtra, 54 from Bengal, 31 from Punjab, 30 from Haryana, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 23 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Karnataka. Total 1,31,578 deaths reported so far in the country include 46,202 from Maharashtra, 11,578 from Karnataka, 11,531 from Tamil Nadu, 7,943 from Delhi, 7,820 from Bengal, 7,441 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,899 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,541 from Punjab and 3,823 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slips back into 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the poor category on Thursday morning and is likely to deteriorate further amid a dip in the minimum temperature. The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped to 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning, the lowest this season so far, due to cold winds blowing from snow-capped western Himalayas. A change in the wind direction has also increased the share of stubble burning in the city's pollution slightly. Delhi's air quality index was recorded at 272 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 211 on Wednesday and 171 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said the northwesterly winds increased the stubble contribution slightly on Wednesday. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 8 percent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Wednesday. It was 3 percent on Tuesday. Around 800 fire points were observed in Punjab, Haryana and western Pakistan on Wednesday. However, their impact on Delhi-NCR's air quality will not be significant, Soni said. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to remain in the moderate and the lower end of the poor category on Thursday and Friday. However, SAFAR said it may deteriorate to the lower end of the very poor category on Friday and Saturday, as the conductive meteorological environment created after rainfall is slowly retreating . The minimum temperature settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday the lowest this season so far -- and the maximum wind speed was predicted to be 10 kmph, according to IMD. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 5,000 m2/s on Wednesday and is likely to be 7,500 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The IMD had earlier said the minimum temperature in Delhi will drop to 9 degrees Celsius by Saturday, as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. The minimum temperature on Thursday was three notches below normal in the nattional capital. The city recorded a low of 10.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The average minimum temperature from November 22 to November 26 is 11.3 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department. The IMD had earlier predicted a drop in the minimum temperature in Delhi as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Sunita Narain awarded the Edinburgh Medal 2020||Sunita Narain, director-general of the New Delhi-based think-tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), has won the Edinburgh Medal 2020, instituted by the City of Edinburgh Council. Narain is the second Indian after Amartya Sen to receive the award, the latter winning it in 1997, after it was instituted in 1988. “It’s a great honour and I take it as a vindication of the stand taken by the CSE over the years in upholding climate justice particularly equity, equitable but just responsibility of countries in cutting down carbon emission” Narain told The Telegraph. She was supposed to travel to Edinburgh in April to receive the award but could not because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Birju Maharaj, other artistes face eviction threat||Celebrated artists including Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj, painter Jatin Das and Hindustani classical maestro Wasifuddin Dagar face the threat of eviction from government accommodation in Delhi despite their age, the pandemic and pleas to the Centre. Culture minister Prahlad Patel signalled the government’s firmness on evicting the veteran creative and performing artists, although nearly half the houses earmarked for artists are already vacant. “The policy already exists and it’s clear that no one can stay on above the age of 60, or for more than two terms of three years each. Their income should not be more than Rs 20,000 a month. But people have been living (in these government houses) for 12 to 35 years,” he told The Telegraph. “The CCA (cabinet committee on accommodation) has decided to waive their liability (penalty for overstay) if they vacate. If they don’t, then commercial rates will apply.” Since the 1970s, many award-winning artists aged between 40 and 60 have on the culture ministry’s recommendation been allotted government accommodation at nominal rents for three-year terms that were routinely renewed. Forty such homes are now available. Of these, 21 are occupied — 14 of them in the Asiad Village. Birju Maharaj told this newspaper: “I’m 83 now. At this age, I hoped the government would let me live here as long as I was alive. There isn’t much time left for me, anyway. We served India through culture, and when we travelled the world to showcase our art, we represented India.” But Patel said: “(Any new) policy on who should be accommodated will be framed later, after they have vacated (the houses). Where do new artists who really need homes go? If an MLA or MP sticks to one place, then what happens to others? The rules are the same for all.” The Hindu newspaper has reported that the CCA, headed by Union home minister Amit Shah, had on November 8 approved a culture ministry proposal to waive “damage charges” — penalty for overstay — against 27 artists allotted government houses in Delhi. The total penalty amounted to Rs 32.09 crore. The extensions given to these artists to stay on in these houses had expired in 2014. Six among the 27 have already left, including the family of theatre exponent Joy Michael who died in 2018 and Kuchipudi expert Raja Reddy, who vacated his government house in August this year. Last month, the remaining 21 — including the families of the late artistes Ghulam Sadiq Khan, Sabri Khan and Asad Ali Khan — were ordered to vacate their bungalows by December 31. Failing this, they are to be evicted and fined an amount around 50 times the rent for the duration of overstay, including pending rent dues of more than Rs 2 crore. “I have written to the Prime Minister and the housing and urban affairs minister (Hardeep Puri), but I’m yet to receive a reply. I ask them to think about us — who have given our whole life for the culture of this country,” Birju Maharaj said. “Where do we go once we are evicted? I have no other home. Rajiv Gandhi gave me this home (on Shahjahan Road) in 1985, along with another to Pandit Ravi Shankar (in Lodhi Estate).” Before being allotted his current home, Birju Maharaj had lived in another government house since 1978, when the Janata Party was in power. The government accommodation for the artists ranges from two-bedroom to four-bedroom houses. Puri, the housing and urban affairs minister, told this newspaper that it was for the culture ministry to decide what facilities artists get. Five artistes had received calls to meet culture secretary Raghvendra Singh after writing to everyone from the joint secretary in the culture and housing ministries to the Prime Minister. They were dance historian Sunil Kothari, Kuchipudi guru Veernala Jayarama Rao, Mohiniyattom expert Bharati Shivaji, Dagar and Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee and Kathak expert Nalini Asthana. They received no assurances, except that their request would be examined. “At the age of 73, during a pandemic, I expected my government to support me and not evict us,” Rao said. His wife Vanashree — a Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee and Kuchipudi dancer — said the family had been paying the rent of Rs 16,800 per month, cumulatively every six months, for its 2BHK home in Asiad Village. “We received notices in 1994, 2004, 2014, 2017 and 2018 before this. In 2018, we were given just 15 days to vacate but officials told us to keep paying the rent and nothing would happen,” she said. “We are both in our early 70s, and for the last eight months we have had no income since we can’t conduct classes amid the pandemic and since all performances have stopped.” She added: “Unlike Bollywood artistes we don’t make a lot of money. It’s only state festivals that pay us in full, and even that amount is spent on the musicians and lights. We have no pension or provident fund.” She went on: “You call us cultural legends, ambassadors and so on but are unable to house some 20 of us. We are not against others getting accommodation too.... Give us some place to stay. For so many years (since 1987) we have developed our art and our livelihood from this house.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Kahmir BJP chief sets new goal:  chant 'Jai Sri Ram' and wear a tilak||Article 370 provisions junked, Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina has set himself and his party a new goal. He wants to force former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Ghulam Nabi Azad to chant “Jai Sri Ram” and wear a tilak. Many in Jammu and Kashmir believe that Article 370, which gave special rights to permanent residents, was scrapped to change the Muslim-majority character of the erstwhile state. Remarks like Raina’s can only add to their fears. Raina, seen by many as a loose cannon, has risen through the ranks in his party. He is known for making inflammatory remarks, and with elections approaching he is always willing to walk the extra mile. “Just wait and watch. You will see what more they have to do. They will have to wear a tilak and chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’,” Raina told a local TV channel in Jammu on Tuesday. “They will have to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’ in the future. Whether it’s the NC (National Conference), PDP (People’s Democratic Party), Congress, (Farooq) Abdullah, (Mehbooba) Mufti, Ghulam-shulam (Ghulam Nabi Azad). No matter how many they are, they will have to chant ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and ‘Jai Sri Ram’.” The National Conference and the PDP are part of a seven-party alliance campaigning for the restoration of Article 370. The alliance will be contesting the maiden district development council elections, beginning from November 28, to rally support for its agenda. Raina had gone into a shell recently after the Centre changed the laws to allow outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir. The decision has enraged many Jammu Hindus, called Dogras, who see it as an assault on their culture. The local Congress leadership’s decision to have a poll tie-up with the alliance has now given Raina an opportunity to bounce back with a vengeance. The Congress has clarified that it is not part of the alliance, which suggests it only wants a seat-sharing arrangement. Raina threatened to send all the Valley’s mainstream politicians to jail and said that whatever they ate would be pulled out through their nose. “Yeh Gokkar gang waley, yeh ghaddar, loteri, daku, desh de ghaddar, sarey atankwadi, Pakistani (This Gupkar gang, these traitors, thieves, bandits, traitors against the country, all are terrorists, Pakistani). They are taking money from China to vitiate the atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir." he said. "People will teach them a lesson. They know the BJP will sweep the elections." He added: “Bharat mein agar rehna hai toh ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ kehna hoga. Tiranga haat mein lena hoga (If you have to live in India you must chant ‘Victory to Bharat Mata’ and hold the Tricolour).” Mehbooba has refused to hold the national flag until Jammu and Kashmir’s former state flag has been restored. PDP spokesperson Najmus Saqib said Raina wanted to pit one community against another for votes and divert the people’s attention from issues such as joblessness. “The ruling alliance in Bihar has not a single Muslim candidate (MLA); it’s a reflection of what they want to eventually do in Kashmir,” Saqib told The Telegraph. “This is brazen communalism. The people of India will have to decide whether they want to live in a theocratic Hindutva society or... a secular state.” The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to set up a separate “cabinet” for the protection and promotion of the cow, PTI reported. The maiden meeting of the “gau cabinet” will be held on November 22 at a cow sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Slight but curious variance in accounts ||US President-elect Joe Biden spoke about “strengthening democracy at home and abroad” on Tuesday during his first conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the US presidential polls were called in his favour a week and a half ago. The telephone conversation took place late on Tuesday night. It was Modi who first announced that the conversation had taken place by posting two tweets close to midnight. Neither these two tweets nor the official readout issued by the Indian external affairs ministry mentioned Biden talking about working with Modi towards “strengthening dem-ocracy at home and abroad”. The words were included in the readout from the Biden-Harris Presidential Transition. The only mention of democracy in the ministry’s statement was a reference to the Prime Minister describing Biden’s election as “a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States”. Sources said not too much should be made of the slight difference in the two readouts since statements by different capitals about the same conversation are seldom identical. They also underlined that the Indian readout spoke of shared values, one of which is democracy. “The leaders agreed to work closely to further advance the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, built on shared values and common interests,” the external affairs ministry had said. “The leaders also discussed their priorities, including containing the Covid-19 pandemic, promoting access to affordable vaccines, tackling climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.” The readout put out by the Biden-Harris Presidential Transition said: “The President-elect noted that he looks forward to working closely with the Prime Minister on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19 and defending against future health crises, tackling the threat of climate change, launching the global economic recovery, strengthening democracy at home and abroad, and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.” The Biden administration is widely expected to be more vocal than the Trump White House on issues relating to democracy and liberalism. During his campaign, Biden had called for restoration of the rights of the people of Kashmir and expressed his disappointment with the Citizenship Amendment Act, terming these measures “inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy”. The Biden-Modi conversation was part of a series of congratulatory calls that the President-elect took part in over the past week. On Tuesday, Biden spoke to five leaders including Modi, the others being the President of Chile, the President and Prime Minister of Israel, and the President of South Africa. By Tuesday evening, Biden had spoken to 14 world leaders, beginning with neighbour Canada and longstanding US allies in Europe and Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Vaccine boost and rider||The high-efficacy candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna represent triumphs of science, but researchers and officials say India is unlikely to get either product in the doses needed to address its epidemic. Both the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates have in clinical trials shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, emerging from an unprecedented pace of research that has brought vaccines in sight only 10 months since scientists unveiled the genome of SARS-CoV-2, the Covid-19 virus. The US-based Pfizer and the Germany-based BioNTech jointly announced on Wednesday that the final analysis in their ongoing clinical trial had indicated a vaccine efficacy rate of 95 per cent. Among over 41,000 people in their trial, there have been 170 cases of coronavirus disease --- 162 cases among those who received placebo injections and 8 cases among those who received the vaccine. Among the 10 severe Covid-19 cases, nine were in the placebo group and one in the vaccine group. Pfizer-BioNTech said it would submit an application “within days” to the US drug regulatory authority for “emergency use authorisation” of the vaccine. The US-based Moderna had this week announced over 94 per cent efficacy and plans to seek emergency use authorisation “within weeks”. Pfizer and BioNTech have announced they can produce 50 million doses in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses during 2021. Moderna has said it can ship 20 million doses in 2020 and 500 million to 1 billion during 2021. But health researchers and officials in India do not expect either of these vaccines to be available in the country in the quantities required to support mass vaccination campaigns — primarily because high-income nations have already made advance purchase orders. The US department of health and human services (HHS) had in July announced up to $1.95 billion in funds for Pfizer towards the large-scale manufacture and nationwide distribution of 100 million doses of their candidate. In August, the HHS announced $1.5 billion for 100 million doses of the Moderna vaccine. “We’ll need to wait for other vaccines to emerge,” said a clinician-researcher and member of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines. Three candidate vaccines -- including two home-grown ones and one from Oxford university -- are under clinical trial in India for efficacy. Trials on two other candidates are expected to start within days. Researchers and officials say they are aware that whatever efficacy levels emerge from the trials in India are likely to be compared with the high-efficacy levels of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates. They say vaccines with lower efficacy points need not be interpreted as inferior products. “We don’t compare two vaccines on a table — the vaccination strategy is more important than vaccine efficacy,” said Samiran Panda, an infectious disease specialist and head of the division of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Many regulatory authorities worldwide, including India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, have set 50 per cent efficacy as the threshold for Covid-19 vaccines. This means a candidate vaccine with anything above 50 per cent efficacy, for instance 65 per cent, that meets the safety criteria would get approved. Public health researchers say an efficient vaccination strategy would target specific groups of the population in efforts to stop the epidemic. “The 65 versus 95 is not something I’d worry about,” Panda said. “I would rather be in a country with a 65 per cent efficacy vaccine with 90 per cent vaccination than in a country with a 90 per cent efficacy vaccine but only 40 per cent vaccination.” Public health researchers say the quantity of vaccines available will critically determine whether a country can address the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. They have underlined that to stop the pandemic, India would not need to vaccinate 1.3 billion people but 40 to 50 per cent of them. Such a mass vaccination campaign would require 1 billion to 1.3 billion doses, based on a two-dose vaccination schedule. India’s Bharat Biotech, which is testing a home-grown vaccine, has said it can provide 300 million doses per year while the Serum Institute, which is producing AstraZeneca’s candidate, could produce 560 million doses a year, of which half will be available for India. “India is better placed than most countries mainly because of our manufacturing capacity,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at India’s Ashoka University. “It is an unequal world, so no point asking why one country may get a given vaccine while another may not.” Jameel said the foreign-made vaccines are also expected to be expensive for India. “A price tag of $20 to $35 per dose would be unaffordable for India. Compare that with the $3 per dose pledged by an Indian manufacturer. This is not a race. We expect additional vaccines to emerge over the next six months,” he said. “Eighteen months to a vaccine instead of the usual 10 to 30 years is good going.” The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates are both novel vaccines that use genetic material called RNA as a “platform” that promises certain advantages over traditional or other platforms. India has a candidate RNA vaccine now awaiting the Centre’s approval for human trials. “India should have been working on research related to RNA vaccines before the pandemic. Our biological institutions have had the capacity to do that,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist at the Regional Centre for Biotechnology in Faridabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||SC refuses to adjourn appeal challenging Modi election||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to adjourn the appeal of dismissed BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav challenging Narendra Modi’s election from Varanasi in 2019. “No, we can’t adjourn the matter. You are abusing the process of law…you go ahead with the matter. We have already adjourned the matter many times. This is an important case which revolves around the unique office of the Prime Minister. You have made the Prime Minister the respondent. We cannot keep it pending indefinitely,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told the counsel for Yadav. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made the observation while refusing to accede to the request of, advocate appearing for Tej Bahdur for either adjourning the case of at least pass over the case. In legal parlance, adjournment refers to postponement of the hearing to a later date, while passover is done only for a few minutes or hours, but the matter is heard on the same day. Besides challenging the rejection of his nomination papers, Yadav wanted the result of Modi’s win set aside and declared as “void”. The returning officer for the constituency had rejected Yadav’s nomination papers on May 1, 2019, on the ground that he had concealed the factum of his dismissal from service upon conviction in April 2017, which was a ground for disqualification for contesting elections for a period of six years under the election rules. As soon as the case, which was listed as Item No. 1 on the agenda came up for hearing on Wednesday, Yadav’s counsel repeatedly urged the court to adjourn the matter to help him fully prepare with the case. However, the CJI rejected the plea saying the matter was already adjourned on a number of occasions. “As far as I remember, I myself had heard the matter four times while sitting with my brother Justice Bopanna,” Justice Bobde said. The counsel insisted that if not adjournment the court should at least pass over the matter. But the CJI refused to concede the plea. “We can’t give you indefinite time to hear this case. You show us the evidence. Is it so important to take passover in the case? The adjournments have gone so long for three months in the case,” Justice Bobde said. In response to query from the bench, the counsel said Yadav had filed two nomination papers — one as an Independent and another as a Samajwadi Party candidate. “This is a case going for long time, please carry on,” the CJI told the counsel, after he again insisted that the matter be either adjourned or passed over. The court also briefly heard senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Modi. The senior advocate told the bench that the high court had rightly dismissed his plea as the petitioner had failed to furnish the relevant details sought by the returning officer.The bench later reserved the verdict. The apex court will pronounce the judgment either on Friday or next week. Yadav, earlier dismissed by the Centre after he alleged on social media that substandard food was served to soldiers on the border, had filed two nomination papers for the Varanasi seat — one as an Independent candidate on April 24, 2019, and another as a SP candidate on April 23, 2019. He had challenged the rejection of his nomination papers in Allahabad High Court pleading that although he was dismissed from service of Government of India, the dismissal was not on the ground of corruption or disloyalty to the State, which in terms of Section 9 and Section 33(3) of The Representation of the People Act, 1951, would have acted as a bar from his contesting the election. However, the high court on December 6, 2019, dismissed his plea on the ground that Yadav had no locus standi (legal right) as he was neither a voter nor a resident of Varanasi and as such his election petition was not maintainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Graft cuffs on IUML ex-minister ||Indian Union Muslim League lawmaker and former Kerala public works minister V.K. Ibrahim Kunju was arrested in Kochi on Wednesday over his alleged involvement in a multi-crore corruption case related to the construction of a flyover. A team from the state Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau recorded the arrest after seeking medical opinion since Kunju, 68, had got himself admitted to a private hospital for an ailment he was already under treatment for. The vigilance department had earlier questioned him several times during the investigation into the alleged corruption in the construction of a flyover at Palarivattom in Kochi city. Built at a cost of Rs 42 crore during the previous United Democratic Front government headed by the Congress’s Oommen Chandy, the flyover was inaugurated in 2016 but soon developed holes and cracks leading to its closure in May 2019. Based on expert opinion, the Left Democratic Front government started demolishing faulty sections of the flyover in September 2019. It will be eventually re-constructed. Kunju was listed as the fifth accused in the case in which four others, including an IAS officer, have already been arrested. Sumeet Goyal, managing director of the construction company RDS Projects Ltd; M.T. Thankachan, then assistant manager of the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala; Benny Paul, joint general manager of the consultancy KITCO Ltd, and then public works department secretary T.O. Sooraj were arrested last year. They are all out on bail. The vigilance bureau would take Kunju into custody once they secure medical clearance from the doctors treating him. The flyover project was marred by a series of corrupt practices allegedly involving the then minister and others including the PWD secretary. The vigilance probe had found that Goyal was allowed a “mobilisation advance” (working capital) of Rs 8.25 crore, that too interest free, on the direction of Kunju although such a provision was not announced in the tender. The then minister and the officials concerned signed the file allowing the advance in just a day after the contractor applied for the fund. Kunju was already facing investigation in a money-laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate that was probing if he had used a party mouthpiece to launder Rs 10 crore of ill-gotten wealth. It is being probed whether the amount was partly or fully kickbacks from the flyover project. Kunju is the second IUML lawmaker to be arrested this month after M.C. Kamaruddin was taken into custody for allegedly swindling more than 800 depositors out of over Rs 150 crore in a gold investment scheme run by his now-defunct firm. Kamaruddin had allegedly run the investment scheme without the requisite permissions and most of the aggrieved investors belonged to his party. The IUML has found itself in a spot over its lawmakers getting embroiled in corruption cases and scams ahead of the local body polls in December. Another IUML lawmaker, K.M. Shaji, has been booked in a bribery case involving the illegal construction of a palatial house beyond his known sources of income. The vigilance bureau and the ED are separately probing the case. The leader of the Opposition, the Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala, accused the government of misusing law-enforcement agencies to target political rivals. The Congress and the IUML are allies. “The people of Kerala should understand this political vendetta using law-enforcement agencies. The chief minister is directly intervening in these cases by putting pressure on officials to act against political rivals,” said Chennithala. “What wrong did Ibrahim Kunju do? Was it the first instance of granting a mobilisation advance? He had only put his signature on that document granting mobilisation advance,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||SC notice to Jaishankar||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Congress leader Gaurav Hemantbhai Pandya’s appeal challenging his Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat in July last year, on the ground that the Election Commission should not have held separate elections for the two seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani. The court also issued notice to another BJP MP, Jugalsinh Mathurji Lokhandwala, who also got elected from Gujarat, on the petitions filed by two other unsuccessful Congress candidates Paresh Kumar Dhirajlal Dhanani and Chandrikaben Kanjibhai Chudasama raising the same plea. Pandya and the two others have moved the apex court after Gujarat High Court on February 4 dismissed their petitions challenging the two BJP candidates’ election on the ground that the poll panel had acted illegally by conducting separate polls to the two RS seats vacated by Shah and Irani, after they got elected to the Lok Sabha. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who was present in the court, on a caveat accepted the notice on behalf of Jaishankar and said he would file his response to the petition. Pandya had challenged the election of Jaishankar on the ground that the EC could not have issued separate notifications to fill up the vacant seats as according to him the elections for the two seats ought to have been held simultaneously under the rules and not separately. The Congress had earlier accused the EC of deliberately issuing two separate notifications to fill up the seats as the party did not have sufficient numerical strength in the Gujarat Assembly to get its own candidate elected if the elections are held separately. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, while issuing the notice, told senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Pandya that it will hear the matter at the earliest on a “short date, on a non-miscellaneous day”. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, however, did not specify the date of hearing. According to the Congress leaders, the EC had acted in an “arbitrary” and “mala fide” manner by issuing separate notifications for holding separate elections to the two vacant seats instead of conducting the process in one single instalment. It was submitted that the EC’s decision was totally contrary to the rules framed under The Representation of the People Act, 1951, which mandated that elections to the vacant seats should be held simultaneously and not separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Corruption heat on Nitish minister||The Opposition turned up the heat on the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar for making recruitment scam accused Mewalal Choudhary a minister and handing him over the education portfolio. Mewalal is currently out on interim bail. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav raised the issue to attack the government and said: “Chief minister Nitish Kumar has made Mewalal Choudhary, who is an accused in serious cases of corruption in the appointment of assistant professors and construction of building, a minister. Is it a reward for corruption and a free hand to loot?” Tejashwi, whose RJD with 75 MLAs is the largest party in the 243-seat Assembly, followed it up with sharp comments on the first few days of the government. “An accused and absconder in various cases of corruption has been made the education minister. Nobody from minority communities has been made a minister. The criminals patronised by the government are making merry. Crime is breaking all records. However, the chief minister will keep preaching on crime, corruption and communalism for the sake of power,” Tejaswhi said. Mewalal is a member of Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and is an MLA from Tarapur in Munger district. Attempts to contact Mewalal were not successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||JNU model of inclusion: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday paid glowing tribute to the legacy of Jawaharlal Nehru University in encouraging free debate and respect for difference of opinion and described JNU as a model of inclusion, diversity and excellence. The university, which is seen as a Left bastion, has been a favourite punching bag of the Right-wing ecosystem, has hurtled from one controversy to another, been painted as a hub of “anti-national” activities and blamed for the many ills plaguing the country, and its students have been targeted over the past six years of NDA rule. Addressing the JNU convocation, Kovind, the Visitor, said: “On the campus, students and teachers live in close proximity. This closeness strengthens the bond between them. This closer bond facilitates learning. The excellent faculty of this university has been encouraging free debate and respect for difference in opinions. “Students are treated as partners in learning, which is how it should be in higher education. The university is known for vibrant discussions, which also take place outside the classrooms, in the cafeterias and dhabas at all hours.” In 2016, a police force had been sent into JNU and students arrested on the charge of raising “anti-national” slogans. Six students, including then union president Kanhaiya Kumar, were picked up for sedition. Earlier this year, a group of masked men and women entered the campus and attacked students and teachers who were opposed to a proposal for hostel fee hike. Kovind said JNU had produced many eminent personalities and had been guided by some of the greatest minds. He referred to former President K.R. Narayanan, who had served as vice-chancellor. The President also named finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar among notable alumni. “From among the over 80,000 former students of JNU, many have been making their impact in India and abroad through contribution in the civil services, academia, politics, social work, science and technology, media and communications, fine arts and business leadership,” Kovind said. He praised JNU for its national character. Students from all parts of India and from all strata of society study in JNU in an “atmosphere of equal opportunity for excellence”, Kovind pointed out. “The university represents blending of inclusion, diversity and excellence,” the President added. He also reflected on diversity at JNU whose hostels are named after famous rivers of India. The President quoted Mahatma Gandhi and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar to ask the students to work for the people. “It is your sacred duty to repay this debt by reaching out to the people who are left behind in the country’s journey for growth and development,” Kovind said. He also quoted Swami Vivekananda who had stressed on “life-building, man-making and character-making assimilation of ideas”. Kovind remembered India’s rich tradition in higher education, referring to institutions like Takshashila, Nalanda, Vikramshila and Vallabhi. He also hailed India’s scholars like Charaka, Aryabhata, Chanakya, Panini, Patanjali, Gargi, Maitreyi and Thiruvalluvar. “Today’s Indian scholars should try to create such an original body of knowledge which is utilised for dealing with contemporary global challenges. JNU is among those select institutions of higher learning which can reach globally comparable excellence,” Kovind said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh govt to set up ‘cow cabinet’ ||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to set up a “gau cabinet” for the protection and promotion of the cow, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday. “It has been decided to constitute a ‘gau cabinet’ for the protection and fostering of godhan (cow and its progeny) in the state,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi. Ministers of the animal husbandry, forest, panchayat and rural development, revenue, home and farmers’ welfare departments will be part of the cabinet, he said. “The first meeting will be held at 12 noon on November 22 to mark Gopashtami at the Gau Sanctuary in Agar Malwa,” Chouhan added. Besides Chouhan, the cabinet will include home minister Narottam Mishra, forest minister Vijay Shah, agriculture minister Kamal Patel, panchayat and rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia and animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel. An action plan will be implemented for increasing the use of cow dung cakes. The making and marketing of gau-kasht (cow-wood) is being encouraged and efforts will be made to also market products made from cow milk, the chief minister said. State Congress chief Kamal Nath alleged that Chouhan had not kept his promise made before the 2018 Assembly elections. “Shivraj Singh, who had announced the formation of a separate cow ministry in the state before the 2018 Assembly elections, is now talking about setting up a cabinet for cow protection and fostering,” the former chief minister said. The announcement of a cow cabinet came a day after the Madhya Pradesh government said it is planning to introduce a bill proposing five years’ imprisonment for the alleged practice of luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion. The Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill, 2020, is expected to be introduced in the next session of the Assembly, home minister Mishra said. “Such incidents are on the rise, which you call ‘love jihad’,” he added. The bill will have a provision to declare such marriages null and void, he said. “It will be compulsory for family members of the person who is forced to convert for marriage…to file a complaint,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||BJP steps up Congress attack||The BJP launched an attack on the Congress for the third time in a row on Wednesday in an apparent effort to enmesh the rival once again in allegations of corruption at a time the Opposition party is battling infighting in the aftermath of electoral setbacks. On Wednesday, the BJP fielded former Union minister Rajyavardhan Rathore to try to drag Gandhi family members into the multi-crore AugustaWestland helicopter deal scam. On Tuesday, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had addressed the media over the same issue and demanded a clarification from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi over the names of the Congress’s top leaders allegedly surfacing in the scam. “What does the Congress have to say when its leaders are being named in kickback cases in defence deals again?” Prasad asked on Tuesday after reports emerged that a prime accused in the AugustaWestland case had named Congress leaders such as Kamal Nath’s son Bakul Nath, Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel. “The nation is awake and listening,” Prasad had said. Picking up from where the law minister had left off, Rathore said on Wednesday: “Yesterday, senior minister Ravi Shankarji had demanded a clarification from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on the names of their party leaders. But so far there is silence.” The sustained attack comes at a time when the Congress is in the throes of severe infighting triggered by the party’s poor performance in the Bihar Assembly elections and a batch of bypolls. Several leaders of partner RJD have also accused the Congress, which won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested, of pulling down the Grand Alliance in Bihar when it was certain to wrest power. The setbacks have triggered discontent to again rear its head in the Congress with some senior leaders seeking to indirectly target the Gandhis. The BJP appears to have lunged at the opportunity to pin its principal national rival down, deploying a corruption-themed assault that had yielded rich dividends before the 2014 elections. Referring to the BJP’s agenda of a “Congress-mukt Bharat”, ruling party leaders explained the importance of the target. “The Congress is the only national party that can pose a challenge to us at the Centre. Regional parties are effective in states but not nationally,” a BJP leader said, asked about the sustained attacks on the Congress. More than the Congress, the Gandhi family has been the target of the BJP. BJP leaders believe the Congress will disintegrate if they succeed in discrediting the Gandhis. On Monday, Prasad questioned the Gandhis over the demand to restore Article 370 and the Congress’s purported attempts to join the Kashmir alliance of parties fighting for it. “Do they (Congress) want to restore Article 370? Do they stand by Farooq Abdullah’s statement of taking help from China?” Prasad asked. Union home minister Amit Shah too latched onto the issue on Tuesday and accused the Congress and the “Gupkar gang” — an uncharitable reference to the alliance of the Kashmir-based parties — of taking Jammu and Kashmir back to the era of “terror and turmoil”. On Wednesday, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis addressed the media on Article 370, picking out the Congress as the main target. BJP leaders said all state leaders of the party had been asked to address media conferences and hold protests against the Augusta corruption case and the demand to restore Article 370 to create the perception that the Congress was both “corrupt” and “anti-national”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Face-off drags on, habitats set up for troops ||The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control amid the ongoing border standoff with China in the Ladakh sector where temperatures have already reached minus 15-20 degree Celsius, sources in the defence ministry said. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 30-40 degree Celsius by next month. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains — since May and eight rounds of military talks between the two sides have failed to find a solution. “The Indian Army has now completed the establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in the sector. This will also ensure operational efficiency of troops deployed in the harsh winter,” said a defence ministry official. The living accommodation, he said, includes fast erectable modular shelters that will protect the troops from the severe cold and chilling winds. Besides the smart camps with integrated facilities that have been built over the years, the additional facilities will include state-of-the-art habitats with integrated arrangements for heating, electricity, water, health and hygiene. Special shelters for material and equipment have also been put in place to save them from heavy snow. Another ministry official said providing logistics in peacetime deployment was a big challenge in the winter. “The habitats were set up in quick time and the entire war machinery was pressed into action,” he said. Sources in the defence ministry said the army had increased its military readiness at the high altitude to deal with any Chinese provocation. The official said the army recently procured high-altitude gear and had stocked up on food, fuel and ammunition to sustain the six-month winter deployment. Keeping in mind the Chinese army’s massive deployment, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment along the LAC, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircrafts. “The Indian Army has also increased its military readiness and rejigged its deployment at several points,” the official said. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
