20-11-2020||India||Delhi court extends judicial custody of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam till Nov 23||A Delhi court on Friday extended by three days the judicial custody of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam who were arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat extended their judicial custody till November 23 as sought by the public prosecutor. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the mandatory time period of 90 days to complete the probe in the case will be completed on November 23 and the charge sheet has to be filed. Khalid and Imam have been arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots. When the judge asked Prasad whether the police were going to file the charge sheet on Monday, he did not give any specific date and said he will let the court know on November 23. Advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, opposed the remand application saying it was hollow like the earlier applications. The judge then asked Khalid if he was facing the problems now in Tihar prison, as mentioned earlier by him. Khalid replied, besides curbing my liberties and a malicious investigation, I am not facing any other issues. Khalid had earlier alleged that he has not been allowed to step out of his cell or meet anyone while in judicial custody. Imam's counsel Surabhi Dhar informed the court that certain documents which he had written while in custody in Assam were taken from him when he was brought to Delhi and has not been returned yet. Imam too said the documents were taken from him at the gate of Tihar prison. The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||CBSE exams will happen for sure, says secretary||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) secretary Anurag Tripathi said on Friday that the board will, for sure, conduct its examinations for class X and XII and a schedule is likely to be soon announced. His remarks came amid several demands from different quarters to cancel or postpone the board examination due to the increasing cases of coronavirus. "The board exams will happen for sure and a schedule will be announced very soon. The CBSE is making plans and will soon reveal how it will do test assessments," he said during a webinar on "New Education Policy (NEP): Brighter future of school education", which was organised by ASSOCHAM. Tripathi, however, did not shed light on whether the exams will be conducted in the usual format and will be held in February or March, or will be postponed. "During March-April we were flummoxed as to how to move forward, but our schools and teachers rose to the occasion and transformed, trained themselves in using new technology for teaching purposes and within a few months conducting online classes using different apps became normal," the secretary said. Schools across the country were shut down since March to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, and the board exams, which had to be postponed midway, were ultimately cancelled this year. The results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme as a result. However, since October 15, some states have partially opened them with many others deciding to keep them closed in view of the spiking number of cases. Several people have demanded the board exams be postponed to May as schools have not opened for months and teaching-learning activities have completely shifted online. Noting that a common aim of all education policies including the new National Education Policy (NEP) has been to shift students from rote learning to experiential learning, Tripathi said, "the entire NEP 2020's thrust and main aim is to make a shift to skill and competency based education". "We need to move students away from knowledge based education to competency and skill based learning. To implement skill-based, competency based education there is a need to transform and follow the entire pedagogy based teaching-learning process be it classroom teaching, face-to-face teaching or online teaching,” he said. "The pedagogy based teaching-learning process is more about making students more curious, innovative, creative and providing them experiential learning and this can be achieved only when schools, teachers and principals change the teaching pedagogy," Tripathi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||AG nod for contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra over fresh tweet||Attorney General K K Venugopal Friday gave consent for initiating contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his November 18 tweet, saying it was grossly vulgar and obnoxious and tended to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. The top law officer had last week granted consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra for his earlier tweets which allegedly criticised the apex court, saying they were in bad taste and it was time people understood that attacking it brazenly will attract punishment. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Venugopal granted the fresh consent on a request made in this regard by Prayagraj-based advocate Anuj Singh. Kamra, in his November 18 tweet, had made an objectionable gesture while making a comment against the Chief Justice of India. I have gone through your request for consent under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 against Kunal Kamra in respect of the tweet dated November 18, 2020 (at 9.46 PM), the Attorney General said in his letter to Singh. The said tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious, and I have no doubt that it would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public has in the institution of the Supreme Court of India itself, he said. "In view of the above, I accordingly grant consent under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1975," Venugopal said. Armed with the consent granted earlier by the Attorney General, a petition was filed in the Supreme Court on November 13 seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court. The petition has claimed that Kamra had started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of journalist Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting his plea seeking interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. It has alleged that after the top court had granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra again published various tweets and thereby scandalized the apex court and further lowered its authority. While granting consent earlier, Venugopal had said today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising their freedom of speech, but under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||Naqvi backs BJP govt to get rid of ‘corruption clan’ in J&K||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Friday that the Narendra Modi-led government will ensure that Jammu and Kashmir gets rid of the “corruption clan”. The union minister for minority affairs said that Jammu and Kashmir is demolishing the “web dynasty” and has been marching towards a path of inclusive development. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi led-government has ended the 'corruption of clan' from the corridors of power of Delhi and now it will make Jammu and Kashmir free from 'corruption of clan', Naqvi said at an election meeting in Srinagar’s Balahama area, adding that for his party, secularism is not a "definition of vote politics". "It is the determination for inclusive development. The Modi era is an era of 'Iqbal' (authority), 'Insaaf' (justice) and 'Imaan' (integrity) where inclusive development, security and prosperity of the country are of the utmost priority," the minister said. “After several decades, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have become an equal partner in transparent democratic and development processes,” Naqvi claimed. He alleged that the "dynastic politics" had deprived the people of the union territory deliberately of their constitutional rights as well as mainstream development. "Now, the BJP is committed to take the Union Territory forward on the path of prosperity," he said. The BJP leader reiterated his party’s claim that the “Gupkar Alliance” is a conspiracy against India and its national interests. "The alliance is trying to create confusion among the people of Jammu and Kashmir but they will not succeed in their attempt. The people will never accept any such alliance which wants to throw Kashmir back into the quagmire of separatism and terrorism," Naqvi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Sebi moves SC for payment of Rs 62,600 crore from Sahara firms||Markets regulator Sebi has moved the Supreme Court seeking direction to two Sahara firms to pay Rs 62,602.90 crore in compliance with the court's earlier orders, failing which the group's chief Subrata Roy be taken into custody. Sebi said the contemnors, Roy and his two firms-- Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (SIRECL) and Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Ltd. (SHICL) -- are in gross violation of various orders passed by the court regarding the deposit of entire monies collected along with the interest. Despite the top court granting various reliefs to Roy and his firms, they have neglected and failed to comply with various orders passed by this court, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said. In its intervention application filed on November 18, Sebi said the "contemnors have not been complying with the orders passed by this Court despite the long rope provided to them" and their liability is increasing daily. "The contemnors are enjoying their release from custody' as granted by this court vide order dated May 6, 20l6, further extended by this Court from time to time 'without even any attempt at compliance with the orders passed by this Court, it said. The markets regulator said that it would be just, expedient and in the interest of justice that this court passes appropriate orders directing the Saharas to forthwith deposit the balance amount, which was Rs 62,602.90 crore as on September 30 this year, in Sebi-SAHARA refund account. Failing this, Sebi said, "the contemnors may be directed to be taken into custody" as was directed by the top court in its verdict on June 15, 2015. The top court on August 31, 2012, in a series of directions, had directed that SIRECL and SHICL would refund the amount collected from individual investors or group of investors, with an interest of 15 per cent per annum to Sebi, from the date of receipt of the subscription amount till the date of repayment within three months to be deposited in a nationalised bank bearing maximum rate of interest. The Sebi said that as per the statements filed by Saharas on June 14, 2012, the outstanding liability of SIRECL as on April 30, 2012, stood at Rs 16,997 crores (principal amount) and the outstanding of liability of SHICL as on April 30, 2012, stood at Rs 6352 crores (principal amount). It said, despite the aforesaid clear directions giving clear timelines, the respondents (SIRECL and SHICL) in utter disregard, disrespect and disobedience of the directions of this court deliberately and wilfully, did not comply with any of the directions and thereby committed contempt of this court. The Sebi further stated that in terms of the 2012 order of the top court Sahara firms have till date deposited Rs 15,455.70 crore which has been invested in fixed deposits of various nationalised banks and as on September 30, 2020, the total amount along with interest earned in Sebi-Sahara refund account is Rs 22,589.01 crore. It said that out of the total outstanding principal liability of Rs 25,781.32 crore, Sebi has realised only Rs 15,455.70 crore from Saharas and the sale of properties of the group. The balance amount of Rs 10,325.62 crore (principal amount) is still to be paid by Saharas. It is submitted that as on September 30, 2020, the total net liability of Saharas was Rs 62,602.90 crore taking into consideration interest at Rs 15 per cent in terms of directions of this court dated August 31, 2012, it said. On January 24, the top court had exempted Roy and two other directors from personal appearance till "further orders" in a case related to their alleged failure in depositing over Rs 25,700 crore in the Sebi-Sahara account for returning investors' money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Gehlot: ‘Love jihad’ a term coined by BJP to promote communal disharmony||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday saying that “love jihad” is a term coined by the party to divide the nation and hamper its communal harmony. Marriage is a personal affair and it is completely unconstitutional to bring a law to curb it, he said, adding that it will not stand the scrutiny by any court of law. "Jihad has no place in love. They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision and they are putting curbs on it which is like snatching away the personal liberty," the CM tweeted. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict and disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground,” Gehlot wrote in another tweet. His remarks come amid the announcements made by the BJP-led governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh about bringing in a law against love jihad. The term refers to the allegations that women are being converted to islam in the name of love and marriage. Reacting to his statement, BJP state president Satish Poonia said, "It is hard to believe that the chief minister will get so rattled by the plight of the Congress nationwide. We all know that marriage in the tradition of India is a religious and socially recognised rite, and is not limited only to freedom of the individual." On Tuesday, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said that a committee will be set up to draft a “strict law” against love jihad. "A strict law will be enacted against 'love jihad' in the state. A committee will be constituted to draft this law," he said in a statement issued by the Haryana home department. The Madhya Pradesh government, too, is working on bringing in a Bill countering the act. "The Madhya Pradesh government is working on bringing 'Dharma Swatantrya Bill' 2020 in the state assembly with a provision for a five-year rigorous imprisonment for luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion by making it a cognisable and non-bailable offence. Such incidents are on the rise, which you call 'love jihad', state Home Minister Narottam Mishra had told reporters. Apart from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, governments in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka are also mulling over enacting a law against the religious conversion of women in the name of marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Modi holds review meeting regarding the killing of four JeM terrorists in J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a review meeting with top security brass in the wake of the killing of four JeM terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, and asserted that security forces have thwarted their efforts to wreak "major havoc and destruction". Home Minister Amit Shah, NSA Ajit Doval, foreign secretary and top intelligence officials were present in the meeting, as Modi took stock of the situation. Government sources said that the terrorists were planning "something big" on the anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. In his tweets following the meeting, Modi said, "Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicate that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted." Hailing the security forces, he said they have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. "Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir," the prime minister added. Four Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists were killed and two policemen injured in a gunbattle in Nagrota on Thursday after a truck carrying newly infiltrated militants was intercepted, police had said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh, had said after the encounter that the terrorists had come to execute a "big plan" which has now been foiled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Haryana minister becomes first volunteer to receive Phase 3 Covaxin dose||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday was administered a trial dose of indigenously made potential coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, at Ambala, as he became the first volunteer in the state to receive the dose during the third phase of the trials. He also became the first cabinet minister of any state government in India to have volunteered for taking the trial dose of Covaxin. The 67-year-old Bharatiya Janata party leader was given the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt, as the third phase of the human trials of the Bharat Biotech vaccine in the state began on Friday. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon at Ambala, told reporters that the dose was successfully administered to Vij. The minister was kept under observation at the hospital after he received the shot, before which he had undergone some medical tests. While talking to reporters prior to reaching the hospital, the minister said if all goes well, the potential vaccine against Covid-19 will be made available to the masses by the beginning of next year. Vij, who has diabetes and underwent a surgery, said that he did not have any disease that will affect him adversely after he receives the vaccine shot. On Wednesday, the Ambala MLA said that the third phase of the human trials of Covaxin will begin on November 20 as he offered to volunteer for the same. Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is developing the vaccine indigenously, the first and second phases of whose trials were successfully completed last month. On Monday, the vaccine makers said that the Phase III trials of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India, making it the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Centre to send teams to states, UTs reporting more Covid-19 cases||The Centre is considering sending high-level multidisciplinary teams to states and Union Territories that are recording a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Health said on Friday. This comes a day after the government had sent high-level teams to several districts of Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Manipur to assist their efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of rising Covid-19 cases in those areas. Issuing a statement on Friday, the Health Ministry said that the Centre is also contemplating to send such teams to states and UTs experiencing a surge in the number of coronavirus positive cases. "The Union government has advised the State/UT governments to adopt aggressive and widespread testing to ensure that the missed out and undetected positive COVID-19 cases are promptly identified for timely and effective tracing, containment and subsequent treatment," the statement read. On Thursday, the ministry said that due to the increase in the number of infections and deaths in Delhi, the NCR regions in Haryana and Rajasthan are also witnessing a spillover effect with the number of positive patients rising everyday. Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, New Delhi is leading the three-member team to Haryana and Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog is heading the Rajasthan team.The Health ministry said Dr S K Singh, Director (NCDC) will be leading the team to Gujarat while Dr L Swasticharan, Additional DDG, DHGS is heading the Manipur team. India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 90-lakh mark on Friday with 45,882 new cases, while the recoveries surged to 84.28 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.6 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,04,365 and the death toll climbed to 1,32,162 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 584 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Arrested Kerala scribe wanted to create caste divide in Harthras, UP govt tells SC||Kerala-based scribe Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after allegedly being gang-raped, was going there under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create caste divide and disturb law and order situation, the Uttar Pradesh government said in the Supreme Court on Friday. In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the state government has alleged that Kappan is the office secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) and was using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerela-based newspaper which was closed in 2018. Opposing the plea filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) questioning Kappan's arrest and seeking his bail, the state has said it is not maintainable and the petitioner has no locus as the accused is already in touch with his advocates and relatives and he himself can file proceedings through his lawyers. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of Journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order situation and were found carrying incriminating material, the affidavit said. The matter came up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said they have filed an affidavit. "Last time there was misreporting. I am worried about the inaccurate reporting, the CJI said, adding, The reports said that the journalist was refused relief." The bench asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for KUWJ, to go through the reply filed by Uttar Pradesh and file rejoinder. “You have the right to file bail and you read the reply and then we will hear you completely,” the bench said, adding that the state has no objection to an advocate approaching the accused to get his signature for availing the judicial relief. Sibal said that lawyers were earlier restrained from approaching Kappan to get his signature. Mehta countered Sibal's contention and said they were neither stopped earlier and nor there is any opposition on this. Kappan was arrested on October 5 while he was on his way to Hathras, home to the young Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men. The police had said it has arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura and identified the arrested persons as Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. In its affidavit filed in the apex court, the state government has said that Kappan is not in illegal custody/confinement but is in judicial custody. The petitioner has resorted to falsehood and has made several false statements on oath only to sensationalise the case which would become clear on perusal of the following facts, said the affidavit, filed by senior superintendent of jail, District Jail Mathura. The person in custody namely Siddique Kappan is the Office Secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerela based newspaper...which was closed in 2018, it claimed. It alleged when Kappan was brought by the special task force (STF) to Delhi for probe, he misled the police by giving wrong residential address which was found invalid and he did not assist in the investigation and gave misleading details. It alleged that KUWJ has concealed the fact that a lawyer hired by them was appearing before the magistrate at Mathura on October 6 and had full knowledge of the time and place of production of the accused. "It said a completely false narrative is being made that Kappan is not being permitted to talk to relatives or lawyers as, during judicial custody, he has interacted with his family members on three occasions on phone on his written request. "It is pertinent to note that accused Siddique Kappan has never requested to meet any relative or any lawyer nor has filed any such application before the competent court/jail authorities till date," the affidavit said. The affidavit also said the STF has been conducting detailed probe and have been filing progress reports before the state government from which it has been revealed that further incriminating evidence has been found against all the four accused including the accused Siddique Kappan. It is submitted that during the investigation conducted so far, the evidence of the accused having links with banned organizations has emerged, it claimed. It said out of four persons arrested on October 5, the remaining three have filed bail pleas which were rejected by the court. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with PFI. PFI had been accused in the past of funding protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act across the country earlier this year. Hathras has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, has triggered widespread outrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality remains ‘poor’ as city braces for cold wave||Delhi’s air quality on Friday morning remained in the ‘poor’ category but central agencies say it is likely to improve marginally due to favourable wind speed, while the city recorded the lowest temperature in the month of November in 14 years. The minimum temperature in the city, the India Meteorological Department said, was recorded at 7.5 degrees Celsius, making it the lowest temperature of the month since November 29, 2006, when it recorded a minimum temperature of 7.3 degrees Celsius. The national capital is also on the brink to experience the first cold wave of this season. On the other hand, Delhi's air quality index was recorded at 292 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 283 on Thursday, 211 on Wednesday and 171 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Air Quality Early Warning System of the central government for Delhi said that the air quality should improve and remain in the poor category on Friday and jump to the poor to moderate category on Saturday. While the maximum wind speed is 15 kmph, the wind direction is northwesterly, it said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 20 percent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Thursday. It was 8 percent on Wednesday and 3 percent on Tuesday. Pollutants are trapped close to the ground due to calm winds and low temperatures, while they are dispersed due to favourable wind speed. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 12,000 m2/s on Friday and is likely to be 13,000 m2/s on Saturday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The IMD further said that the minimum temperature will drop to 7 degrees Celsius in Delhi by Monday as a result of cold winds that have started to blow from hilly regions, which have received a fresh bout of snowfall. The IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is t 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches lower than normal for two consecutive days. “The criteria has been met on Friday. We will declare a cold wave in Delhi if the situation persists on Saturday,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The average minimum temperature from November 22 to November 26 is 11.3 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Fourteen, including seven children, killed in a road accident in UP||Fourteen people, including seven children, died when their car collided with a stationary truck on the Lucknow-Allahabad highway, around 70 km from Pratapgarh district headquarters, an official said on Friday. The road accident took place late Thursday night when the victims were returning from a wedding function in the Nawabganj area of Pratapgarh, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed senior officials to reach the spot and extend all possible help. The chief minister also extended ex gratia of Rs two lakhs to each of those killed in the crash, Awasthi said. Pratapgarh Superintendent of Police (SP) Anurag Arya said the speeding SUV dashed into the truck parked by the road in the Manikpur police station area after one of its rear tyres got punctured near Deshraj Inara. While five bodies could be taken out initially, a JCB machine had to be used to pull out the SUV from under the truck to retrieve the remaining bodies, he said, adding the bodies have been shifted to CHC Kunda and will be sent for autopsy later in the day. It took almost two hours to pull the car out from under the truck, the SP said. Arya, who visited the spot, said the police have spoken to the family members of the victims and assured all possible help. A report from the district police identified the deceased as Bablu (22), Naan Bhaiya (45), Dinesh Yadav (40) and his sons Pawan (10) and Aman (7), Ram Samujh (40), Daya Ram (40), Abhimanyu (28), Mithilesh (17), Gaurav (10), Ansh (9), Sachin and Himanshu (both aged 12), and driver Paras Nath Yadav (40). All of them were residents of Jirgapur village in the Kunda police station limits and had gone to Shekhapur village to attend a wedding, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||India's Covid-19 tally goes past 90 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 90-lakh mark on Friday with 45,882 new cases, while the recoveries surged to 84.28 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.6 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,04,365 and the death toll climbed to 1,32,162 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 584 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.46 per cent.There are 4,43,794 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.92 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,95,91,786 samples have been tested up to November 20 with 10,83,397 samples being tested on Thursday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. The 584 new fatalities include 154 from Maharashtra, 98 from Delhi, 53 from Bengal, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 20 from Haryana, 19 from Tamil Nadu and 15 from Punjab. A total of 1,32,162 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,356 from Maharashtra followed by 11,604 from Karnataka, 11,550 from Tamil Nadu, 8,041 from Delhi, 7,873 from West Bengal, 7,480 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,910 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,556 from Punjab and 3,830 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Covid: First signs of immunity without vaccine||Medical researchers have documented for the first time in India fewer new cases of the coronavirus disease in urban areas with large proportions of previously infected people, a sign of emerging population-level protection without a vaccine. The researchers have cautioned that their findings report an epidemiological phenomenon anticipated to occur but hitherto unrecorded with Covid-19, and should not lead to any laxity in precautions such as masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. Their study in Pune comparing new cases against seroprevalence — the proportion of people with antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 — has found areas with the highest prevalence showing the fewest cases and areas with the least prevalence showing the highest cases. An area called Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi, for instance, with a seroprevalence level of 66 per cent reported only five cases per 1,000 people during a 45-day period after the prevalence survey. In contrast, an area called Kasba Peth-Somwar Peth with 35 per cent seroprevalence reported 20 cases per 1,000 people. “Other cities with similar large epidemics and different seroprevalence levels are likely to show similar patterns,” said Aurnab Ghose, associate professor of biology at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, a study team member. The study, posted on a preprint server but not peer-reviewed yet, has also found neutralising antibodies targeting SARS-CoV-2 in 85 per cent of the people with antibodies to the virus, an indication of at least temporary protection from the virus. Health researchers have predicted for months that when a sufficiently large proportion of people get protected either through natural infections or through vaccines, the epidemic will slow down because each protected person serves as a barrier to further spread of the virus. Some experts have speculated that the overall decline of India’s epidemic since mid-September could be a sign of community-level protection emerging in some states — such as Maharashtra — resulting from large proportions of already infected people. “This is a well-executed study, but the correlation between antibody prevalence and new cases is as expected,” said T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist. who was formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “The real question is how long the protection will last.” US researchers had earlier this month reported detecting “immune memory” in over 90 per cent of a sample of infected people for five months or longer, indicating “durable immunity” against Covid-19 in most individuals. Ghose and his colleagues hope to conduct follow-up studies on the duration of immunity. “We see a very good protective response in 85 per cent of people across all age groups — even older people show this response, which is very good,” said L.S. Shashidhara, professor of biology at Ashoka University in Sonipat (Haryana) and a team member. “But our findings also raise questions — how long will the immunity last, and why do 15 per cent of people don’t show the protective neutralising antibodies? These are the questions we need to probe.” The duration of the protection has implications for vaccines — when they become available. Members of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines had told The Telegraph last month that antibody profiles of people could be used to determine who needed or did not need vaccines. People who already display a strong protective immune response need not be prioritised for vaccines, one official said. Ghose said he hoped the Pune study would serve as a template for cities and states across India and for other countries with large and diverse epidemics. “Such studies provide insights into both population-level protection and individual protection,” he said. The Union health ministry on Thursday recorded around 45,000 new cases after a steady fall since mid-September, when the daily new cases had climbed to over 90,000. Around 443,000 patients are under medical supervision and 131,578 have died. The new cases from high seroprevalence areas are in line with expectations that even after a sufficiently large proportion of the population is infected and the epidemic slows or stops, a steady trickle of new cases will continue to emerge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh speaks out amid efforts to save cops||JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh on Thursday accused Delhi police of doing nothing to stop the January 5 campus attack on students and teachers by alleged ABVP supporters, reacting to a media report that said the force had exonerated itself of blame. Ghosh, who had suffered a severe head injury during the rampage, issued a statement condemning the police’s role on the day after a report in The Indian Express said a police fact-finding team had given the force a “clean chit” over its response to the rampage. “On the day of the violence, I had repeatedly messaged the then SHO (station house officer), an inspector of Vasant Kunj North PS (police station) and other police officials regarding the carnage and assembly of people with weapons,” she said. “Despite repeated appeals, police had given a word that everything was fine. Then how did the masked people from outside enter the university and why wasn’t it stopped?” A WhatsApp message from this newspaper to a police spokesperson seeking a reaction to the Express report and Ghosh’s claims went unanswered. The news report paraphrased an unnamed police officer to say: “The fact-finding committee, after recording their statements, concluded that the campus had been on the boil through the day but the situation was brought under control with police intervention.” On Thursday, Ghosh said: “The involvement of outsiders and their entry (through) the gate could have been averted if the police (had) acted in time. No action was taken even as stones were thrown at teachers which led to a female professor getting hit by a stone on the skull…. “The police (have) not arrested a single accused involved in that act of violence. The extent of police lethargy can be gauged from the fact that ABVP people blocked my exit route while I was to be taken to the hospital and nothing was done even after repeated pleas.” The ABVP had at the time claimed that the hostel rooms of its supporters had been vandalised, and blamed Ghosh. On January 10, the police held a news conference where they named Ghosh and eight others as suspects and released purported video grabs showing her standing near two students who had mufflers covering their faces. “Leading her masked violent comrade gang in hostels,” the police caption said. All the four Left groups that govern the students’ union — the CPM-backed Students’ Federation of India, CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, CPI-backed All India Students Federation and the Democratic Students Federation — were named at the media conference. But the ABVP was not named although two of its supporters were among the suspects identified. A purported sting by India Today TV had at the time seemed to indicate a planned attack. It showed a first-year BA student of French — Akshat Awasthi, previously seen at ABVP protests — appearing to claim he had been part of efforts to mobilise around 20 JNU students and an equal number from outside to attack Left supporters. Awasthi purportedly claimed that a police officer had encouraged him to attack students’ union supporters and added that the police had switched off the streetlights outside the campus so that goons could be brought in under the cover of darkness. Asked about the police’s role, Aswasthi had apparently replied with a question: “Delhi police kiski hai (belong to whom)?” Outside the campus, The Telegraph had witnessed the police standing by as goons heckled CPI general secretary D. Raja, his wife and party colleague Annie Raja, and activist Yogendra Yadav and roughed up several passers-by. The streetlights were off at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Art on CAA detainee gets whitewashed in BJP-ruled Assam||Four artists and a student leader were picked up in BJP-ruled Assam for painting graffiti featuring a peasants’ organisation leader who has been in jail for almost a year for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Police released the five after four hours but made them remove the public art by whitewashing the guard wall along National Highway 37 in Guwahati. The Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) and its students’ front, the Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti (SMSS), which espouse the cause of Assam and are against the CAA, said the police’s action did not augur well for democracy. Pranjal Kalita, assistant general secretary of the SMSS who was picked up along with the four artists, said the group had been told by the police that they could not draw anything on government property, especially images of arrested people. The mural had depicted Akhil Gogoi, the chief adviser of the KMSS, with his right hand raised in protest while being arrested by policemen. Gogoi was arrested on December 12 at the peak of the anti-CAA agitation in Assam. He is still in jail. The contentious CAA, which eases the rules for acquiring citizenship for non-Muslims from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, is seen by many in Assam as a threat to their identity and culture. Five people had lost their lives in the state during the unrest. The mural had been painted by the Anga Art Collective, a voluntary organisation. “This wall painting was done to highlight our demand for the release of Akhilda. The police told us we didn’t have permission for the painting. We were released after about three hours but were told to remove the wall painting,” Kalita told The Telegraph. “This shows there is no freedom of expression. This is not a good sign for democracy.” Dhrubajit Sarma, 32, of the Anga Art Collective told this newspaper that the group had to whitewash the graffiti twice in the presence of police personnel. It had taken them six hours to complete the graffiti but only about five minutes to erase it, he said. The artists had chosen to draw Gogoi because he is a symbol of resistance, Sarma said. “We were not highlighting the person but what Akhil Gogoi symbolises. We do public art, among other things, to communicate with the public and talk about the reality of our times,” he said. “We were told we should not paint on government property without permission or we might land in trouble. We can do paintings of singers Bhupen Hazarika or Zubeen Garg or of the Saraighat bridge but not of arrested people,” Sarma, an assistant professor at the College of Arts in Delhi, said. Basistha police station officer-in-charge P.P. Gogoi said: “We brought them for questioning and let them off. We told them they cannot draw paintings on government property without permission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Voice tape claims coercion to frame CM||Recurring allegations that the Narendra Modi government unleashes the central agencies on witch-hunts in Opposition-ruled states when elections are round the corner found a “voice” on Thursday when a leaked audio clip surfaced overnight in Kerala. In the audio tape, a key accused in a gold smuggling case accuses unidentified investigators of coercing her to name and implicate chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan. The voice has been confirmed as that of Swapna Suresh, a former UAE consulate employee who had last year joined a project under the Kerala government’s Space Park, allegedly with the help of an IAS officer who virtually ran the chief minister’s office. Both Swapna and the IAS officer, M. Sivashankar, are in judicial custody after being arrested by central investigators. In the tape, Swapna does not name the agency that allegedly tried to force her to name chief minister Vijayan, nor is it clear who she is speaking to. Swapna was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate. Three central agencies — the ED, the customs department and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) — are probing the gold smuggling case and have interrogated her. In the audio tape, Swapna is heard accusing the investigators of offering to make her an approver if she implicated Vijayan in the case. “They did not allow me to read the statements since sixth (not clear which month)… (but) asked me to sign after quickly scrolling (the pages),” Swapna is heard saying in the 35-second audio clip, which surfaced late on Wednesday. Swapna said: “What my lawyer told me today is that the statement submitted before the court states that I had gone to the UAE with Sivashankar in October and did financial negotiations for the CM. “They (the investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I would never do that, I was told they would come to jail and force (me) again.” Deputy inspector-general of prisons and correctional services Ajay Kumar, who met Swapna at the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday, told reporters she had confirmed it was her voice in the audio clip. “It was not (recorded) in the jail for sure. She said it was from somewhere else during a casual chat. She has been to a lot of places (as part of the investigation),” Kumar said. There had been no official word till late evening from the Enforcement Directorate, which rarely comments on such matters. Swapna is one of the main accused in the attempt to smuggle 30kg of 24-karat gold from Dubai in a diplomatic bag addressed to an official in the consulate-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The scandal has pushed the ruling CPM on the back foot at a time the state is gearing for local body elections next month. The Assembly elections are scheduled in the summer. The CPM state secretariat termed the contents of the audio clip “extremely serious”. “The details about misusing central agencies to topple the state government by targeting the chief minister are extremely serious in nature,” the party said in a statement. “Enticing and pressurising the accused by offering to make them approvers is an open challenge to the rule of law and democratic principles.” Kerala recently joined an increasing number of Opposition-ruled states that have scrapped their general consent to the CBI taking up cases within their territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Nitish’s education minister forced to resign hours after taking charge||Bihar education minister Mewalal Choudhary resigned over old corruption charges just three hours after assuming charge on Thursday. The lightning exit gave the Opposition a rare chance to enjoy the fruits of putting up a spirited fight during the elections and snapping at the heels of the ruling BJP-JDU coalition. The Janata Dal United, the party to which Mewalal belongs, tried to make a virtue out of necessity and spun it as an example of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s “high standards”. “See what a powerful Opposition and an awakened people can do. The people of Bihar have forced the ‘no confusion, great combination’ of Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar to drop a tainted politician they wanted to inflict on Bihar as education minister!” tweeted CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya. The Opposition alliance had won 110 seats in the just-concluded Assembly polls, giving a scare to the ruling combine, which bagged 125 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The CPIML and the other Left parties, part of the Opposition alliance, had put up a stellar show. Mewalal, Tarapur MLA from the chief minister’s party and former vice-chancellor of an agriculture varsity, is accused in a university recruitment scam and obtained anticipatory bail in 2017. The Opposition had been pummelling the government ever since he was sworn in as a minister on Monday, mocking Nitish’s vaunted policy of “no compromise with corruption”. Mewalal, announced as education minister during Tuesday’s portfolio allocations, was summoned to the chief minister’s residence on Thursday. He stayed there for around an hour, then put in his papers. Mewalal’s mobile phone was switched off. On Wednesday evening, too, Mewalal had met Nitish, triggering speculation that he would be dropped as minister. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had asked whether Mewalal had been rewarded for corruption. While no official communiqué was issued on Mewalal’s resignation, JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi appeared to be implying that Nitish had initially been unaware of the charges against the party MLA, although the matter had been well reported. “Nitish Kumar has set a new standard in politics and governance. He (Mewalal) was administered oath as a minister. Some allegations against him came to light. The matter was probed and he was asked to resign,” Tyagi said. “Nitish Kumar has continuously upheld high ideals in public life and does not allow tainted people around him. When the then deputy chief minister, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, refused to clarify the corruption charges against him, Nitish had resigned as chief minister.” This was in 2017 when Nitish had dumped his alliance with the RJD and the Congress — which had won the 2015 election — and returned to the NDA to be immediately handed back the chief minister’s chair. JDU member of the legislative council (MLC) and former minister Neeraj Kumar challenged Tejashwi to match the standards set by Nitish. “Tejashwi too faces corruption charges and is out on bail. He is still leading the RJD and is leader of the Opposition. He should quit and allow somebody else to lead,” Neeraj said. Apart from charges of possessing unaccounted wealth, Tejashwi faces income-tax and Enforcement Directorate investigations. Mewalal is accused of involvement in a 2012-13 scam relating to the recruitment of 160 assistant professor-cum-junior-scientists to the Bihar Agriculture University in Bhagalpur, where he was vice-chancellor. He later joined the JDU and became an MLA in 2015. When the scam tumbled out in public, the Raj Bhavan took cognisance of the matter and got it probed by a retired Patna High Court judge. President Ram Nath Kovind was Bihar governor and the chancellor of state universities at the time. He sanctioned action against Mewalal and an FIR was registered against him in 2017. The JDU suspended Mewalal from the party in 2017 but reinstated him a few months later. JDU sources said Mewalal’s suspension had been revoked and he was fielded in the elections because he had not been chargesheeted or convicted. Mewalal is from the Kushwaha community, which is a conglomeration of several backward castes and is closely connected with the Kurmi caste from which Nitish comes. While the Kushwahas make up around 6 per cent of Bihar's electorate, the Kurmis account for 2 per cent. Nitish faced a compulsion to give a cabinet berth to a member of the Kushwaha community to maintain the caste balance, and he could not find a better, more educated person than Mewalal among his Kushwaha MLAs. It was BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi whose complaint to the then Bihar governor had led to the action against Mewalal. At the time, the JDU was with the RJD and the Congress. Appointing Mewalal as a minister may have been Nitish's way of defying the BJP, but it has backfired spectacularly. JDU sources said a party MP considered close to Mewalal may have misled Nitish about the potential consequences of appointing him a minister. Building construction and social welfare minister Ashok Choudhary has been given additional charge of the education department. Tejashwi said: “Just one resignation won’t do. We are going to meet over several public-related issues, like 19 lakh jobs, equal pay for equal work for contractual employees. The people’s mandate in Bihar directs us that we should keep alerting you (the government) about corrupt policies, intentions and rules.” While the BJP had promised 19 lakh jobs during the campaign, the RJD had pledged parity for contract workers. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra described the Mewalal episode as a farce and accused Nitish of hypocrisy. “Nitish Kumar keeps saying he would not compromise on crime, corruption or communalism. But he is with the BJP --- is this not a compromise with communalism?” he said. “He made a corruption accused a minister. Was it not a compromise with corruption?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Editors Guild finally stirs on Assam attacks||The Editors Guild of India, accused of defending “celebrity” anchors while choosing to ignore the plea of one of its own members from the Northeast, on Thursday wrote to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal expressing “deep concern” about the “growing” incidence of violence against journalists in the state. The letter, signed by Guild president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath, comes at a time The Shillong Times editor Patricia Mukhim has quit the outfit to protest against its silence after Meghalaya High Court on November 10 refused to quash an FIR filed against her. In her resignation letter, Mukhim, who has refused to reconsider her decision and floated the idea of a broad-based and inclusive journalists’ forum in the Northeast, had mentioned that the Guild had spoken up for Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami when he was arrested in a suicide abetment case. To its letter to chief minister Sonowal, the Guild has attached a list of 32 journalists killed in Assam since 1981. The Guild said journalists had been subjected to mob attacks, intimidation and threats, which is vitiating the environment needed for the functioning of an independent and vibrant media. “While we appreciate your (Sonowal’s) firm condemnation of these incidents, the situation demands your urgent intervention to assure the media that they are safe to report without fearing retribution from criminal mafia. In the absence of that, a sense of impunity could embolden attackers who may believe that they are above law,” the Guild said. It added: “We record our appreciation of your efforts in bringing monetary relief to the kin of the 32 journalists killed in Assam since 1981 with generous compensations. However, most of the cases have not been resolved with allegations of shoddy investigations. In many cases culprits roam free, intimidating the families of the slain journalists. We hope you will urge the state police to take necessary steps for rebuilding confidence in the media, so that they can operate without fear.” Mukhim, against whom a Dorbar Shnong (traditional institution) had lodged an FIR for her July 4 Facebook post following an attack on a group of non-tribal youths playing basketball in Shillong, referred sarcastically to the Guild letter. “So the conscience of the Editors Guild of India is now awakened about a periphery called Assam. A delayed letter written to Assam CM about ongoing incidence of violence against journalists and urging him to take steps to ensure their safety. Wow, so noble,” Mukhim tweeted. The letter does not mention Mukhim but refers to the November 15 assault on journalist Milan Mahanta, 42, from Mirza in lower Assam’s Kamrup district. Mahanta, who writes for vernacular dailies Asomiya Pratidin and Dainik Asom, was tied to a pole and assaulted by goons. He had named three accused but none has been arrested till date, Mahanta told The Telegraph on Thursday. The incident came close on the heels of the death of Parag Bhuyan, a journalist with the Pratidin Time channel, who was run over by a car near his home in Kakopathar under questionable circumstances. The Pratidin Time editor has alleged that Bhuyan was murdered as he had been receiving threats for exposing corruption and illegal activities of a criminal nexus in the Kakopathar area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Twitter grilled for Kamra tweets on Supreme Court||A parliamentary committee questioned Twitter on Thursday over the recent “obscene” tweets by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra on the Supreme Court. Panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said Twitter had been asked to reply within seven days. The questioning came close on the heels of Twitter apologising in writing to the same parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China and promising to correct the error by the month-end. Twitter India representatives deposed before the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill on Thursday. “It is shameful that Twitter is allowing its platform for obscene remarks like the one by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the CJI,” Lekhi told reporters in Delhi. “Twitter is allowing its platform to be misused for abusing top constitutional authorities, such as the Supreme Court and the CJI,” she added. Kamra had tweeted on the Supreme Court over its decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami in a suicide attempt case. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the country’s topmost law officer, has given the go-ahead for contempt proceedings against Kamra for tweeting that “honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”, and also uploading a morphed picture depicting the apex court adorned in the saffron colour. Lekhi said members of the committee across the political spectrum, including Congress MP Vivek Tankha, BSP MP Ritesh Pandey and BJD MP Bhatruhari Mahtab, grilled Twitter representatives over the tweets. Lekhi said Twitter’s explanation on banning handles and tweets was inadequate. Kamra has refused to retract his tweets or apologise for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||‘Tactical repositioning’ by Congress over Gupkar ||The Congress has accused home minister Amit Shah of playing irresponsible politics by defaming the Jammu and Kashmir political class and asked him to stop distributing certificates of nationalism, stung by the BJP’s attempt to question its patriotism over dealings with the Gupkar alliance of Valley parties. While the Congress has formally said it is not part of the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, set up to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the move is largely viewed as tactical repositioning triggered primarily by electoral considerations. The Congress has asked the Union home minister to clarify if describing the legitimate political parties of Jammu and Kashmir as a “gang” was justified. Congress leaders wonder how these parties, including the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party that have had tie-ups with the BJP, had turned into anti-national gangs all of a sudden. Sources said the Congress was not in favour of an alliance with the NC and the PDP for the local urban body and panchayat polls because that would help the BJP occupy the Congress’s political space in Jammu. Congress leaders deny that they were in a dilemma and had developed cold feet because of the BJP’s attacks, pointing out that the ruling party was still in alliance with the NC in Ladakh and had tasted power in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time courtesy the PDP. “Voters can see through the BJP’s hypocrisy,” a senior Congress leader said, conceding that they appreciated the core demands of the Gupkar Declaration, which seeks that there must not be any change to Jammu and Kashmir’s status. Asked about the quandary in the Congress over dealing with the Gupkar alliance and why had Shah’s attack made the party defensive, spokesperson Pawan Khera told The Telegraph: “First of all, let’s be very clear — the Congress is not defensive when it comes to the irresponsible comment made by the home minister. Why is it that when the BJP shares power with a party, that party is nationalist but the moment the BJP breaks an alliance, that party becomes anti-national?” He added: “Will Amit Shah tell us why is the BJP a part of the Gupkar alliance in Kargil? The Congress is not a part of the Gupkar alliance. We want democracy to flourish in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. DDC (district development council) elections will help hasten that process. Seat-sharing with regional parties is done in several states and it is being done in the DDC elections too.” The BJP is part of an alliance with the Gupkar parties in Kargil. The Congress is livid with BJP leaders’ tendency to question the patriotism of critics and opponents. “Let Amit Shah not distribute certificates of nationalism. He should acquire some knowledge of history. The Congress has sacrificed to build this nation — from  Mahatma Gandhi to Indira Gandhi to Rajiv Gandhi, and Beant Singh in Punjab and Mahendra Karma, Vidya Charan Shukla in Chhattisgarh. The RSS has a history of aligning with the British in pre-Independence days. Even after Independence, their track record is blotted,” Khera said. The Congress spokesperson added: “When did the RSS start hoisting the national flag — the Tricolour — at their headquarters in Nagpur? Wasn’t showing respect to  the Constitution and the national flag a condition for lifting the ban on the RSS after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination? Isn’t it true that some youths who went to the RSS headquarters in Nagpur’s Reshmibag to forcibly hoist the national flag on January 26, 2001, were handed over to the police? These people are now branding others anti-national? They are targeting even students.” Told that the RSS disputes the claim that the lifting of the ban in July 1949 was conditional, Khera said: “It is well documented. It can be checked in official communiqué. Raj Mohan Gandhi has documented it in his book. And whether the three youths — Baba Mendhe, Ramesh Kalambe and Dilip Chatwani — along with others allegedly faced trial that ended in 2013 or not can be checked in police records. These enthusiastic, patriotic youths had only questioned the RSS decision not to honour the Tricolour and gone there to hoist the national flag. They were arrested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||ICMR sets rules for plasma therapy||India’s health research agency has cautioned against “inappropriate” use of convalescent plasma therapy on coronavirus patients, setting rules for who should be donors and recipients, but some doctors fear indiscriminate use might continue. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in an advisory released on Tuesday, pointed out that its clinical trial had not found any benefit of plasma in preventing severe disease or death from Covid-19 and said “indiscriminate use is not advisable.” Convalescent plasma, isolated from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The Union health ministry has included plasma as an investigational therapy in its Covid-19 treatment guidelines and hospitals across the country have been offering plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients. The ICMR advisory has specified criteria for donors and recipients – setting minimum concentration thresholds for antibodies and neutralising antibodies in the plasma and directing that any potential recipient should be in early stage of the disease and not already have antibodies against the virus. But one doctor who was associated with the ICMR trial pointed out that few hospitals in the country have the equipment to measure concentrations of antibodies or neutralising antibodies and will likely continue using plasma without prescribed measurements. The advisory acknowledging the lack of benefit of plasma while simultaneously prescribing rules for its use has surprised sections of clinicians, particularly because the ICMR director general Balram Bhargava had last month indicated that plama might be pulled out of treatment guidelines. “This (plasma) may be deleted from the national (treatment) guidelines,” Bhargava had said, pointing to the negative results of the ICMR trial conducted on 464 Covid-19 patients across the country. However, some doctors and immunologists had expressed concern that although the ICMR trial was the world’s largest, it was still not large enough or comprehensive enough to fully discard plasma from the list of investigational therapies. “The advisory takes into account the study’s findings and is intended to curb arbitrary or indiscriminate use of plasma,” a senior medical researcher who was associated with the trial told The Telegraph. “It is now up to doctors and patients on whether to follow this advisory.” The researcher also pointed out that the new rules should shrink the pool of recipients. The advisory specifies that a potential recipient should be in early stage of disease – between 3 and 7 days after onset of symptoms and no later than 10 days. Senior doctors and ICMR officials have been concerned at what they view as the indiscriminate use of plasma in hospitals across India that, in some places, has even given rise to a plasma market. “If this advisory is strictly followed, plasma use should reduce drastically,” the researcher said. But others investigating plasma therapy have welcomed the ICMR’s advisory. “I agree with the ICMR’s advisory, specifying rules for who should donate and who should receive plasma,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a doctor-turned-immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, who has independently evaluated plasma therapy on patients in Calcutta. The study by Ganguly and his colleagues is yet to be published.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||‘Child-molester’ UP government engineer sent to judicial custody||A government junior engineer who allegedly abused 60-odd children sexually over a decade and filmed the acts for uploading on the Internet was on Thursday sent to judicial custody in Banda till November 30. Police sources said that Ram Bhawan Singh, posted in Chitrakoot with the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department, had abused some 66 children, aged between 5 and 16 years, over 10 years. However, the matter came to light only when a CBI team from Delhi, from a wing that regularly scours the Internet to unearth child pornography, arrested Singh from his office on Wednesday. The government has suspended Singh. A police source said that while the family of the accused had been in the dark about his alleged crimes, many of his colleagues knew but kept quiet. “The CBI is also questioning a man from Allahabad who they believe uploaded the material on the Dark Web,” a police officer in Lucknow said. “There’s evidence that Singh sent the videos physically or via email to this man, and he deposited money in the engineer’s accounts.” According to the investigators, Singh lured the children by promising them new electronic gadgets, and that he had gifted mobile phones to several of his victims to buy their silence. Most of the victims belonged to Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur districts of Bundelkhand, the Lucknow officer said, adding that many of them had been abused  online rather than face to face. “The CBI has recovered Rs 8 lakh in cash from Singh’s possession besides a webcam, a laptop and several mobile phones in which child pornography material had been stored,” the officer said. Banda superintendent of police Siddharth Shankar Meena said Singh had been booked under a penal code section dealing with “unnatural” sex and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Banda upper sessions judge Rizwan Ahmad will hear Singh’s bail plea on November 24. Singh is from Sonbhadra district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Airbnb campaign for an overnight stay at SRK’s Delhi home||Come February 13, the “mannat (wish)” of at least two Shah Rukh Khan fans will be somewhat fulfilled. The superstar and his wife Gauri Khan will open the doors of their Delhi home, not the Mumbai mansion where they live, to a couple for an overnight stay. The house in Delhi has been newly redesigned by Gauri, an interior designer. The redecorated pad is filled with personal keepsakes and mementos from Shah Rukh and Gauri’s many travels around the world. Gauri said the home, where her family still resides, is a reflection of her and Shah Rukh’s journey together as a couple and as a family with their children Aryan, 23, Suhana, 20, and AbRam, 7. “This home of ours is where my parents live, where my mom lives. It’s all about that.… We have made this ‘nostalgia wall’, where we have these collectibles, like Aryan’s first badminton racket, Suhana’s make-up brushes, AbRam’s first birthday gift,” Gauri said in an interview with PTI. “There are too many lovely memories of all these years and they are all in that room and I have displayed it over there. This house has been designed over the years, so it is exciting. Whenever I go back, there are so many cherishable memories,” she added. The campaign by Airbnb, the American vacation rental online marketplace company, is titled “Home with Open Arms”, a nod to Shah Rukh’s signature pose. It was launched on November 18, and Indian fans can apply for a chance to win the overnight stay on February 13, 2021. To win the campaign, guests have to share what an “open arms welcome” means to them by November 30 on Airbnb’s website. The winners will be announced on December 15. During their stay, the guests will experience a curated itinerary developed by Gauri, enjoy a meal, including Shah Rukh’s favourite dishes, watch the superstar’s favourite films and his biggest hits as well as receive personalised souvenirs from the family. Both Shah Rukh and Gauri spent a significant time of their growing up years in Delhi before they moved to Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Modify, Centre tells Sudarshan TV||The Centre on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it had “cautioned” Sudarshan TV against airing attacks on “religion” and “communities” and had asked the channel to suitably “moderate” and “modify” its series on the alleged infiltration of the civil services by jihadi elements. The Centre’s affidavit, placed in the court by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, also stated that the government was empowered to withdraw licence under Rule 6 of the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, if its directive was violated by the channel. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra adjourned the matter to December 9 to enable the petitioners, Firoz Iqbal Khan and others, besides Sudarshan TV to respond to the Centre’s affidavit. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions seeking a ban on the telecast of the serial by the channel as part of the show Bindas Bol, which according to the petitioners branded an entire community as “anti-nationals”. Earlier, the apex court had halted the telecast of the series after a few episodes had been aired. Another bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had on Tuesday pulled up the information and broadcasting ministry after it filed a report that made no mention of the television coverage of the Tablighi Jamat gathering in the capital in March that had been subjected to a vilification campaign and blamed for the initial spread of the coronavirus in the country. The ministry had focused largely on the print media and news portals to give a blanket clean chit to the reporting and claiming that there had been no communalisation. The CJI-led bench had suggested that the government consider setting up a regulatory mechanism under the Cable Television Network Act to deal with such content on news channels. However, in the Sudarshan TV matter, the information and broadcasting ministry has informed the Supreme Court that it is empowered under the cable TV rules to rein in channels and had on November 4 directed Sudarshan TV to moderate its content and submit its compliance before going ahead with the remaining four episodes. The ministry’s order is subject to what the Supreme Court finally decides. “The ministry of information and broadcasting, after examining all facts and circumstances of the case and balancing the fundamental rights of the broadcaster, hereby ‘CAUTIONS’ Sudarshan TV Channel Ltd. to be careful in future. It is further directed that if any violation of the Programme Code is found in future, stricter penal action would be taken,” the affidavit said. The ministry has also directed Sudarshan to “review the content of the future episodes of the programme ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’, and the audio-visual content should be suitably moderated and modified so as to ensure that there is no violation of the Programme Code. The ministry has asked Sudarshan TV not to indulge in the following: The apex court had earlier on September 23 deferred hearing on the matter after the Centre agreed to consider suitable action against the channel. According to the Centre, Sudarshan TV had stoutly defended itself, taking the stand that it was exercising the right to express its views and that the form and manner of expression could not be reviewed by the government. The channel had submitted that the findings of an inter-ministerial committee that the Programme Code and cable TV rules had been violated were “erroneous” and not based on proper records or materials. The channel had defended the programme thus: “Investigation into the UPSC Jihad series has highlighted huge lapse of national security which prima facie needs investigation by various agencies of the government of India. Issues raised in the programme expose an existential threat for the sacred values enshrined in the Constitution.” According to the information and broadcasting ministry, it had examined the contentions of Sudharshan TV in the channel’s written submissions on September 28 and October 8 and 15, and oral submissions during a hearing before the ministry secretary on October 8 and 15, and also the depositions made before the inter-ministerial committee. The ministry said it had gone through the videos of the four episodes telecast by the channel from September 11 to 14. Quoting the cable TV rules, the government stated in the affidavit that there was “…no ambiguity over the proposition that every private TV channel which has been granted permission by the central government under the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, 2011, is bound to abide by the Programme and Advertising Codes laid down under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995”. “Accordingly, the contention of the Sudarshan TV Channel Ltd is without any basis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Militants killed, arms haul in Jammu suburbs ||Security forces killed four suspected militants on Thursday in an early morning gunfight in Jammu city’s suburbs that shattered a month’s lull. The encounter threw up a sizeable arms haul, hitting the Pakistan-based militant leadership’s attempts to offset an increasing shortage of weapons in the Valley. The forces recovered 11 AK-47 rifles, 29 grenades, three pistols and a huge cache of ammunition, prompting Jammu inspector-general of police Mukesh Singh to claim the largest arms seizure in the Jammu region in years. Singh said the gunfight had begun after the police intercepted a truck at Nagrota on the Jammu-Srinagar highway at 5am. The operation lasted three hours, during which traffic was suspended on the highway. While the truck was being searched, Singh said, “the hiding militants” had unleashed “heavy” fire. “Two policemen suffered injuries but both are stable,” he said. The CRPF and the army joined the encounter midway. A hunt is on for the truck driver, who fled before the firing began. Police sources said the militant leadership in Pakistan had been making concerted attempts this year to send arms to rebels in the Valley. A beefier border vigil and an increased reliance on technology to prevent infiltration have forced Pakistan to use drones to airdrop weapons, they said. Many among the dozens of militants killed this year carried only pistols. The weapons shortage, sources said, was hobbling militant recruitments. Singh told reporter: “There had been general intelligence inputs about fresh infiltration bids by the Jaish-e-Mohammad and the Lashkar-e-Toiba. We were on the alert.” He said intelligence reports had warned about militant plans to disrupt the District Development Council elections, which begin on November 28. Singh said the large weapons haul indicated the militants were planning something big. “Their plan stands foiled,” he said. Police sources said the militants appeared to have infiltrated into Jammu from PoK sometime on Wednesday night or early Thursday morning. In January, three militants had been killed near the same spot and they too had been heading towards the Valley. Later on Thursday, stone-throwing mobs allegedly helped two Jaish militants escape a security cordon at Parigam village in Pulwama, Kashmir. Stoning around encounter sites has been increasing in the Valley, fuelled by anger at the constitutional downgrade of Jammu and Kashmir last year, the clampdown that accompanied it and subsequent government decisions. Valley protesters had in the past too used stones to disrupt security operations and help militants escape, but the trend had largely been checked during past year or two. On Thursday, the forces used tear gas and fired in the air to disperse the protesters. The operation was continuing in the evening despite the suspected escape by two militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Puri custody death fuels tension||Tension gripped the pilgrim town of Puri following the death of a person in police custody on Wednesday night. While the local residents are demanding a judicial probe into the incident, Puri police have denied having committed any excesses. Another alleged custodial death was reported from Biramitrapur police station in Sundergarh district. DGP Abhya assured a fair probe into the matter and said the investigation, including the post-mortem of the two bodies, were being held in accordance with the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission. “Both the deaths are unfortunate. We have started a probe as per the NHRC guidelines,” the DGP said. According to the allegation, a person named K. Ramesh was whisked away by the police from his house in Puri on Wednesday night. He was later found dead in the district headquarters police hospital. Puri SP Akhileswar Singh told reporters, “Ramesh, 33, had criminal antecedents. He was released from the Talcher-Angul jail recently. When we got a tip-off that he was a planning a crime, we raided his place. However, the accused got into a scuffle with the cops during his arrest and sustained injuries. Later, we admitted him to the district headquarters hospital where he passed away while undergoing treatment.” However, the locals refused to buy the police theory. Demanding a judicial probe, they organised a protest rally at the Puri Medical Square on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to the district collector. The agitators also had a scuffle with the cops deployed at the hospital when they tried to forcibly enter the premises to see the post-mortem. Puri’s BJP unit and Congress also organised rallies protesting alleged police excesses. “We don’t support criminals. But the way the district police have started picking up people from their homes and are trying to create terror is not acceptable. Cases should be filed against the police officials involved,” Congress leader Binyak Das Mohapatra said. Puri Bar association members staged demonstrations demanding a judicial probe. Puri Bar association secretary Ashok Kumar Das said, “The police officer involved in the crime should be suspended and a judicial probe should be ordered.” A delegation of BJP MLAs on Thursday evening met the deceased’s family members. In the Sundergarh custodial death case, SP Sagarika Nath said, “The accused Tariq Salim had been involved in the kidnapping of a businessman a few days back. Following complaints of uneasiness, he was shifted to the hospital where he died. An inquiry is on in accordance with the NHRC guidelines.” Sources said Tariq, who worked at a garage, had allegedly been picked up by the police on Wednesday evening and brought to Biramitrapur police station for questioning in connection with a kidnapping case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||No Question Hour in winter session of Odisha Assembly||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro on Wednesday said there would be no Question Hour during the winter session of the House scheduled to begin from November 20. The session will continue till December 31. After presiding over the all-party meeting on Wednesday, Patro said, “It has been decided that the House will run for four-and-a-half hours every day adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. There will be sittings on Saturdays and Sundays as well. The members of the House are also allowed to participate in the proceedings through videoconferencing. There will be no Question Hour during the session.” However, the BJP and the Congress protested against the decision and said at least half an hour should have been devoted for questions and answers. Temple budget The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee has approved an annual budget of Rs 154 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. The committee said its income has been badly hit because of the lockdown. “We have decided to launch an online donation system,” said temple chief administrator Krishan Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Prod to Naveen Patnaik to solve border disputes ||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to seek the Centre’s support to resolve the state’s boundary disputes with its neighbours and form a committee of the Odisha Legislative Assembly to make a detailed study of these issues. The winter session of the Odisha Assembly is scheduled to begin from Friday. Fourteen out of the state’s 30 districts share borders with Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Odisha has a long history of border and water-sharing disputes with all these neighbouring states owing to historical, cartographic and geological reasons. Pradhan’s letter has come at a time Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are locked in a serious boundary dispute. The minister pointed out how tension had flared up again along the Odisha–Andhra Pradesh border in the Patnagi block of Koraput district following unilateral demarcation of certain portions of Sunabeda Mauza and digging of a pond by Andhra Pradesh, which was unacceptable to Odisha. “The matter has now escalated to blockage of Pottangi-Arku road by villagers on the Andhra Pradesh side. This comes a few months after a dispute along the Odisha-Bengal border in the Jaleswar block of Balasore district due to unilateral sand mining by Bengal on the Subernarekha river bed,” Pradhan said. Underscoring the need for a solution, Pradhan urged the chief minister to convene an all-party meeting and involve the intelligentsia and civil society members in finding a way out. “It is essential that we collectively arrive at a comprehensive and long-term solution for these conflicts. Therefore, I also request your initiation in forming a House committee in the Odisha Legislative Assembly comprising members from different parties for undertaking a detailed study of these issues and presenting their learned findings along with their recommendations,” Pradhan said. Stating that it’s prudent to arrive at an effective and comprehensive resolution of Odisha’s ongoing and longstanding border disputes, Pradhan said, “In the spirit of cooperative federalism and brotherhood between states, I believe Odisha should take the lead in initiating these discussions. However, it must be ensured that socio-economic interest of the people of Odisha is not compromised in any way and, if necessary, the state should also consider legal remedies for resolution of these disputes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
