21-11-2020||India||Delhi court grants bail to activist Gulfisha Fatima||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to student activist Gulfisha Fatima in a case related to communal violence in north east Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat granted the relief to Fatima on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 30,000 with one surety of like amount in the case related to rioting in the Jafrabad area in which one Aaman died due to gunshot injuries. The court granted her bail on the ground of parity as co-accused JNU students and Pinjra Tod members Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have already been granted relief in the case. "The co-accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have been granted bail in this case and their role is stated to be similar to the present applicant/accused (Fatima). The witnesses for all of them are almost the same. "Considering the period of the custody of the applicant/accused in the present case, the ground of parity as regards co- accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the present bail application of applicant/accused is allowed," the court said in its order. It further said there was nothing to suggest that the witnesses were under threat from Fatima. "In any case, two public witnesses are protected and their identity has been concealed. The rest are police personnel," it said. The court said co-accused Tafsil has been declared a Proclaimed Offender, but Fatima cannot be refused bail for his act and conduct, who will face consequences under the law. "The present stage is of bail and not acquittal or conviction. Nothing is shown to suggest that the applicant (Fatima) is a flight risk," it added. The court directed her not to tamper with evidence or leave the jurisdiction of NCT Delhi with its permission. It also asked her to attend the court on every date of the hearing or as directed. Noting the prosecutor's submission that she should be denied bail on the ground that she was an accused in a separate case related to the larger conspiracy in the riots, the judge said the case was being investigated separately and the court will "cross the bridge when we come to it". Fatima has been arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to premeditated conspiracy in the riots. She is currently lodged in Tihar prison in the matter. During the hearing, advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Fatima, said she was falsely and maliciously implicated in the present case without any evidence. Pracha further claimed that no role has been attributed to her except vague and unsubstantiated allegations which have no nexus with the alleged crime. Special Public Prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea saying Fatima allegedly conspired and has been constantly instigating the local inhabitants since December 2019, under the garb of peaceful protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register for Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR). He said some of the protected witnesses have allegedly said that Fatima and her associates of the Pinjra Tod group used code words to convey secret messages regarding further lines of their protests in front of common people. The public prosecutor alleged that she was physically present at the protest site at 66 Foota Road, under Jafrabad metro station, Delhi, from February 22, 2020, till late evening on February 24 and the roadblock there, which spiraled into a huge communal riot. Kalita was granted bail in the case by the Delhi High Court on September 1 and Narwal was granted relief by the trial court on September 17. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
21-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh arrested by NCB in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested comedian Bharti singh on Saturday after recovering cannabis from her residence at suburban Andheri, an official said. The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry. A team led by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh's residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information, a release said. The team recovered 86.5 grams of marijuana during its probe, the release added. "Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja. Bharti Singh was placed under arrest under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and examination of Mr Limbachiya is underway," it further said. According to an NCB official, the quantity of cannabis seized from Singh’s residence is considered a small amount under the act, but goes against the “commercial quantity”. Upto 1,000 grams of cannabis comes under the category of “small quantity” and attracts a fine of Rs 10,000 and/or a jail term of up to six months. Possession of commercial quantities -- 20 kg or more -- can attract upto 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail. "Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler," he added. The agency had also carried out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added. Bharti Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Shah breaks protocol, walks on busy Chennai road to greet supporters||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sprang a surprise in Chennai when he virtually broke protocol to get out of his vehicle and walk on the busy GST Road outside the airport to greet supporters, minutes after he landed here for a two-day visit of the city. Shah, who thanked the metropolis for its love, said it was "great" to be in Tamil Nadu. Shah is scheduled to attend a Tamil Nadu government event later in the day, where he will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone for projects worth over Rs 67,000 crore, including phase II of Chennai Metro Rail. Soon after he arrived from Delhi, Shah was received by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, senior cabinet members and BJP State President L Murugan among others, before proceeding to a city hotel. However, after exiting the airport, Shah's car suddenly stopped and the BJP veteran got out started walking, waving at scores of BJP and AIADMK workers who had gathered to receive him with their respective party flags. Accompanied by BJP National General Secretary and party in-charge of poll-bound Tamil Nadu, CT Ravi, and Murugan, the Home Minister warmly waved at the overjoyed supporters who had thronged the airport since the morning. A heavy security cover has been provided in the city following Shah's visit, during which he will meet state BJP functionaries and possibly discuss Tamil Nadu elections, due next April-May, before leaving on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, Shah took to Twitter to thank the city for its love and support. "It is always great to be in Tamil Nadu. Thank you Chennai for this love and support," he said in a tweet accompanying a video clip of his walk on GST Road. Shah had earlier been here in August 2019 to release a book on Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu's two years in office then. In a sharp criticism of the DMK and its ally, the Congress, Shah said that the two parties must not talk about corruption, asking "under whose leadership did the 2G (spectrum allocation scam) happen." Dedicating a fifth reservoir for the supply of drinking water in Chennai and laying the foundation stone for multiple infrastructure projects in Tamil Nadu, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started a war against dynasty politics, casteism and corruption in India. "Under his leadership when we fought state polls, dynasty parties had to face defeat,” Shah said in his address. “It is now the turn of a dynasty party in Tamil Nadu, which doesn't function on democratic values but only takes forward dynasty politics to lose elections,” he said in an apparent reference to the DMK. The party has often faced criticism for practising dynasty politics from several parties, including its arch rival AIADMK. "But I am sure such forces will come to an end in this election and democratic forces will progress," Shah said. "I am very surprised when friends from DMK and Congress speak of corruption. Under whose leadership did 2G happen, where corruption to the tune of lakhs of crores of rupees happened? What right have they got to speak about corruption? Before making charges of corruption, see what had happened in your family," the minister said. The Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are scheduled in April-May 2021, where the AIADMK has declared its continued alliance with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||India summons Pakistan envoy over JeM attacks in J&K||India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission on Saturday and expressed strong protest with him over attempts by Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed to execute attacks in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of the local body polls in the Union territory. The external ministry, while referring to the recent attacks at Nagrota, said that the huge number of arms, ammunition and explosive materials suggest extensive planning for the "major attack to destabilise the peace and security" in the UT and derail the ongoing democratic action to organise the local district development council polls. "Pakistan Cd'A was summoned by the Ministry of External Affairs, and a strong protest was lodged at the attempted attack, which was only prevented from happening by the alertness of the Indian security forces," the ministry said. In a statement, the MEA said India is "firmly and resolutely" committed to take required measures to safeguard the country’s national security in the battle against terrorism. "It was demanded that Pakistan desists from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups operating from its territory and dismantle the terror infrastructure operated by terrorist outfits to launch attacks in other countries," the statement read. Security forces nabbed and killed four suspected JeM terrorists who were hiding in a truck at Nagrota on Thursday morning. "A major terror attack was foiled by Indian security forces in Nagrota, Jammu and Kashmir on November 19. Initial reports indicate the attackers to be members of Pakistan based JeM, a terrorist organisation prescribed by the United Nations and several countries," the ministry said. The MEA said serious concerts were also expressed over continued terror attacks against India by JeM, adding that the terror organisation has been part of several attacks on the country including the February 2019 Pulwama attacks. The MEA said India reiterated its long standing demand that Pakistan fulfill its international obligations and bilateral commitments to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Punjab farmers to lift ‘rail roko’ stir from Monday||Punjab farmers’ associations, who were protesting the three Central farm laws by setting up rail blockades across the state, announced on Saturday that they will allow passenger trains to pass from November 23. The decision to lift the blockade came following a meeting of Chief Minister Amrinder Singh with representatives from the outfits after he had invited them for talks at Chandigarh. "Punjab farmers to completely lift their rail blockade from Monday (November 23) to allow all goods and passenger trains, in response to impassioned appeal by the chief minister at a meeting with Kisan Unions," media advisor to the chief minister Raveen Thukral tweeted. The farmers’ associations met each other to deliberate the issue prior to holding talks with Singh. The organisation, which had resorted to the ‘rail roko’ movement over the newly enacted farm laws, had already agreed to allow freight services to operate in the states and clear the tracks and vacate the platforms. But the standstill continued to be in force as the farmers and the Railways did not seem to come to terms. The farmers’ outfits maintained that they will allow passenger train services in Punjab if the Centre resumes the freight trains. However, the Indian Railways had refused to operate just goods trains, saying it would either operate both or none. The Railways has demanded full guarantee from the state government that no service would be disrupted and both passenger and freight trains would be allowed to run peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Maharashtra mulls halting of Delhi trains, flights amid rising Covid  cases||The Maharashtra government is contemplating the suspension of flight and train operations from Delhi amid the surging cases of Covid-19 in the city, a senior official informed on Saturday. This is one of the several measures being considered by the state to curtail the spread of coronavirus in Maharashtra, he said. "Various measures are being discussed in order to curb the virus spread in the state, and suspension of train and flight operations to and from Delhi is one of them," said Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar. "However, no decision has been taken so far on this," he added. According to sources, a recent meeting in Mumbai discussed the steps that could be taken to avert the spread of Covid-19 from people entering Maharashtra from states that are reporting a spike in the number of infections. The state’s Covid-19 caseload shot up to 17,68,695 on Friday with 5,640 new cases being reported during the day while the death toll stood at 46,511. On the other hand, Delhi recorded 6,608 new infections on Friday, taking the tally to over 5.17 lakh. The death toll went up to 8,159 with the addition of 118 more fatalities during the day. In a recent report, the National Centre for Disease Control had said that Delhi should prepare itself for about 15,000 new daily cases in view of the respiratory problems related to the upcoming winter season, festive gatherings and the huge influx of patients from outside states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||NCB raids Bharti Singh's house, recovers cannabis||The NCB on Saturday conducted a search at the residence of comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh here and recovered a small quantity of cannabis from the place, an official said. The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, he said. "A team led by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh's residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information. A small quantity of cannabis was recovered from her place," the official said, adding that Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler. The agency is also carrying out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added. Bharti Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||J&K: Soldier killed, another injured as Pak violates ceasefire ||An Indian Army official was killed on Saturday in an unprovoked firing by Pakistan on villages and forward posts in two sectors along the International Border (IB) and the Line of Control (LoC), said representatives. The incident comes hardly a week after 11 people, including five security personnel, were killed in north Kashmir as a result of multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC on November 13. Havaldar Patil Sangram Shivaji, who was operating at a forward post, was gravely injured in the Pakistani firing in the Lam area of Rajouri district's Nowshera sector around 1 am, officials said. He later succumbed to the injuries, they added. Another soldier, who also suffered injuries, is currently admitted to a military hospital where he is undergoing treatment, the officials said. In a Twitter post, the general officer commanding (GOC) of the Jammu-based White Knight Corps and every other rank saluted the havaldar and offered their condolences to his family. A defence spokesman said in a statement that Havaldar Shivaji, a native of Nigave village of Kolhapur in Maharashtra, was a sincere, brave and highly motivated soldier. "The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said. Pakistani Rangers also took to unprovoked firing along the IB in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district, said officials. “The firing on Satpal, Manyari, Ladwal and Karol Krishna border outpost areas started around 10 pm on Friday, prompting strong and effective retaliation by the Border Security Force”, the officials said. “Cross-border skirmishes continued till 5.25 am on Saturday, and there was no report of any casualty or damage on the Indian side”, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Mukesh Ambani urges country to not let its Covid guard down||Reliance Industries Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani on Saturday said India has entered a crucial phase in its fight against coronavirus and cannot afford to let the guard down at this juncture. He said the bold reforms undertaken by the government will lead to a swift recovery and rapid progress in the years to come. The remarks come amid a growing number of COVID-19 cases in certain pockets of the country, which has led authorities to re-introduce restrictions on movements like in the case of Ahmedabad and also mull restricting travel to cities like the national capital. "India has entered a crucial phase in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot afford to let our guard down at this juncture," Ambani, who is also the president of the Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU), said at the institute's eighth convocation. He added that India is an ancient land which has faced many adversities in the past and has emerged much stronger each time because resilience is deep-rooted in the people and the culture. Ambani, who addressed the gathering virtually, said he sees "explosive and exponential growth" in the post-COVID era and asked the graduating students to venture out with hope and confidence without being anxious. Growth will create unprecedented opportunities and in the next two decades, India will be among the top three economies of the world, he said. Ambani, whose company is heavily invested in the oil business and runs one of the largest refineries in the world, said the challenge facing the world currently is whether we can produce energy to sustain our economies without harming the environment. By the middle of the century, the world will use twice as much energy as we do today and India's per-capita energy needs will be more than twice in the next two decades, he said. India needs to simultaneously pursue twin goals of becoming an economic superpower and to become a clean and green energy superpower, Ambani added. "We need disruptive solutions in renewables, low carbon and carbon recycling technologies to achieve this goal. We need breakthroughs in new energy sources such as green and blue hydrogen. We also need great innovations in energy storage, saving and utilisation," he said. Over 2,600 students, including 284 pupils from 39 countries, graduated at the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Marginal improvement in Delhi's air quality, stays in 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality recorded a marginal improvement on Saturday morning due to favourable wind speed but remained in the "poor" category. Government agencies said the air quality index (AQI) was likely to improve to the "moderate" category later in the day. The city's AQI was 263 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 296 on Friday. It was 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality in Delhi-NCR was likely to improve further to the "moderate" category on Saturday. The predominant surface wind direction is northwesterly, and the maximum wind speed was 20 kmph on Saturday, it said. The central agency said the AQI is likely to deteriorate to the upper end of the "very poor" category between Tuesday and Friday as "unfavourable meteorological conditions" are predicted during that period. Around 800 farm fire counts were observed over Punjab, adjoining Pakistan and Haryana on Friday, it said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 15 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Friday. The figure was 20 per cent on Thursday, 8 per cent on Wednesday and 3 per cent on Tuesday. SAFAR also said "energetic" surface winds were likely to influence the AQI positively on Saturday. The minimum temperature settled at 8.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday. It was 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday the lowest in the month of November in 14 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 13,000 square metre per second on Saturday and is likely to be 6,000 square metres per second on Sunday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 square metres per second, with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||India's Covid tally closing in on the 91 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 90.50 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to over 84.78 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.67 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,50,597 with 46,232 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,32,726 with 564 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below five lakh for the eleventh consecutive day. There are 4,39,747 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date, which comprises 4.86 per cent of the total caseload, as per the data. The total recoveries have surged to 84,78,124 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.67 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to ICMR, over 13.06 crore samples have been tested till November 20 with 10,66,022 samples being tested on Friday. The 564 new fatalities included 155 from Maharashtra, 118 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 28 from Kerala, 25 from Haryana and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,32,726 deaths reported so far in the country includes 46,511 from Maharashtra, 11,621 from Karnataka, 11,568 from Tamil Nadu, 8,159 from Delhi, 7,923 from Bengal, 7,500 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,920 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,572 from Punjab and 3,837 from Gujarat. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Labour draft ignores database provision for migrants||A new labour law’s provision for a database of inter-state migrant workers has been ignored in the rules drafted to implement it, prompting questions about the government’s commitment towards some of the worst sufferers of the lockdown. While the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, passed by Parliament in September, endorses the existing upper limit of eight hours’ work a day, the draft rules have controversially increased the possible spread-over time from the current 10-and-a-half hours to 12 hours. The government has sought comments from the public over the next 45 days before the rules are finalised. Section 21 of the Code says: “The central government and the state governments shall maintain the database or record, for inter-state migrant workers, electronically or otherwise in such portal... provided an inter-state migrant worker may register himself as an inter-state migrant worker on such portal on the basis of self-declaration and Aadhaar.” But the draft rules unveiled by the labour ministry on Thursday mention no such database. A 1979 law that is among 13 labour laws that the Code seeks to subsume had made it mandatory for labour contractors to register with the labour department all the migrant workers they take outside their state. But the state labour departments never implemented the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979 — and the consequences of the neglect were seen after the lockdown began from March 25 this year. The lockdown left migrant workers stranded without jobs, money or transport, with most of the labour contractors having fled without paying them their dues and virtually all modes of travel suspended. After near-starvation for days or weeks, millions of the workers chose to walk the hundreds of kilometres to their homes, many dying on the way. Some others bicycled, or hitched rides on trucks and buses paying exorbitant rates. When special trains began running, some of them were able to beat the rush and buy tickets. Independent researchers have counted the deaths of 972 migrant workers from lockdown-related causes. One reason the Centre and the state governments failed to do more for the stranded migrants was that they had no data on how many of them were living and working in which state, and at exactly which worksite. Had the 1979 law been implemented, the governments would have had this data on the workers as well as on the labour contractors who had hired them. The first version of the Code, introduced in Parliament last year, was silent on the registration of migrant workers. The government inserted the provision for the database after facing criticism. Labour economist K. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the database was unlikely to be created without the rules covering the provision. He said the government seemed to have introduced the database provision as “a crisis-tackling measure”, to ward off criticism. “The rules do not specify how this can be implemented,” Sundar said. The draft rules provide for a journey allowance for employees who have worked for 180 days in the last 12 months. It’s a once-a-year payment by the employer covering the worker’s travel home and back, and is expected to benefit migrant workers the most. Sundar, however, said this provision could force a worker to stick to the original employer and forgo new opportunities. The draft rules mandate annual medical check-ups for workers aged 45 or above. Sundar said this would exclude a sizeable proportion of workers. Former labour welfare commissioner G.P. Bhatia said that young factory employees engaged in hazardous work were likelier to develop health problems. Medical check-ups should be provided to all the workers, he said. The draft rules mandate safety committees and safety officers at establishments employing more than 500 workers in non-hazardous work, and at those employing over 250 workers in hazardous work. All factories engaged in hazardous processes now need to have safety officers. The new provision too would exempt most production units from having to appoint safety committees or safety officers. Work hours The increased spread-over time of 12 hours, compared with the 10-and-a-half hours mandated in the Factories Act, 1948, has sparked controversy. Bhatia supported the measure, arguing that workers in the eastern and southern states would benefit from four hours of rest during the hot afternoons. Sundar, however, said factories might misuse the provision and force workers to work longer hours without overtime pay. Workers who don’t live near their factory will have to spend the entire four-hour recess at the workplace, which would make them vulnerable to pressure to do extra work, he said. And 12 hours at the factory plus the travel time to and from home will severely restrict their family time and social lives. “The employers will be incentivised to keep the workers on the worksite for the entire period. But one doesn’t know what the workers will be expected to do during the extra (period),” Sundar said. “If the employers keep the workers (at the site) for the full 12 hours, and if we include travel time which in the metros would easily be another 60 minutes, then the workers’ work-life balance will be adversely affected.” The draft rules say that no worker shall work more than five hours before having had a break of at least half an hour, a PTI report said. The working hours in a day can be modified subject to the weekly cap of 48 hours, a flexibility provided also by the Factory Act. According to the draft rules, while calculating overtime on any day, any period between 15 and 30 minutes will be counted as 30 minutes, PTI said. At present, any period of less than 30 minutes does not count as overtime, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||UP govt says journalist in custody belongs to Popular Front of India||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that Siddique Kappan, in custody for over 45 days after being arrested on his way to Hathras where a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered, had been travelling under the “cover” of a journalist and held a post in the Popular Front of India (PFI). The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of indulging in violence but it has not been banned. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation. Kappan’s wife Raihanath Kappan said he had no links with the PFI. For arguments’ sake, even if he had, “will they go and arrest journalists who have links with the RSS or the BJP?” Raihanath told The Telegraph over the phone from Kerala on Friday evening. The Supreme Court on Friday recorded the Uttar Pradesh government’s undertaking that Kappan would be allowed access to his lawyer and its denial of the charge that he had not been allowed to do so till now. Kappan has been booked for sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and is lodged in a Mathura jail. The Uttar Pradesh government accused Kappan, 41, of showing an identity card issued purportedly by a now-defunct Kerala-based newspaper called Thejas. The editor of azhimukham.com told this newspaper that Kappan had informed the Malayalam news portal he was travelling to Hathras to file a report for it. K.N. Ashok, the editor of azhimukham.com, said Siddique had joined the portal as a Delhi-based retainer in January this year. The portal had submitted an affidavit along with the habeas corpus petition filed before the Supreme Court a day after the arrest. “The purpose of the affidavit was to prove his credentials as a journalist who wrote for us,” said Ashok. The Supreme Court is hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), of which Kappan is the Delhi unit secretary, alleging he was being illegally detained and denied legal and family access. On Friday, when the matter came up before the bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna, the court noted that though the Uttar Pradesh government had claimed to have filed an affidavit on Kappan, it had not received any such document. The court asked the registry to verify the claim so that the KUWJ, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, could file a counter-affidavit. “List the matter after one week. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general appearing on behalf of the respondents, states that he has filed a counter-affidavit. We find there is no such affidavit on record. Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, states that he has also not been served the copy of the counter-affidavit,” the bench said. “The registry is directed to verify the same. If such affidavit is on record, as prayed for, the petitioner is allowed to file rejoinder affidavit in the meanwhile. Shri Tushar Mehta… further states that the advocate can meet the accused in the jail where he is lodged to take instructions and the signature in the vakalatnama. This statement is recorded and it is ordered accordingly.” The Uttar Pradesh government claimed that none from Kappan’s family had come to meet him despite the family being informed several times. According to the government, family members had spoken to Kappan only over mobile phones. “The person in custody, namely Siddique Kappan, is the office secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI) using a journalist cover by showing the identity card of a Kerala-based newspaper named ‘Tejas’ which was closed in 2018. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb the law-and-order situation (and) were found carrying incriminating material,” the Uttar Pradesh government said in an affidavit. Sources said on Friday that the affidavit was filed on Thursday and it was possible that it had not moved through the official channel and reached the judges during the hearing. “When he was brought by the STF to Delhi, he misled the police by giving a wrong residential address…. He did not assist in the investigation and gave misleading details. His flat mate who is also a member of the PFI and its various wings denied access. Finally, armed with search warrants, when the premises were searched by the police, further incriminating material has been recovered, all of which is the subject matter of investigation.” In Kerala, Kappan’s wife questioned the logic of describing her husband as a member of the PFI. “I have been saying from the beginning that he has absolutely no links with the PFI or any such organisation. He is just a journalist trying hard to take care of his family,”Raihanath said. “But the point that I want to make is regarding the rationale of arresting a man and accusing him of being a member of the PFI. For argument’s sake, let’s say he is from the PFI. First, it is not a banned organisation. Second, will they go and arrest journalists who have links with the RSS or the BJP?” Raihanath asked. “I’m sure the logic that applies to my husband will not apply to journalists who are part of the RSS, BJP and such other organisations.” The Supreme Court on Friday orally expressed anguish about “inaccurate reporting” in the media about the last hearing despite the court directing the Uttar Pradesh government to file an affidavit. “There was unfair reporting about this matter when it was adjourned on the previous occasion,” the CJI remarked. However, the bench did not elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Survey on profiles of Bangladesh border residents||Central security agencies have been conducting an analysis of the demographic and economic profiles of populations along the Bangladesh border, especially pockets with sizeable concentrations of Muslims in Bengal, sources in the Union home ministry said. An Intelligence Bureau official described it as a routine exercise, dismissing questions whether the survey might trigger fears of religious profiling ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections next year. “Such analysis is done routinely to keep a close watch on the presence of radical elements in border towns,” he said. Asked, Union home ministry spokesperson Nitin Wakankar declined comment on the purported survey along the Bangladesh border. Another home ministry official, however, said such a survey was bound to send a wrong signal to the minority community because of the prevalence of a sharp anti-Muslim narrative and could trigger apprehensions of being systematically spied on and investigated. “If such surveys are so essential, they should be conducted in Hindu-dominated pockets too,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Another official wondered if the analysis was politically motivated, citing the upcoming elections in Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah has set the BJP a target of winning over 200 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP had been accused of fomenting religious polarisation during its campaign in Bengal for last year’s Lok Sabha elections. It had focused on issues such as the NRC, infiltration from Bangladesh and Mamata Banerjee’s perceived appeasement politics. “These issues had paid dividends for the BJP, which bagged an unprecedented 18 seats in the Lok Sabha elections. All these are again going to be among the main issues during the party’s Assembly poll campaign. I hope the latest survey based on religious profiling is not part of a bigger strategy of polarisation along religious lines,” said a retired Intelligence Bureau director. In 2018, the Border Security Force had triggered a controversy by preparing a report highlighting an unexpected increase in the Muslim population living along the India-Pakistan border areas of Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. The report, prepared by the BSF's intelligence wing and sent to the Union home ministry, had expressed concern about an increase in places of Islamic worship. The report had pointed to the presence of some radical elements suspected to be luring locals into passing on information related to military movements in the region. The BSF is also the border-guarding force along the India-Bangladesh frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Congress signals resolve to fight laws against ‘love jihad’||The Congress has signalled a resolve to fight BJP-ruled states’ plan to enact laws against “love jihad”, with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot saying any curbs on citizens’ freedom to choose their life partners would be unconstitutional and would not stand in a court of law. Gehlot accused the BJP of propounding the scurrilous theory of “love jihad” — which portrays Hindu women who marry Muslim men as victims of a larger conspiracy to convert and radicalise them — “to divide the nation & disturb communal harmony”. “Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional and it will not stand in any court of law,” he tweeted. “Jihad has no place in love. They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision & they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict and disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground.” Senior ministers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have spoken of criminalising “love jihad” through legislation although junior Union home minister G. Kishan Reddy told Parliament in February that “love jihad” was not defined in law and the central agencies had reported no such instances. While the emotive issues that the BJP so effectively deploys to further its majoritarian politics have often found the Congress on the defensive, the “love jihad” legislation controversy appears to have set the stage for a political and legal battle. Soon after Gehlot’s comments, T.S. Singh Deo, a senior minister in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, tweeted: “Love jihad an exhaustingly bigoted term coined by BJP carried forward through the media propagandists has now reached levels of severity. The hatred and intolerance has crept so deeply that they are now brazenly planning laws against consensual interfaith marriages.” He added: “A marriage is a personal and domestic matter, affecting chiefly the two parties concerned and partly their families — Pandit (Jawaharlal) Nehru had the most practical analysis for the sacred institution, which is now being compartmentalised with bigotry and hatred towards certain sect. “Marriage is and has always been a personal choice for consenting adults — socially and constitutionally. Try all they can to attack the sovereignty of India, we shall stand strong to uphold the integrity of our Constitution and this great nation.” Congress sources confirmed that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh too would oppose the BJP-ruled states’ plan to restrict inter-faith marriages. Article 21 of the Constitution allows every citizen to marry according to their choice. The Hindu Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act too allow consenting adults to marry across castes and religions. In a recent case from Kerala that had attracted national spotlight, the Supreme Court had ruled: “The right to marry a person of one’s choice is integral to Article 21 (which defines right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.” The apex court had set aside a Kerala High Court order that had annulled the marriage of Hadiya, a Hindu woman who had converted to Islam and married a Muslim man, on a complaint from her father. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had said: “The choice of a partner whether within or outside marriage lies within the exclusive domain of each individual. Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable. The absolute right of an individual to choose a life partner is not in the least affected by matters of faith. “The Constitution guarantees to each individual the right to freely practise, profess and propagate religion. Choices of faith and belief as indeed choices in matters of marriage lie within an area where individual autonomy is supreme…. Neither the state nor the law can dictate a choice of partners or limit the free ability of every person to decide on these matters. They form the essence of personal liberty under the Constitution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Day after stick, burst of CAA detainee graffiti||Let a hundred flowers bloom, Mao Zedong had exhorted the Chinese in the 1950s, only to crack down when a hundred schools of thought did sprout. Let not a single mural of Akhil Gogoi be painted without permission, declared Assam police on Thursday, only to wake up to a burst of public art on the peasant organisation leader. Gogoi has been in jail since December 12 last year when protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were raging. Graffiti, posters and slogans demanding the release of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) leader surfaced in several parts of BJP-ruled Assam on Friday. The Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti (SMSS), student wing of the KMSS, had given a call on Thursday night for a protest through public art after one of its members and four artists were detained by the police in Guwahati for painting without permission wall graffiti demanding Gogoi’s release. The detainees were made to paint over the mural following their release after four hours. On Friday, graffiti, slogans, posters and banners were painted or put up on government properties, including walls and bridges, demanding “justice” for Gogoi. One picture had Gogoi asking from behind bars: “Why are you afraid of releasing me?” One case after another has been slapped on Gogoi to keep him behind bars even as he kept obtaining bail. Both the KMSS and the SMSS espouse the cause of Assam and see the CAA as a threat to their identity and culture. “The call has evoked a good response. Nobody took permission today. Thursday’s was an attack on freedom of expression. How long can you keep us shut?” SMSS assistant general secretary Pranjal Kalita told The Telegraph on Friday evening. Sitanath Lahkar, an educationist, said the movement had sparked two things. “One, protest against Thursday’s action trying to trample on the freedom of expression and, second, the demand for Akhil’s release. Akhil’s detention is not justified as far as public opinion is concerned,” Lahkar said. Dewan Dhrubajyoti Maral, convener of the state BJP media department, said there was no bar on the democratic expression of protest with permission. “If somebody wants to draw or paint on government property, they need to have permission. It is an issue of law. Moreover, the person (Gogoi) is in jail,” Maral said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Kerala HC refuses to change judge in actress assault case||Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed petitions seeking a change of trial court judge in a case related to the kidnap and sexual assault of an actress allegedly masterminded by superstar Dileep. The actress and the prosecution had filed separate applications in the high court citing lack of confidence in the woman judge presiding over the trial court since she had remained a “mute spectator” when defence lawyers repeatedly asked uncomfortable questions about the sexual assault the actress had to endure. A singe-judge bench of Justice V.G. Arun also lifted a stay on the trial and ordered its resumption from Monday. In dismissing the petitions, the court ruled that there was “no sustainable ground to allow the prayer for transfer”. The high court had on November 2 stayed the trial that was underway in the court of additional sessions judge Honey M. Varghese after the actress and the prosecution sought a change of court. Justice Arun said that unless the court and the prosecutor work in sync it results in the guilty escaping the clutches of law and innocent being punished. The judge said he was confident that in the endeavour to seek the truth and render justice, the special prosecutor and defence lawyer shall work in tandem. The judge also rejected the prayer of the state and the counsel for the actress for a stay of the judgment for a period of one week to file an appeal before the Supreme Court, observing that he had become “functus officio” after the pronouncement of the judgment. Functus officio roughly means that having performed his office, once an arbitrator renders a decision regarding the issues submitted, he lacks any power to re-examine that decision. The case pertains to the kidnap and sexual assault of the popular actress by a gang of men allegedly hired by Dileep, one of the top Malayalam actors. Dileep has all along maintained innocence. The gang had waylaid and hijacked the car in which the actress was returning to Kochi after a film shooting from Thrissur on the night of February 18, 2017. They had filmed the entire sequence. During the hearing of the case, senior lawyer S. Sreekumar, who appeared for the actress, had submitted that she was forced to undergo the “ordeal” of cross-examination for nine days when defence lawyers raised questions about her character. The counsel had submitted to the court that the survivor frequently broke down when the defence lawyers asked uncomfortable questions and made her narrate the incident on several occasions. The petitioner had alleged that at one point there were 17 lawyers, eight of them representing Dileep, during the in-camera hearing. “Most of the time I was weeping. I was compelled to speak about the horrific details before a large group of advocates,” the actress had stated in the petition seeking change of judge. Sreekumar had apprised the high court that the trial court judge had no control on the proceedings and that no court would allow lawyers to ask such questions. The actress had also alleged that the trial court judge directly contacted the Central Forensic Science Laboratory for its report on a memory card that contained the video of the sexual assault. The judge allegedly gave a copy of the video to the accused and not the prosecution. In its arguments, the prosecution had submitted before the high court that the Supreme Court had made it clear that such evidence should be handed over to the prosecution as well. The trial court had on October 30 rejected the prosecution’s petition seeking a halt on the trial until the high court decided on the transfer application. While the assault was initially suspected to be part of a plot to blackmail the actress, police eventually arrested Dileep who was granted bail after spending 88 days in jail. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Marrying first cousin is illegal: Punjab and Haryana HC||Punjab and Haryana High Court has said that marriage between first cousins is illegal. The court said that the marriage, which the petitioner wants to perform with a girl, who is his first cousin, was also per se illegal. “The submission in the present petition that as and when she (the girl) attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal,” the judge said on Thursday while hearing the petition. The assertion came after a 21-year-old man moved the high court against the state of Punjab seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) of the IPC at Khanna City-2 police station in Ludhiana on August 18. The state counsel, while opposing the bail plea, contented that the girl was a minor and her parents had lodged the FIR as she and the man were first cousins and their fathers were brothers. The man’s counsel told Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan that the petitioner had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, for protection of life and liberty. The court file of the criminal writ petition was summoned during the hearing and as per its memorandum of parties, the girl was stated to be 17 years of age and the petitioner had submitted that both of them were in a “live-in-relationship”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Fresh AG consent against Kunal Kamra||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Friday said stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra’s latest tweet on November 18 indicating that his “middle” finger was meant for the Chief Justice of India was “vulgar and obnoxious” and lowered the authority of the Chief Justice and the Supreme Court, and hence amounted to criminal contempt of court. “The depiction of the two fingers, with the legend that he means the middle one, is to deliberately insult the Chief Justice of India which would equally be an insult to the Supreme Court of India itself, which the Chief Justice heads. The said tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious, and I have no doubt that it would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public have in the institution of the Supreme Court of India itself,” Venugopal said while granting consent to Allahabad-based advocate Anuj Singh who sought permission to prosecute Kamra. “In view of the above, I accordingly grant consent under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1975,” Venugopal said. Kamra is already facing criminal contempt charges over earlier tweets he had refused to retract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Former Waqf Board chairman and BJP critic-turned-supporter booked||Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Shia Central Waqf Board who went from being a BJP critic to an avid supporter of the party’s leaders and policies after the change of guard in Uttar Pradesh, has been booked by the CBI for financial embezzlement and misappropriation of properties. The Lucknow unit of the CBI on Thursday evening filed two FIRs against Waseem Rizvi; Ghulam Saydain Rizvi, former administrative officer of the waqf board; Waqar Raza, a former employee of the board; and businessmen Naresh Krishna Somani and Vinay Krishna Somani. The CBI’s case is based on two FIRs registered in 2016 and 2017 in Allahabad and Lucknow. Waseem Rizvi had allegedly allowed illegal constructions at Imambara Ghulam Haider in the Tripolia area of Allahabad and another board property off GT Road. The government had stopped the work but constructions resumed without its knowledge after a few months. An engineer in the public works department filed an FIR on August 26, 2016, under Indian Penal Code Sections 447 and 441, which deal with criminal trespass. The second FIR was registered in Lucknow on March 27, 2017, accusing Waseem Rizvi and a few others of accepting a bribe of Rs 27 lakh to illegally hand over waqf land in Kanpur to the Somanis, Saydain Rizvi and Raza. Waseem Rizvi claimed that the cases were politically motivated and he would emerge unscathed. “Whatever happened was done during the previous (Samajwadi Party) government without my knowledge. The inquiry will exonerate me,” he said on Friday. A critic of the BJP and admirer of the Samajwadis before 2017, Waseem Rizvi had done a volte face overnight when Yogi Adityanath took over as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and handed over the case related to the waqf leader to the CBI. Waseem Rizvi became a hardcore supporter of Hindutva, Ram temple, Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a critic of madrasa education and Islamic customs. While he used to earlier avoid the media, he began attending TV debates frequently and openly admired everything that the BJP and the RSS propagated. He also wrote and produced a Hindi film titled Ram Ki Janmabhoomi in 2019 to support the Ayodhya temple issue. The movie also spoke against several Islamic customs including nikah halala and instant triple talaq and supported the demolition of Babri Masjid. Adityanath reopened the cases against Waseem Rizvi on the request of Mohsin Raza, the minister of state for minority affairs. Waseem Rizvi had earlier accused Mohsin Raza of selling waqf properties and suspended him from the post of caretaker of the revered Alia Begum Mosque in Unnao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Economy finger at Modi's ‘incompetence’||The Congress on Friday wondered whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “incompetence” was responsible for one of the world’s fastest-growing economies becoming one of its worst performers. “It is true Narendra Modi handled Gujarat. But in states, financial management is all about expenditure and revenue. At the Centre, you have to oversee macroeconomic management, which is an altogether different game,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. “But Modi cannot hide behind inexperience as he has spent over six years in office now. It is incompetence.” Shrinate said the government had “messed up” the economy and “presided over the death of various sectors”. “The economic managers and advisers of this government seem to lack basic understanding of how the economy works. There is no strategic thinking,” she said. “The government is still in denial of the grave crisis. We were among the three fastest-growing economies. Now we are at the bottom; among the seven worst-performing countries.” Shrinate said blaming the coronavirus alone was incorrect as the downslide had begun with the November 2016 demonetisation. Further mismanagement had led to the GDP growth rate falling for eight consecutive quarters, she added. “There is no concerted effort to boost investment, lift exports, push consumption and create more jobs. Empty promises and divisive social agenda will not help in economic revival,” she said. As if to flaunt the talent within Congress ranks in contrast to the government’s alleged incompetence, Sonia Gandhi has formed a committee to keep a watch on the economy and periodically prepare reports on its various aspects. The committee includes former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former finance minister P. Chidambaram, former railway minister Mallikarjun Kharge, former rural development minister Jairam Ramesh and former chief minister Digvijaya Singh. Sonia, who has travelled to Goa on medical advice as extreme pollution worsens her chest congestion, also formed two other committees on foreign affairs and national security. The first is made up of Manmohan, Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid and Saptagiri Ulaka. The national security committee includes Manmohan, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Veerappa Moily, Vincent Pala and V. Vaithilingam. The formation of these committees also sends out a conciliatory signal to dissenters within the party who felt they were being sidelined for questioning the drift in the Congress. Azad, Sharma, Moily and Tharoor were among 23 signatories to a letter to Sonia that had spelt out the organisational problems and alleged a leadership crisis. By engaging them under the leadership of Manmohan, Sonia has tried to contain resentment before the upcoming Congress plenary. The party will use these committees’ reports and assessments to corner the government. The Congress has consistently criticised the government’s handling of the economy over the years, alleging wrong measures were being taken and expert advice was being ignored. On Friday, the Congress questioned the move to freeze the dearness allowance of public sector unit employees instead of cutting wasteful expenditure on vanity projects like the Central Vista and bullet trains. “Food inflation has crossed 11% but Modi government is freezing DA of central PSUs instead of increasing it,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. "While crony capitalists are making profits, government employees are in distress." Rahul accused the government of crushing the rights of the poor, first through an ill-planned lockdown and then by bungling with the rural job guarantee scheme.
Shrinate said: "In yet another move that will hit incomes, through a circular dated November 19, the government has frozen additional instalments of DA for PSU employees till June 30, 2021. "This impacts over 14.5 lakh employees across 339 central PSUs. It follows the retrospective cut in DA for 113 lakh central government employees and pensioners, including our armed forces, that was done in April 2020." Shrinate said one could only imagine the plight of unorganised-sector workers when even government employees were suffering so much. "Instead of extending income support to revive demand (among) those who are the most vulnerable, the government is foolishly denting consumption even for those who have an assured income," she said. "Does the government not understand that reducing the income of middle-class employees and pensioners is not just immoral but fiscally imprudent because it further squeezes demand?"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Left tells Congress: Get your house in order||With Bengal elections round the corner, the Left parties are piling pressure on the Congress to get its house in order, develop ideological clarity and do a reality-check even as the two sides have had one round of preliminary talks on poll strategy. After the Bihar elections, where the Congress pulled down the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), the Left parties want the Congress to be realistic in its demands as far as tickets are concerned. In Bihar, the Congress could only win 19 of the 70 seats it contested whereas the RJD and the Left parties recorded a good strike rate. The Congress, as always, began by demanding 100 seats and had to go hunting for candidates for some of the 70 it had to settle for after seat-sharing talks. Of the view that the Congress did not have the capacity to contest even the 70 seats it got in Bihar, the CPI in the editorial of its party organ, New Age, said: “Had the grand old national party been a bit more realistic, the result in Bihar might have been different. Unfortunately, even after the failure of the MGB, for which its contribution was not insignificant, the Congress response was disappointing. Till date, it is not in a soul-searching mood to make the necessary corrections.” “They fail to understand the gravity of the present situation and the role their party is supposed to play in facing the challenges. In fact, the Congress is going through a crisis which is not only organizational but more ideological,” said the New Age, edited by CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam. “Replacement of somebody from inside or outside the family will not solve the crisis. It is cut off from the masses even in traditional strongholds. The Dalits, the minorities and the poor lost their confidence in Congress due to obvious reasons. Since they embarked on the neo liberal policy of global capital, the Congress party began to deviate from its Gandhi-Nehru legacy. If the Congress is serious about its coming back, it has to fight the RSS-led Parivar ideologically and politically. Secular India expects Congress to rediscover the Nehruvian ideology and fine tuning of it to the present needs. Bihar results call upon Congress to open their eyes before it is too late.” The CPM, in the editorial of its party organ, People’s Democracy, last week had held a similar view while dwelling on the Bihar election results and the performance of the MGB. “There is also the fact that such electoral alliances require partners not to demand and fight seats out of proportion to their strength and influence.  The 70 seats that the Congress fought proved to be a weakness for the alliance; it could win only 19 seats.” While the Congress is drawing flak from within and outside for the inability to shed its sense of grandeur despite successive defeats and reinvent itself to the changed political landscape, there is debate within the Left parties, too, on the Bengal strategy. After the CPI-ML’s good showing in the Bihar elections, general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya has become more vocal in arguing that the BJP should be identified as Enemy No. 1 in Bengal while the CPM views the BJP and Trinamul as twin evils. The CPM’s contention is that the Left parties cannot afford to go soft on Trinamul as it would then leave the anti-incumbency vote for the BJP to tap. In an interview to party newspaper Ganashakti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “In the concrete situation of West Bengal, to defeat the BJP, we have to isolate and defeat TMC. TMC had prepared the road of entry for the BJP in Bengal.... There is very deep discontent and anti-incumbency against TMC government.… “Any urge to defeat the BJP encompassing everybody, including TMC, is self-defeating. In that case, all anti-incumbency sentiments will only favour the BJP as the only opposition. Such a tactic will ensure the victory of the BJP. What is required in Bengal is maximum possible polling of anti-BJP, anti-TMC votes. The CPM central committee has decided to pursue this objective.” The Left and the Congress had their first preliminary meeting to explore an electoral understanding at RSP leader Manoj Bhattacharya’s house in Calcutta earlier this week. The CPM’s central committee had green-signalled an electoral understanding with the Congress at its last meeting in October-end and the Left Front is now waiting for the Congress to finalise its strategy for the Bengal elections due next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
