22-11-2020||India||Senior operator dies on duty at steel city||A senior operator at Tata Steel's LD-1 plant died in the early hours of Sunday, while he was on duty. The 51-year-old Bhaiya Lal, a resident of Jugsalai was on C-shift ( night shift ) duty during the wee hours of Sunday when he collapsed suddenly on the ground at around 5:30 am. He was rushed to the Tata Main Hospital (TMH) immediately after receiving emergency treatment, along with the doctor on duty. The TMH emergency ward declared him ‘brought dead’ when they reached the hospital. While doctors suspect cardiac arrest as the reason of death, the cause will be clear only after post-mortem of the body. Lal’s body was later sent to the morgue, from where it will be taken at MGM Medical College in Dimna for post-mortem, as part of necessary medical protocol. Members of the Tata Workers Union (TWU), the INTUC-affiliated union of the company, reached the hospital soon after receiving the news of Lal’s death. Kulvin Suri, Chief of Corporate Communications, Tata Steel, also expressed grief at the news. “We are extremely sorry over the sudden death  of the employee.The family has been informed and the company expresses deep sense of grief and stands by the family in this difficult moment,” he said in a statement. He added that the bereaved family will receive aid as per company policy. “Tata Steel is committed to the health and safety of its employees and continuously strive towards ensuring a safe workplace for all its employees,” Suri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality remains poor, likely to decline further||The air quality in Delhi remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday when government agencies said it might witness a further decline as a result of unfavourable meteorological conditions. The 24-hour average Air Quality Index of the national capital was recorded at 274 on Sunday. It was  251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Centre’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi informed that the air quality of the Delhi-NCR is likely to slip into the “very poor” category on Monday because of unfavourable meteorological conditions. “The predominant surface wind direction was northwesterly and the maximum wind speed 12 kmph on Sunday,” adding that the wind speed may drop to 8 kmph on Monday. It said that the AQI may remain at the upper ends of the “very poor” category on Tuesday and Friday. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said on Saturday, 649 farm fire counts were recorded over Punjab, Haryana and adjoining regions. Stubble burning accounted for 12 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday. The minimum temperature settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in the month of November in 17 years, according to IMD. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 6,500 m2/s on Sunday and is likely to drop to 1,500 m2/s on Monday and Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. Earlier in the day, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the Public Works Department has installed 23 anti-smog guns and deployed 150 tankers for water sprinkling at key intersections and construction sites to reduce dust pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Vaccine:  Govt scouting for modalities of emergency approval ||The Centre is exploring modalities of providing emergency authorisation and license to use Covid-19 vaccines pending phase III clinical trials and regular licensure. In a recent meeting attended by NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government K VijayRaghavan and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, issues relating to advance purchase commitment for vaccines were discussed as well. The matter of pricing of the vaccines was also tabled at the meeting. "It was decided that the PMO-constituted Vaccine Task Force (VTF) will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation while the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) should take the lead in setting the principles for advance market commitment, including vaccine pricing," a source said. This comes amid a time when companies like Moderna and Pfizer have sought emergency use authorisation of their Covid-19 vaccines from the US regulators. In India, five vaccines are under different phases of trial. The Serum Institute of India is conducting the phase-three trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, while Bharat Biotech and ICMR have already started the phase-three trial of the indigenously developed COVAXIN jab. An indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed phase-two clinical trials in the country. Dr Reddy's Laboratories will soon start the combined phase two and three trials of the Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. According to the source, an urgent meeting of the vaccine task force (VTF) with experts will be convened to review the scientific status of vaccines globally and whether, if so how and when should the decision on emergency authorisation of vaccines be taken. The terms of references for two major bodies dealing with vaccine introduction -- the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO) -- will be set and their roles clearly defined for authorisation and emergency authorisation. “It was also agreed at the meeting that one point of contact will be responsible for examining and responding to authorisations given (or in the pipeline), globally”, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Central teams going to 3 more states to help tackle Covid-19 ||The Centre rushed high-level teams to states including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday for Covid-19 response and management support in the states. These states have been reporting either a rise in the number of active coronavirus cases or a spike in the number of fresh cases, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. "These three-member teams will visit districts reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases and support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases,” the ministry said. "The central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up," it added. Days earlier, high-level multidisciplinary teams were sent to Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Sikkim. At the moment, India’s active Covid-19 caseload stands at 4,40,962 and makes up for 4.85 per cent of the total cases as the national recovery rate has jumped to  93.69 per cent. Over the past 24 hours, the country has reported 43,493 new recoveries taking the total recovered cases to 85,21,617. "The gap between recovered and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 80,80,655," the health ministry said on Sunday. It highlighted that 26 states and Union Territories have less than 20,000 active cases as of today while  7 states and UTs have active cases between 20,000 and 50,000. On the other hand, Maharashtra and Kerala have more than 50,000 active cases of Covid-19. While Delhi saw 6,963 patients recovering from the disease, Kerala and Maharashtra reported 6,719 and 4,088 new recoveries respectively. Meanwhile, 10 states and UTs contribute to 77.68 per cent of the new recovered cases. On Sunday, health ministry data showed a spike of 45,209 new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, of which 10 states and UTs contributed to 76.81 per cent. Fifteen states and UTs are reporting less than the national average of cases per million population. Besides, 76.45 per cent of the 501 case fatalities that have been reported in a day are from ten states and UTs. Of the new fatalities, 22.16 per cent are from Delhi which reported 111 deaths. Maharashtra saw a fatality count of 62 while West Bengal reported another 53. Thirteen states and UTs are reporting higher than the national average of fatality rate (1.46 per cent), the ministry said. Twenty-one states and UTs are reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (96). Fourteen states and UTs have more deaths per million population than the national average (96). India's COVID-19 caseload mounted to 90,95,806 with 45,209 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,227 with 501 new fatalities, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||NCB arrests comedian Bharti Singh’s husband Harsh Limbachiya||A day after the arrest of comedian Bharti Singh, her husband Harsh Limbachiya was also arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Sunday following the seizure of drugs from their house here, NCB officials said. Following the incident, Singh and Limbachiya were remanded to judicial custody till December 4 by a Mumbai court on Sunday. The couple was produced before a magistrates court in Mumbai this afternoon, after the NCB arrested Singh on Saturday evening and Limbachiya on Sunday morning in connection with the ongoing probe regarding the use of drugs in Bollywood and the entertainment industry. "The court has remanded both the accused to judicial custody till December 4," NCB prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. The court will hear their bail pleas, which the couple filed soon after the hearing, on Monday. The NCB searched the house and office of Bharti, who plays the character of Titli Yadav in The Kapil Sharma Show, on Saturday morning as part of its probe into alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry. The NCB recovered 86.5 grams of ganja during the search, the agency said in a release. The team that searched Bharti’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex, as well as her production house based on a tip-off, was led by Sameer Wankhede. "Both Ms. Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja," an NCB release earlier said. The couple along with two others arrested in the case were produced before the court here after their medical examination. "Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler," the official said. The quantity allegedly seized from Singh's possession is considered as "small quantity" under the Act, as against "commercial quantity", an NCB official said. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered a small quantity, which attracts a jail term of up to six months and/or a fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity – 20 kg or more – can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Delhi records coldest November morning, cold wave hits parts of the city ||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in the month of November since 2003, as a cold wave swept parts of the city. The national capital had recorded a minimum of 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday, the lowest in the month in 14 years, according to the India Meteorological Department. "The Safdarjung Observatory which provides representative data for the city recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius. It is Delhi's lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius," said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting center. The mercury dropped to 6.1 degrees Celsius at the Palam weather station, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria are fulfilled even for a day, Srivastava said. Delhi had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 11.5 degrees Celsius last year, 10.5 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 7.6 degrees Celsius in 2017 in the month of November. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. Srivastava said icy cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury. However, the minimum temperature will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next four to five days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance. The minimum temperature this month, barring November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Surgery nod for postgraduate doctors in Ayurveda||Postgraduate doctors in Ayurveda may now be trained for and practise as many as 58 surgical procedures including abdominal, cataract and nasal surgeries and excisions of certain benign tumours under a central government directive that has surprised sections of modern surgeons. The Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), the apex regulatory body for traditional medicine, has in a notification said MS (Ayurveda) scholars may receive practical training to “independently perform” 39 general surgery procedures and 19 procedures involving the ear, nose, throat and eye. Some of these procedures were already being conducted by Ayurveda doctors holding MS (master of surgery) certificates. But this is the first time that the 58 procedures have been specified and codified in a gazette notification. The notification adds a subsection to the existing Postgraduate Ayurveda Education Regulations 2016, which lists the 58 procedures MS Ayurveda postgraduates can perform independently. Some allopathic doctors said that if such would-be Ayurveda surgeons had been receiving training for years and already practising their skills after the training, the purpose of the notification was not clear. But two CCIM members said the gazette notification was a legal requirement. The notification has angered the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of modern medics. The IMA has questioned what its members view as backdoor entry of traditional medicine practitioners into modern medicine. The IMA issued a statement on Saturday questioning the notification and urging the CCIM to “develop their own surgical disciplines from their own ancient texts” and not claim surgical disciplines of modern medicine. “The Council has the dubious distinction of prescribing modern medicine textbooks to its students,” the IMA said, adding that the IMA would “resist all efforts to mix (different) systems (of medicine)”. The two members of the CCIM board of governors said the notification was considered necessary because it would allow trained postgraduate Ayurveda surgeons to perform these procedures without hindrance. “The notification was a legal requirement,” said Sanjeev Sharma, director of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The notification specifies that MS (Ayurveda) “shalya tantra” or general surgery scholars may be trained in amputation of gangrenous parts, appendectomy, traumatic wound management, excisions of certain benign tumours and breast abscesses, surgical incisions in the abdominal cavity, skin grafting, surgical removal of testicles and other procedures. Scholars pursuing MS in “shalakya tantra” (specialised surgery) may receive training in cataract and glaucoma-related surgeries, endoscopic sinus surgery, septum surgery to straighten the nasal bone and cartilage, loose teeth extraction, root canal treatment and other procedures. The CCIM board members said some procedures would require modern medical tools. “Surgery is surgery -- when we need to, we take the help of anaesthetic agents, painkillers, antibiotics,” Haridra Dave, professor of shalya tantra at the J.S. Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya in Nadiad (Gujarat) and member of the CCIM board, told The Telegraph. But the notification has triggered concern among sections of modern surgeons who say some of the listed procedures are complex, require extensive surgical training and carry the risk of complications. “General surgery is part and parcel of modern medical science — it can’t be mainstreamed with Ayurveda,” said P. Raghu Ram, a Hyderabad-based surgeon and president of the Association of Surgeons of India. “Introducing training modules to the postgraduate curriculum of Ayurvedic studies could potentially disrupt and jeopardise basic standards of care and safety for patients,” Raghu Ram told this newspaper. A senior surgeon at the Tata Memorial Centre Hospital in Mumbai said the skills for some of the procedures — such as wound management or removal of abscesses or benign fat deposits on the skin — could be acquired through relatively quick training. “But some of the listed procedures such as laparotomy (surgical incision in the abdomen) are extremely complex and require high levels of training,” the surgeon said. “I don’t know what training such scholars would receive and I don't know the content of the curriculum.” Many surgeons have decried the notification as a misguided attempt to merge traditional medicine practices with modern medicine. “Surgical procedures cannot be separated from principles of modern medicine such as pharmacology,” said K.V. Babu, a senior ophthalmologist in Kerala. “Surgical procedures on the eyes sometimes carry the risk of infection and we use modern antibiotics. Will Ayurvedic surgeons do the same?” But Ayurvedic doctors say that knowledge can flow both ways across traditional and modern medicine. “We also study anatomy, physiology, dissections and other aspects of medicine,” said Bhavana Prasher, a postgraduate Ayurveda medicine doctor in New Delhi. “Ayurveda has vivid descriptions of many surgical procedures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Lit fest pulls plug on Noam Chomsky||A Tata-sponsored online literature festival in Mumbai cancelled a session by Noam Chomsky and Left thinker Vijay Prashad on Friday night hours after they had hinted at speaking out against the Tatas. They later said they had decided to flag concerns over the “erosion of democracy” in India and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). “Since we do not know why Tata and Mr (Anil) Dharker (the festival director and veteran journalist) decided to cancel our session, we can only speculate and ask simply: was this a question of censorship?” Chomsky and Prashad said in a statement on Left news site Peoples Dispatch. They said the subjects they would have broached at the session included how governments like the BJP’s and corporations like the Tatas were “hastening humanity towards a deeper and deeper crisis”. Dharker said on Saturday night that the festival owed “its success to a free expression of ideas, not a free expression of someone’s specific agenda”, adding that the decision to cancel the session was necessary to protect the integrity of the lit fest. Chomsky, 91-year-old laureate professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona, is also a scholar of repute in philosophy and cognitive science and is known for his criticism of US foreign policy and unbridled capitalism. Prashad, author and journalist, heads Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research, a global Left-leaning think tank. They were to appear at the Tata Literature Live! The Mumbai Litfest at 9pm on Friday at a session titled “On the edge of a precipice”, where they were to discuss Chomsky’s latest book, Internationalism or Extinction. The revised schedule of the festival, of which the Tata group is the main sponsor, had “The thrill and challenges of writing a first book” from 8.30pm to 9.30 pm on Friday. The change in schedule came hours after Chomsky and Prashad had responded to a public statement by activists who demanded that the duo boycott the festival to avoid becoming “a tool in the Tatas’ propaganda against the Adivasi people of India”. In their response on the website Countercurrents.org, Chomsky and Prashad had said: “We will start the programme with Vijay reading a statement written by the two of us. This statement makes it very clear how we feel about corporations such as the Tatas, and the Tatas in particular.” On Saturday night, Dharker said in a statement: “I do not wish to comment on their reasons for accepting an invitation to participate in an event and using the platform to air adverse views about the main sponsor. What I do want to state as strongly as possible is that the festival which I founded and run with a dedicated team owes its success to a free expression of ideas, not a free expression of someone’s specific agenda. The expression of such an agenda -– whether against a specific organisation, a corporation or an individual -– is therefore misplaced in the discussions at our festival. “In conclusion, cancellation of the session is a considered decision I have taken in my capacity as Festival Director. Much as I deeply respect and admire the work of Prof. Noam Chomsky, this decision was necessary to protect the integrity of the festival.” Roshan Ali, author of Ib’s Endless Search for Satisfaction and scheduled to chair a session on Saturday evening, tweeted earlier in the day that he would not be participating because of the abrupt cancellation of the session by Chomsky and Prashad. “I cannot in good conscience take part in a festival that lets its sponsors dictate who can or cannot speak or what can and cannot be said,” Ali said. Ashok Swain, who teaches international relations at Sweden’s Uppsala University, tweeted: “The discussion between Vijay Prashad and Chomsky was cancelled at the Tata Mumbai festival last night as Tata didn’t want to antagonise the govt. Tatas, Ambanis, and Adani are the three pillars of the present govt.” Chomsky and Prashad said in their statement: “The advertisement was circulated and the team at Mumbai (Tata) Lit Fest had confirmed all the details. The last communication came in at 9am Indian Standard Time on November 20 to remind us of the zoom link and other details. “Then, out of nowhere, near 1pm Indian Standard Time, we received an email which said, cryptically, ‘I am sorry to inform you that due to unforeseen circumstances, we have to cancel your talk today’. Further inquires informed us to be in touch with the festival’s director, Anil Dharker. No communication has been established thus far with Mr Dharker.” Chomsky and Prashad added: “What were the themes that we were going to develop in the panel? We were going to talk about the broad issues that threaten the planet, but then also talk about the specific role of countries such as India and corporations such as the Tatas. “Regarding India, the issue of the erosion of democracy is a serious matter, with the passage of bills such as the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the vast sums of money that have now suffocated the voices of the hundreds of millions of impoverished Indian voters as examples of the problem; the issue of warfare is significant, with the Indian government participating in the highly destabilising Quadrilateral Security Dialogue with Australia, Japan and the United States. “Regarding the Tatas, we wanted to put on record a few facts that should lead sensitive people to understand what the Tata company has underneath its fingernails: a role in the killing of Adivasis who were peacefully protesting the construction of a Tata steel factory in Kalinga Nagar, Odisha, in 2006; the use of private militias to terrorise the population for a planned Tata steel factory in Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh, about 10 years ago; the use of Tata Advanced Systems weapons by the Indian forces against the people of Kashmir; and Tata steel’s release of hexavalent chromium into water sources has created the fourth most polluted place on the planet in Sukinda, Odisha. “These are just a few examples of the atrocious way in which the Tata corporation has brought levels of extinction to the peoples of the planet. We wanted to talk about how governments such as those led by the Bharatiya Janata Party and corporations such as the Tatas are hastening humanity towards a deeper and deeper crisis.” The pandemic has led to the cancellation of a few literature festivals. However, the Tatas have retained their sponsorship of the fest in Mumbai and the upcoming Kolkata Literary Meet in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||India set to stick with remdesivir ||Eligible coronavirus disease patients will continue to receive the antiviral drug remdesivir even though the World Health Organisation has recommended against its use in hospitalised patients, top medical experts said on Saturday. The WHO had said on Friday that remdesivir had “no important effect on mortality, time for clinical improvement, or other patient-important outcomes”, but senior doctors said they did not expect remdesivir to be ejected from the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 treatment guidelines. Pharma industry executives estimate that hundreds of thousands of Covid-19 patients across India have received remdesivir, a product of the US-based company Gilead Sciences, but manufactured in India by multiple companies under licensing pacts. Although India’s epidemic has been shrinking over the past two months, health authorities recorded an average of around 40,000 new cases daily over the past week and over 439,000 patients were under medical supervision on Friday. The WHO said its recommendation against remdesivir was based on guidelines developed by a 33-member international expert panel that reviewed data from four clinical trials, including the WHO’s global Solidarity trial involving over 5,400 patients in 30 countries. But Gilead and sections of the medical community have pointed out that remdesivir is part of treatment guidelines for hospitalised Covid-19 patients in multiple countries, including Germany, India, Japan, the UK and the US. The treatment guidelines, Gilead said in a statement on Friday, are based on peer-reviewed studies that have demonstrated remdesivir’s clinical benefits such as “significantly faster recovery that can quickly free up limited hospital resources”. “We are disappointed the WHO guidelines appear to ignore this evidence at a time when cases are dramatically increasing around the world and doctors are relying on (remdesivir) as the first and only approved antiviral treatment for patients with Covid-19 in approximately 50 countries,” Gilead said. Many frontline critical care specialists who have used remdesivir as prescribed under the Union health ministry’s treatment guidelines along with other therapies such as doxycycline, dexamethasone, vitamin-C and zinc say it is difficult at this stage to exactly say what is working and what is not. “What we know from experience is that the right drug has to be given at the right time,” said Anjan Trikha, professor and critical care specialist at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who’s also chair of the Covid-19 managerial group at the Covid-19 centre. “We believe remdesivir also has a role when given at the right time, early during viral replication. Patients in hospital in the early infection stages but requiring oxygen would qualify for remdesivir therapy,” Trikha told The Telegraph. Trikha and others also assert that there is no evidence that remdesivir causes harm or that any of its potential side-effects outweigh its potential benefits. “Without evidence of any harm, we cannot issue a directive to stop using the drug,” a member of the WHO expert panel told this newspaper. The cost of remdesivir therapy in India, doctors estimate, would range between Rs 16,000 and Rs 32,000, depending on which company’s product is used. Doctors in Bangalore who conducted a study on remdesivir in Covid-19 patients also said they did not expect national treatment guidelines to change. “Our study shows the benefits of early start of treatment,” said Ravindra Mehta, a senior pulmonologist at Apollo Bangalore. Mehta and his colleagues examined the outcomes of 346 Covid-19 patients with moderate or severe disease and observed a significant difference between the mortality rates in patients who had received remdesivir within nine days of onset of symptoms and those who received it after that. The mortality was 18 per cent in the group that received remdesivir early but 33 per cent in those who received the drug beyond nine days of onset of symptoms. “We believe this is a significant difference and points to a benefit resulting from early treatment,” Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Deputy chief minister’s age baffles Bihar||Bihar deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad could find himself fielding uncomfortable questions when the Assembly reconvenes on Monday, unless he can claim the ability to travel close to the speed of light. The four-time Katihar MLA is entangled in a controversy over his age, critics fishing out his past poll affidavits that suggest that when it comes to Tarkishore, time behaves less like an arrow and more like a Calcutta bus: crawling now, racing the next moment. Tarkishore’s election affidavit from 2005, when he won the first time, stated his age as 48. It had increased just by one year when he contested again and retained his seat in 2010. Five years later in 2015, his age had increased by just three years, the affidavit filed with his nomination papers giving his age as 52. Einstein’s theory of special relativity says time can slow down for an astronaut travelling at a speed approaching that of light. However, time seems to have speeded up for Tarkishore after 2015, like a Calcutta bus suddenly spying a rival ahead of it. His affidavit for the recent elections stated his age as 64 — an increase of 12 years during a period when everybody else aged just 5 years. With social media enthralled by Tarkishore’s age mystery since Friday, the Rashtriya Janata Dal waded into the debate on Saturday. “Bihar’s deputy chief minister is involved in fudging his age, threatening contractors for commission, and turning all his family members into contractors,” an RJD statement said. “The entire Katihar knows that he does not do any work in the area without taking a commission. Now the entire state will know about his handiwork.” Tarkishore denied any wrongdoing, telling The Telegraph the age controversy was a “non-issue”. “My date of birth is January 5, 1956. It is mentioned in my matriculation certificate and I stand by it,” he said. “As far as election affidavits are concerned, there could have been clerical errors in calculating my age.” The first-time minister said he had no reason to hide or fudge his true age. Later, he called this newspaper to say: “I checked my age in the affidavit filed in the recent election and it is correct. The age is almost right in the previous affidavits also, except the one filed in 2010. It seems somebody, maybe someone from the RJD, tampered with it.” If the 2010 affidavit got Tarkishore’s age wrong by five years, going by the date of birth he mentioned to this newspaper, the 2015 affidavit was wide of the mark by seven years. Tarkishore didn’t explain how any tampering could have been done. Poll affidavits are prepared and filed by the candidate’s own people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah: Our candidates locked up||Veteran leader Farooq Abdullah on Saturday shot off a protest letter to the Jammu and Kashmir chief election commissioner alleging that the government was locking up People’s Alliance candidates for the district development council elections on the ruse of their security while showing “blatant” bias towards others. Although People’s Alliance chairman Farooq’s letter to chief election commissioner K.K. Sharma did not name any party, other key leaders of the seven-party axis such as Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti have accused the administration of going out of its way to help the BJP. Valley politicians have alleged that several non-BJP candidates have been kept confined to “secure locations” by the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on the pretext of ensuring their security and with the real aim of preventing them from campaigning. The letter by Farooq, who heads the seven-party Jammu and Kashmir alliance fighting for the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status, also alleged that the government was desecrating the sacrifices of thousands of political workers who had “laid down their lives for the sake of democracy”. “No government has the right to alter the institutional foundations of democracy in J and K, nourished by the sacrifices of thousands of political workers,” the letter from Farooq, also the National Conference president and a former chief minister, said. The maiden DDC elections will begin from November 24. The alliance, which had earlier boycotted local body elections to protest the abrogation of key features of Article 370, has chosen to contest this time to prove that its fight for the reinstatement of special status enjoys public support. “I am taking the liberty of writing to you about the upcoming DDC elections. A strange and unique feature has come to the fore. Candidates put up by the PAGD (People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration) are immediately whisked away to ‘secure locations’ in the name of security and confined to those ‘secure locations’,” Farooq’s letter said. “They are not allowed to canvass, they are completely out of touch with those from whom they are supposed to seek votes.” Farooq said they had fought and won elections in the past and were aware about the security challenges in Jammu and Kashmir. “These challenges are not new but have been painfully persisting for the last three decades. But the government had structures in place which ensured security for all contestants irrespective of the ideology they espoused or the parties they represented,” he said. “The current state of affairs in the realm of security is blatantly oriented towards providing security to a select few and confining others. This comes across more as an attempt to interfere in the democratic process than any real concern for the wellbeing of the contestants. Security cannot and should not be used as a tool or an excuse to interfere in democratic processes,” the letter added. Former chief ministers Omar and Mehbooba have been more forthcoming. “The J&K administration is going out of its way to help the BJP & its recently created king’s party by locking up candidates opposed to the BJP, using security as an excuse. If the security situation isn’t conducive to campaigning what was the need to announce elections?” Omar, a National Conference leader, had tweeted earlier this week. Mehbooba, the PDP chief, had tweeted: “Non-BJP candidates for DDC polls aren’t allowed to campaign freely & are being locked up on the pretence of security. But BJP & its proxies are given full bandobast to move around….” On Saturday, Mehbooba alleged that one of her candidates was facing difficulty filing his nomination. “GOI sabotaging participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls. PDP’s Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations & have spoken to DC Anantnag for his release,” she tweeted. In his letter, Farooq detailed how the “evolution of democracy” in Jammu and Kashmir was distinct “compared to any other part of the country”. “The journey is a bloodied journey, soaked in the blood of thousands of political workers who have laid down their lives for the sake of democracy,” the veteran leader said. “It is a desecration of those sacrifices when the very conflict that consumed their lives is used as an alibi to customise democracy. Democracy is still in a state of fragility in J and K. Governments come and go,” he added. The letter said “providing security to a select few and literally interning the rest is a gross interference in democracy”. Several parties and candidates have in recent days alleged harassment by government agencies. The CPM secretary for Jammu and Kashmir, M.Y. Tarigami, this week wrote to Sinha, alleging that candidates were being “kept away from their constituencies” and “bundled into cluster accommodations”. The CPM is part of the Gupkar alliance. In his reply on Friday to Tarigami’s letter, Sinha said the “issue is already in my notice and necessary instructions stand conveyed to the concerned”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Amit Shah irons out AIADMK wrinkles and tie-up||Union home minister Amit Shah used an official visit to Chennai on Saturday to placate miffed ally AIADMK and reaffirm the BJP’s tie-up with Tamil Nadu’s ruling party for next summer’s Assembly elections. Shah had been invited for the virtual launch of a slew of development projects, including a Metro train service in Chennai and an elevated highway in Coimbatore. It’s not the home minister who typically launches such projects. However, the trip by Shah came amid a recent strain in ties with the southern ally. The BJP had recently conducted “Vetrivel Yatras” across Tamil Nadu in honour of Lord Murugan in a Hindu outreach programme despite the AIADMK government banning the Yatra over pandemic worries. The BJP had termed the ban “anti-Hindu”. The ally was also unhappy at the BJP’s use of a picture of the AIADMK founder, M.G. Ramachandran or MGR, in its video campaign for the Yatra. On Saturday, however, the AIADMK leadership sought to bury these irritants with chief minister E. Palaniswami, accompanied by his deputy O. Panneerselvam and other senior ministers, receiving Shah at the airport. Panneerselvam later affirmed: “We will continue our alliance with the BJP.” Shah got off his vehicle and walked on the busy GST Road outside the airport to greet supporters. Hundreds of AIADMK members joined the BJP cadres in receiving him. Police detained a man allegedly for flinging a placard as Shah walked to greet the people, PTI reported. At the launch of the development projects, Shah delivered an election speech, stressing the Narendra Modi government’s commitment towards Tamil Nadu’s development and its support for the AIADMK administration. Shah urged the state’s people to defeat “dynastic parties” in the polls — an allusion to the AIADMK’s chief rival DMK and also to the Congress. “Wherever state elections have taken place, under the leadership of Modiji, dynastic parties had to face defeat,” Shah said. “Now it’s Tamil Nadu’s turn. Here too one party runs by foregrounding one dynasty and not on democratic norms. I’m sure that when the elections take place, the people will put an end to this dynastic party.” Shah slammed the DMK-Congress combine over corruption, referring to the 2G controversy. He later met the BJP’s state and district office-bearers to assess the party’s poll preparedness. The BJP has been striving to expand its base in the southern states but has so far made little headway in Kerala or Tamil Nadu, where it’s now trying to piggyback the AIADMK. It’s also trying to poach prominent faces from the rival camp. Actor turned politician Khushbu Sundar, who had been a Congress spokesperson, recently joined the BJP. The BJP is banking on Prime Minister Modi to win support in Tamil Nadu. In his speech, Shah repeatedly stressed that Modi was committed to the people of the state and their development. Shah challenged the DMK-Congress to come up with a list of what they had given Tamil Nadu during the 10 years of UPA rule at the Centre. He claimed that Modi’s government had far outstripped the UPA on this front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Muse of Muffling||Kashmir. Remember? Kashmir is a place. Kashmir is also a people. Some of them have been doing celebrated things with their lives; it’s an insurgency that insists upon their spirit. “Merey sheher ki ye galiyan sunsaan hain. Shor o gul nahi hai, fizayen sunsaan hain. Qaid insaan jo, Parinday azad hai.” These are the lyrics of Quarantine Blues, a song written and composed by two musician brothers Numaan Baba and Furqan Baba during the lockdown in Jammu and Kashmir following the outbreak of Covid-19. Every evening just before dusk, the brothers would hum the lyrics of their latest song sitting on the window sill in their home in Pulwama in south Kashmir. The windows would offer them a breathtaking view of apple orchards, melting snows on Himalayan peaks in the backdrop, empty roads and the flutter of pigeons on their tin roof. For 26-year-old Numaan and 21-year-old Furqan, lockdown-like situations in Kashmir are nothing new. But with Covid-19, they have spent most of this year in complete isolation. “The huge window on the second floor of our house has been a source of a fresh whiff of air as well as inspiration that kept the artistes inside us alive even after facing the seven months of lockdown after the abrogation of Article 370 last year and then the lockdown owing to the coronavirus this year. The first two months were depressing just like it was for everyone else because we were also under a communication blockade. But we managed to jam regularly with our instruments and composed new songs. Music helped us stay sane and creative,” Numaan said. Throughout the lockdown, the duo, also students of visual arts at Kashmir University, created a makeshift recording unit in the form of a soundproof tent inside their room where they would play a variety of instruments such as — guitar, flute, rabab and nott, a clay percussion instrument traditional to Kashmir, and record their original compositions along with classics by Kashmiri poets such as Mahmood Gami, Rasul Mir and Samad Mir. “The only thing that we missed during the lockdown was collaborating with local musicians and performing before the public,” they said. The two brothers say that they learned singing from their mother and the school music teacher. Performing at events has been impossible lately, but for the past couple of months, the two have resumed singing at small mehfils and weddings in the Pulwama neighbourhood. Amidst months of uncertainty and mental pressure, the two consecutive lockdowns in the Valley have proved to be an opportunity for many youngsters to hone their skills by finding resort in art to channel their feelings. The curtailments fell over Kashmir well before the coronavirus restrictions became de rigueur — the arrangements around the abrogations and diminishments of August 2019 meant a sweep of suffocation even Kashmiris hadn’t previously experienced. Over the last 15 months in Kashmir, just like everyone else, the artists, poets, photographers, writers and musicians have found themselves gagged and debilitated. But in time, they began to respond and express in different ways. Their art expresses alienation and a resilience beyond being caged and throttled. During the last few months, social media has become deluged with the rebellion of the artistes’ spirit — painting, poetry, photography, calligraphy, innovative experiments with mixed media. The political squeeze as well as the pandemic has inspired Kashmiri artists to think out-of-the-box. The Valley got its first online gallery, a brainchild of Naushad Gayoor, a multidisciplinary artist from Srinagar who devotes most of his time to painting and sculpture. Just like musicians, poets and painters too poured out what they wished to express, and their work became tangibly manifest. Faheem Abdullah, a 24-year-old poet, suffered a mental block during the first lockdown but was soon able to find a way around and defeat it. “Forty days, one twenty cigarettes, have I died or am I alive? Spent a few cursing our fates. Have we died or are we alive? What a farce, O writer!” That’s how he broke out of the first lockdown. Faheem, an English literature student who needed to seek expert help to deal with his mental condition in the initial phase of the lockdown, says, “During September 2019, on the 40th day of the lockdown, I took a stroll around my house in Naseem Bagh. While walking amidst the giant chinars whose leaves were turning yellow, I stopped at the banks of Nigeen Lake and looked towards the Hazratbal shrine. Everything was quiet and still and it was then that I wrote, ‘I want to take Kashmir in my arms and cry’. I felt like I was pouring out my emotions and it was through poetry that I made peace with everything that was going on around me.” Faheem, who shares his poetry on the Instagram handle @theimaginarypoet, derives his inspiration from the mystic poet Rumi and Kashmiri poet Agha Shahid Ali. He is set to launch his first book of poems, A diary of a Kashmiri, in March 2021. For 22-year-old Shafiya Shafi, keeping herself immersed in art proved therapeutic during the trying lockdowns. When the August 2019 lockdown was suddenly imposed, Shafiya had pre-orders to paint murals on the walls of restaurants and playschools. But even after 15 months, none of these places have reopened. However, Shafiya, a psychologist, says consecutive lockdowns have not affected her passion for painting. “I still remember how I went searching for canvas and colours during the lockdown in 2019. My search ended at the house of a shopkeeper. His shop was shut but he had the material at home. As soon as I painted two canvases, I felt relieved. To me it was about communicating my feelings on an empty white sheet just like I used to write my daily diary,” Shafiya says. During the Covid-19 lockdown, she has tried a fusion of earthen pots and papier mache which she thinks are dying art forms. As is evident from social media, many young artistes have started bringing in new ideas to give scriptwriting a new touch. The lockdowns gave an opportunity to 22-year-old Farheen, an MBA student at Kashmir University, to pursue her hobby of painting. Her Instagram page, hobby_lobby _art, is abuzz with sketches, paintings and calligraphy which she has been constantly at while sitting at home. Similarly 23-year-old Safura Hamid from Badamwari in Srinagar is one of those who pursued her childhood dream of doing calligraphy and was also able to make a decent amount of money through her art. “I have always wanted to pursue calligraphy but I could get no time for it. There couldn’t have been a better time than the Covid lockdown. I was home and had no work. After experimenting with pen and paper, I tried my hands at clay. When I shared my creations on social media, I received a positive response. I started receiving orders for gift purposes. But with the pandemic around, clay and paper calligraphy was not doable. So I developed an online 3D calligraphy style, which I used to make objects and write Quranic verses. I delivered all the orders through an online system,” says Safura, an engineering graduate who has now turned to experimenting with 3D calligraphy on wood, stone and canvas. One of the harsher consequences of both lockdowns has been the bar on physical mobility. However, the art of visualising helped some artists travel through their imagination. Zoya Khan, a 31-year-old architect and artiste, trusted her instincts and started working on a fascinating new series heavily influenced by the heritage and vernacular architecture of Kashmir. Her latest work involves building innovative connection and contrasts with Srinagar’s cityscape and imported human images — stills from Bollywood films such as Umrao Jaan, Dil Chahta Hai, and A Suitable Boy, etc. juxtaposed with images of old Kashmiri architecture. “Kashmir requires non-traditional, out-of-the-box, radical re-thinking in terms of how ideas will emerge and shape the city. My new series is just out of instinct to explore something new. When I shared my first work, the response was immediate and interesting. That helped me engage with people. The series is a continuation of old houses I have done previously. The only difference is that I have added a few people, as all my previous works were devoid of people,” said Zoya, who is pursuing her master’s in international architectural regeneration and development at the UK’s Oxford Brookes University. Zoya shares her work on Instagram and is open to feedback from people. The use of locations such as the Sheher-e-Khas (downtown Srinagar), the Jhelum banks, Delhi’s Humayun’s Tomb, and lesser-known Srinagar lanes has established a connect. “Growing up in Kashmir has greatly influenced my intellectual curiosity, and there is an urge to understand how the situation in Kashmir is with regard to its physical attributes and cultural ethos, the way they shape the lives of people and how it conditions social behaviour which, in turn, influences how we collectively shape and interact with the built environment. This series is close to this thought,” she said. While Zoya was putting out her remarkable visual experiments, well-known Kashmiri music artistes came together in June this year for their first-ever virtual concert in the Valley to connect people from across the globe during the Covid-19 pandemic and keep the art and culture alive. The Kashmir Music Club, under the leadership of noted singer Waheed Jeelani, organised Qarar (Solace) — a three-hour concert by Kashmiri vocalists and instrumentalists on Facebook. The event was a huge success and connected the Kashmiris across the globe in the trying times. Kashmir is more locked than merely being land-locked. But that’s no bar on the song Kashmiris will sing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Ganja cuffs on comedian Bharti Singh||Popular comedian Bharti Singh, a regular in comedy, reality and dance shows, was arrested on Saturday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following the seizure of a “small quantity” of ganja (cannabis) from her home in suburban Andheri. The NCB searched the house and office of Bharti, who plays the character of Titli Yadav in The Kapil Sharma Show, in the morning as part of its probe into alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry. The NCB recovered 86.5 grams of ganja during the search, the agency said in a release. “Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja. Bharti Singh was placed under arrest under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and examination of Mr Limbachiya is underway,” the NCB release said. The team that searched Bharti’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex as well as her production house based on a tip-off, was led by Sameer Wankhede, the central agency’s zonal director. Up to 1,000 grams of ganja is considered “small quantity”. Possession of such quantities of cannabis attracts a jail term up to six months and/or fine of Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Odisha uproar over deaths in custody||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed pandemonium over alleged police excesses and the custodial death of two persons with the Opposition claiming that the government was insensitive and that jungle raj was prevailing in the state. Leader of the Opposition Pradeep Nayak and Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra accused the government of protecting police officers involved in the alleged custodial deaths in Puri and in Biramitrapur in Sundergarh district. Both the incidents took place on Wednesday night. “It seems the Odisha government is following the modus operandi of Uttar Pradesh government,” alleged Mishra. The ruling BJD maintained that as the alleged custodial death case in Puri was before the court, it should not be discussed on the floor of the House. Both the National Human Rights Commission and Orissa High Court have sought reports on the custodial death in Puri. As the bedlam continued in the Assembly, Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro called an all-party meeting to resolve the issue. In what seemed like a damage-control exercise, the Naveen Patnaik government transferred Puri superintendent of police Akhileshvar Singh on Friday night and attached him to the state police headquarters. Director-general of police Abhay also placed inspectors in-charge of Baseli police station in Puri and Biramitrapur police station on suspension along with an inspector and a constable. However, a post about the suspension of the police officers on social media by Odisha police invited the criticism of former interim CBI director M. Nageswara Rao. An Odisha cadre IPS officer, Rao advised Abhay not to humiliate police officers in public domain. “Sharing of information on media and social media about suspension of a police officer, is public humiliation of officers and his/her family. It is inhuman. Punish the guilty but don’t humiliate. DGP Odisha may please direct all concerned to respect human dignity/ sensitivity,” Rao said.Senior IPS officer from Odisha, Arun Bothra, immediately defended Abhay’s action. “I beg to differ sir. A well thought of action against an erring police officer inspires confidence of people that we are accountable. It’s also a deterrent for potential offenders. We are in public service and punishment for official wrongdoing cannot be a private affair,” Bothra tweeted. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra met the family members of victim K. Ramesh in Puri on Saturday and demanded Rs 1 crore compensation for his kin. On Friday, he had met the NHRC on the issue. Ramesh is alleged to have died following excesses in police custody. “Only suspending and transferring some officers is not enough. Ramesh was murdered in police custody. An FIR under Section 302 of the IPC should be registered against the police officers involved in the crime,” Patra said. Later, he went to the additional district magistrate’s office and handed over a memorandum. Meanwhile, Abhay on Saturday ordered an inquiry by DIG, Central range, about alleged police excesses on six persons in Pipli under Puri district. It has been alleged that jail authorities refused to accept them in the jail after seeing their deteriorating health condition. Later they were admitted to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
