23-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid alleges 'illegal' extension of his custody||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid alleged before a court here on Monday that his custody in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots in February was extended illegally, mechanically and without prior intimation to his lawyers. The submission was made before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar through video conferencing in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area. Khalid was arrested in the case on October 1 and is in judicial custody. He was earlier arrested in September in a separate case related to larger conspiracy in the riots which erupted between anti-CAA protesters and those supporting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, killing over 50 people and scores injured. Advocate Sanya Kumar, appearing for Khalid, alleged that since the beginning of his arrest in the case, his lawyers were not given copies of the remand applications and denied information about when and before which judge he would be produced. "Time and time again the remand was mechanically granted. Case diaries were not signed, we were not supplied a copy of the remand application," she claimed. The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 27. The application, moved by advocates Trideep Pais and Kumar, sought directions to the investigating agency as well as the jail authorities to provide a copy of the application seeking remand/extension of remand to Khalid's counsels in advance to the proceedings. It also sought directions to the police to intimate the counsels about the time, place and manner of all future remand proceedings for Khalid one day in advance. It requested the court to clarify that the proceedings for remand or its extension cannot be carried out mechanically and that the counsels for Khalid be permitted to participate effectively, either physically or through video conferencing, in all such proceedings in the future. During the hearing, Kumar said that when Khalid was produced on October 1 before the duty magistrate, he had requested that his counsels be apprised of the proceedings but his request was rejected. He was sent to police custody for three days. On October 4, he was sent to judicial custody for 14 days which was extended on October 18 and further on October 31. Khalid's counsel further alleged that despite repeated requests to inform them about where those remand proceedings would happen and before which judge, the police only informed them that it would happen at Tis Hazari district courts complex and around 11 am and did not give any further information. Kumar then got the details from the court. On October 18 we met the same fate. We tried to reach out to the police, the jail authorities, the investigating officer. We were not given any intimation about where the remand would happen. Then after much difficulty we found out the details at the last minute and joined the proceedings, she said. She claimed on November 1, the magistrate's court staff informed them that they would be able to join the video conferencing as Khalid would be produced through virtually from jail but later the judge denied them the permission saying it was an automatic remand extension and their presence was not required. When we produced the previous court's orders directing the supply of remand application to us, the court staff sent a link to join the proceedings. Umar Khalid was produced. When we asked for a copy of the remand application, the call got disconnected. Then we receive a call from the court staff saying they don't yet have a copy, she alleged. Kumar said that at the time the accused was produced, there was no application or case diary before the court. She said later they received a copy of the remand application which was dated back to October 31 along with the court's order stating that his counsel's submissions have been heard on it. “How can I give submissions when I received the copy of it only with the court's order? What good is a remand application which comes with the order? The purpose of the remand application is that I can give my submissions on it so that remand proceedings don't happen mechanically... We either don't get or get it belatedly after the order,” his counsel said. Kumar added that they were told there was no material required for extension of judicial custody. It is absolutely against the settled principle. Umar Khalid's custody was extended illegally and mechanically. This is a serious issue. The logistical difficulties due to COVID-19 pandemic cannot come in the way of the rights of an accused or their counsel, she further said. Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, appearing for the police, said moving an application every 14 days for extension of judicial custody was not by law but by precedent. If the investigating officer chose not to move an application, the accused's custody will automatically be extended, Chaudhary added. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
23-11-2020||India||MP police books two Netflix officials over “objectionable scenes” in ‘A Suitable Boy’||An FIR was registered in Madhya Pradesh on Monday against two executives of OTT platform Netflix for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through its web series "A Suitable Boy" which showed kissing scenes purportedly on the campus of a temple, an official said. The FIR has named Monika Shergill, Vice President, Content (Netflix) and Ambika Khurana, Director, Public Policies (Netflix), Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. Rewa police booked them on a complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national secretary Gaurav Tiwari who demanded an apology from Netflix and makers of the series, and the removal of "objectionable scenes", which he stated were also "encouraging love jihad". "I had asked officials to examine the series 'A Suitable Boy' being streamed on Netflix to check if kissing scenes in it were filmed in a temple and if it hurt religious sentiments. The examination prima facie found that these scenes are hurting the sentiments of a particular religion," Mishra said in a video statement. "On the basis of a complaint filed by Gaurav Tiwari, an FIR is being registered under section 295 (A) (malicious acts to outrage and insulting the religious feelings and beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Rewa against Netflix officials – Monika Shergill and Ambika Khurana," he added. Rewa superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Singh told reporters that the FIR has been registered and further investigation is underway. On Saturday, Gaurav Tiwari had submitted a memorandum to the Rewa superintendent of police demanding an apology from Netflix and makers of the series, and removal of "objectionable scenes" from "A Suitable Boy". "Kissing scenes (filmed) inside a temple of Lord Maheshwar (a historic town located on the banks of Narmada in Madhya Pradesh) have hurt the sentiments of Hindus. This is also encouraging 'love jihad'," Tiwari had stated. He had named Monika Shergill and Ambika Khurana in his complaint application. The six-part Netflix series has been directed by renowned filmmaker Mira Nair, who is known for her critically-acclaimed films such as "Salaam Bombay", "Monsoon Wedding" and "The Namesake".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Allowing corporate houses to set up banks is a 'bombshell', says Rajan, Acharya||The RBI working group's proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a "bombshell" and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on the involvement of business houses in the banking sector, according to an article jointly written by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya. They also said that the proposal is "best left on the shelf". "The history of connected lending is invariably disastrous. How can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending," the article said. Last week, an Internal Working Group (IWG) set up by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) made various recommendations, including that a large corporation may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act. The IWG was set up to review extant ownership guidelines and corporate structure for Indian private sector banks. Referring to the group's proposal to allow Indian corporate houses into banking, the article said, "its most important recommendation, couched amidst a number of largely technical regulatory rationalisations, is a bombshell". "... it proposes to allow Indian corporate houses into banking. While the proposal is tempered with many caveats, it raises an important question: Why now?," the article said. The article -- posted on Rajan's LinkedIn profile on Monday -- noted that the IWG has suggested significant amendments to the Banking Regulation Act of 1949, aimed at increasing the RBI's powers, before allowing corporates houses into banking. "Yet if sound regulation and supervision were only a matter of legislation, India would not have an NPA problem. It is hard not to see these proposed amendments as a subtle way for the IWG to undercut a recommendation it may have had little power over. "In sum, many of the technical rationalisations proposed by the IWG are worth adopting, while its main recommendation -- to allow Indian corporate houses into banking -- is best left on the shelf," they opined. "Have we learnt something that allows us to override all the prior cautions on allowing industrial houses into banking? We would argue no. Indeed, to the contrary, it is even more important today to stick to the tried and tested limits on corporate involvement in banking," the article said. Further, Rajan and Acharya said that as in many parts of the world, banks in India are rarely allowed to fail - the recent rescue of Yes Bank and of Lakshmi Vilas Bank are examples. For this reason, depositors in scheduled banks know their money is safe, which then makes it easy for banks to access a large volume of depositor funds. They noted that the rationales for not allowing industrial houses into banking are then primarily two. First, industrial houses need financing, and they can get it easily, with no questions asked, if they have an in-house bank. According to Rajan and Acharya, the second reason to prohibit corporate entry into banking is that it will further exacerbate the concentration of economic (and political) power in certain business houses. "Even if banking licenses are allotted fairly, it will give undue advantage to large business houses that already have the initial capital that has to be put up. Moreover, highly indebted and politically connected business houses will have the greatest incentive and ability to push for licenses," they said. The approach of the RBI regarding ownership of banks by large corporate/ industrial houses has, by and large, been a cautious one in view of serious risks, governance concerns and conflicts of interest that could arise when banks are owned and controlled by large corporate and industrial houses. For the first time in 2013, the RBI, in its Guidelines for Licensing of New Banks in the Private Sector, had prescribed several structural requirements of promoting a bank under a Non-Operative Financial Holding Company (NOFHC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh, husband granted bail in drugs case||A Mumbai court on Monday granted bail to comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya, who were arrested after seizure of drugs from their house in suburban Mumbai. The magistrate's court granted bail to the couple on a bond of Rs 15,000 each. Bharti Singh, who has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on TV, was arrested on Saturday night by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), while her husband was taken into custody on Sunday morning following seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in suburban Andheri. They were produced on Sunday before the magistrate's court which remanded them in judicial custody till December 4. They then filed bail pleas through their advocate Ayaz Khan which were posted for hearing on Monday. The NCB had recovered 86.5 gm of marijuana during the search their residence and office. This is considered as 'small quantity' under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, an official earlier said. On Monday, Khan told the court that the couple has been booked for possession and consumption of drugs that is considered "smaller than the small quantity prescribed in the Act". "The offences under which my clients (Singh and Limbachiya) have been booked are punishable up to one year in jail. Hence, bail should be granted," he argued. Khan further told the court that Singh is a woman, who is suffering from diabetes and hence, liberty should be given. "Singh has performed in several reality television shows and acted in films. She and her husband have no criminal antecedents and hence, there is no chance of them absconding," he said. The magistrate accepted Khans arguments and granted bail to the couple. While no lawyer was present for the NCB, its officials were present in the court and they sought time to file their reply to the bail pleas. However, Khan said the bail pleas were filed on Sunday and since the case pertains to "smaller than small quantity", the court can exercise its powers and grant bail. Singh and Limbachiya were booked under NDPS Act Sections 20(b)(ii)(A) (involves small quantity of drugs), 8(c) (possession of drugs) and 27 (consumption of drugs). Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered a small quantity, which attracts jail term up to one year and/or fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity 20 kg or more is punishable up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year, on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The names of Bharti Singh and her husband cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the Act. Rhea Chakraborty and a few other accused were granted bail by the Bombay High Court in October. Showik's bail plea was rejected by the HC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Forest department bans night stay, camping in Pithoragarh grasslands||As part of efforts to preserve the Himalayan meadows, the forest department here has put a complete ban on night stay, pitching tents, and making campfires in the grasslands of the district. The number of people visiting the meadows has also been restricted to 200 per day, sub-divisional forest officer, Navin Pant, said. "Besides the imposition of a total ban on night stay, camping, and campfires in the grasslands, the number of people visiting them during daytime has also been restricted to 200," he said. The exercise kicks off from Khalia Bugyal located at a height of 3500 meters in Munsyari forest range, he said. The step is meant to preserve the Himalayan meadows as human activities like camping harm soil and pollute them, Pant said. They also stunt the blossoming of flowers in summer months and depletion of local vegetation, he said, adding those who violate the ban and restrictions will be punishable under the forest act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Kangana moves HC to quash FIR against her||Actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel filed a petition in the Bombay High Court on Monday, seeking to quash an FIR registered against them by Mumbai Police for allegedly "trying to create hatred and communal tension" through their posts on social media. The FIR, under sedition charges, was registered according to orders passed by the Bandra magistrates court directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister following a complaint lodged against them. "Kangana and Rangoli have filed a petition in the Bombay High Court for quashing of the FIR and the magistrates' order," their advocate Rizwan Siddiquee told news agency PTI. He said the petition has also sought the court to stay the summons issued against the duo asking them to appear before the police for questioning, and also a direction to the police to not take any coercive steps against them. The Mumbai Police last week summoned Ranaut and her sister for the third time to record their statements on November 23 and 24 for allegedly promoting enmity between two communities. The police have filed the FIR against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Customs seizes gold worth Rs 3.26 crore at New Delhi railway station||Customs officials have seized over six kg of gold, worth Rs 3.26 crore, from the possession of a man at the New Delhi railway station, an official said on Monday. Two men have been arrested in the case, he said. "Acting on specific information, officers of customs (preventive) Delhi intercepted an individual at New Delhi railway station in the late afternoon of 19.11.2020, who had come from Howrah, Kolkata via Rajdhani Express," Hemant Rohilla, Deputy Commissioner, Customs (Preventive), Delhi, said in a statement. Upon a personal search, around 6.3 kg of gold, valued at around Rs 3.26 crore, was seized from the possession of the man, he said. The seized gold was in the form of biscuits and cut-pieces and is believed to have been smuggled into the country through the northeastern border, the officer said, adding that it is of "foreign origin". "He has admitted to being a routine carrier, having carried around 2 to 6 kg of smuggled gold every time on 15 earlier occasions (since the imposition of the lockdown due to COVID in late March and its subsequent lifting). Thus, the total value of the smuggled gold comes out to be around 60 kg valued at over Rs 30 crore (based on average values)," Rohilla said. Follow-up searches were conducted and the receiver of the gold was also apprehended, he said, adding that incriminating documents and other evidence have been recovered. Both the accused were placed under arrest by the officers of the Customs (Preventive), Delhi on Sunday evening for violation of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and remanded to 14 days of judicial custody, the officer said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Woman kidnapped, raped by two men in UP||An 18-year-old woman was allegedly kidnapped and raped by two men in a village here, police said on Monday. The two men kidnapped the woman from her house on Saturday evening and took her to a nearby agricultural field, where they raped her, SP Arvind Chaturvedi said. The woman's younger brother and father were present in the house at the time of the incident but could not make out what was happening. The family got to know about it when her elder brother working in another state called on a relative's phone to talk to his sister and he arrived at her place to inform her about the call. During this period, some villagers had spotted two men holding a woman and immediately informed police about it. The woman was found lying beside a canal in an unconscious state on Sunday, Chaturvedi said. ASP (South) Manoj Pande, along with SHO Subeha, rushed to the spot and sent the woman for a medical examination after taking her statement. Soon, the accused were arrested, the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 91 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 91 lakh with 44,059 coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 85,62,641, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 91,39,865, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,738 with 511 new fatalities including 121 from Delhi alone, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the thirteenth consecutive day. There are 4,43,486 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 4.85 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The national recovery rate was recorded at 93.68 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, over 13.25 crore samples have been tested up to November 22 with 8,49,596 samples being tested on Sunday. The 511 new fatalities include 121 from Delhi, 50 from Maharashtra, 49 from West Bengal, 35 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Haryana. A total of 1,33,738 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,623 from Maharashtra followed by 11,654 from Karnataka, 11,605 from Tamil Nadu, 8,391 from Delhi, 8,025 from West Bengal, 7,559 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,938 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,614 from Punjab and 3,859 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Monday as the minimum temperature dropped to 6.3 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and the lowest in the month of November since 2003, according to the India Meteorological Department. On Sunday, the national capital had recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 24.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest day time temperature so far this month. "The Safdarjung Observatory which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius, which is Delhi's lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The mercury dropped to 6.4 degrees Celsius at the Lodhi Road weather station, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. "However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day," Srivastava said. Delhi had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 11.5 degrees Celsius last year, 10.5 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 7.6 degrees Celsius in 2017 in the month of November. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. Srivastava said icy cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury. However, the minimum temperature will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next four to five days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Kerala introduces ordinance to prosecute 'derogatory content'||The CPM, usually quick on the draw to accuse the Narendra Modi government of crushing free speech, is now finding itself at the receiving end and facing the music from fellow-travellers and kindred spirits. The Left government in Kerala, headed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has promulgated an ordinance that allows prosecution and imprisonment of up to three years “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. The stated reason for the amendment to the Kerala Police Act is an explosion of online abuse of women by trolls, which recently prompted a group of women to beat up a YouTuber, and character assassination by some websites that masquerade as news portals. But many suspect that the real trigger is the blizzard of negative coverage and lampooning the CPM-led government has suffered in the wake of the unearthing of a gold smuggling scandal that has been linked to a woman close to an IAS officer who ran the chief minister’s office. The officer, now in judicial custody, was removed soon after the controversy broke. On Sunday, chief minister Vijayan kept a window open, saying that the government “will certainly consider creative opinions and suggestions that are being aired with regard to this amendment”. The ordinance has brought national glare to bear upon the Kerala government, which had been basking in a blaze of media adulation over its Covid management until the gold scandal swung the pendulum to the other end. The amendment has been inserted as Section 118 (A) in the Kerala Police Act. The controversial provision reads: “Whoever makes, expresses or publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication, any matter or subject for threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming a person or class of persons, knowing it to be false and that causes injury to the mind, reputation or property of such person or class of persons or any other person in who they have interest shall on conviction be punished for a maximum term of three years or fined Rs10,000, or both.” It is the broad-based nature of the penal provision that is causing the uproar. The definition or Section 118 (A) also goes against the spirit of the CPM’s Lok Sabha election manifesto that promised to repeal the sedition law and the defamation law. “Section 118” has now become a butt of ridicule in Kerala with trolls wise-cracking that one way to torpedo the amendment would be to ask Modi to promulgate a similar one at the Centre, which is certain to make the CPM oppose it. Analysts feel that the ordinance is bringing back to the statute books a provision that had been struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015 in the Shreya Singhal case. According to the Internet Freedom Foundation, the court had struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and Section 118 (d) of the Kerala Police Act, 2011, for violating the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution under Article 19(1)(a). The Internet Freedom Foundation said: “The Shreya Singhal decision highlights the need to ensure that overbroad restrictions on online speech are not used as a tool by the State to criminalise free speech on the Internet…. The introduction of the amended provision in question is concerning because of its similarity to the unconstitutional S.66A. The provisions suffer from a similar vice of being void for vagueness.” “The Supreme Court was of the view that these penal provisions were not precisely definable. The result is that they get an elastic character and you can stretch them to any level,” senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj told The Telegraph. “The government can bring even an innocent comment under the ambit of such provisions. That’s why the Supreme Court observed that an overbroad penal provision is intrinsically unconstitutional,” he added, urging the Kerala government to scrap the law forthwith. Several public figures who are usually aligned with the Left in the fight against Right-wing forces joined the chorus of voices against the ordinance. Prominent among them was former Union home minister P. Chidambaram. “Shocked by the law made by the LDF (Left Democratic Front) government of Kerala making a so-called ‘offensive’ post on social media…,” he tweeted, adding “how will my friend @SitaramYechury, GS, CPI(M), defend these atrocious decisions?” Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “Kerala has amended the Kerala Police Act by ordinance that provides jail term for any social media or cyber post that is deemed ‘offensive’ or threatening. This is draconian & bound to be abused to silence dissent. Similar Sec 66A of the IT Act was struck down.” Shashi Tharoor, the Congress leader who represents Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram in the Lok Sabha, tweeted: “This is troubling…. The law responds to several cases of offensive tweets/posts/comments abusing & threatening women, but it is so loosely drafted that it could also be used against political opponents, journalists & critics.” Senior lawyer and media commentator Sebastian Paul, who had won Lok Sabha and Assembly polls as an LDF-backed Independent, called for the withdrawal of the clause. “In my view, the ordinance itself is dangerous and undesirable. Freedom of expression will be totally at the mercy of the police once this clause comes into force,” Paul told this newspaper. “Under the guise of regulating social media, the entire media including newspapers have come under police control with this provision. This has the likelihood of extensive misuse,” said Paul. “Freedom of expression is a sacred right. How can policemen be guardians of that right? He noted that there were sufficient laws to handle cyber bullying and there was no need for a new clause. Asked for a response on the backlash and whether the ordinance weakened the party’s fight against the BJP, Yechury shared a statement issued by Vijayan. The chief minister said the new amendment “will in no way be used against free speech or impartial journalism”. According to him, the state government had repeatedly been receiving complaints against the wide misuse of social media, especially by certain online channels. “Even prominent public and cultural figures had made such complaints. They have brought to the notice of the government instances where inhuman and vile cyber attacks were carried out by some in the guise of journalism and how it harmed the family lives of many. It has often turned into targeted attacks using untruths and sleazy content. Many families are bearing the consequences of such attacks,” Vijayan said, adding that this included women and transgender persons. “Along with ensuring the freedom of press, the government also has the responsibility of upholding a citizen’s individual freedom and his/her dignity as enshrined in the Constitution. The popular idea that one’s freedom ends where the other’s nose begins needs to be respected. One has the liberty to swing one’s fist, but it ends where the other’s nose begins. However, there have been instances of this idea being repeatedly violated…,” Vijayan added. “A person’s respect and dignity are essential in a modern society. It has constitutional validation as well. The government has the responsibility to ensure it. In general, traditional media functions within these constitutional limits. However, certain online media outlets have scant regard for such constitutional provisions and behave as if anything goes, creating an atmosphere of anarchy. This will alter our social order, and it cannot be allowed,” the chief minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Break in 7-week Covid dip||India’s count of active coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision increased on Sunday for the first time in seven weeks amid lingering concerns that fresh local surges may yet disrupt the near-steady shrinking epidemic since mid-September. The Union health ministry on Sunday recorded 45,209 new Covid-19 cases, raising the number of active patients to 440,962 from 439,747 on Saturday. This increase of 1,215 patients is the first nationwide rise in the counts of active patients since October 4. Health experts say a single day’s change may not be significant but point out that at least eight states — Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — have shown steady increases in their daily new cases since early November. The weekly average daily new cases in Delhi, for instance, increased to around 6,050 on November 21 from 5,100 on November 1. In Himachal Pradesh, this measure increased to 659 on November 21 from 271 on November 1. Such increases in daily cases, experts say, are likely driving the slowdown in the pace of decline of the epidemic observed over the past three weeks. The slowdown has triggered speculation whether India is now at the start of fresh surges driven by crowding and public behaviour during festivals such as Diwali and whether adequate diagnostic tests are being offered to everyone who should be tested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India|| CPM backed group decries move to evict leading artistes ||A group of cultural activists and artistes backed by the CPM have decried the move to evict leading artistes of the country from Union government accommodations in Delhi. The Safdar Hashmi Memorial Trust (Sahmat) said in a statement: “Most of the artists who have been issued these notices are now aged and do not have any other place to reside. Many people do not realise the precarious financial condition most artists have to cope with, including those who are very famous, indeed legendary names. “This is particularly true of dancers, most of whom have had to teach in order to make a living. That a legend like Pandit Birju Maharaj has to plead publicly that at his age he has nowhere to go and does not have many years left, is a blot on our country.” The statement, signed by photographer and Sahmat co-founder Ram Rahman, added: “All the dancers, musicians, painters and dance historians are major figures in our cultural life and have been hailed in India and around the world as ambassadors of our culture. They cannot afford the kinds of market rents in Delhi now. We, fellow artists, appeal to the government to reconsider this decision. Surely the government can afford to allot a tiny proportion of its housing pool as a cultural support to deserving practitioners who have enriched our lives.” Padma awardees including Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj, painter Jatin Das, santoor maestro Bhajan Sopori, as well as 18 other artists and the families of three deceased artists have been given until December 31 to vacate homes allotted to them since the late 1970s. The allotments on the recommendation of the culture ministry had been until they turned 60 years old, but they have continued to stay on and pay a “licence fee” charged by the Centre’s Directorate of Estates that is lower than the market rate. The artists, most of whom are above 70, have requested the government to allow them to live there till death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Inter-faith love stories, told in the age of love jihad lie||When trolls last month forced jewellery brand Tanishq to withdraw an ad that showed a Hindu woman’s baby shower being organised by her Muslim in-laws, Niloufer Venkatraman and two fellow journalists decided that enough was enough. As a statement against bigots who oppose interfaith marriages, Venkatraman uploaded the story of her parents —  a Zoroastrian and a Hindu —  along with three photos of the couple on Instagram’s @IndiaLoveProject (ILP) handle. The ILP, started by the Mumbai-based Venkatraman and Bangaloreans Priya Ramani and Samar Halarnkar, now has 25 posts — pictures with stories of inter-community couples — with a new post added every morning. Below each post are comments about similar love stories of couples from different castes and religions. Less than four weeks after it was launched, the ILP already has 10,900 followers. It has thrived at a time three BJP-ruled states have announced plans for legal regulations against “love jihad” — or marriages between Muslim men and Hindu women. Such marriages, according to the “love jihad” theory, reflect a ploy to convert Hindu women to Islam and radicalise them to boost terrorist ranks. The slur flourishes despite junior Union home minister G. Kishan Reddy telling Parliament in February that no case of “love jihad” had been reported by the central investigative agencies. Venkatraman told The Telegraph over email: “What prompted this project was that we’re increasingly hearing that relationships follow a pattern of endogamy and strictly adhere to traditional norms. Anyone that chooses outside that convention is increasingly being condemned. We want to support people’s choices.” She added: “What we’re saying here at ILP is that there are multiple realities of families and relationships and they are not new. We are telling many kinds of stories (including the one of my parents) that are from over 50 years ago. India is a diverse place and at ILP we want to say that cultural difference is to be cherished not scorned. “People are sharing their real-life stories of cultural integration, so anyone opposing this will basically be denying the reality of these people’s existence. You would have to be quite delusional to do that. “We offspring of interfaith marriages exist, we’ve gone on to marry people of religions that are different even from those of our parents. Hopefully through ILP’s stories, people who’ve been sitting on the fence about such issues will step over towards more inclusiveness and acceptance.” While the founders of the handle had for over a year been mulling over a way to counter bigotry against interfaith unions, Tanishq’s capitulation was the trigger. Ramani said: “After the Titan episode we decided to be millennial in our approach and just launched on Instagram instead of waiting to build the perfect home for our dream project. My inspiration, as far as Instagram goes, is my niece Tara Anand @taraanandart who once launched I Am Like Other Girls, an instagram project about womanhood and solidarity.” Tanishq, owned by the Tamil Nadu government and Tata joint venture Titan, this month withdrew another ad in which actress Sayani Gupta said: “I don’t think anyone should light any firecrackers (for Diwali)….” The company faced trolling and boycott calls. BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi tweeted: “Why should anyone advice (sic) Hindus how to celebrate our festivals?” Ahead of Diwali, however, the National Green Tribunal banned the use of fireworks in the National Capital Region as an anti-pollution measure. Ramani said: “At least 100 people have written to say they want to send their stories. Some of them have already sent us their stories and pictures. I don’t think we are going to run out of stories any time soon. “My favourite query, which will hopefully soon be a story, was, ‘Can I send you the story of my grandparents…. My grandfather, a 22-year-old Khoja Muslim boy, the only child of a surgeon, married my grandmother, a Hindu widow, 10 years his senior. They had an incredible life together’.” Ramani added: “While most of the stories you see now are interfaith love stories, we are also hoping to feature lots of inter-caste and LGBTQ love stories in the coming weeks.” Halarnkar said: “Our criteria are that they (the characters of the stories) are not anonymous, ideally should not have converted (although this is not a hard and fast rule) to a partner’s faith and basically have a good story to tell…. We are currently not regulating comments.” Trolling has so far been minimal. Halarnkar said that on November 9, “…some incoherent trolls appeared to have discovered us, mostly demanding to know why we don’t have stories of Muslim women marrying Hindu men -- which we have of course!” These include well-known couples like author Salma Siddiqui who left her Muslim husband to marry Krishan Chander, an author she admired and who was two decades her senior. Halarnkar added: “We intend this to be an online — and later, maybe offline — community that can offer inter-faith couples legal, psychological and other advice and support. We have already had a few requests from couples struggling with inter-faith relationships and we have connected a couple to counsellors.” The project hosted an online discussion on November 7 with Lata Singh, a Rajput woman who had to flee to Jaipur from Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, to marry Brahma Nand Gupta, a Bania. The couple had to fight a false case lodged by Singh’s brothers accusing Gupta of abducting her, until the Supreme Court ruled in their favour in 2006 and said: “Inter-caste marriages are in fact in the national interest as they will result in destroying the caste system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Demonetisation to GST to farm bills: economy’s dangerous slide ||Eminent economist, professor emeritus at Jawaharlal Nehru University and activist Prabhat Patnaik traces the downward and dangerous slide of the Indian economy, from the demonetisation to the new farm bills. The first onslaught was in the form of the demonetisation. While Amartya Sen termed this step “despotic”, Narendra Modi gushed that there would be no black money after the demonetisation. In the process, more than 100 aged people died of heat standing in long queues. How has the demonetisation helped or hindered the common people? The demonetisation brought immediate pain to millions. But apart from its immediate effects, it also left a lasting, long-term legacy that has undermined the viability of the informal sector, including peasant agriculture, which accounts for 85 per cent of employment and 45 per cent of the output in the Indian economy. Unable to sell the output for immediate cash, this sector incurred much greater debt, which has become a millstone around its neck. It was also utterly pointless. It revealed the Modi government’s ignorance of economics and its penchant for “shock and awe”. The government believed, as in Bollywood movies, that “black money” is just cash stuffed into pillowcases or mattresses that could be simply disabled. But “black money” is not a stock of money lying around. It lubricates activities generating employment, output and incomes. These are like normal activities, but illegal. If perchance a cash shortage arises in the “black economy” it will suck out cash from the legal economy but will not fold up. So a demonetisation is no way of tackling the “black economy”. The second onslaught was in the form of the goods and services tax (GST). While Narendra Modi hailed it as a “good and simple tax”, economists have said it was done hastily and was full of holes. The crisis in this sphere sharpened when the Centre refused to give the money (from the GST) due to the states. In other words, centralisation of the financial resources was not followed up with rightful disbursement among the states. The problem with the GST was not that it was “hasty”; it was plain wrong. It took away state governments’ constitutionally given power to tax and entrusted it to a GST Council where each state had only one vote and the central government had a dominant voice. It was done in the name of “unifying the national market”, but this was a red herring. None can say that the United States, which has no GST, is not a unified market. State governments made a big mistake accepting the GST; now they are paying for that mistake as the Centre reneges on its solemn promise to give GST compensation. This has dangerous consequences for our federal structure, but it conforms with the Modi government’s move to turn India into a de facto unitary State. The GST not only aids financial centralisation but also benefits big business at the expense of the informal sector. Petty producers have to maintain records and submit returns that entail considerable expenses. And many like Benarasi sari weavers who paid no taxes earlier have to do so now. Given the goal of “revenue neutrality”, this means lower taxes for big business. And then we come to the farm bills. Were they at all necessary? Now that states like Punjab are declaring their own legislation on this, we shall soon be facing a constitutional logjam. Dissent and dissatisfaction is increasing every day among the farmers and they are determined to unleash countrywide resistance. Agriculture is a state subject under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Centre’s act of legislating on it under the pretext that inter-state trade is involved, without even consulting the states, violates constitutional propriety but it is in sync with the move towards a unitary State. Two things are wrong with the agriculture bills. One, they encourage corporate players to encroach upon peasant agriculture, with no State oversight and no minimum support price. This amounts to leaving the peasantry at the mercy of agribusiness and the world market, which is reminiscent of colonial times. The second is the undermining of food security. The country’s land area will now get increasingly drawn into producing crops demanded by the superior purchasing power of advanced-country buyers — crops that the advanced countries, owing to their climate, cannot produce at all — rather than food grains for our home consumption. A longstanding demand of the advanced countries has been a winding up of our existing procurement operations as they supposedly interfere with the “free market”. This means abandoning the public distribution system. India has resisted this till now, which is why the Doha round of the WTO (World Trade organisation) negotiations has remained stalled. The Modi government, through these bills, is capitulating before the West. India will now become dependent on the West for food imports. In short, it has been disaster all the way. What is the prime motive behind these economic measures that defy common sense? Most ruling party leaders, coming from the RSS stable with a single-minded emphasis on an anti-Muslim, anti-Dalit agenda, have little knowledge of economic issues. Their views on these issues are no different from those of any run-of-the-mill Right-wing person on the street. They get inputs from two sources: from big business, which supports them financially and has propelled them to their current political hegemony, and from the advanced countries and Bretton Woods institutions. And these inputs are in general conformity with their own naïve prejudices, which is how their economic programme gets built. The GST conforms to what Indian big business and the World Bank have always wanted; likewise the “opening up” of agriculture. Even if these measures hurt petty producers and threaten to damage their (the BJP’s) electoral prospects, they believe that another bout of aggressive Hindutva will recover the lost electoral ground. Their strategy is simple: benefits for the monopolists and Hindutva for the masses. But Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sounds stubbornly optimistic. She has traced signs of recovery in the economy. Do you see these signs as well? Since the fourth quarter of 2019-20 had seen slow growth, the fourth quarter of 2020-21 will appear better because of this low base. But taking the entire year, GDP contraction will be around 12 per cent, which is among the highest in the world. ILO (International Labour Organisation) figures show that South Asia (essentially India) had the second highest percentage of labour hours lost in the first three quarters among all the world’s regions (after Latin America and the Caribbean). Some recovery from the lockdown trough (that is, the first quarter of 2020-21, when the GDP shrank nearly 25 per cent) is inevitable. But without fiscal stimulus measures, this recovery will remain truncated. The same ILO study shows that South Asia’s (read India’s) fiscal stimulus has been the smallest among the world’s regions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||BJP gears up for 2024 Lok Sabha polls||BJP president J.P. Nadda is gearing up to prepare the ground for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The party on Sunday announced that Nadda would begin a 120-day nationwide tour next month with special focus on Lok Sabha seats the party failed to win in 2019. “Our party chief will directly interact with (polling) booth-level workers, keeping in mind the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” BJP general secretary Arun Singh said in a media address on Sunday. “Focus will be on seats we failed to win in 2019. Review and fresh strategising for these seats will begin,” Singh added, claiming that the BJP was the only party whose president interacted with booth-level workers. The BJP had contested 437 Lok Sabha seats and won 303 in 2019. This means Nadda will focus on 135 seats. Singh said Nadda would begin his journey in the first week of December and BJP-ruled Uttarakhand would be his first destination. The BJP chief will spend two-three days in each state, including Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||BSF to deploy UAVs along the India-Bangladesh border ||The Centre has given the go-ahead to the Border Security Force to deploy unmanned aerial vehicles along the India-Bangladesh border to crack down on infiltration and smuggling, sources in the BSF said on Sunday. The BSF has also started work on sealing segments of the borders with Bangladesh and Pakistan with a smart-technology-aided fence to check the increasing incidents of infiltration. “The Centre’s approval to the long-standing proposal to deploy UAVs along the Bangladesh frontier is a welcome step. The aerial surveillance will help our personnel to go a long way in keeping a close eye on vulnerable zones prone to infiltration,” said a senior BSF officer. The BSF is deployed along the 4,096km-long international border with Bangladesh that runs through Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The UAVs are supposed to provide real-time images of possible infiltration attempts. “It will also be useful in cracking down on smuggling of fake currency notes, cattle and narcotics, besides human trafficking,” the BSF officer said. Two men have been arrested for allegedly snatching gold chains from a woman journalist and the wife of a former Meghalaya police chief in southeast Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The man to whom they sold the stolen items has also been arrested. The three accused have been identified as Alok Ranjan, 23, Gufran, 26, and Vishwanath Das, 32.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||No campaign against Sonia or Rahul Gandhi: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday asserted that there was no campaign against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi and that the issues raised by some leaders were only structural, aimed more at revitalising the enervated organisational machinery than replacing the leadership. Azad told The Telegraph in an interview: “We are only worried about the Congress’s decline. No other party can be a national alternative to the BJP as only the Congress has national thinking and national presence. We haven’t demanded a leadership change. Our key suggestion is internal elections; from the block to state and national levels. Elections should also be held to the Congress Working Committee (CWC).” Asked why he and other senior leaders who raised the demand for internal elections in a letter to Congress president Sonia earlier were oblivious to this critical aspect of the party system, Azad said: “I have always been a votary of election to organisational posts. When P.V. Narasimha Rao was the party president and Prime Minister, I was the most vocal for internal elections. Leaders like Sharad Pawar, K. Karunakaran, Madhavrao Scindia supported me.” Pressed further on why he and other senior leaders didn’t demand organisational elections during Sonia’s tenure from 1998 to 2017, Azad chose to delve into history instead of giving a direct answer. “I told you I am always for internal elections at all levels. I have expressed my views at party forums. Rao allowed elections to the CWC at the Tirupati session in 1992. But he kept deceiving us on elections at other levels. Finally, the lack of confidence in his leadership was manifested and he was removed,” Azad said. This is significant as Azad appeared to be hinting that internal elections can be an issue serious enough to remove the party president without clarifying why they were comfortable with the nomination system during Sonia’s tenure. Reminded that all these senior leaders had been calling the shots during the period between 1998 and 2016, Azad, who is the leader of the “Group of 23” who have written to Sonia shot back: “We were part of the leadership structure during Rao’s tenure as well. But the president has to allow internal elections.” Asked about the “rebel” tag pasted on his chest although he had been known as a loyalist all his life, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said: “That’s a wrong perception being mischievously manufactured. We are not rebels. When a wazir (high noble) breaks the army and challenges the king, he is called a rebel. But it is incumbent on a good wazir to give the correct advice to the king. We are doing the same, giving the correct advice to the leader.” Asked if that means the projection of the crisis as a rebellion against the Nehru-Gandhi family was erroneous, Azad said: “Of course. It is not a fight against any individual. We are not for replacing the leader or appointing somebody as the leader. We are only doing our job of telling the leader what could have gone wrong and what could be the possible remedies. We want the leader to save the party and that will also save all of us, including the leadership.” Asked if this debate could have been conducted within the party forums, Azad insisted that they wanted it to be that way and none of the leaders had spoken a word against Sonia or Rahul. That the party is weak and the organisation has to be strong is an indisputable fact and pointing this out can’t be rebellion, Azad insisted. Ordinary party workers across the country agree with the points the “Group of 23” have raised but feel aggrieved by the unseemly public discourse about the Congress leadership and its infirmities. Most Congress workers lament that no attempt has so far been made to ensure the public sniping is stopped and all the leaders sit together to draw up an effective action plan for revival. Ironically, while most party workers are anguished by the leadership crisis, very few are willing to look beyond the Nehru-Gandhi family for the next party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||SC-ST House panel refuses Hathras visit||The parliamentary committee on the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has rejected a request by some of its members to visit the family of the Dalit teen who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. Although the girl passed away on September 29, a week after being brutalised, the 30-member committee headed by BJP leader Kirit Premjibhai Solanki has no plans of visiting the family, which has allegedly faced harassment at the hands of the administration and sections of locals. The committee had met on October 20 to discuss representation of SC/ST employees at Delhi University when some of the members requested the chairman to allow a visit to the Hathras family. Solanki, however, rejected the proposal, committee sources said. “When the request was made to visit the victim’s family, the chairman did not agree. He said the Speaker would not agree to such a trip. He also said that a visit to the victim’s family was under the jurisdiction of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC),” a panel source said. According to the source, the parliamentary committee has the power to tour any place to protect the interests of SCs and STs. The source said the Hathras incident was a fit case for a visit to inspect if the family was safe. “People from the dominant community are openly giving threats. A visit by the committee would have sent a message to the police administration and helped the family in terms of safety and protection,” the source said. Solanki told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “There is no plan to visit Hathras.” No further questions could be asked as he hung up. Another committee source said that while one member had raised the Hathras issue and suggested a visit, two others had supported the proposal. Sixteen members, including the chairman, were present at the meeting. The second source said the NCSC could not undertake a visit as the commission currently had no member. The government has not appointed anyone to the NCSC in the past five months. Ambedkarite scholars said parliamentarians elected from reserved seats were not truly representing the community. The scholars supported the idea of separate electorates that Bhimrao Ambedkar had proposed 90 years ago, before accepting political reservation in constituencies. Currently, 131 Lok Sabha seats are reserved for SCs and STs. Tanoj Meshram, a former civil servant and currently a PhD student of social policy at Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University in the US, said caste atrocities were yet to feature on the political agenda of parties, suggesting that mainstream political forces were not committed to the ideology of social justice as envisaged in the Constitution. “Unfortunately, most of the individual SC candidates contesting on the tickets and strength of mainstream political parties show little commitment to social justice,” Meshram said, adding that a separate electorate for SCs would have produced leaders with commitment to the cause of the community. “MPs and MLAs winning from seats reserved for SCs are not truly representing the community. If there had been a separate electorate for depressed classes that Ambedkar had wanted, the Dalit and tribal communities would have got 131 committed parliamentarians in the Lok Sabha. The government cannot afford to have an indifferent attitude toward these communities,” Meshram said. Under separate electorates, SCs and STs would have elected their own representatives from pre-identified constituencies. Such a process could have neutralised the influence of upper caste Hindus who constitute the majority in a parliamentary or Assembly seat. This is contrary to the current system of reserved seats where SC or ST candidates fight elections and people from all communities exercise their franchise together. Mahatma Gandhi had opposed the idea of a separate electorate for depressed classes as he saw it as an attempt to divide the Hindu society along caste lines and considered it against Indian nationalism. Dr Sanjay Jadhav, a Nashik-based medical surgeon and Ambedkarite scholar, said that when Ambedkar was leading a movement for depressed classes, Gandhi and the Congress had foisted rebel untouchable sub-castes to create an alternative leadership. Jadhav said the indifferent attitude towards SCs and STs cut across party lines. The Janata Party had in 1977 made Jagjivan Ram, a Dalit, their prime ministerial candidate but gone with Moraji Desai after winning the election, Jadhav pointed out. “Dalits are never given respect or the positions they deserve. The indifferent attitude is across parties,” Jadhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Naveen seeks Hemant's cooperation in early completion of Ichha dam||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday wrote to his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren seeking his cooperation in early completion of the Ichha dam over the Kharkai river in Jharkhand for the benefit of farmers of both the states. “I am happy to know that the government of Jharkhand has taken up Ichha dam construction work recently. Odisha government will extend all cooperation for Ichha dam construction and reimburse Odisha’s share cost of dam in time,” Naveen said in his letter. A sum of Rs 1,026.91 crore has been paid to the Jharkhand government for the Ichha dam construction against the estimated share cost of Rs 1,208 crore, he added. Projects like the Chandil dam and the Galudihi barrage across the Subarnarekha river are being undertaken under a joint collaboration between Jharkhand and Odisha. Similarly, Galudihi right-bank canal off-taking from Galudihi barrage and the Iccha dam are also being built under a joint collaboration. Naveen also sought cooperation of Soren for storage of water up to the full reservoir level in Chandil dam during monsoon for mitigation of floods in Odisha. Naveen also thanked Soren for extending his cooperation in providing water to the Subarnarekha irrigation project of Odisha during the kharif season. “Subarnarekha irrigation project of Odisha will be able to utilise its full irrigation potential only after completion of Ichha dam by Jharkhand government,” Naveen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Malkangiri’s ‘Malala’ interacts with Naveen Patnaik||Kusumani Khilla, a graduate student from Odisha’s Malkangiri district who has defied the threat of Maoists to teach the children of her area, on Tuesday spoke with chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who assured to solve the problems of the people in the “cut-off” region. Kusumani is called the Malala Yousafzai of Swabhiman Anchal, after the Pakistan teenager who was shot by the Taliban for speaking out in support of education for women. Swabhiman Anchal, around 570km from here, was earlier called the “cut-off” area after its connection with the mainland snapped following the construction of the Machkund reservoir in the 1960s and it became a Maoist-dominated area. But things changed in 2018 following the inauguration of the 910-metres-long Gurupriya bridge by Naveen. The bridge connected a population of around 32,000 residing in nine gram panchayats of the area with the mainland by road for the first time after nearly five decades. Earlier boats were the only means of communication for the people of this area. The area, which was rechristened as Swabhiman Anchal following the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge, had made international headlines when the then Malkangiri collector R. Vineel Krishna was kidnapped by the Maoists in 2011. He was released after weeklong negotiations. Kusumani, a student of Balimela Science and Technology College, told reporters: “I am happy that the chief minister spoke to me and inquired about the problems of the area. He also assured to address them. All the people of the area are happy that the chief minister spoke to us directly from Bhubaneswar over phone.” Kusumani was able to talk to chief minister through videoconferencing as the area now has mobile connectivity after four mobile towers were set up. The construction of the towers was completed with jawans of the BSF and state police maintaining round the clock vigil. Launching a mobile phone distribution programme, the chief minister said, “State government will provide smart mobile phones to all the families living in the area. Another three towers with 4G facility will be set up.” Project director of District Rural Development Agency, Balmukunda Bhuyan, told The Telegraph, “Kusumani, a plus-three student, acts as a motivator. She has been motivating even Maoist supporters to shun violence and join the mainstream. Since she works in the field of health and education, even Maoists are wary of targeting her as any harm to her will generate public resentment.” “Because of her efforts to create social awareness during the coronavirus pandemic, not a single covid-19 death has been reported from the area though positive cases were detected. For us Kusumani is our Malala,” he added. The chief minister also spoke to Daimati Golory, an SHG member, and Sitaram Golory, an ex-sarpanch of the area. Following the announcement by the chief minister, the Malkangiri district administration distributed smartphones to 6,900 households in Swabhiman Anchal. Naveen also announced that the Rs 100 crore special package that he had announced for Swabhiman Anchal earlier would be enhanced to Rs 215 crore. “These areas are known for their high quality turmeric. Steps will be taken for the processing and branding of the turmeric produced in the Swabhiman Anchal,” Naveen said. He also announced that Rs 100 crore would be spent for making concrete roads and seven bridges in the area. The face of Swabhiman Anchal is now changing with development taking place in the area for the first time in five decades, thanks to the Gurupriya bridge which has made communication easy. While government officials now have easy access to villages in this belt, security forces have stepped up their operations against the Maoists who earlier ruled the roost. Currently the area has six BSF camps while hundreds of police personnel are also deployed. “Our two-pronged strategy of using force against the Maoists in a tactical way while launching a developmental drive in the area is paying dividends,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
