24-11-2020||India||UP nod to draft ordinance against love jihad||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday approved a draft ordinance against the religious conversion for the sake of love and marriage, as a result of which violators can be imprisoned for up to 10 years. An official spokesperson informed that the state Cabinet had okayed the ordinance during its meeting in Lucknow chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Recently, BJP-led states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have disclosed plans to bring laws to deal with alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam for the sake of marriage, an act that Hindu activists call ‘love jihad’. "The way in which religious conversions are done using deceit, lies, force and dishonesty is heart wrenching, and it was necessary to have a law in this regard, Cabinet minister and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said. He added that under the new law, violators can be awarded a jail term of one to five years, and a fine of Rs 15,000. However, in case the woman is a minor or belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, the jail term would range from three to 10 year, with a fine of Rs 25,000, he said. In the case of mass conversions, the punishment is from three years to 10 years and a fine of Rs 50,000 on the organisations which indulge in it," Singh told reporters. The minister said if anybody wants to change religion after marriage, he or she would be free to do so. However, the district magistrate has to be informed about the decision two months in advance in a prescribed form, he said. The person can change religion once permission is granted. Singh  claimed that this will resolve law and order issues in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Centre bans 43 mobile apps over security concerns||The Centre on Tuesday issued an order to block access to 43 mobile applications in the country citing their engagement in activities “which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”, a PIB release said. Among the apps that have been blocked, several are Chinese-owned, four of which are owned by the country’s retail giant, the Alibaba Group. “Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India on Tuesday issued an order under section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to 43 mobile apps,” the release said. “Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has issued the order for blocking the access of these apps by users in India based on the comprehensive reports received from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center, Ministry of Home Affairs,” it added. Alibaba-owned AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better Living and Alipay Cashier are among the 43 applications whose access has been blocked. The Centre’s order follows its earlier decision on June 29 to block 59 mobile apps including TikTok and WeChat and its September 2 decision to ban 118 more, including popular gaming app PUBG, under the same section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||At Covid meeting with PM, Kejriwal blames stubble burning||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of eight states that are witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases to review the Covid-19 situation. Eight states participated in the meeting and briefed the PM about the situation in their respective regions and their plans to curb the spread of the virus. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani participated in the meeting. Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan were also present during the conference. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked Modi  to intervene into the issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi, asserting that pollution was a key factor behind the spike of cases during the third wave of the infection in the national capital. "The high severity of the third wave is due to many factors. Pollution is an important factor. The chief minister sought the prime minister's intervention to get rid of the pollution caused by stubble-burning in adjoining states, especially in view of the recent bio-decomposer technique," a source said. According to sources, Kejriwal told the PM that the number of Covid-19 cases as well as the positivity rate were steadily declining since November 10, when Delhi recorded a peak of 8,600 cases during the third wave. He also asked for the reservation of the additional 1,000 ICU beds in hospitals run by the Centre in Delhi for Covid-19 patients till the third wave of infections subsided. In the meeting with the Prime Minister, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the coronavirus situation is being handled aptly in her state. "The chief minister briefed the PM that the COVID-19 situation in West Bengal is under control," an official said. Banerjee also reminded Modi of the non- payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to several states, the official added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told Modi that a task force had been set up in the state to manage the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and the process through which it will be administered. "A task force has been set up to manage the distribution and vaccination in Maharashtra and the government is in constant touch with Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute of India to track development of the coronavirus vaccine," an official statement said quoting the CM. Poonawalla is the CEO of the Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine for COVID-19. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray informed the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi about the various steps taken to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state, during a video conference held this morning,” the Maharashtra CMO tweeted. Chief Minister Vijay rupani on Tuesday told Modi that the virus situation in his state is under control and enough beds are available in Gujarat. "The CM has assured the PM that the situation is under control and enough number of beds are available in the state for coronavirus patients," an official press release said. Rupani also briefed the PM about the various steps taken by the Gujarat government to curb the spread of Covid-19, including imposition of night curfew in multiple cities and the identification of patients through increased testing. “The CM said the night curfew in the four cities will remain in effect until the situation comes under control,” the release said. In the video conference with the Prime Minister, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said his administration has increased testing and strengthened infrastructure to control the spread of coronavirus. Gehlot briefed the PM about the ban on firecrackers, law on wearing of masks, night curfew in worst-hit districts and the restrictions on gatherings, while highlighting the measures taken by the state, said sources. The CM also informed Modi about bettering the infrastructure through oxygen generation plants, increase in the number of ICUs and oxygen beds in hospitals, the sources added. The Telangana government is ready with an action plan to administer vaccines on citizens, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said on Tuesday. "People are eagerly waiting for the vaccine. A scientifically approved vaccine is the need of the hour. The Telangana state government is ready to distribute and administer the vaccine to people on a priority basis. Accordingly, we have drawn up an action plan. However, one has to take into consideration whether the vaccine has any side effects," Rao said in the conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Modi warns chief ministers against laxity in Covid fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked states and Union territories to work out logistics and modalities for administering the COVID-19 vaccine while cautioning them against any laxity in fighting the pandemic during an online interaction with chief ministers on Tuesday. According to several leaders who attended the video-interaction, Modi asked them to constitute steering committees at the state, district and taluk levels for quick and effective distribution of the vaccine once it was made available. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who attended the meeting along with chief minister B. S. Yediyurappa, said the plan was to provide the vaccine on priority for 30 crore people. Among them were a crore health workers, two crore corona warriors, about 26 crore people between the age of 50 and 60 years and those with comorbidities, he said. The Prime Minister said volunteers would have to be trained and health workers, both in public and private sectors, had to be used for the purpose of administering the vaccine. "During elections how we plan meticulously at every booth level in such a way vaccination centres have to be set up, digital information has to be created and track record has to be maintained as vaccination is to be administered in two to three doses," Bommai added. During his interaction with chief ministers, Modi asked states to reduce the positivity and fatality rates by focusing on curbing the virus transmission. He called for more RT-PCR tests, even as he underlined that India's COVID-19 situation was more stable than other countries in terms of recovery and fatality rates. Modi asked them to work towards bringing down the positive rate to nearly 5 per cent and the fatality rate to under 1 per cent and called for more RT-PCR tests. "We need to speed up our efforts to reduce transmission of the virus. Testing, confirmation, contact tracing and data must be given top priority," he said. Modi said the government was keeping a close watch on the development of vaccines and was in contact with Indian developers and manufacturers, along with global regulators, governments of other countries, multilateral institutions and international companies. He assured citizens that the government would ensure that the vaccine  met all necessary scientific criteria. He underlined that just like the focus in the fight against COVID-19 has been on saving each and every life, the priority will be to ensure that the vaccine reaches everyone. The meeting was also attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, while the chief ministers who participated in the virtual interaction include Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan's Ashok Gehlot, West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh's Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat's Vijay Rupani. A massive network of testing to treatment is running well in the entire country and it is being regularly widened, the prime minister said. Modi has held several rounds of virtual meetings with states over the coronavirus situation so far. The latest high-level meeting to review the status and preparedness of COVID-19 response and management had a special emphasis on eight high focus states -- Haryana, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal. While the national daily COVID-19 case count has remained below 50,000 for some time, several urban centres have witnessed a surge, resulting in enforcement of several measures, including curfews in some cities. India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's COVID-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Modi said a special emphasis of the PM CARES fund has been to make available oxygen, while efforts are on to make medical colleges and district hospitals self-sufficient in terms of oxygen generation. He also informed the chief ministers that the process for establishing more than 160 new oxygen plants is underway. The prime minister said there have been broadly four stages in terms of how the people have reacted to the pandemic. The first was of fear, when people reacted in panic, while the second stage saw cropping up of doubts about the virus when several people tried to hide that they had been afflicted by it. The third stage was of acceptance when people became more serious about the virus and displayed greater alertness, while in the fourth stage, with increasing recovery rate, people have developed a false notion of security from the virus, thus leading to rise in instances of negligence, Modi said. He emphasised that it is of utmost importance to increase awareness about the seriousness of the virus in this fourth stage. He noted that the trend of increase in the spread of the pandemic in countries where its impact was earlier lessening, is being seen in some states as well, which necessitates greater alacrity and caution by the administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Covid: one crore health workers to receive vaccine in 1st phase||The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, when available, will be administered to around one crore frontline health workers, official sources said. About 92 per cent of government hospitals and 55 per cent of private hospitals have provided data of the health workers in all states and Union territories. In order to complete the exercise within the next one week, the Centre has directed states and UTs to step up the process of identifying these workers, including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers. The government has asked states to work on planning and mapping of sessions of vaccination where, during the first phase, healthcare workers will receive the vaccine. It has also directed them to do a mapping of human resources across departments that can be possibly deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination. According to sources, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states and UTs to discuss the strategy of vaccine distribution, via video conferencing on Tuesday. "Around 92 per cent of all government hospitals and 55 per cent of all private hospitals from across all states and UTs have provided data. The rest of the details will come in another one week. We have asked the states to accelerate the process," an official source said. The anti-coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Civid-19 inoculation programme, using the processes, technology and network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). It would run parallel to the UIP. “The Centre, with the help of state and UT governments, has started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who would be given vaccine dose in the initial phase”, sources had said. The government has identified three other categories apart from the one crore health workers. This includes around two crore frontline workers including municipal corporation workers, personnel of the police and armed forces, about 26 crore people aged above 50 and a special category of those below 50 with co-morbidities and requiring specialised care. Sources had earlier informed that the health ministry’s existing digital platform eVIN, used for the UIP, is being enhanced to ensure Covid-19 vaccine distribution and delivery. Through the platform, messages would be sent to recipients informing the time, date and venue to get the shots and digitally connect them and also track them, sources had earlier said. “Each person in the immunisation list would be linked with their Aadhar cards to avoid duplication and to track beneficiaries. However, in case a person doesn't have an Aadhar card, a government photo identity can be used,” said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Mumbai Police file charge sheet in fake TRP scam||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday filed a charge sheet in a court here in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam. The charge sheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), which is conducting a probe into the case, an official said. The crime branch has so far arrested 12 persons, including Republic TV's distribution head and owners of two other channels, in connection with the case, he said. The fake TRP scam came to light last month when rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa had been tasked with installing barometers, which record viewership data (which channel has been watched and for how long) at sample households. TRP is important as advertising revenue of channels depends on it. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh last month claimed that Republic TV and two Marathi channels box CinemaandFakt Marathi- were involved in manipulating TRPs. Republic TV and other accused have denied wrongdoing and manipulation of the TRP system. Earlier, Republic TV's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) and Chief Finance Officer (CFO) were summoned by the police for questioning in the fake TRP racket case. The statements of Republic TV's executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy and senior executive editor Abhishek Kapoor were also recorded by the police. The Maharashtra government last month withdrew its "general consent" given to the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe cases in the state, in the wake of the CBI taking over a case registered by Uttar Pradesh Police against "unknown" channels and persons over alleged fudging of TRP. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently filed a money laundering complaint in the alleged TRP rigging scam being investigated by the Mumbai Police. The central probe agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) that is equivalent to a police FIR under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, official sources said last week. The ED complaint was filed after studying a Mumbai Police FIR that was registered in October and it had named the Republic TV channel, two Marathi channels and few other individuals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone ‘Nivar’ likely to become 'very severe'||Cyclone Nivar is likely to become a 'very severe cyclonic storm' and hit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on November 25 during late evening, India Meteorological Department Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Tuesday. Earlier, the IMD had predicted that Cyclone Nivar was expected to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’, but has now said it will gain more strength. Nivar is the second cyclone over Bay of Bengal in 2020, following Cyclone Amphan, which had developed into a ‘super cyclonic storm’ to batter Bengal and Odisha. "Our forecast is it will intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by (Tuesday) tonight,” Mohapatra said. "It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during 25th November late evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kilometres per hour gusting to 145 kmph," he added. The cyclone is expected to bring in heavy rains along with strong winds. The IMD has issued a red alert for coastal and north interior Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, for November 25, the DG said. "Isolated extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts during 24th and Kadalur, Kallakurchi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu to Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karaikal districts during 25th) and over Nellore and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh on 25th and over Rayalaseema and southeast Telangana on 26th November," the IMD said. Mohapatra explained that cyclones result in multi-hazardous scenarios. In the event of Nivar,  there could be serious damage to thatched huts, disruption of power and communication lines, damage to roads, uprooting of trees. There could be damage to horticulture crops like banana and papaya. The IMD has also advised total suspension of fishing operations and motorboats and small boats, shifting of people residing in coastal areas to safer places, judicious regulation of road, air and rail traffic. The Met department will provide hourly updates from November 25 when Nivar crosses the coast, Mohapatra said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to the chief ministers of both the state and the union territory and assured them of all possible aid from the Centre, in the wake of ‘Nivar’. Taking to Twitter, the PM said, "Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Puducherry CM Shri @VNarayanasami regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas." Fishermen have already been advised against venturing into sea. The district administration of Puducherry has also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in the region to prevent movement of people as the cyclone approaches the coast. All shops and business establishments were directed to be closed from 9 pm on Tuesday to 6 am on Thursday, District Collector Purva Garg said. “Puducherry is expected to be 'severely impacted' by the cyclone and there was a grave danger to life, health and safety of the public because of the cyclone predicted. This order would not be applicable to staff engaged in law and order duty and also the essential services such as milk supply, fuel stations and pharmacies”, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||PM holds virtual meet with states over Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of states that are witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases to review the COVID-19 situation. The leaders attending the meeting include Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. The prime minister, till now, has held several virtual meetings with states over the coronavirus situation. While the national daily Covid-19 case count has remained below 50,000 for some time, several urban centres have witnessed a surge, resulting in enforcement of several measures, including curfews in some cities. Later in the day, the prime minister will also hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers and other representatives of states and union territories via video conferencing to discuss the vaccine distribution strategy. The central government has also been putting in place measures for quick and effective distribution of coronavirus vaccine when it becomes available. Five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development in India, out of which four are in Phase II/III and one is in Phase-I/II trials. India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Centre calls Punjab farmers for 2nd round of talks in a bid to quash farm laws protest||The Centre on Tuesday said it has invited farmer unions from Punjab for the second round of ministerial talks on December 3 to resolve differences over the new agriculture laws. The meeting comes after farmer leaders laid a condition for another central ministerial meeting while calling off their 'rail roko' agitation in Punjab on Monday and lifted the nearly two-month-long blockade, allowing resumption of only goods trains. Speaking to PTI, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said, "We have called the representatives of over 30 farmer organisations for the second round of discussion on December 3 at Vigyan Bhawan at 11 am". The secretary has sent the invitation to the farmer bodies on behalf of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food Minister Piyush Goyal is also expected to be present in the meeting. Officials from food and agriculture departments of the Punjab government have also been invited for the talks. The first round of talks was held on November 13, but it remained inconclusive, with both sides sticking to their ground. Punjab farmers have been demanding the repeal of the new farm laws and replace them with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also demanded a guarantee on the MSP front, as they claimed that these new laws may lead to the end of minimum support prices (MSP) procurement, which the Centre has denied. When asked about their demand on MSP, the secretary said, "Earlier laws too did not have any mention of MSP. Even the new agri-laws do not mention it. MSP is mentioned only in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) which has not been changed. Till Public Distribution System (PDS) is there, MSP will continue". The Prime Minister has also stated this and even the Union Agriculture Minister has said in Parliament that MSP will continue, he added. "We have explained in detail to farmer unions about this issue. Hopefully, we will resolve the issue with them at the December 3 meeting," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Almost 38,000 cases in a day takes Covid caseload to 91.77 lakh||India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 91,77,840 and the death toll climbed to 1,34,218 with 480 new fatalities, including 121 from the national capital alone, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the fourteenth consecutive day. There are 4,38,667 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 4.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,04,955 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.76 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, over 13.36 crore samples have been tested up to November 23 with 10,99,545 samples being tested on Monday. The 480 new fatalities include 121 from Delhi, 47 from West Bengal, 30 from Maharashtra, 28 from Haryana, 24 from Karnataka, 23 each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and 22 from Kerala. A total of 1,34,218 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,653 from Maharashtra followed by 11,678 from Karnataka, 11,622 from Tamil Nadu, 8,512 from Delhi, 8,072 from West Bengal, 7,582 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,948 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,631 from Punjab and 3,876 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category||Delhi's overall air quality deteriorated on Tuesday but remained in the "very poor" category with six of the 38 stations recording "severe" air quality, government agencies said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) mobile application SAMEER, the city's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 361 in the morning. The six stations that recorded an AQI in the "severe" category are Anand Vihar (413), Ashok Vihar (407), Chandni Chowk (410), Jahangirpuri (424), Patparganj (411) and Vivek Vihar (426). The capital's AQI was in the "severe" category on November 15 but it improved since and remained in either the "poor" or the "moderate" category until November 22. Delhi's AQI was 302 on Monday, 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". However, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the stubble-burning count significantly decreased to 149 on Sunday, contributing to six per cent in Delhi's air on Monday. It said winds are expected to slow down and low ventilation is expected, adding that if the stubble-burning count increases, the AQI will further worsen to "severe". Stubble-burning accounted for 12 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine can become India's first approved Covid shot||A candidate vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University against the coronavirus disease has shown 70 per cent efficacy in clinical trials in the UK and Brazil and could become India’s first approved Covid-19 vaccine if Indian drug regulators are convinced by the data. AstraZeneca, the UK-based biopharmaceuticals company, announced on Monday that an interim analysis of the clinical trials on around 23,000 volunteers in the two countries had found that the candidate vaccine was “highly effective” in preventing Covid-19 infections. The AstraZeneca vaccine on average prevented 70 per cent of Covid cases in late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil but the success rate rose to 90 per cent if the vaccine was administered as a half dose followed by a full dose. The efficacy was 62 per cent if the full dose was given twice, as it was for most study participants. The efficacy was calculated on the basis of how the 131 Covid-19 cases (patients who developed the infection among the 23,000 volunteers) were split between the volunteers who received the candidate vaccine and those who received a placebo. No serious safety events were confirmed, the company said. The Oxford scientists said they were still trying to understand why the vaccine was more effective at a smaller first dose. The first dose is supposed to prime the immune system, while the second is supposed to boost its response. While it seemed counterintuitive for a smaller first dose to be more effective, they said that strategy may more closely mimic what happens with a real infection. AstraZeneca’s shares fell 4 per cent, on track for their worst daily performance in six months, as investors perceived the efficacy data as disappointing compared with rivals. Pfizer and Moderna, which reported that their vaccines prevented around 95 per cent of the infections, had set the bar for success sky high. In the AstraZeneca trial in Britain, researchers counted infections by swabbing participants weekly. That detection method was likely to have turned up more infections than the trials run by Moderna and Pfizer, which tested people who developed symptoms and may have failed to find any asymptomatic cases. The different approaches to counting infections could make it harder to compare how well the different vaccines work. Both AstraZeneca and a Russian vaccine called Sputnik V (which announced 92 per cent efficacy) rely on adenovirus delivery platforms, but while AstraZeneca uses a chimpanzee adenovirus, Sputnik V uses two different human adenoviruses. The Sputnik V team used Twitter to speculate on a reason for the 62 per cent efficacy reported by AstraZeneca’s candidate. “The possible reason 62 per cent efficacy of AstraZeneca’s full dose regimen is that immunity to chimpanzee adenoviral vector from the first shot makes second shot not effective,” the Sputnik V team posted. “Sputnik V addresses this issue by using two different human adenoviral vectors for two shots (92 per cent efficacy.)” Danny Altmann, professor of immunology at Imperial College London, put matters in perspective. “I think it is a real fool’s errand to start trying to pick these three (Pfizer/ Moderna/ Astra) apart on the basis of snippets of phase 3 data from press releases,” Altmann said. Altmann added: “For the bigger picture, my suspicion is that by the time we are a year down the line, we’ll be using all three vaccines with about 90 per cent protection — and we’ll be a lot happier.” Why relevant in India AstraZeneca’s vaccine could give the world’s fight against the global pandemic a new weapon, cheaper to make, easier to distribute and faster to scale up than its rivals. The British drug-maker said it would have as many as 200 million doses by the end of 2020, around four times as many as US competitor Pfizer. Seven hundred million doses could be ready globally as soon as the end of the first quarter of 2021. “This means we have a vaccine for the world,” said Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford University vaccine group that developed the drug. The AstraZeneca shot does have some advantages over the offerings from US rivals. The drug’s cost to governments works out at just a few dollars a shot, a fraction of the price of shots from Pfizer and Moderna, which use a more unconventional technology. Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, was quoted by PTI last week as saying Serum would make the vaccine available for the public at between $5 and $6 per dose, while the government would get it at $3 to $4 per dose. The Serum Institute is AstraZeneca’s Indian manufacturing partner. The vaccine can also be transported and stored at normal fridge temperatures, which proponents say would make it easier to distribute, especially in poor countries, than Pfizer’s, which needs to be shipped and stored at minus 70 degrees C. The faster roll-out means both the rich and poor countries that had been drawing up plans to ration vaccines can distribute them more widely, helping to eventually halt the social and economic disruption of a pandemic that has killed 1.4 million people. In poor countries, where the logistics of distributing rival vaccines posed a bigger challenge, the effect of a cheaper and easier alternative could be even more pronounced. Zahid Maleque, health minister of Bangladesh, which is buying 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, called the findings “really good news”. “The big advantage of having the vaccine is that it can be stored, transported and handled at 2-8 degrees Celsius, and we have that storage facility,” he said. Pascal Soriot, Astra’s chief executive, said the smaller initial dose was good news, as it meant limited supplies could stretch further to vaccinate more people. The company said it would seek emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation for an accelerated pathway to make the vaccine available in low-income countries and “immediately prepare” for submission of the data to regulatory authorities around the world. The Serum Institute of India can currently produce 70 million doses per month of which 35 million doses would be available for use within India once the vaccine is approved by regulatory authorities, Serum officials have said. Serum is also testing the vaccine for safety and its capacity to stimulate an immune response in around 1,600 volunteers across India. Serum officials have said the company plans to submit efficacy data from the UK and Brazil and the local trial data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines. The company would be seeking emergency use authorisation to enable early roll-out of the vaccine for use in priority populations such as healthcare workers. Indian health officials have said a regulatory decision on the vaccine would require the company to submit the data for analysis by a panel of experts that could take days to weeks. Serum officials have said the company has already manufactured stocks for roll-out. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier this year announced a plan to vaccinate around 250 million people with 500 million doses of the vaccine by July 2021. The health ministry has asked the states to prepare lists of priority populations such as healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups. But one source indicated on Monday that there was still uncertainty over when Serum could make the vaccine available for the country’s private market. “This will depend on what quantity the government orders,” the source who requested not to be named told The Telegraph. India is also evaluating through clinical trials two home-grown candidate vaccines from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila and has approved clinical trials on Sputnik V. The Bharat Biotech candidate is now undergoing efficacy trials with the results expected during the first quarter of 2021. Bharat has said it can supply around 300 million doses of its vaccine. Russia has offered India 100 million doses of Sputnik. Additional reporting by New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Brotherhood message amid semantic sniping||The Bihar Assembly was in uproar on Monday when AIMIM members refused to utter “Hindustan” while taking the oath in Urdu and opted for “Bharat”, and the BJP members insisted that any Indian allergic to the word “Hindustan” should go to Pakistan. It was left to Muslim MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan from the Congress to shame the warring sides into silence by taking the oath in Sanskrit. “I believe that society cannot progress amid orthodoxy and hard-line thoughts. We need to encourage love, harmony and brotherhood,” Shakeel later told reporters. “I took the oath in Sanskrit to show that India is about unity in diversity and that our culture is extremely beautiful. I wanted to give a message to the BJP and the AIMIM.” To some it may have seemed ironic that BJP members were favouring the Persian-Urdu word for India while All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLAs were batting for the Sanskrit name, but the squabble underlined how the rise of Hindutva had transformed old yardsticks. The word for India in Sanskrit has been “Bharat” from ancient times, while “Hindu” and “Hindustan” were coined by Persians to describe the people living beyond the Sindhu or Indus river. Urdu, influenced heavily by Persian, uses “Hindustan”. In the days of radio cricket commentary, for instance, Pakistani commentators in Urdu invariably referred to India as “Hindustan” while their Indian counterparts, commentating in Hindi, used “Bharat”. With Hindutva swamping Indian politics, however, it seems the two words’ histories have been eclipsed by their contemporary connotations for some — with the “Hindu” in “Hindustan” overshadowing everything else. The spat broke out while pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi was administering the oath to the newly elected MLAs on the first day of the new Assembly. When AIMIM member Akhtarul Iman’s turn came, he objected to the format of the oath, which he was taking in Urdu, containing “Hindustan” and sought to replace it with “Bharat”. “The oath being administered to the various legislators in the Hindi, English, Sanskrit and Maithili languages has the phrase ‘Bharat ke samvidhan (the Constitution of India)’,” Iman told the House. “But the word ‘Bharat’ has been replaced with ‘Hindustan’ in the Urdu oath. I’m not going to use ‘Hindustan’ and will use ‘Bharat’ instead.” The English oath contains “India”, not “Bharat”. Manjhi underlined that the format of the oath in Urdu always used “Hindustan” and nobody had ever objected because “both words have the same meaning”. He, however, accepted Iman’s request to switch the words. The four other AIMIM legislators in the House of 243 followed Iman in taking the oath in Urdu but using “Bharat”. All through, BJP members tried to hoot them down. “If anybody has a problem uttering ‘Hindustan’, he should go to Pakistan. There’s no place for such people in this country. Their intention is bad and they are setting a bad precedent,” the BJP member from Chhatapur, Niraj Kumar “Bablu”, said. Other BJP members, former minister Pramod Kumar among them, joined in the ruckus. Iman retaliated, accusing them of raising non-issues and brushing under the carpet how a Muslim girl had been killed for resisting molestation. He stressed that the Constitution uses the word “Bharat”. It was amid this bitterness that Shakeel, MLA from Kadwa in Katihar, showed the way, taking the oath in Sanskrit and stunning both sides into silence. As realisation gradually dawned, however, all the legislators present began clapping and thumping their desks to show their approval. Several, including some from the BJP, came up to hug Shakeel. “I chose to take the oath in Sanskrit because it is considered the mother of all languages. I have read Sanskrit and it’s a part of my life. I did what I felt was right. I love my mother tongue Urdu too,” Shakeel told reporters. The first two days of the Assembly session have been reserved for oath-taking. Among those sworn in on Monday were RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. However, the Congress and the Left were able to raise the murder of a Muslim girl in Vaishali district for resisting molestation. The accused allegedly set her on fire on October 30 but the incident came to light on November 17, two days after she died. The police acted only after Rahul Gandhi tweeted about it. Tejashwi challenged the Nitish Kumar government to provide 19 lakh jobs within a month, as promised by the BJP during the campaign, or face a state-wide agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Police scanner on three Calcutta chartered accountants||Offices and homes of at least three chartered accountants in the city have been searched in the past seven days after their names allegedly emerged during an investigation into a corruption case against a senior IRS officer in connection with which Govind Agarwal was arrested on Sunday. The three chartered accountants have been summoned and questioned separately by Calcutta police. The police are probing allegations against income-tax officer Neeraj Singh who has been suspended. Singh, a 1994-batch IRS officer, has been facing charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act and penal sections dealing with cheating and criminal conspiracy after alleged evidence emerged from the Mangoe Lane office of his close associate Agarwal in 2016. The case was registered in 2017. Investigators said a section of certified chartered accountants in the city appeared to have been helping their clients “manage” their unaccounted finances. Leads suggesting their links with several serving and retired central agency officers have led the police to question these chartered accountants, the investigators said. Agarwal, remanded in judicial custody for a day on Sunday, will be produced in court again on Tuesday. People familiar with him said Agarwal was a “one-stop-solution” for all accounting services for his clients. His name rarely featured in any official papers. Agarwal, who lives in south Calcutta, had started out as a junior accountant at a private firm where he had the job of liaising with income-tax officers. For years, Agarwal operated from a small room on the first floor of a building at 3A Mangoe Lane in central Calcutta. The office neither has a nameplate nor any mention of his company’s name. On Monday, asked about Agarwal, most people in the building said: “Hum nahi jante (We don’t know about him).” Agarwal’s lawyer Biplab Goswami said his client had cooperated with the police when he was officially summoned multiple times. “My client is suffering from critical, life-threatening kidney and liver diseases,” Goswami added. Agarwal’s arrest on Sunday was followed by multiple tweets by Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who referred to a “politically inspired operation” to target the “CA fraternity”. Police sources said Agarwal’s arrest was based on “fresh evidence” they had received from the Enforcement Directorate in October in connection with the IRS officer’s case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Free-speech boot on hold, praise for Kerala CM ||The Kerala government on Monday put on hold a new penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content after it provoked a backlash, with even Left supporters condemning the legislation as a curb on free speech. The face-saving decision came two days after the governor had cleared the ordinance that inserted a Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act, prescribing up to three years’ jail “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. A day after defending the provision, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced  on Monday morning that its implementation was being stalled taking into account “varying opinions that emerged soon after the amendment was approved”. “Those who support (the ruling) LDF (Left Democratic Front) and those who take a stand on protecting democracy expressed concern at this. In such circumstances, we don’t intend to implement the amendment,” Vijayan said in a statement. One of the harshest critics of the ordinance, senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan, lauded Vijayan, saying: “Glad to hear this @vijayanpinarayi. It is gratifying to learn that there are still some CMs who are sensitive to independent public opinion.” Vijayan’s statement came shortly after CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told reporters in Delhi that the party had “proposed” to the Kerala government that it reconsider the ordinance. “The party had proposed (reconsideration) and the state government will now decide how to go about it. How it will be handled is the business of the government, not the party,” Yechury said. Vijayan issued his statement after a CPM secretariat meeting had discussed the matter. He said further action would be taken after a discussion in the Assembly. While the state cabinet had on October 21 decided to bring in a penal provision against those engaging in character assassination or misogyny on social media, the scope of Section 118A was more sweeping. Its reference to “whoever makes, expresses or publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication, any matter or subject for threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming a person or class of persons...” made it applicable to the mainstream media too. It prescribed a jail term of up to three years with or without a fine of Rs 10,000. Around the time Vijayan was announcing the freeze on the provision, Opposition politicians, activists and NGOs were filing petitions before Kerala High Court asking that the section be quashed as unconstitutional. N.K. Premachandran, Shibu Baby John and A.A. Aziz of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, which is part of the Congress-led alliance in Kerala, moved a joint petition. Among the other petitioners were state BJP president K. Surendran, a Kochi resident named Nandini Praveen and lawyer Anoop Kumaran. Kumaran’s lawyer Prashanth Sugathan, legal director of Software Freedom Law Centre -- an NGO that works for rights in the digital space -- said he wanted the ordinance struck down, not just held in abeyance. “There are sufficient provisions with adequate safeguards in the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act to take care of all the offences mentioned in the ordinance,” he told The Telegraph. “It is dangerous to have a new penal provision with no safeguards.” An early example of how Section 118A could be leveraged had come hours before Vijayan’s announcement on Monday, with a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League, a Congress ally, lodging a police complaint under the provision. The complainant alleged that some pro-Left Facebook pages were engaged in the character assassination of Muslim Youth League general secretary P.K. Firos. But Firos and senior League leaders quickly asked the party leader to withdraw his complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India|| Delhi University hostel rooms few, rent and meals a burden||A student’s suicide after being asked to vacate her hostel has underlined how Delhi’s colleges have for decades neglected to expand boarding facilities, forcing students to stay in private lodgings paying high rent but often without enough security. Aishwarya Reddy, second-year BSc student with Lady Shri Ram College, hanged herself after being asked to vacate her hostel seat by November 10 in keeping with a new first-year-only hostel policy. Her mother said Aishwarya had expected private accommodation in Delhi to cost Rs 15,000 a month and was worried how to afford it. Calcuttan Paroma Ray’s experience from a few years ago shows how the failure to secure a hostel seat in Delhi can escalate the cost of education for outstation students. Staying in private rooms had more than doubled the money Paroma needed to spend on rent and meals during her undergraduate and postgraduate studies in Delhi colleges between 2013 and 2018. (See chart) Paroma had opted not to accept a hostel seat at either Lady Shri Ram or Ramjas because of a 7.30pm curfew that would have hobbled her social life and her voluntary service with an organisation that teaches poor children. “The hostel rules were too restrictive. They would have severely limited my exposure to extracurricular activities and social life,” she said. However, the problem of high rent remains the same for those of her peers who seek but are denied hostel seats because there are too few of them. And those that are available are often allotted on the basis of exam scores rather than need. The yearly hostel fees, which include meals, tend to range from Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000. Rents for private accommodation — whether one stays as a single paying guest or shares rooms in hostels or “guesthouses” — vary a lot more and do not include food. Paroma paid Rs 1.02 lakh a year for her room at upscale Greater Kailash and Rs 84,000 after shifting to Mukherjee Nagar near the North Campus of Delhi University. Shweta Kumari, a third-year student of Lady Shri Ram from Ranchi, had applied for a hostel seat during admission in 2018 but failed to get one. By then, she said, landlords in Greater Kailash were charging anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 as paying guest rent. So she got herself a seat at a polytechnic hostel, paying close to Rs 10,000 a month, the fees covering meals. “But I couldn’t stick the oily food, like bread pakoras, for breakfast,” she said. So she moved to Amar colony, paying a monthly rent of Rs 8,000 and spending close to Rs 5,000 on food — more than two-and-a-half times what she would have spent as a hostel boarder. The lockdown brought its own problems, with the landlord continually calling her at Ranchi and demanding rent. She paid up and promised “to pack all my stuff as soon as the lockdown ended”. “This disturbed my mental health a lot,” Shweta said. “In October, I had to go to Delhi to get my stuff, risking my health.” She said the ordeal had destroyed whatever “beautiful memories” she had of her days as a student in Delhi. Delhi University’s nearly 70 colleges admit 66,000 undergraduate students in regular courses every year, which means they have a combined student strength of about 2 lakh undergraduates at any time. Of these, an estimated 60,000 to 70,000 are outstation students but the colleges offer only between 20,000 and 30,000 hostel seats. None of Delhi University’s colleges has expanded its hostel facilities for over two decades. Lady Shri Ram, which has over 2,000 students, has a single hostel with 288 seats. The last expansion the hostel witnessed came in 1988, with 18 rooms added. The Delhi University colleges increased their student intake by 54 per cent in 2007-08 when Other Backward Classes reservation was implemented, and by a further 25 per cent over the past two years to make room for the Economically Weaker Sections quota. “Given the increased intake and the increased percentage of students coming from outside Delhi, the existing hostel facilities are inadequate,” Ujjayini Ray, hostel warden at Lady Shri Ram, acknowledged. She said this was a matter for higher authorities. Delhi University executive council member J.L. Gupta said the university and its colleges had never given priority to hostel expansion. “The hostel seats should have been increased in 2007-08 itself, when the OBC quota was implemented. But while the UGC provided funds for the expansion of classrooms and teaching posts at the time, it gave no funds for hostels,” Gupta said. Unnimaya, students’ council secretary at Lady Shri Ram, said: “Students have long been demanding the expansion of hostel facilities but the college and the university never sought the funds from the University Grants Commission.” She added: “Nor did the government or the UGC release funds for hostel expansion on their own.” Unnimaya said Section 33 of the DU Act mandated hostel accommodation for all students except those studying in the distance mode. Paroma said the students had long been asking the university to rent private rooms and accommodate students at subsidised rates there if it could not build enough hostels, but nothing happened. She said she was fortunate enough not to have faced any security issues while staying in private rooms, but many of her friends had. “Sometimes the owners installed CCTV cameras in the common rooms (in private hostels), causing the girls to feel vulnerable because men (security staff or members of the landlord’s family) would watch them on camera in the name of safety,” she said. “But when they did actually face harassment (from local men), the landlord would refuse to intervene and throw them out instead.” Paroma, who recently enrolled in a PhD course at the Central University of Hyderabad, hopes to get a hostel seat when the campus opens for offline activities. For postgraduate students, Delhi University’s 19 hostels offer 3,580 seats. Two of these, the Rajiv Gandhi Hostel for Girls and Undergraduate Hostel for Girls, were built in 2012 with 772 and 688 seats, respectively. An email sent to the education ministry and the UGC on Thursday asking why they had not provided funds to build new college hostels has brought no response. With the National Education Policy seeking to promote private universities and push public universities into offering courses in the self-financing mode, higher education is likely to witness a rise in fees everywhere and a decrease in subsidies for poor students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Supreme Court declines to quash bail of Delhi riot accused||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed Delhi police’s appeal for cancelling the bail granted by the high court to Faizan Khan, accused of conspiring with JNU activists and others in the February 2019 communal riots in Delhi that left at least 53 people dead. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, dismissed the appeal against the Delhi High Court order of October 23. The police had alleged that Faizan Khan had helped JNU activist Umar Khalid, described as the main conspirator, to get fake SIM cards that were used by the rioters to spread violence and blockades in the capital during the February riots. Justice Suresh Kait, a single judge of the Delhi High Court, had on October 23 granted bail to Khan on the ground that the investigating agency had not produced any evidence to establish his role in the offences with which he had had been charged, including under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Seniors fight for their space in Congress ||The churning in the Congress, which looks like a rebellion against the leadership, may be a tussle for political space between the entrenched forces and the emerging elite. What seems to have prompted the veterans to push back is a belief that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have lost confidence in some of the seniors who had been part of the high command structure for decades and that they are backing the newcomers to try and rebuild the organisation. The distrust is so deep that any mishandling could have grave consequences. Off-the-record conversations with the seniors suggest there won’t be any compromise on the demand for a mechanism for collective leadership, which could come in the form of a parliamentary board or a working committee that is truly representative. In a nutshell, the entrenched forces aren’t ready to be cut off the decision-making processes. It’s clearly not a battle against Sonia or Rahul. The veterans want a transparent, institutionalised decision-making system in which their views too would be taken into account. Scratch the surface and what emerges is a push for a balance of power, the argument being that those who have given their blood and toil for the party over decades can’t be discarded because the leadership has developed a liking for someone else. The demand is that the decisions about appointments to party posts, candidatures for elections and nominations for Rajya Sabha seats, as well as the strategy-making, be broad-based and deliberated at designated forums. The situation is similar to that forgotten chapter of Congress history when the veteran Jitendra Prasada, who had been political adviser to Prime Ministers P.V. Narasimha Rao and Rajiv Gandhi, contested for the post of party president against Sonia. He had confided in private that he had nothing against Sonia, who was the undisputed leader, but had challenged her to rub in the message that she was not demonstrating the objectivity and impartiality expected of the supreme authority. Prasada had felt that seniors like him, Rajesh Pilot and many others were being ignored and that the party president was relying solely on the coterie of Arjun Singh, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni and a few others. “It is for a democratic culture within the party, not against the authority of Sonia Gandhi, that I decided to contest,” Prasada would say in private. After the election, Sonia graciously called and assured Prasada that everybody would be treated equally, bringing the curtain down on the bitter contest. The same sentiment is playing out all over again. The issue is more about Rahul’s choices than his abilities, with the veterans ruing that undeserving people were being given critical responsibilities. They have been mentioning a couple of names and arguing that Rahul has been unable to constitute a strong team around himself amid the setbacks and the drift in the party. They claim that while the need of the hour is “unity of purpose”, a self-destructive agenda of purge has been guiding the leadership’s approach. The seniors say they are not opposed to the encouragement of talented youth, but insist that age (youth) should not be the sole criterion in the selection for key responsibilities. “Rahul is young but we all accepted him as leader. Who opposed the appointment of Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan deputy chief minister? Who opposed Ajay Maken’s appointment as Delhi chief in place of Sheila Dikshit or Hardik Patel’s rise in Gujarat?” a former leader said. “Our demand for internal elections will encourage the younger leaders who enjoy grassroots support. But who will appreciate it if you want to kick out the seniors out of pique?” While the party does have a few leaders who could play the role of objective arbitrator, having the stature and influence to drum some sense into both sides, the younger leaders too seem unable to analyse the crisis dispassionately and appear to support a violent purge. Worse, many among the younger leaders believe that some of the seniors have been compromised and would not fight the Narendra Modi dispensation honestly. The bridges that have collapsed will have to be rebuilt if the party intends to salvage the situation without serious damage to itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Kashmiri singer 'inadvertently participates in army-sponsored music festival||A promising young Kashmiri singer on Monday said she had inadvertently participated in an army-sponsored music festival in Sopore, unaware who the organisers were, and that her “decision would have been different” if she knew. Nargis Khatoon, 21, an undergraduate student, had received widespread criticism after videos surfaced on social media showing her participating in the Sada-e-Hunar, the programme in Sopore, on Sunday. The event was hosted by Team Kay Eleven, a Sopore-based group of students that claims to be working towards resolving “social conflicts”. The banners at the event made it clear that the army’s 22 Rashtriya Rifles was sponsoring it. Event sponsorship by the security forces, while known in the past, has picked up pace since last year’s amendment of Article 370, apparently to bolster the government’s “all is well” narrative in Kashmir. Sunday’s event at the Sopore Degree College witnessed a packed auditorium, with the audience appearing to be relishing the music. Many in Kashmir believe that artistes are sometimes tricked into participating in such events, with the invitations going out from NGOs or other civilian groups. Facing criticism, Nargis, who has earned praise from both Indian and Pakistani singers, took to social media to clear the air. “Thank you every one for sharing your feelings with me about my participation in musical festival yesterday organised by Kay Eleven. When I agreed to perform at this event I was unaware who the organiser was,” she tweeted. “Had I known what I know today, my decision would have been different. While I appreciate you making me aware of this issue, please do not judge me or my commitment.” When some netizens accused her of lying, saying the banners clearly showed the event was army-sponsored, she issued another clarification. “I completely agree I could have done so many things once I learned what had transpired. However, when you are in a situation, the ability to make such decisions spontaneously and unilaterally disappear,” she tweeted. “I appreciate your feedback and hope we can move on and treat this as a life lesson. Always do the proper due diligence prior to committing to anything.” When some people still seemed unconvinced, Nargis posted a Quranic verse. ‘“Allah knows what is in every Heart’ Al-Quran 67:13.’ holds no meaning in Kashmir. People here decide your intentions on their own. Your speaking doesn’t count. Hold on,” she tweeted. She added in capital letters: “They know everything. They know you. They know everything.” Nargis later told The Telegraph that she owed no one any apology and was not speaking under pressure. “I just wanted to clear my stand. The fact is, I was approached by Kay Eleven for the event and did not know who the sponsors were…. What I wrote today (was that) I would have reacted differently had I known who the organisers were,” she said. Junaid Bhat, founding member of Team Kay Eleven, said his group only coordinated the event while the army sent out the invitations to the guests and participants. But sources privy to the event said it was Kay Eleven that sent out the invitations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Why is Covid getting out of control in Gujarat, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Monday sought status reports within two days from all states and Union Territories on measures to tackle rising Covid-19 cases during the current month and anticipated spike in December, as it singled out Gujarat, Delhi and Maharashtra for the spurt. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan cautioned that while the current month has witnessed a spike, the coming month of December is likely to worsen for which the authorities ought to pull up their socks before things go out of control. “In Gujarat, the situation is going out of control…. We want to know what’s happening in the state of Gujarat. We would like to know what is the policy decision being adopted? Can you tell us what is happening in your state? What are the steps you are taking with regard to political events, marriages and other public activities?” Justice M.R. Shah, one of the judges, asked the counsel appearing for the Gujarat government. The counsel offered to place before the court within the next two days a status report on the various measures initiated by the state to tackle the problem. “We are hearing about huge spike in the current month. We want a latest status report from all states. Worse things may happen in December, if states aren’t well prepared. After Delhi and Maharashtra, situation in Gujarat has also worsened. Why is that you are allowing marriage celebration during daytime? You file an affidavit on the status report on steps taken as on date,” the bench said. The bench had earlier on June 12 taken suo motu cognisance of news reports on various shortcomings in the steps being taken by authorities like provision of adequate hospital beds, ICU facilities, cremation of bodies etc, particularly in the national capital. Since then it has been passing various orders to the authorities. The court on Monday also asked additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain appearing for the Delhi government: “We want to know how are you managing the situation? How are hospitals treating patients? Are there enough beds?” Jain told the bench that pursuant to the court’s last order of July 27, the state had taken a number of steps. He assured the court that there are sufficient beds in Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients. Jain informed the bench that the Delhi government has also earmarked 395 spots for proper cremation of bodies of those who succumbed to the pandemic. “We have no difficulty that you have complied with orders of this court. But looking at the present situation, what else are you doing?” the bench questioned while asking the law officer to submit a detailed report on behalf of the Delhi administration. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Union government told the court that Union home minister Amit Shah had a meeting on November 15 with different stakeholders and pursuant to it several directives were issued. He offered to place the details in an affidavit. The bench after hearing the submissions passed the following written order: “Heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and learned counsel appearing for the States of Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Assam and different States. It is submitted in this Court that in the month of November, 2020, there has been a great spike of the Covid cases throughout the country, especially in the States of Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat. “Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned senior counsel appearing for the NCT of Delhi submits that the State of NCT of Delhi has already filed an affidavit with regard to compliance of the orders passed earlier on 27.07.2020. Learned counsel appearing for the States of Gujarat and Maharashtra also states that compliance affidavits have been filed. “Mr. Mehta, learned Solicitor General submits that the Union of India through Home Ministry has already taken steps with regard to situation in Delhi and several measures have been taken by the Central Government. He further prays for time to file an affidavit to bring the status of Covid cases in the country especially Delhi. Learned counsel appearing for the States of NCT of Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Assam also pray for some time to file a status report regarding the present situation of the Covid cases and steps taken to mitigate the situation. It is also submitted that the situation in the month of December is likely to worsen and all States have to be prepared to combat the worsened situation regarding Covid-19. “We are of the view that the immediate steps are required to be taken by all the States as well as by the Union of India. Let status report, as indicated above, be filed within two days from today and the matter be listed on 27.11.2020 for consideration and passing appropriate orders,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Maharashtra pre-entry: negative Covid test report required ||Air and rail passengers from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat or Rajasthan seeking to enter Maharashtra from November 25 would need to carry a negative coronavirus disease test report, the Maharashtra government ordered on Monday. The order requires air passengers to carry a test result from a RT-PCR sample collected within 72 hours of their scheduled arrival in Maharashtra. The RT-PCR sample for rail passengers should have been taken within 96 hours of their disembarking in Maharashtra. Air passengers without negative test results would be tested at airports in Maharashtra while such rail passengers would be screened for symptoms and those with symptoms tested at railway stations. District authorities across Maharashtra have been asked to screen passengers from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, and Rajasthan for symptoms, including body temperature, and allow entry only to passengers without symptoms. Anyone with symptoms would be turned back or tested for Covid-19. The Maharashtra government has described the order as part of its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. But health experts have pointed out that while the prescribed tests might keep some infected people out, they are unlikely to keep all of them out. “The incubation period for Covid-19 is seven to 14 days — a person who’s tested negative three or four days ago might be carrying the infection,” said Shankar Reddy Dudala, a community medicine specialist at the Government Medical College in Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra was for months India’s hardest hit state but its epidemic has been steadily shrinking over the past two months — the state’s weekly average of daily new Covid-19 cases has fallen from around 21,000 in mid-September to around 3,800 in mid-November. Health experts say the testing protocols prescribed appear to misleadingly assume that Covid-19 can only be brought into the state whereas in reality the infection is present across Maharashtra. “The key in controlling the epidemic lies in strong surveillance mechanisms in areas that have not reported cases, and acting quickly to contain the infection wherever it emerges in such places,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Is the state confident there is no local transmission?” John asked. “Besides, a person with a negative test could get infected anywhere in transit and carry the virus along with the negative report and develop symptoms after a few days,” he added. Epidemiologists said they are also unable to understand Maharashtra’s rationale for selecting only four states — Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan. While Delhi, Gujarat, and Rajasthan have shown a slow increase in the number of daily cases detected over the past three weeks, experts point out that the infection is also widely prevalent across multiple states. “The most effective way to curb spread from outside is to quarantine everyone coming into a territory — whether state or town — for 14 days after arrival,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan Shringla set for Nepal visit amid strain in ties ||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will visit Nepal this week, raising hopes of an improvement in bilateral relations that have been strained since November 2019 when India issued a new map, which included Kalapani, an area claimed by both countries. Though Shringla will be in Nepal for a two-day visit beginning Thursday, there is no word yet on whether a meeting of the foreign secretary level mechanism to deal with the boundary issue over Kalapani in Uttarakhand and Narsahi-Susta in Bihar has been scheduled. According to the official announcement of the visit by the external affairs ministry, Shringla will meet his counterpart and other Nepalese dignitaries to discuss the wide-ranging bilateral cooperation between the two countries. “The visit is in keeping with the tradition of regular high-level exchanges between the two countries and the priority India attaches to its relations with Nepal.” There was no mention of the irritants that have crept into the relationship, resulting in Nepal also issuing a new map this summer to include areas “occupied by India” — Limpiyadhura, Lipu Lekh and Kalapani — within its territory. India’s contention is that 98 per cent of the boundary between the two countries is demarcated and also initialled by the respective surveyors-general. All that remains to be decided upon is Kalapani and Narsahi-Susta. The Limpiyadhura claim, according to India, has been raised by Nepal after 200 years and all evidence disputes Kathmandu’s contention. Nepal has over the past year sought a meeting of the boundary mechanism several times but India’s official stance has been that this dialogue can be held once the two countries have dealt with the pandemic. In June, as Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli played the nationalist card to the hilt to tide over problems within his own party, sources here had claimed that India had offered foreign secretary-level talk to Nepal by phone, videoconference with delegations and also an exchange of visits before Kathmandu moved the constitutional amendment to change the country’s emblem to reflect the new map. Nepal contested this claim and called it “white lies”. Through the summer months, Oli kept his guns trained on India, accusing India of trying to oust him and also claiming that Ram was a Nepali. In both instances, there was backtracking by Nepal with Oli’s party colleagues criticising him for jeopardising relations with India with such claims as the Indian embassy being used to hatch plots against him, and the foreign ministry clarifying that he was not trying to appropriate Lord Ram but calling for research on the “vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents”. A truce of sorts has been in place since August 15 when the two Prime Ministers had a telephonic conversation and a concerted effort at pressing the reset button has been on over the past few weeks with army chief General M.M. Naravane visiting Nepal earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Biometric failure hurdle to MGNREGA wages||Nearly 40 per cent of workers who have opted for wages through biometric authentication under the 100-day rural job scheme face failure once in every five transactions, a study that sampled 476 such labourers, has found. A study conducted by LibTech India, a research organisation, has identified erosion of fingers due to manual work as the main reason behind failure of biometric authentication under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), with machine malfunction and feeble Internet connectivity being the other hindrances. Under the Narendra Modi government-promoted model of wage disbursal through the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS), workers opting for the scheme receive wages from customer service points or through business correspondents. The business correspondents visit the homes of workers with a machine to authenticate fingerprints and match them with biometric data stored in the Aadhaar database. The same machine is available at the customer service points. However, the study found that one in every five such visits — by a business correspondent to the house of a beneficiary or a beneficiary to a customer service point — ended in futility for that day because of any one or more of the three reasons for close to 40 per cent of the workers sampled. No amount of subsequent attempts that day helped, the study found. The report, titled “Length of the Last Mile: Delays and Hurdles in NREGA Wage Payments” and released on Wednesday, sampled 1,947 workers from Butchayyapeta block in Andhra Pradesh, Jawaja block in Rajasthan and Basia and Manika blocks in Jharkhand between September and November 2018. Of them, 476 workers received wages from customer service points or business correspondents, 1,182 from banks, 252 from post offices and 37 from ATMs. According to the survey, 40 per cent of those who received wages from customer service points or business correspondents faced biometric authentication failure at least once in their last five transactions. An estimated 7 per cent reported that each of their last five transactions had failed due to biometric authentication issues. The study, which did not give out absolute numbers, estimated that this amounted to around 10 per cent of the total sample size of 1,947 workers. The survey also found that the payment model involving customer service points or business correspondents, which started in 2013 but got an impetus in the BJP regime, also fared poorly in ensuring transparency. In Jharkhand, 45 per cent customer service point or business correspondent users said they were charged for using the AePS facility although it is supposed to be free. Those getting wages from banks also faced problems. The survey found that rural banks tend to get very crowded, forcing workers to make multiple trips to withdraw wages. Forty-two per cent of workers in Jharkhand who opted for banks and 38 per cent in Rajasthan took more than four hours to receive their wages. Overall, an estimated 45 percent had to make multiple visits to banks. Nearly 50 per cent of ATM users reported that they had to make multiple trips because the machines did not always dispense cash. In the foreword of the report, economist Jean Dreze wrote that it was a “useful antidote to some of the techno-utopian delusions that have flourished on AePS in recent years”. Sakina Dhorajiwala, one of the main researchers associated with the survey, said the government was promoting the customer service point/business correspondent model without caring for the workers, who continue to face hardships. “The workers using the model were not only facing hardship but were finding the model to be poor in transparency. The multiple visits to banks for bank users meant loss of time and payment on transport for workers,” Dhorajiwala said. The survey recommended increase in bank branches in rural areas, creation of a stronger and accountable system for payment and timely payment of wages to every worker. Rajendran Narayanan, another researcher, said that when the survey was conducted, Covid-induced problems such as poor transport system and social distancing measures had not been there. The last-mile challenge in getting wages would have only increased, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||School closure plan outcry in Odisha||The Odisha government’s decision to close down nearly 14,000 schools at the primary level due to poor enrolment sparked off a furore in the Assembly for the second consecutive day on Sunday. As the pressure mounted on the government, it went on the back foot and sought to defend the decision by saying that “it is planned to merge such schools with nearby schools. It should not be construed as closure of schools”. Earlier, the state government had taken a decision to close down schools which have low enrolment. At present, Odisha has nearly 67,000 primary and upper primary schools. There are primary schools in the state which have only eight students. The government constituted a committee to recommend the closure of schools with low attendance. According to the recommendation of the committee, the government decided to close down schools which have a negligible number of students and merge them with nearby schools. Accordingly, in the first phase the process has begun to close down 7,772 primary and upper primary schools. Most of these schools are in the remote parts of the state, including its tribal-dominated areas. As many as 800 schools will be closed down in tribal-dominated Koraput district alone. However, the Opposition put its foot down on Sunday and demanded withdrawal of the government’s decision. Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said, “Education is the fundamental right of all. It cannot be tampered with. The government should immediately roll back its decision.” The BJP leaders also opposed the decision and asked the government to reconsider it. “Students will have to travel long distances, at some places more than 2km, if the government closes down low attendance schools,” said leader of the Opposition Pradipta Nayak. As stalemate over the issue continued, the state government issued a clarification saying its emphasis was on imparting quality education and not closing down schools. Government chief whip Pramilla Mallik said, “The government is not closing down any school. But there are many schools which have two teachers for just eight students. If the number of students increases, the government will have no problem in running these schools. We are working on the principle of not depriving any one of education.” However, Mallik’s reply did not pacify the Opposition and it sought a reply from the school and education minister on the issue. School and education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said, “We are focusing on qualitative education. The students will immensely benefit under the merger of school schemes. We are committed to the overall development of students and imparting them quality education.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||New Puri SP takes over amid cop excess slur||Sambalpur superintendent of police Kanwar Vishal Singh took charge as the Puri SP on Sunday even as tension over an alleged custodial death in the temple town was yet to subside and amid fresh allegations of custodial torture at Pipili police station in the district. Kanwar Vishal Singh replaces Akhileshwar Singh, who was relieved of his charge as Puri SP and attached to the police headquarters in Cuttack, following public outcry against the alleged death of K. Ramesh, a youth of Puri town, in police custody last Wednesday. While the issue continues to generate heat, the alleged torture of six youths at Pipili police station of Puri district has sparked fresh trouble for Odisha police. Family members of the youths have alleged the police did not even allow them to meet the boys. The alleged custodial torture in Pipili came to light when Nimapara jail authorities refused to accept the youths stating that they were critically ill. On November 14, police had detained six youths for allegedly attacking a police informer. On November 19, the court sent them to judicial custody at Nimapara jail. But the jail authorities refused to accept the youths and the accused were sent to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for treatment. The family members of the youths alleged that they were kept in the dark about the whereabouts of their children. They said they were not even allowed to meet the boys who are being treated in the hospital. Urmila Behera, mother of one of the boys, said, “Police have taken away my son. I don’t know his whereabouts. I want him back.” Gurucharan Pasupalak, father of another of the accused undergoing treatment at SCB Medical College, said that “the authorities are not allowing me to meet my son. I have not seen him for the last eight days”. Meanwhile, deputy inspector-general, Central range, has started a probe into allegations of police excesses against the six youths in Pipili police station. On Saturday, the Assembly witnessed pandemonium over alleged police excesses and the custodial death of two persons with the Opposition claiming that the government was insensitive and that jungle raj was prevailing in the state. Opposition leaders had accused the government of protecting police officers involved in the alleged custodial deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Fine, jail term if Odisha govt employees participate in strikes||Odisha government employees will now be penalised if they resort to strikes threatening the safety and security of the people. The Odisha Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) Amendment Bill, 2020, which was passed by the Assembly on Monday has provisions for one-year jail term and a fine upto Rs 5,000 or both if the safety of the people is compromised due to strikes by the employees. “Any person who instigates or incites other persons to take part in, or otherwise acts in furtherance of, or does any act preparatory to, a strike which is illegal under this act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to Rs 5,000 or with both,” the bill states. It also prohibits employees from extending or supplying any money to a strike which is illegal under this bill. The fire services, forest, excise, prison and correctional services and any service connected with the working of any establishment have been brought under the ambit of the bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
