25-11-2020||India||Railways cancel many trains as Cyclone Nivar approaches coast||The Indian Railways has cancelled over a dozen special trains scheduled on November 25 and 26, which would have either originated from or terminated in the southern states, in view of Cyclone Nivar, and offered full refund to passengers. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Nivar is expected to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ before crossing the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the early hours of Thursday. “Owing to the onset of Cyclone NIVAR, Southern Railway has announced cancellation of several special train services to destinations that are likely to be affected by unprecedented rains/cyclonic landfall and to other destinations due to operational difficulties,” the Railways said. “For the trains fully cancelled by Railways in view of Cyclone NIVAR, full refund of fare will be granted on ticket cancellations. The time limit for availing refunds has also been extended to six months from the date of journey,” it added. For PRS (Passenger Reservation System) counter tickets, refunds can be availed on submission of tickets on the counter upto six months from the date of scheduled departure of the train. Auto refund facilities are available for tickets booked online. For trains cancelled partially, passengers can avail full refund for the untraveled portion until six months from the date of scheduled departure of the train, while auto refund is also available for the tickets bought online. The Southern Railways issued a statement saying that several precautions to minimise any damage have been taken. “Instructions have been issued to all the field units, especially those at the districts which are on high alert, to be in readiness with full complements of tools, spares, accessories that are required for restoration of traffic”, it said. “Monsoon reserve trains loaded with rail, sleepers and other tools and also tower wagons loaded with all material required for restoring train operations are kept fully prepared”, the statement said. “It has also been communicated to the field units that, as soon as the threat of cyclone is apparent, all the boom barriers at the level crossing gates are to be kept in closed condition to prevent damage to the booms, duly informing the District Collectors concerned”, it added. “Roof shelters in the platforms at the stations have been checked and fastened with due care. Hoardings at the stations and mid sections in the area which are on high alert have been removed, wherever feasible, to reduce any damage”, the statement further said. The trains that have been fully cancelled include the Dr MGR Chennai Central -- Mettupalayam Special Train (02671), Dr MGR Chennai Central Coimbatore Special Train (02673), Dr MGR Chennai Central Mangalore Special Train (02601), Dr MGR Chennai Central Thiruvananthapuram Special Train (02623), and Dr MGR Chennai Central Alappuzha Special Train Train (02639).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Accused in Delhi riots committed a 'crime against humanity', says police charge sheet||The accused persons in the recent Delhi riots allegedly committed a crime against humanity carried out in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner, police have said in its supplementary charge sheet filed in a case in a court here. The charge sheet, which names former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam as accused, said there was a tacit understanding between the accused persons to carry out an illegal act. It stated that by a sustained and well-oiled campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community. All the accused persons came together in pursuit of an unlawful object. The offences have been committed by the accused persons in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner. Innocent victims and helpless were targeted of this ghastly, horrendous and horrifying crime. Precious lives were lost. Accused persons are charge sheeted for commission of grave, serious and heinous offences. It is pertinent to mention here that their acts and commissions have shocked the collective conscience of the society. The accused persons' conduct exhibits a total disregard for human values and shows a totally depraved, brutal and scheming mind. The accused persons have committed a crime against humanity, Police claimed in the charge sheet filed on Sunday. It further said that the criminal conspiracy was continuing and has suffered setbacks with the exposure and arrest of the accused persons but it was neither aborted nor abandoned. The charge sheet said the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in the most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner. With the leaders choosing to either remain safely glued to their television sets in the comfort of their homes in upscale locations of Delhi-NCR using their communication devices as the weapon of the enlightened or leaving Delhi for outside destinations to create the most acceptable alibi, the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in the most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner. The crime committed by the key conspirators is not just legally but morally reprehensible, it said. It alleged the charge-sheeted accused had entered into a deep-rooted and sinister conspiracy to do an illegal act with an objective to disturb societal harmony by their terrorist acts. By a sustained and well-oiled campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community. Innocent people were killed as a result of this cold-blooded, brutal, gruesome and diabolical conspiracy. Government and private properties were damaged, destroyed and destructed. The law and order situation was paralysed, essential services became unavailable and rumours and disinformation became the order of the day as desired by the accused persons who were acting in a systematic, structured and organised manner, the charge sheet said. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Kovind urges House representatives to maintain discipline||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, during an inaugural speech in Gujarat, said elected representatives must engage in a healthy dialogue at Parliament and Legislative Assemblies and should abstain from using unparliamentary languages when a debate is underway in the House. Addressing the inaugural session of 80th All India Presiding Officers' Conference at Tent City in Gujarat's Kevadia village, near the Statue of Unity in Narmada district, Kovind said such actions by the elected members upset the ones who chose them as their representatives. "It is expected from elected representatives that they remain committed to democratic values. The biggest challenge for elected representatives and democratic institutions is to fulfill the expectations of people," he said. "I believe that people of this country expect that their elected representatives will follow parliamentary norms,” the President added. “People get hurt when their elected representatives use unparliamentary words or indulge in indiscipline in Parliament or in the Assembly," Kovind said. He urged Speakers to enable a healthy dialogue in the House and keep away insignificant bitterness in the discussions. “In parliamentary democracy, the Opposition has an important role along with the ruling party, and so there is a need for understanding, cooperation, and meaningful exchange of thoughts between the two”, Kovind said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Customs to take Sivasankar into custody in Kerala gold case||A court here on Wednesday granted the Customs five days custody of suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar, arrested by it in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences), Ernakulam, granted the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate five day custody of the bureaucrat considering its argument about his alleged role in the sensational case through the diplomatic channel. In the remand report filed in the court on Tuesday, the Customs had claimed that the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, has revealed that Sivasankar was in the know and has also abetted the smuggling activities. The Customs said Suresh made this claim during her interrogation at the Attakkulangara Vanitha jail in Thiruvananthapuram, on November 18. Sivasankar was formally arrested by the customs on Tuesday at a jail where he is currently lodged. Earlier, a special court for PMLA cases had granted the permission of the customs to arrest Sivasankar. He was sent to judicial custody last week following his custodial interrogation by the Enforcement Directorate probing the money trail in the gold smuggling case. The Customs has said it has arrested around 15 people, including prime accused Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair, in connection with the seizure of 30 kg smuggled gold illicitly imported as diplomatic baggage of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The agency has claimed that it has now come to light that Sivasankar, who has been arrayed as fifth accused in the case registered by the ED, is also involved in the issue. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the ED and the Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold on July 5. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Delhi hospitals get 1,300 ICU beds, 2,000 normal ones in two weeks||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases and deaths, as many as 2,000 normal and 1,300 ICU beds have been added in hospitals of Delhi in the past two weeks for Covid-19 patients, an official said on Wednesday. The official said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been monitoring the situation and added that all efforts are being made by the Delhi government to bring down the mortality rate. The death rate stood at 1.89 per cent on Tuesday. The national capital recorded over 100 Covid-19 deaths for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday. "A total of 1,300 ICU beds and 2,000 non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patients have been added in Delhi in the past two weeks, with the maximum 232 ICU beds in GTB Hospital. In Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, 200 ICU beds have been added in the same period," the official said. He also said that there are currently 9,000 normal beds and over 1,000 ICU beds available for coronavirus patients in the national capital. During a COVID-19 review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, Kejriwal had requested the PM to reserve 1,000 ICU beds for Delhiites in Centre-run hospitals like AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital. Kejriwal had said if the central government reserves these ICU beds in its hospitals in the city for the people of Delhi amid a surge in coronavirus case, "it will be a great support to us". At the meeting, the chief minister had underlined that the high severity of the third wave of COVID-19 cases in the national capital is due to many factors, with pollution being a significant one. He said Delhi saw the peak of 8,600 coronavirus infections on November 10 during the third wave and since then, the number of cases as well as the positivity rate are steadily decreasing. The chief minister hoped that this decreasing trend would continue in the national capital. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 6,224 fresh COVID-19 cases and a positivity rate of 10.14 per cent while 109 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,621.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar likely to cross coast tonight ||Severe cyclone 'Nivar' would intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and it is likely to cross the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before dawn on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department said. Chief Minister K Palaniswami declared Thursday a public holiday for 13 districts including Chennai, Vellore, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Chengelpet and Kancheepuram considering the safety of people in view of the cyclone. Wednesday has already been declared a holiday. In its latest bulletin, the IMD said Nivar would cross over between Karaikal and Mamallapuram "during the midnight of November 25 and early hours of 26 November." The storm, 250 km off Chennai and 190 km and 180 km from Puducherry and Cuddalore respectively, is very likely to move northwestwards and cross coasts as a "very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph." Under the influence of the cyclone, coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kariakal regions are likely to receive rainfall on Wednesday at most places with heavy to very heavy showers at a few places and extremely heavy rains at isolated places. Bus services in seven Tamil Nadu districts have been suspended. The state government has said that those involved in essential services will continue to work. Chief Minister Palaniswami appealed to people to stay indoors as far as possible and said over 4,000 "vulnerable" locations had been identified and local officials have been told to ensure peoples' safety. Around 1,200 National Disaster Response Force personnel have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh as well, NDRF chief SN Pradhan said. South coastal Andhra Pradesh is also likely to witness showers at most places today. Rainfall is expected to continue in many places in these regions Thursday too with heavy rainfall at some places. Surplus water was released from Chembarambakkam lake, one of the key drinking water sources to the city since it almost neared its capacity, the government said. PWD officials said 1000 cusecs was released from the lake as the level stood at 22 feet of the total 24 feet. Chennai and its suburbs, which received heavy overnight rains, continued to witness intermittent showers coupled with strong winds with low-lying areas getting inundated and water entering houses in such localities. Civic body officials were involved in clearing the roads of stagnant water. The Tamil Nadu government appealed to people living in coastal districts to not venture out of their homes and requested those living in low lying areas to reach the cyclone shelters in their respective regions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keeping a tab on the situation. He is in contact with the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry's Chief Ministers and has offered every possible support from the Centre. "Spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Shri Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry Chief Minister Shri V Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas," the Prime Minister tweeted in English and Tamil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Modi to lay foundation stone for new Parliament building this December||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament building in the first half of December, sources said. The sources further said that around five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, in the Parliament complex are also likely to be relocated temporarily due to the construction work and they will be reinstalled at prominent places within the new complex once the project is completed. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project and it is expected to be completed in 21 months from the start of construction work. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. Although the proposed date of laying the foundation stone of the new Parliament building is around December 10, the final date would depend on the availability of the prime minister, the sources said. According to the plan, the new Parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs, will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating "paperless offices". The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The sources said that five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, at the existing Parliament complex are likely to be relocated temporarily and they would be reinstalled once the construction work of the new Parliament building is completed. The iconic 16-feet high statue of Mahatma Gandhi is located opposite Gate Number 1 of Parliament House. The statue greets visitors entering Parliament House and has also been the location of gatherings, protests and press interactions by MPs. According to Rajya Sabha's website, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a meditating posture sculpted by Ram Sutar, was unveiled by the then President of India Dr Shankar Dayal Sharma on October 2, 1993. It also said that the statue was donated by the Ministry of Urban Development. In September, Tata Projects Limited had won the bid to construct a new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The existing building is a British-era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi. The foundation stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. According to the CPWD, the existing Parliament building will continue to function during the entire period of execution of the project. Once the new building is built, the existing Parliament building will be used for other purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Twitter to relaunch account verification process in early 2021||Twitter will relaunch its account verification process early next year, whereby active and authentic user accounts can sport the 'blue verified badge'. Twitter had paused its public verification programme three years ago, after getting feedback that it felt arbitrary and confusing to many people. "A year later, we deprioritised this work further to focus on protecting the integrity of the public conversation around critical moments like the 2020 US election," Twitter said in a blog post. The microblogging platform is now restarting the process and has asked the public to share feedback on a draft of its new verification policy starting November 24 up to December 8, 2020. This policy will lay the foundation for future improvements by defining what verification means, who is eligible for verification and why some accounts might lose verification to ensure "the process is more equitable", it said. "We plan to relaunch verification, including a new public application process, in early 2021... (As) per the proposed policy, 'the blue verified badge' on Twitter lets people know that an account of public interest is authentic," the blog post added. To receive the blue badge, the account must be "notable and active, Twitter noted. The six types of accounts that have been identified include Government; Companies, Brands and Non- Profit Organisations; News; Entertainment; Sports; Activists, Organisers, and Other Influential Individuals. Twitter said it intends to expand the categories and criteria for verification significantly over the next year. The social media giant said there is also a proposed criteria to automatically remove verification from an account, if the account is inactive or if the profile is incomplete. Twitter can also deny or remove verification from certain qualified accounts that are found to be in repeated violation of the Twitter Rules, it said. "We recognise that there are many verified accounts on Twitter who should not be. We plan to start by automatically removing badges from accounts that are inactive or have incomplete profiles to help streamline our work and to expand this to include additional types of accounts over the course of 2021," the blog post added. Twitter said this year, it has verified medical experts tweeting about #Covid19 and added account labels to identify candidates running for office. "But the blue verified badge isn't the only way we are planning to distinguish accounts on Twitter. Heading into 2021, we're committed to giving people more ways to identify themselves, such as new account types and labels," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 92 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 92 lakh with 44,376 new cases reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surged to 86.42 lakh, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The number of total coronavirus cases rose to 92,22,216 in the country, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,34,699 with 481 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The active caseload shot up to 4,44,746, an increase of 6,079 cases from Tuesday, even though it remained below five lakh for the 15th consecutive day, accounting for 4.82 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,42,771, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.72 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30-lakh mark on August 23 and 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), over 13.48 crore samples were tested for Covid-19 up to November 24, including 11,59,032 on Tuesday. The 481 new fatalities include 109 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 33 each from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, 30 from Maharashtra, 24 from Kerala, 22 from Punjab and 21 from Chhattisgarh. Of the 1,34,699 deaths reported in the country so far due to the disease, Maharashtra accounts for 46,683, followed by Karnataka (11,695), Tamil Nadu (11,639), Delhi (8,621), Bengal (8,121), Uttar Pradesh (7,615), Andhra Pradesh (6,956), Punjab (4,653) and Gujarat (3,892). According to the health ministry, more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality falls back into 'severe' category||Delhi's overall air quality deteriorated to the severe category from "very poor" on Wednesday morning. The national capital's AQI was in "severe" category on November 15 the last time but after that it had improved and remained in either "poor" or "moderate" category until November 22. According to the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) mobile app, SAMEER, the city's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 401. It was 388 on Tuesday. The AQI in the city was 302 on Monday, 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday and 283 on Thursday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' monitoring system SAFAR had predicted improvement in the AQI for Wednesday. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air was 5 per cent on Tuesday. Stubble burning accounted for 6 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Monday and 12 per cent on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||‘Congressman for life’ Ahmed Patel dies of Covid complications    ||Senior Congress leader and the party's top strategist Ahmed Patel died at a Gurugram hospital on Wednesday due to multi-organ failure caused by complications related to COVID-19. He was 71. Patel’s son Faisal said he died at 3.30 am. "With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah," he said in a tweet. He also urged all well-wishers to adhere to the COVID-19 regulations by avoiding mass gatherings. Patel, who was critical for a few days, was admitted to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram on November 15. "AP" to his friends and "Ahmed Bhai" to colleagues, Patel was one of the closest aides of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, and her political secretary for a long time. He was the trouble-shooter of the Congress and had steered the party out of ticklish situations many a time. He was the grand old party's pointsman for building consensus on key issues with other parties and leaders. A soft-spoken and affable man, Patel was well respected and had friends across the aisle and in different spheres. The veteran Congress leader had himself announced on Twitter on October 1 that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and all those who had come in close contact of him should also get tested. Patel was currently a member of the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. He was an eight-time parliamentarian -- five times in the Rajya Sabha, three times in the Lok Sabha. His last Rajya Sabha election in 2017 was contested very keenly amid charges of horse-trading. He was currently the Congress treasurer, a post that he occupied thrice. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, besides Congress leaders, including party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and Union ministers condoled Patel's demise. "Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai's soul rest in peace," the Prime Minister said in a tweet. Sonia Gandhi, in her condolence message, said in Patel's death, "I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress Party." "His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others. I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support," she said. "It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet. "We will miss him. My love and condolences to Faisal, Mumtaz and the family," he added. Patel began his political career by contesting local body polls in Gujarat's Bharuch district in 1976. He became a Lok Sabha MP in March 1977 and was a member of the sixth, seventh and eighth Lok Sabha till 1989. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha for the first time in August 1993. Patel was a close confidant of Rajiv Gandhi and the parliamentary secretary to the former prime minister from 1985 to 1986. He later took charge of the Congress' organisational structure both in Gujarat and at the party high-command. Though Patel never became a minister, he always worked as the background man in the Congress and was at the centre stage of the party's decision-making till his death. Patel is the second senior Congressman to have died due to COVID-related complications, as his death comes two days after former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passed away in Guwahati. Patel leaves behind his wife, a son and a daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Congress veteran Ahmed Patel dies of Covid at 71||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, one of Sonia Gandhi’s closest political advisers died in the wee hours of Wednesday at Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital. The veteran politician was 71 and had been admitted there ever since his health condition worsened post covid infection. Confirming the news, NDTV wrote, “In a tweet at around 4 am, his son, Faisal Patel, said that the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat died at 3.30 am.” Faisal Patel, around 4 am, had tweeted from his verified account to share the news of the passing of the Congress Rajya Sabha member and party treasurer. “With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for COVID-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah,” he tweeted. He also requested all the well-wishers to maintain social distancing. Patel had tested positive on October 1 and had announced that he was going into self-isolation. He was admitted to the intensive care unit of Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon on Sunday after developing Covid-19 related complications. The veteran leader had served as Lok Sabha MP for three terms (1977-1989). He has been representing Gujarat since 1993 at the Rajya Sabha. Having served as the political secretary to Sonia Gandhi, he was the grand old party’s negotiators during the UPA regime. The news of Patel’s death comes two days after the demise of Tarun Gagaoi, another senior Congress. The former CM of Assam had also contracted the virus in August. He too had been rushed to the hospital, after he complained of breathlessness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Immolation bid outside Odisha Assembly||A couple from Nayagarh district on Tuesday tried to set themselves on fire in front of the main gate of the Odisha Assembly in protest against the failure of the police to arrest those involved in the alleged kidnapping and murder of their daughter in July. Ashok Sahu and his wife Saudamini took the security personnel completely by surprise as they got down from an autorickshaw outside the legislature complex and tried to douse themselves with diesel after coming close to the Assembly gate. Police, however, swung into action quickly and seized the diesel and the matchbox from their possession before it was too late. The Sahus, residents of Jadupur village in Nayagarh district, around 100km from here, alleged that their repeated attempts to seek justice had failed with the culprits still at large. They couple claimed the police had done precious little to nab the accused involved in the kidnapping and murder of their daughter. On July 14, their daughter Pari, aged 5, was kidnapped while playing near her house. A fortnight later her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. The family alleged that as people involved in the crime were close to a minister, who hails from Nayagarh district, police had not taken any action in the case. The issue found an echo in the Assembly on Tuesday with the Opposition accusing the government of failing to maintain law and order in the state. As the stalemate over the issue continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro directed the minister of state for home to place a statement on the issue of the child’s abduction and murder in the House on Wednesday. “Breaking the security cordon, the parents of the child reached the Assembly to commit self-immolation. There are allegations against a minister from the district to which the couple belong. Considering the gravity of the situation, I have directed the minister to place a statement on the issue on Wednesday,” said Patro. The couple left for their village after the police commissionerate made them speak with the Nayagarh superintendent of police who assured a fair probe into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||1,400-page chargesheet in TRP case||Mumbai police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in a case related to alleged rigging of TRPs by television channels in which 12 persons, including senior executives of Republic TV and two other channels, have been arrested. The 1,400-page chargesheet, submitted before a magistrate’s court, has cited around 140 people as witnesses. Statements of advertisers alleging cheating are also part of 
the chargesheet, an official said. Among those arrested are Republic TV’s western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh. Republic TV and the other accused have denied wrongdoing. Two of the arrested accused had expressed willingness to become approvers and their statements under Section 164 of the CrPC (admissible in court) were recorded before a magistrate, an official said. A supplementary chargesheet of 2,000 pages will be filed later, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Veterans advise caution on China’s terms||Military veterans have cautioned the Indian Army against the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s “ulterior” motive behind setting conditions for the proposed disengagement process at the Pangong Lake where troops  from the neighbouring country have reportedly occupied 8km within India-claimed lines. The PLA is said to have asked the Indian side to vacate the dominating Chushul heights on the Kailash range first as part of the disengagement process on the northern flank of the Pangong Lake. Although there is no official word from either the government or the Indian Army on the specifics of the disengagement plan being discussed, sources in the ministry had said last week that the Chinese army had laid down the condition that the Indian Army vacate the Chushul heights. “It will be a big blunder if the Indian side considers this proposal as it will be like walking into a trap. The Indian Army should remain extra cautious as we have already witnessed how the PLA had used deception to launch an attack on our soldiers at the Galwan Valley on June 15 even though both sides had agreed in principle to disengage,” a retired army general said. Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops were killed in the violence. A former lieutenant general said the Chinese had been intentionally dragging the disengagement dialogue and were now setting conditions after eight rounds of military talks. “Nothing stops the PLA from coming back to the Pangong Lake, even if they move back as part of the proposed disengagement plan,” he said. As per the latest ground assessment, he said, the Chinese troops continue to strengthen their positions by undertaking massive construction activities at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh and are setting up additional winter camps and other facilities for soldiers. “Why should the Indian Army vacate the strategic heights that are under their control? China has been the aggressor and they should pull back… and return to their side of the LAC first. India should reject outright proposals of any such conditions for disengagement,” the former lieutenant general said. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs, and the Depsang Plains — since May. In September the Indian Army had occupied multiple ridges above 14,000 feet in the Chushul region in no man’s land near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake from where they have been keeping a close watch on the PLA’s troop movements. The former lieutenant general also questioned Indian military commanders’ move to take up with the PLA disengagement from only the Pangong Lake while not talking about resolution of the other friction points, especially the Depsang Plains. At the Depsang Plains the PLA is said to have transgressed 18km inside India-claimed lines. “Chinese domination and encroachment at Depsang is 18km deep but it is shocking that it is not even discussed. India should take up all friction points forcefully,” the former lieutenant general said. General V.P. Malik, who was the army chief during the 1999 Kargil War, said in a tweet: “My opinion on India China LAC face-off…. For lasting peace on LAC, military-diplomatic negotiations should first involve the whole of Ladakh-Tibet border — from Depsang to Chumar — and not in small segments. Implementation of the settlement thereafter should be worked segment-wise.” A retired Intelligence Bureau director said there was a complete breakdown of trust after the Galwan Valley incident. The Indian Army last week had completed establishment of habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC where temperatures have already reached minus 15-20 degrees Celsius. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 30-40 degrees Celsius by next month. Indian Army sources said the top brass was still awaiting the PLA’s response on the ninth round of military talks. “The talks were supposed to take place last week. We are still awaiting their response,” said an army official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||IMA wants Ayurveda surgery order junked ||India’s largest body of modern doctors on Tuesday asked the Centre to withdraw last week’s gazette notification listing procedures that Ayurvedic surgeons could perform, announcing plans to oppose what it views as the Narendra Modi government’s efforts to mix different medical systems. The Indian Medical Association said the notification that had listed 39 general surgical procedures and 19 ear, eyes, nose and throat procedures along with other recent moves by central government agencies would deny patients the choice of opting for specific medical systems. While postgraduate Ayurvedic surgeons with MS degrees in shalya tantra (general surgery) or shalakya tantra (specialised surgery) have performed surgeries for years, the November 19 notification from the Central Council of Indian Medicine has specified 58 permitted procedures. The IMA, a body that represents over 320,000 medics, has said the notification lists multiple procedures such as abdominal, cataract and nasal surgery, that require competencies that “squarely fall under the ambit, authority and jurisdiction” of modern medicine. Members of the CCIM board of governors have said postgraduate Ayurvedic surgeons are adequately trained and perform some of the listed procedures in Ayurvedic hospitals. But senior IMA executives have said the notification would allow widespread mixing of medical streams. “What is being practised now on a limited scale in a few centres of excellence could now become widespread,” said R.V. Asokan, the IMA’s general secretary. “At some of these centres, they take lateral help of modern medical doctors and drugs — this is cheating,” Asokan told The Telegraph. Ayurvedic surgeons concede that they use modern medical tools such as anaesthetics and antibiotics whenever considered necessary during Ayurvedic surgery. The IMA has described the notification as an “irresponsible” initiative that could place thousands of patients at risk. The IMA’s central working committee said it had consulted the association’s 28 state branches to determine the “quantum and timing” of an “all-India response” to the government’s moves no later than December 2. The CCIM’s notification should not be seen in isolation, the IMA said in a statement on Tuesday. The National Education Policy 2020 released earlier this year mentions medical pluralism and lateral movements that could lay the foundation for mixing traditional and modern medical systems. The IMA also said the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, had formed expert panels in medical education, medical practice, public health and research that appear to be aimed at integrating different medical systems. “The patient’s choice to choose between systems of medicines is being taken away through such attempts to mix medical systems,” Asokan said. “Today, patients can choose whether they want to consult modern medical doctors or qualified doctors from other medical systems — such mixing will deny patients this choice.” Some doctors fear that efforts to mix traditional and modern medicine could also erode India’s leadership and legacy in modern medicine. “India offers modern medical care of international standards and well-reputed Indian doctors serve worldwide,” said Rajan Sharma, the IMA’s national president. However, sections of doctors and public health experts believe appropriately trained Ayurvedic doctors and surgeons could play a significant role in health care, particularly in areas and circumstances where there are shortages of modern medics. “Many of the 58 procedures listed in the CCIM notification such as traumatic wound management, suturing, drainage of absecces, or intubation could be done by paramedics,” said a senior surgeon in a government hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Kerala govt to withdraw law against free speech||The Kerala government has decided to repeal a three-day-old penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content, acknowledging the backlash against a law that alarmed free-speech advocates. The state cabinet decided on Tuesday to forward a repealing ordinance to the governor to withdraw Section 118A from the Kerala Police Act, less than 24 hours after putting it on hold. The rapid reversal marked a rare moment in which an elected government and a political party responded to a blizzard of criticism and undertook a course correction. The rethink also stood out in sharp contrast with the stubborn manner in which the Narendra Modi government has approached several issues that have distressed many citizens. The central leadership of the CPM, which heads the Left coalition government in Kerala, is said to have played a decisive role in the dramatic turn of events that sent ripples far beyond the borders of the state. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj, a vocal critic of the new law, tweeted expressing happiness at the withdrawal. “Introspection is a democratic virtue. Freedom is non-negotiable. Kerala has shown a fine instance of deliberative democracy,” Raj added. Section 118A had prescribed up to three years’ jail and a possible fine of Rs 10,000 “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan told a media conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday: “The government took at face value all the opinions that the amendment would provide excessive powers to the police and it would lead to misuse. Even as doubts and concerns persisted, the government was of the view that it was better to withdraw the amendment.” Vijayan said the government had chosen the ordinance route to insert the provision because the general public, as also media owners and the Opposition, had been in favour of tackling rising incidents of cyber bullying and fake news targeting, in particular, women and transgender persons. But critics felt that the law was brought in to rein in the media in the middle of two scandals and ahead of the Assembly polls next year. Asked if the government planned to bring an alternative provision, Vijayan said no law would be introduced without discussions in the Assembly. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had told reporters in Delhi on Monday that the party had “proposed” to the Kerala government that it reconsider the ordinance. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby told reporters earlier on Tuesday that the “decision to halt the law’s implementation was based on the advice of the party and the LDF (Left Democratic Front).” The matter had crossed the borders with the Vienna-based International Press Institute, a network of editors and journalists, demanding that the provision be repealed. The state counsel assured Kerala High Court on Tuesday that the government was “reconsidering” the ordinance and the contentious provision would not be used until further decision by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||BBC includes Shaheen Bagh 'protest leader' Bilkis Dadi in influential women list||When anti-CAA protests erupted in the country last year, all Prime Minister Narendra Modi could see were the clothes with which the trouble-makers could be identified. Turns out others took a closer look and found an inspiring and influential woman. The BBC has included Shaheen Bagh “protest leader” Bilkis Dadi in its “list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2020”. The BBC said: “At 82, Bilkis was part of a group of women who peacefully protested against a controversial citizenship law. “She became the face of a long-running protest at the capital’s Shaheen Bagh, the Muslim locality where the protests were held. Indian journalist and author Rana Ayyub described her as ‘the voice of the marginalised’.” Bilkis is quoted as saying: “Women should feel empowered to step out of their homes and raise their voice, especially against injustice. If they don't leave their homes, how will they showcase their strength?” Her fight against the Citizenship Amendment Act had already led to her being included in Time magazine’s Time 100 most influential people in 2020 published in September. In spite of spontaneous protests breaking out in several parts of the country, the Prime Minister, who had said in December that those setting the fire can be identified by their clothes, has done little to resolve the CAA issue. Covid-19 prompted the protesters to suspend their agitation but BJP leaders such as Amit Shah occasionally rake up the new citizenship regime. There is one other Indian on the BBC list – Manasi Joshi, the current para-badminton world champion. Manasi said: “This year has been challenging to women in so many ways. Don’t let the tough times get the better of you: keep exploring every possibility. Give yourself some time off every day.” The Pakistani actress Mahira Khan, whose casting in Rahul Dholakia’s film Raees caused controversy in India in the aftermath of 2016 Uri attack, has also made the final cut. The BBC said: “She is outspoken against sexual violence, refuses to endorse skin-lightening creams and supports the fight against racism.” The BBC said that this year’s list “is highlighting those who are leading change and making a difference during these turbulent times”. “And in an extraordinary year — when countless women around the world have made sacrifices to help others — one name on the 100 Women list has been left blank as a tribute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Allahabad High Court clears air but Yogi sticks to ‘love jihad’ law ||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday approved a draft ordinance to curb religious conversions for marriage, described as “love jihad” by multiple BJP leaders. According to the draft, which will become law once the governor promulgates it, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The Adityanath government, which was one of several BJP state regimes to threaten such a law, went ahead and cleared the draft even after Allahabad High Court ruled that the right to choose a life partner “irrespective of religion” is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty and that encroachments on personal relationships would be “a threat to the concept of unity in diversity”. The bench said a high court judgment this September and another in 2014 that ruled against conversion for marriage were not good in law. Adityanath had cited the September ruling when he promised such a law last month. Justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal quashed an FIR lodged by a man against his daughter’s husband, whom she had married after converting to Islam. “Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals,” the court said. While allowing the writ petition by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia of Kushinagar, the judges cited Article 21 of the Constitution that deals with personal liberty. “To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown-up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity,” the bench added. “We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily for over a year,” the court said. “The courts and the constitutional courts in particular are enjoined to uphold the life and liberty of an individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the ruling said. “The right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty. Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals,” the court said. The draft ordinance cleared by the Adityanath government proposes to do just that. Under the draft, those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate and can proceed only after receiving permission. Punishment is a jail term from one to five years, and a fine of Rs 15,000. If the woman involved is a minor or a Dalit or tribal, the jail term would range from three to 10 years. The fine would increase to Rs 25,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Farmers get ready to march on Delhi||Farmer organisations on Tuesday said their “Dilli Chalo” call to press for repeal of the three farm laws enacted amid Opposition protests in the monsoon session of Parliament could turn into an indefinite agitation beyond November 26 and 27 if the government does not pay heed to their demand. Briefing the media as farmers from across north India set out for the national capital with rations for more than two days, leaders of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the agitation for repeal of the new farm laws and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill 2020 will intensify with the “Dilli Chalo” protest action. Since trains are limited because of the pandemic, only farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are expected in Delhi. A large contingent of farmers from Punjab has already begun proceeding towards Delhi but the farm leaders anticipate that they will be stopped at the Haryana border since the Manohar Lal Khattar government has already arrested several farmer and trade union leaders on Monday night. Chief minister Khattar on Tuesday said Haryana’s borders with Punjab will remain sealed on November 26 and 27. Some farmer leaders have been taken into custody, he added. “We appeal to the public that on November 25 and 26, they should avoid coming to Haryana and Punjab borders. On November 26 and 27, they should avoid going to the Haryana-Delhi border. We will take every step required to maintain law and order,” Khattar said. “I appeal to farmers that the Delhi Chalo call given by some outfits has no meaning because the three laws which the Centre enacted are pro-farmer,” he added.
Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said it was “shameful” that the state government had taken farmers into custody. “Is a farmer a criminal? Have farmers committed a crime? Is the raising of voice by them for their rights a crime? The Congress demands that farmers should be allowed to march to Delhi,” he said. Farmers from Punjab announced that they would reach Delhi through five highways connecting the national capital and if they were stopped anywhere, they would hold dharna there for an indefinite period. “We strongly condemn the Haryana government’s move of sealing the borders with Punjab. They have also taken several farmers leaders into preventive custody,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) chief Balbir Singh Rajewal. How they could impose such restrictions to prevent farmers from moving towards the national capital, he asked. “Farmers will move towards Delhi on their tractor-trailers,” Rajewal said, adding that they have collected ration, tents, blankets and other essentials for the protest. “Some farmers who stay at far-off places have even left their homes today for participation in the protest march. They will stay at gurdwaras for a night and then move ahead,” he said. Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said: “If the farmers from Punjab are stopped at the Haryana border, they will picket the place and agitate there itself just like farmers from other parts of India will be protesting in their own places on both days in response to the ‘Dilli Chalo’ call.’’ On Thursday, farmers all over the country are expected to observe Grameen Hartal in solidarity with the call for a nationwide strike given by trade unions against the “anti-people” and “anti-worker” decisions of the Narendra Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Russia's Sputnik sets Covid vaccine price: $10 a dose||Russia’s Sputnik V candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease that has shown over 90 per cent efficacy will be priced below $10 (Rs 740) per dose in international markets, its developers who have offered India 100 million doses announced on Tuesday. The Gamelaya Centre in Moscow and the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the Russian government’s sovereign wealth fund, also released a fresh analysis of clinical trials showing the vaccine’s efficacy at protecting people from Covid-19 as 91 per cent. Eight among 14,095 volunteers in the Russian trial who received Sputnik V developed Covid-19, while 31 of 4,699 who received placebo developed the infection. The split implies a 91 per cent efficacy. For two doses required for protection, the vaccine would cost under $20 (Rs 1,481) per person, the agencies said. This price tag is lower than the $25 (Rs 1,851) to $37 (Rs 2,740) per dose for Moderna’s and around $20 per dose for the Pfizer-BioNTech candidate vaccines, but higher than AstraZeneca’s $3 (Rs 222) per dose for purchase by the Indian government. The RDIF had partnered with the Hyderabad-based pharmaceuticals company Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in mid-September to conduct local clinical trials and distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine across the country after the trials and regulatory approvals. A senior RDIF official said the $10 price was for the “international market”. It is unclear what price India would need to pay for the 100 million doses offered through Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and whether these doses would be routed to the government or be available for the private market. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday indicated that the Centre is awaiting the completion of the clinical trials. “Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will distribute the Russian vaccine in India after conducting final-stage human trials and receiving regulatory approval,” Harsh Vardhan said. He had said in October that the health ministry was hoping to procure 500 million doses of vaccines by July 2021 to vaccinate 250 million people across India from priority population groups such as healthcare workers to be identified by states. A senior Indian official said on Tuesday that the government was hoping for more than one vaccine to become available in India during the first half of 2021. If all goes according to expectations, the most likely candidates to roll out are the AstraZeneca vaccine, a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, and the Russian vaccine. The AstraZeneca candidate has shown 70 per cent efficacy with a promise of 90 per cent efficacy with a different dosing regimen. The Pune-based Serum Institute — the local manufacturer of the AstraZeneca candidate — has indicated it would seek emergency use approval for the vaccine from drug regulators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Covid: Modi prod on vaccine storage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday told chief ministers that many questions regarding coronavirus vaccines still remained unanswered but at the same time urged them to prepare the necessary mechanism, including cold storage, for delivery. Modi on Tuesday held a virtual interaction with chief ministers, including Mamata Banerjee, to discuss the pandemic and preparedness for vaccine delivery. Special emphasis was given to eight states where the Covid situation continues to pose a concern — Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana and Chhattisgarh. The Prime Minister said the development of different vaccines was in the “last stage” but stressed that many questions such as the number of doses and price were still unanswered. Modi also referred to competition among corporate houses and countries in vaccine production. He, however, stressed that vaccination would start only after proper scientific and regulatory clearance. “Whichever vaccine India gives to its citizens will be safe on all scientific standards,” the Prime Minister said. Modi said that providing vaccines to each and every citizen was a “national commitment” that would be achieved together with the states and urged the chief ministers to start preparations for the massive exercise. “Our priority is to make vaccines available to all. The states should put in place the necessary mechanism, including more cold storages,” Modi said. According to him, priority — or who all should get the vaccine first — should be decided by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly to see contest for Speaker ||The recent electoral battle in Bihar spilled onto the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday with the ruling NDA and the Opposition Grand Alliance throwing their hats into the ring for the Speaker’s post. The leading parties of both the alliances have fielded their own candidates — while the BJP has put forward former minister Vijay Sinham, the RJD has nominated Awadh Bihari Chaudhary — breaking the tradition of unanimous selection of the Speaker. The last time Bihar witnessed a contest for the Speaker’s chair was in 1969. Since then, a unanimous candidate has held the post. Voting will be held on Wednesday and the contest is being billed as another showdown between the NDA and the Grand Alliance after the closely contested Assembly elections where they won 125 and 110 seats, respectively, in the 243-member lower House. The BJP, after persuading Nitish Kumar’s JDU to part with the Speaker’s chair on the back of a far better poll performance, zeroed in on Sinham, who has won the Lakhisarai seat thrice in a row, to fulfil the caste considerations. He hails from the Bhumihar caste like previous Speaker and JDU leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary. The move is also being seen as an attempt by the BJP to appease the general category castes after handing over the deputy chief ministers’ positions to leaders from the backward (Tarkishore Prasad) and extremely backward (Renu Devi) castes. This was also one of the reasons behind dropping former minister Nand Kishore Yadav. On the other hand, the Grand Alliance partners met at RJD leader and former chief minister Rabri Devi’s residence in Patna on Tuesday and decided that the alliance would field their own candidate for the Speaker’s post. Awadh Bihari, the alliance’s choice, is a five-term MLA from Siwan and former minister. “We all, including our allies, have decided to field Awadh Bihari Chaudhary as the Grand Alliance candidate for the Speaker’s post,” Tejashwi told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Molested UP girl kills herself||A 15-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district who had set herself on fire two days ago after failing to stop frequent molestation by a neighbourhood boy died on Monday night. “The accused used to molest my daughter on her way to school or coaching. We had submitted a formal complaint with the police last month but no action was taken as the accused belongs to the family of an affluent landlord,” the grandfather of the girl told reporters in Newariya village on Tuesday. The girl belonged to a family of marginal farmers. “We saw flames at the door of her room and rushed to save her. She was engulfed in flames. We wrapped her in a blanket and rushed her to the divisional hospital,” her father said. “She had been crying on Saturday evening and told us that the accused didn’t want her to study and used to molest and misbehave with her.” Harish Chandra Saroj, the station house in-charge of Lalganj, said: “We had not received any complaint from the parents of the girl in the past. The police arrested the accused on Sunday and sent him to jail.” The name of the accused is being withheld as he is a minor. Sanjay Rai, the in-charge of the local police outpost, said: “It is a case of doubtful self-immolation. We are probing all aspects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses Modi election appeal||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal for quashing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s election from Varanasi in 2019, holding that appellant former BSF constable Tej Bahadur was neither a voter nor an eligible candidate, nor produced the mandatory certificate to prove that his dismissal from service was not for corruption or disloyalty to the country. Bahadur, was on April 19, 2017, dismissed from the BSF after he apparently angered the defence establishment for taking to social media over the alleged poor and substandard quality of food served to jawans guarding the country’s borders. He subsequently filed two nominations — one as an Independent candidate and another on behalf the Samajwadi Party — against Modi in the 2019 elections. However, both the nomination papers were rejected by the returning Officer on the ground that he failed to produce the requisite certificate from the authorities that his dismissal was not on account of corruption or disloyalty to the State. Aggrieved, he had filed an election petition in Allahabad High Court which dismissed his plea on the ground that he had no locus standi as he was neither a voter nor a declared candidate for filing an election petition; following which he appealed in the apex court. Dismissing Bahadur’s appeal, a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian ruled that under Section 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, an election petition may be presented by (a) any elector or (b) any candidate at such election. It noted that the Explanation to Section 81 provides that an “elector” means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates. Obviously, Bahadur is not an elector registered in the Varanasi constituency since he is admittedly enrolled as an elector of Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency, Haryana, the top court said. “His locus thus depends entirely on the question whether he is a candidate or can claim to be a duly nominated candidate,” Justice Bobde, who authored the judgment, said.
The bench noted that on the date of filing the nomination Bahadur also did not possess the required certificate to prove he was not dismissed either for corruption or disloyalty to the State. The court said along with the nomination papers he had merely produced the oath letter dated April 30, 2019, that he has never been dismissed on the basis of corruption or disloyalty to the State and pointed out that under Section 33(3) of the Act that in the absence of such certificate a person “shall not be deemed to be duly nominated as a candidate”. “It would, therefore, be absurd to construe the legislative scheme as permitting a person who has not filed his nomination in accordance with Section 33 (3), as enabling him to claim that he is a duly nominated candidate even though the provision mandates that such a person shall not be deemed to be a duly nominated candidate. “We are of the view that the mandate of the law that such a person shall not be deemed to be duly nominated must be given full effect and no person must be considered as entitled to claim that he has been duly nominated even though he does not comply with the requirement of law. “We, therefore, see no merit in the appeal and do not consider it necessary to issue notice to the respondent (Modi). The appeal does not raise any arguable question of fact or law and admitting the appeal would amount to an exercise in futility for the court to do so,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Congress opposes corporate-run-bank move||The Congress has strongly opposed the “pernicious idea” of allowing corporate houses to run banks, condemning it as another move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help crony capitalists capture the country’s resources. Articulating the party’s concerns, former finance minister P. Chidambaram told a news conference: “This is another example of the Modi government pandering to the aggrandisement and acquisitive ambitions of the business houses of India. If the proposal goes through, it is no secret which politically connected business houses will get the first licences and increase their monopolistic power.” Directly blaming the Prime Minister for the move, Chidambaram said: “This is not the idea of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This is not the idea of the IWG (internal working group) of the RBI. Like demonetisation, the RBI is being misused to implement a dangerous agenda. We are not sure whether the cabinet ministers knew of this proposal. This is entirely Modi’s idea.” Rahul Gandhi, who had a few weeks ago warned of a sinister plan to enslave India, tweeted: “Chronology samajhiye: First, karz maafi (loan waiver) for a few big companies. Next, huge tax cuts for companies. Now, give people’s savings directly to banks set up by these same companies.” The Congress leader had said while addressing a series of meetings in Punjab in October: “It is a misconception that the new farm laws will hurt the farmers and agriculture workers only because nobody will be spared by the sinister project to demolish the food security system of the country. Koi nahin bachne wala — farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, traders, youth, women. The day the agriculture sector is taken over by these two — Adani and Ambani — the whole of India will be enslaved. It is not a farmer issue, it is about food security; it is linked to people’s freedom.” While Rahul described Modi as a “puppet of Adani-Ambani”, Chidambaram on Tuesday said in the context of the banking sector: “The world knows who will get the first licences. We know. Political patronage will be the main criteria. There is a difference between professional bankers running banks and corporate houses running them. It is about people’s money. There will be monopolistic control over national resources.” The Congress has been ramping up the criticism of the government, from non-performance and betrayal to facilitation of a complete corporate takeover of national resources. The Opposition party has also raised associated issues — change in labour laws, deliberate destruction of the informal sector and reckless sale of public sector units — to buttress its theory. The Congress on Tuesday appealed to all political parties, trade unions and the general public to support its opposition of the government. Chidambaram detailed the party’s objections to the banking initiative, saying: “The Congress supports the statement of (former RBI governor) Dr Raghuram Rajan and (ex-deputy governor) Dr Viral Acharya stoutly opposing the proposal to allow corporates and business houses to enter the banking sector and establish banks. The proposal, ostensibly based on a report of an IWG, has the fingerprints of the Modi government written all over it. “This proposal, along with some other recommendations, is part of a deeper game plan to control the banking industry. The proposal, if implemented, will completely reverse the enormous gains made in the last 50 years of retrieving the banking sector from the clutches of business houses.” Repeatedly calling the move “pernicious” and “retrograde”, Chidambaram explained: “All over the world, especially in developed economies, three principles govern banking: 1. Broad-based shareholding reflecting shareholder democracy; 2. Strict separation of ownership and management: ownership with shareholders and management in professional hands; and 3. Prohibition of connected lending; building a wall between lender and borrower. All three principles will be thrown out of the window if corporates and business houses are allowed to set up banks.” He added: “Bank funds belong to the depositors who are the people of this country. As a proportion of total deposits, the equity of a bank is minuscule. The total deposits in the banking industry are of the order of Rs 140 lakh crore. If business houses are allowed to own banks, they will, with a small equity investment, control very large amounts of the nation’s financial resources.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
