26-11-2020||India||Inside Taloja, Stan Swamy has to wait for a straw and sipper||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, detained for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case, has to wait longer for a straw and a sipper he requires as a Parkinson’s patient. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), while responding  to the 83-year-old’s plea for these items before a special court in Mumbai on Thursday, said that it did not take them from the activist during his arrest, as claimed by Swamy. The special court then rejected his application, following which Swamy moved a fresh application. He sought permission to use a straw and sipper as well as winter clothes inside the prison. Adjourning the matter till December 4, the court demanded reply from the jail authorities. The NIA, which had arrested the activist from his residence on October 8, had previously sought 20 days’ time to respond to his request to use the items. "I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson's," Swamy, who is currently at the Taloja central hospital, said in his initial plea before the court. Parkinson's disease is a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause involuntary tremors, or muscular spasms, which makes carrying out even routine actions like drinking difficult. Some patients may face problems while swallowing or chewing. NIA officials have said that investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA has also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. It also alleged that Swamy had received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA officials have claimed. They said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Last month, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet in the matter against eight people, including Swamy. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case so far under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The probe into the Elgar Parishad case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Two soldiers killed in militant attack at J&K||Two soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in an attack on a quick reaction team (QRT) at Parimpora in the outskirts of Srinagar on Thursday, officials said. The attack was carried out by three militants who were travelling by a car and security forces are analysing the CCTV footage of the attack to identify the culprits,  Inspector General of Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar said. The terrorists opened fire on the QRT at  Khushipora in the Parimpora area, which led to the injury of two army personnel. The injured persons were immediately rushed to a nearby military facility in the Sharifabad camp but they succumbed to the injuries. "Three militants travelling in a car fired indiscriminately at the army men, leaving two of them seriously wounded. Both the injured soldiers have succumbed,” Kumar informed reporters near the site of the attack. He added that security forces were now on a hunt to find the vehicle that was used in the incident. “It seems the attack was carried out either by Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) or Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) outfit,” he told reporters. “There is movement of LeT and Jaish here and we will identify the group behind the attack by evening. Among the three, two could be FTs (foreign terrorists) from Pakistan and one local. We are analysing the CCTV footage,” Kumar added. Notably, 12 years ago on November 26,  10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived through the sea and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring many during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Trade union strike: several states face total shutdown||Kerala, Orissa, Assam, Telangana and Puducherry on Thursday witnessed total shutdown as normal life got partially affected in several other states in view of the nationwide strike organised by central trade unions. Over 25 crore workers had participated in the protest, the unions said. The 24-hour countrywide strike has been called by a joint forum comprising 10 central trade unions to protest against the government’s new farm and labour laws, among other workers-related issues, as well as to raise various demands. Several independent forums and associations were also part of the joint platform. “"The states of Kerala, Puducherry, Odisha, Assam and Telangana have reported complete shut down. Tamil Nadu reported complete shut down in 13 districts, while the industrial strike continues in the rest of the districts. Punjab and Haryana have reported that the state road transport buses have not left their depots in the morning," the trade unions said in a joint statement. “Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh reported 100 per cent strike, including at BALCO,” said the statement. Sporadic clashes were reported in Bengal as the state got partially affected by the strike, as was Tripura. Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) are part of the joint platform. However, BJP aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has not participated in the protest. “Scheme workers, electricity employees, domestic workers, construction workers, beedi workers, hawkers, vendors, agricultural workers, self employed in rural and urban India are holding demonstrations at various places, even defying police restrictions,” the statement read. Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) General Secretary Harbhajan Singh Sidhu told PTI that the number of workers who joined the nationwide agitation on Thursday exceeded the expected number of 25 crore. He also said that coal mine workers along with those from defence, railways and other public sectors also supported the strike. "Reports of successful strikes in coal and copper mines, including other mineral resource mines, have been received. The employees of postal, telecom and steel sector were also in action and gramin dak sevaks observed 100 per cent strike," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Farmers’ march: Delhi police deploy personnel in border areas||The Delhi Police on Thursday deployed a huge number of its personnel in the border area in view of the farmers’ march to the national capital opposing central farm laws, while all vehicles entering the state were being checked. According to the police, five sand-laden trucks have been stationed at the Singhu border to prevent tractors being driven by protesters. Drones were also deployed for security reasons. Officials informed that all pickets have been made active but clarified that borders have not been sealed yet. The Delhi Metro trains connecting the neighbouring cities in the NCR could not cross the national capital border till 2 pm as per an initial decision on Thursday, but the services remained suspended even after that, officials said. As such, metro service was not available from Anand Vihar to Vaishali, New Ashok Nagar to Noida City Centre and between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations sections during the period. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava took stock of the border areas during his visit in the region. "Due to COVID-19, guidelines have been issued in which political gathering is not permitted here and for this, their (the farmers') request was rejected. If they still make an attempt, we have deployed personnel at the borders to not let them enter the national capital. We are also in contact with Punjab and Haryana Police," he said. Asked about commuters facing inconvenience, the Delhi Police chief said, "Since they (protesting farmers) have already blocked the nation highway, there are going to be some problems, but we will try to sort it out as soon as possible... Instead of coming to the national capital, they (farmers) should go back and do not break any guideline." On Wednesday, Delhi Police said it had not accepted requests from various farmers outfits to protest in the city on these dates. It had, on Tuesday, said legal actions will be taken against anyone who comes to Delhi to gather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the Shambhu interstate border witnessed spiralling tension as Haryana Police used water cannons and teargas to disperse thousands of them amid a cold wave, who in turn chucked some barricades into a river. The farmers were trying to enter the state, determined to make their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march successful. Announcements on loudspeakers by the police could be heard, asking the farmers who assembled at the Punjab side of the border to disperse. Before long, smoke from the teargas clouded the air as uniformed security personnel milled sound, while the protesters stood up on their trucks. Television footage showed some bricks lying on the road as well. In an attempt to stop farmers from marching to Delhi, Haryana has completely sealed its borders while multi-level barricades were put up at several places. On Wednesday, too, the police resorted to water cannons when  a large group of Haryana farmers near Mohra village in Ambala jumped over barricades. A splinter group however, managed to proceed to Tiyora-Tiyori village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border, where police again used water cannons to stop their march to Delhi. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension was escalating at all the border points. They are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws,, which they should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||On Constitution Day, Modi pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for the 'One Nation, One Election' strategy on Thursday, dubbing it as the need of the country given the fact that polls are conducted every few months hampering development works. Addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference via video conference, he said it is beyond just a matter of debate and rather the need of India. "Elections are held at different places every few months, the impact it has on development works is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on 'One Nation, One Election'," Modi said. He also advised using a single voters' list for Lok Sabha, assembly and panchayat polls, saying separate lists are a waste of resources. “Legislature, Executive and Judiciary should work with better coordination and national interest should be the basis for every decision,” the prime minister said. "We must remember that when politics take over people and nation-first policies, the nation has to pay adversely in such situations," he added. In a clear attack on the Congress, Modi cited the example of delay in the completion of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, and said that the project was completed after years as it kept on lingering. "This could have happened earlier if development was given precedence. Those who stalled it, have no repentance," he said. On the occasion of the Constitution day, Modi said there is no place for untouchability in the country. He cited the example of the Statue of Unity built by his government for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel despite him not being from the BJP or the Jana Sangh. “The Constitution is our guiding light to take on challenges in the 21st century and national interest should be our basis for every decision,” he said. Calling for awareness about the Constitution, the prime minister said, “Our Constitution has many features but one very special feature is the importance given to duties. Mahatma Gandhi was very keen about this. He saw a close link between rights and duties. He felt that once we perform our duties, rights will automatically be safeguarded.” Paying tributes later on Twitter, he wrote, "We began to observe 26th November as Constitution Day in 2015. Since then, people across India have been marking it with great fervour. This is a day to express gratitude to the makers of our Constitution and to reiterate our commitment to building the India of their dreams." The Constituent Assembly of India had adopted the Constitution on this day in 1949, and the Modi government decided in 2015 to observe this day annually as the Constitution Day. "In 2010, to mark 60 years of the Constitution, we organised the Samvidhan Gaurav Yatra in Surendranagar, Gujarat. A replica of the Constitution was placed on an elephant and the procession covered parts of the city. I too walked in that procession. It was a unique tribute,” Modi further noted. During the address, Modi also paid tributes to to the victims of the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai and said India is battling against terrorism with new policies and processes now. Noting that it was the biggest terror strike on India, Modi said India can never forget the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived through sea and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring many during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Haryana Police use water cannons, as farmers push through barricades||Punjab farmers were sprayed with water cannons while they broke police barricades at the state’s border with Haryana and pushed through them towards Delhi during their protest to the national capital on Thursday. A huge number of farmers, determined to make their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Central farm laws successful, reached close to Delhi by late evening despite every attempt of stopping them. There were traffic snarls during the day at Delhi's border with police checking vehicles coming in from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Metro services were restricted. At the Punjab-Haryana Shambhu border, police and Punjab farmers in their tractor-trolleys were locked in a confrontation for a couple of hours in the morning. The Shambhu interstate border witnessed spiralling tension in the morning as Haryana Police used water cannons and teargas to disperse thousands of them amid a cold wave, who in turn chucked some barricades into a river. The farmers faced off with the police at a bridge with the Ghaggar river flowing below, with trucks and tractors being queued up and people were seen shouting slogans while waving black flags. Announcements on loudspeakers by the police could be heard, asking the farmers who assembled at the Punjab side of the border to disperse. Before long, smoke from the teargas clouded the air as uniformed security personnel milled sound, while the protesters stood up on their trucks. Television footage showed some bricks lying on the road as well. Apart from this confrontation in Ambala district, there were face-offs between the protesters and police in Haryana's Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind districts bordering Congress-run Punjab. Police had set up steel and cement barricades to stop the tractor-trolleys from coming, some of which were loaded with food. In an attempt to stop farmers from marching to Delhi, Haryana had completely sealed its borders while multi-level barricades were put up at several places. But after a few hours, they were let through at most border points. barricades were also set up at other points on this Amritsar-Delhi highway that passes through BJP-run Haryana. At Karnal, there was another face-off and police again used a water cannon. By afternoon, several groups of protesters from Punjab and Haryana were travelling towards Delhi on tractor-trolleys. Police diverted private vehicles and long lines of trucks were parked on the road. On Wednesday, too, the police resorted to water cannons when  a large group of Haryana farmers near Mohra village in Ambala jumped over barricades. A splinter group however, managed to proceed to Tiyora-Tiyori village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border, where police again used water cannons to stop their march to Delhi. Led by BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, this group of farmers has reached Karnal as part of their march to Delhi. The BJP-led government of Haryana had earlier informed that it will seal its borders with Punjab on November 26 and 27 to prevent farmers from going to Delhi. On Wednesday, Delhi Police said it had not accepted requests from various farmers outfits to protest in the city on these dates. It had, on Tuesday, said legal actions will be taken against anyone who comes to Delhi to gather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension was escalating at all the border points. They assembled near the borders in tractor trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march. Haryana authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of protesters. Farmer bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugarhan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan has said around 25,000 women will participate in the protest march and over 4,000 tractor-trailers have been arranged for it. The organisation claimed that over two lakh farmers associated with it will enter Haryana through Khanauri and Dabwali. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws,, which they should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Almost 45,000 cases take India’s Covid-19 tally to 92.66 lakh||India reported a total of 44,489 new Covid-19 infections over the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload to 92.66 lakh, as the recoveries topped 86.79 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data updated on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases surged to 92,66,705, while the death toll stood at 1,35,223 with 524 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. While the active Covid-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 16th consecutive day, it has mounted to 4,52,344, an increase of 7,598 cases from Wednesday. According to the data, the active cases account for 4.88 per cent of the total number of cases. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,79,138, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.66 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29 and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to ICMR, over 13.59 crore samples have been tested for COVID-19 till November 25, with 10,90,238 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality ‘very poor, likely to improve||Delhi on Thursday recorded an air quality of ‘very poor’ category but government agencies expected it to improve with the wind speed picking up. The Air Quality Index (AQI) at 9 am was 374 on Thursday, while the 24-hour average on Wednesday was 413. It was 379 on Tuesday and 295 on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". However, the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category over the day as the wind speed picks up, said the central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. The predominant surface wind direction was northerly and the maximum wind speed is likely to be 10 kmph on Thursday, it said, adding that the air quality is likely to reach the poor category on Friday. Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air was just 2 per cent on Wednesday. The minimum temperature was 10.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 23 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 8,000 m2/s on Thursday and is likely to be 7,000 m2/s on Friday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Nivar makes landfall in wee hours of Thursday  ||Very severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Puducherry in the early hours of Thursday, bringing heavy rains to the union territory and neighbouring Tamil Nadu, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. Nivar weakened into a severe cyclonic storm after it crossed the coast near Puducherry, the IMD said. There were no reports of loss of life due to the cyclone which uprooted trees. Incidents of wall collapse were reported from some parts of Tamil Nadu, state Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar said. Earlier, the IMD had said Nivar will cross the coast near Puducherry with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph, gusting up to 145 kmph. The landfall of Nivar began late on Wednesday night. "Very severe cyclonic Storm NIVAR: Center lies over Land. Crossed coast near Puducherry during 2330 of 25th Nov-0230 IST of 26th Nov," the IMD said in a tweet. "Very severe cyclonic Storm NIVAR: weakens into a Severe Cyclonic Storm," it said in another tweet. Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, S Balachandran said rainfall is likely to continue in Tamil Nadu. "The storm now lies inside the land area. There will, however, be rainfall and strong winds as well," he told PTI. In the next six hours, the severe cyclonic storm will further weaken, he said. Udhayakumar said there were no reports of loss of life or crop damage. "There is no loss of lives due to the rains. People have given us full cooperation," he said. Incidents of wall collapse were reported from a few places, he said. "It's a solace that nothing untoward happened and the weakening of the cyclone is good news," he said. The minister said about 2.5 lakh people were housed in cyclone shelters in Tamil Nadu as part of safety measures. According to the inputs received so far, crops and groves are safe in the state, Udhayakumar told reporters. However, the situation would be reviewed and based on its outcome, insurance payout and compensation to farmers, if any, would be announced by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he said. Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu recorded the highest rainfall at 24.6 cm, followed by 23.7 cm in Puducherry from 8.30 PM on Wednesday till 2.30 am on Thursday. Nagapattinam recorded 6.3 cm rainfall, Karaikal 8.6 cm and Chennai 8.9 cm during the same period. Meanwhile, revenue, civic and police authorities were on their toes coordinating and removing uprooted trees using heavy-duty motor equipment and backhoe loaders. According to initial estimates, over 150 trees were uprooted in Tamil Nadu alone. As the storm began crossing the coast, the rainfall stopped briefly here. It returned with strong winds in some localities close to the city and the suburban shoreline. The approach roads to the Marina beach, off the arterial Kamaraj Salai, were flooded and sheets of water reached close to the main road where the city's fishermen had securely tied up their boats. As rains lashed Mamallapuram near here, troops of monkeys sought refuge under the decorative, cave-like arches, dotted with images of deities carved in stone at the ancient Sri Sthalasayana Perumal temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, brings in severe rainfall||As the Cyclone Nivar, the fifth strongest cyclone to hit the country began its landfall around 10:30 pm on Wednesday night. The cyclone brought with it, heavy rainfall and strong winds, thereby making the Tamil Nadu government declare public holiday till Saturday. Chennai airport too has suspended flight operations for the next 12 hours. According to The Hindu, at least 26 flights have been cancelled due to the poor weather condition in the city. Flights to cities like Kozhikode, Vijayawada, Bengaluru etc were also affected. Metro services too have been stalled. According to an NDTV report, coastal areas would be receiving heavy rain till Thursday. The cyclone is likely to cause severe damage to houses, trees and crops. Power lines too are expected to be uprooted by the strong winds. According to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weather bulletin issued around 10:30 pm on Wednesday night, severe cyclonic storm lay 50 km east-northeast of Cuddalore, 40 km east-southeast of Puducherry and 120 km south of Chennai. According to NDTV, around 1.45 lakh people have been evacuated from low lying areas, while 4000 locations have been spotted vulnerable by the local official of Tamil Nadu. At around 11:30 pm, IMD tweeted, “Very severe cyclonic storm Nivar now lies about 50 km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 40 km east southeast of Puducherry. LANDFALL PROCESS CONTINUES.CENTRE OF CYCLONE TO CROSS COAST NEAR PUDUCHERRY WITHIN NEXT 3 HOURS WITH WIND SPEED OF 120-130 KMPH GUSTING TO 145 KMPH.” The heavy rain fall has brought life to a standstill in Chennai. The city dwellers are having to face water logging, disruption of electricity and more due to the cyclone, which has been declared as a “red” category cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds RPF cop's 'compulsory retirement' for theft neglect||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the order of “compulsory retirement” imposed on a Railway Protection Force sub-inspector for loss of public property, saying a police officer is expected to maintain “high standards of integrity”. “A police officer in the Railway Protection Force is required to maintain a high standard of integrity in the discharge of his official functions. In this case, the charges proved against the respondent ‘were of neglect of duty’ which resulted in pecuniary loss to the railways,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph said. “The respondent was a subinspector in the railway police discharging an office of trust and confidence which required absolute integrity. The high court was therefore not justified in setting aside the order of compulsory retirement, and directing reinstatement with consequential benefits, and payment of back wages to the extent of 50 per cent,” the apex court added. The court passed the ruling while allowing an appeal filed by the RPF challenging a Bombay High Court order setting aside the compulsory retirement in December 2007 of subinspector Rajendra Kumar Dubey after a disciplinary inquiry found him guilty of negligence in preventing theft of railway properties such as trolleys. The high court had, on an appeal filed by Dubey, set aside the order of compulsory retirement and directed his re-instatement with the payment of half of the wage arrears. Aggrieved, the RPF had filed an appeal in the Supreme Court. Writing the judgment, Justice Malhotra noted that Sec¬tion 11 of the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957, provides that it shall be the duty of every superior officer and member of the force to protect and safeguard railway properties and passengers. “The primary object of constituting the Railway Protection Force is to secure bet¬ter ‘protection and security of railway properties’. The restricted power of arrest and search conferred on members of this force is incidental to the efficient discharge of their primary duty to protect and safeguard railway property, and to uphold the law,” the bench said. The court added that the finding of guilt by the disciplinary authority was based on materials on record and the high court was not justified in reappraising the entire evidence threadbare and substituting the order of punishment with a lesser punishment without justifiable reason. “The high court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not a court of appeal over the decision of the authorities holding a departmental enquiry against a public servant. It is not the function of the high court under its writ jurisdiction to review the evidence, and arrive at an independent finding on the evidence,” the Supreme Court said. “The high court may, however, interfere where the departmental authority which has held the proceedings against the delinquent officer is inconsistent with the principles of natural justice, where the findings are based on no evidence… were actuated by some extraneous considerations and failed to reach a fair decision, or allowed themselves to be influenced by irrelevant considerations, or where the conclusion on the very face of it is so wholly arbi¬trary and capricious that no reasonable person could ever have arrived at that conclusion. “If, however, the enquiry is properly held, the departmen¬tal authority is the sole judge of facts, and if there is some legal evidence on which the findings can be based, the ade¬quacy or reliability of that evidence is not a matter which can be permitted to be canvassed before the high court in a writ petition,” the top court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Malayalam film selected as India’s official entry to Oscars 2021||A Malayalam film, Jallikattu, has been selected as India’s official entry to Oscars 2021. The film, directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery, will compete in the International Feature Film category. A jury of the Film Federation of India, headed by director Rahul Rawail, selected Jallikattu from a list of 27 films. The list included Hindi films like Gulabo Sitabo, Chhapaak, Bulbul and Serious Men. Jallikattu is based on the short story, Maoist, by S. Hareesh. The film, which shares its name with the controversial bull-taming sport, stars Antony Varghese, Chemban Vinod Jose, Sabumon Abdusamad and Santhy Balachandran. The plot follows a bull that escapes from a slaughterhouse. “The 14-member jury was touched by the rawness the film depicted, the complexity of human emotions with well fleshed out characters,” Rawail, chairman of the jury, said on Wednesday. “The jury met virtually this year keeping in mind the worldwide pandemic which has affected all our lives so deeply,” said Firdausul Hasan, Calcutta-based producer and president of the federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Covid delay in polls allows Reshma to throw hat in the ring||If you are looking for some positive news amid the gloom and doom of the pandemic, look no further than Reshma Mariam Roy. Reshma, Kerala’s youngest local body election candidate who attained the cut-off age of 21 on November 18, would not have been able to contest the election had voting not been deferred from October to December in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Reshma, contesting for a village panchayat ward in Pathanamthitta district, filed her nomination on November 19, a day after turning 21. “It was sheer luck that the elections were postponed due to Covid. Otherwise I wouldn’t have been able to contest although my party (CPM) had suggested my name,” Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Reshma told The Telegraph. “I could have filed my nominations on the day I turned 21. But I didn’t want any controversy. So I waited for one more day,” she added. A typical campus-to-campaign story, Reshma completed her Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) course only this year from VNS College in Konni, Pathanamthitta. She is contesting from her home ward — No. 11 of the Aruvappulam village panchayat. The local body polls in Kerala will be held on December 8, 10 and 14 with southern districts such as Pathanamthitta going to polls on the first day. Reshma had been actively involved in campus politics as a member of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and had been elected the lady representative in the college union. She is now a district secretariat member of the SFI and a district committee member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), the youth wing of the CPM. “Campus politics has been a major factor in my fledgling political career since I learnt a lot by attending to problems faced by students. I am sure this experience can be put to good use as a panchayat member,” Reshma said. Her main objective is to wrest the seat from the United Democratic Front, which has been continuously winning in the last several elections, and take control of the panchayat that the LDF lost to the UDF by a margin of one seat in 2015. Reshma is the first CPM member in her family of traditional Congress supporters. But her family’s political leaning was never a deterrent for her ambitions. “I have the full support of my family. My elder brother even joins me in the campaign,” she said. While the pandemic has wreaked havoc across the world and in her own state, it provided Reshma a platform to work for the people. She was involved in the “Helping Hand” programme of local CPM MLA K.U. Jenish Kumar after the early outbreak in Pathanamthitta, one of the first Covid hotspots in Kerala. “We ran errands for local people who were scared of stepping out of their homes. We took them to hospital and even sanitised houses of Covid patients. I headed the programme in a large area comprising my village panchayat constituency,” Reshma said. The DYFI’s “Recycle Kerala” campaign was another recent project she was part of. Reshma and her comrades raised Rs 1.15 lakh from her neighbourhood by collecting recyclable waste and selling handloom products. The DYFI had raised Rs 10.95 crore, much of it from collecting and selling 3,281 tonnes of recyclable waste, for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund. Reshma spoke with clarity on the importance of youth and their role in active politics. “People want youngsters to be part of politics. That’s why I feel I have a good chance of winning,” she said. While her Congress rival, Sujatha Mohan, is above 50, the BJP doesn’t have a significant presence in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Unveiled: Covid curbs till year-end ||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution against Covid-19 that will be effective from December 1 and will remain in place till year-end. According to the guidelines, states and Union Territories have been asked to strictly enforce containment measures, standard operating procedures on various activities, exercise caution and regulate crowds. The Centre has allowed the states and Union Territories to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. They, however, cannot impose any lockdown, outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Centre. The government has also told the states to ensure physical distancing in offices/workplaces and advised staggered timings. “In cities where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10 per cent, the states and UTs concerned shall consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures, with a view to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time, thereby ensuring social distancing,” the advisory issued by the Union home ministry said. Some of the guidelines:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Kerala repeals law against free speech ||The Kerala government on Wednesday repealed a new penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content, bowing to widespread criticism of a four-day-old law that had been seen as aimed at curbing free speech. Governor Arif Mohammed signed a repealing ordinance from the state government to withdraw the amendment that had inserted Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act with the stated aim of reigning in cyber bullying and fake news. The Left Democratic Front government had swiftly put the new law on hold following an outrage that crossed the state’s boundaries and then came up with the repealing ordinance. The government was forced to bury the ordinance based on advice from a section of the CPM, including the top leadership, and concerns raised by its own sympathisers. Section 118A had prescribed up to three years’ jail and a possible fine of Rs 10,000 “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. The withdrawal came within hours of the state government informing Kerala High Court, which heard a batch of petitions against the penal provision, that it would recommend to the governor that the ordinance be repealed. A bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly recorded the submission of additional advocate-general K.K. Ravindranath on the state government’s move to forward a repealing ordinance to the governor. Advocate Prashant Sugathan, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said Ravindranath informed the court that the cabinet had recommended that the governor withdraw the ordinance with retrospective effect from November 21, the same day he had approved it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||One lakh in Tamil Nadu cyclone relief centres ||Gusty winds and rain lashed parts of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday as severe cyclone Nivar hurtled towards the coast, leaving several areas inundated and sending over one lakh people to shelters. Nivar is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm, with wind speeds of 120-130kmph and gusts of 145 kmph, and is likely to cross the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before dawn on Thursday. With rain drenching parts of the state, authorities disconnected power supply in vulnerable areas as a precautionary measure. While chief minister K. Palaniswami declared Thursday a public holiday for 13 districts, a government order included three more districts. Revenue minister R.B. Udhayakumar said 1,03,291 people had been housed in 1,000 relief centres. Food, water and all other essentials, including masks to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, have been made available at the relief centres. A senior official said later that the number of those in relief centres had exceeded 1,21,152. Chennai airport authorities said operations would remain suspended from 7pm on Wednesday to 7am on Thursday. Southern Railway said eight trains had been cancelled. Chennai Metro halted services early on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Lists contest ‘land jihad’ line in Jammu||Lists of purported land encroachers released this week by the Jammu administration appear to contradict a “land jihad” campaign by some BJP politicians and Delhi-based TV channels that has gained steam ahead of the District Development Council elections, which begin on Saturday. According to the “land jihad” theory, first propounded more than a year ago, Muslims have been encroaching on government land in the Hindu-majority Jammu region to try and change its demography. However, one list the administration has released, naming 541 people in Jammu district whose encroachments were regularised under a controversial law named the Roshni Act, appears to have only 3 Muslim names. Another list of 1,237 whose alleged encroachments in Jammu district were not regularised seems to contain only around three dozen Muslim names. These two officially released lists cover only a fraction of the encroachments in Jammu district, which is just one among 10 districts in the Jammu region. However, a lawyer privy to encroachment-related documents submitted before Jammu and Kashmir High Court insisted that “a big majority” among the more than 1.5 lakh people whose encroachments in the Jammu region were regularised under the controversial law were non-Muslims. The high court had on October 9 quashed as unconstitutional the 19-year-old Roshni Act — which regularised encroachments on government land by thousands, including many influential people, often against a nominal fee — on a public interest petition filed in 2011 by Jammu resident S.K. Bhalla. Apart from ordering a CBI probe and retrieval of the regularised plots, the court had directed the Kashmir and Jammu administrations to publish the lists of all grabbers of government land – both those whose encroachments had been regularised and those whose hadn’t. From Monday, the administration began releasing the lists and by Tuesday had covered parts of Jammu district in the Jammu region and parts of Srinagar district in the Kashmir region. Bhalla’s lawyer, Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, said he had already accessed the full lists of the Roshni Act beneficiaries and other encroachers and these had confirmed that “land jihad” was a myth. “Of the 44,000 kanals (eight kanals make an acre) encroached on in Jammu district, only 1,180 kanals have gone to Muslims. In Kathua district (of Jammu), 98 per cent of the 11,000 kanals have gone to non-Muslims,” Ahmed told The Telegraph. “In all, a big majority among the 1.58 lakh beneficiaries of the Roshni Act in the Jammu region were non-Muslims.” Former BJP chief minister Kavinder Gupta, who had recently joined the “land jihad” bandwagon in Jammu, said he had been misquoted. “I want action against all people (encroachers), irrespective of their faith,” he said. “(But) it (the lists) proves how influential politicians were grabbing land in J&K.” The “land jihad” campaign comes at a time people in the Muslim-majority Kashmir region are worried about changes to the Union territory’s land laws, seeing in them a plan by the Centre to settle outsiders and change the Valley’s demography. The Valley administration too had by Tuesday released two encroachment lists — but only of “influential persons” who had benefited from the Roshni Act. They showed 35 and 101 beneficiaries, respectively, of whom 20 — around 15 per cent — have non-Muslim names. The Valley’s Muslim population is around 95 per cent. Apart from running the “land jihad” campaign, the BJP has been targeting Valley politicians, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah and former finance minister Haseeb Drabu, accusing them of being encroachers and beneficiaries of the Roshni Act. The act was passed in 2001 under a government headed by Farooq. Many believe that the lists are being released just before the district body polls to tarnish Farooq and other mainstream Valley politicians, who have formed an alliance to contest the elections to try and prove to the world that Kashmiris want Article 370 restored. While the Srinagar list names Drabu, who has denied any wrongdoing, one of the Jammu lists accuses Farooq of encroaching on less than an acre of land close to his family home in Sunjwan. The list says Farooq has physically encroached on the land but clarifies that the revenue records do not mention the purported encroachment, and that the alleged land grab was not regularised under the Roshni Act. That did not stop several media outlets to claim that Farooq was the beneficiary of the “Roshni scam”. The list mentions eight other “influential” people, none of whose alleged encroachments are confirmed by the revenue records. Farooq’s son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said: “Dr Farooq Abdullah has not availed of the Roshni Scheme for either his residence in Srinagar or in Jammu and anyone who says otherwise is lying. The fact that they are using sources to plant this story shows that it has no legs to stand on.” According to the high court order, a total of 604,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of encroached government land had been regularised and transferred to the occupants. This included 571,210 kanals (71,401 acres) in the Jammu region and 33,392 kanals (4,174 acres) in the Kashmir region. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “It’s very unfortunate that key leaders of Jammu and Kashmir, including Farooq Abdullah, used their influence and power for land grabbing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Congress loses ‘irreplaceable comrade’||Ahmed Patel died of post-Covid complications on Wednesday, leaving the Congress without its most accomplished peacemaker at a time when internal conflicts are threatening to tear the party apart. He was 71. Patel, political secretary to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and also the party treasurer, had contracted Covid-19 on October 1 but had returned home from a hospital in Faridabad, Haryana, earlier this month. Post-Covid complications again forced him to hospital — to Gurgaon’s Medanta City — where he was put on a ventilator. The end came at 3.30am on Wednesday. Patel was not only adept at mollifying the disgruntled and the dissident within the party, he was the Congress’s bridge with other parties and stakeholders like civil society members and social activists. Nor can his knack for generating resources for the party be overstated. Sonia rightly described him as an “irreplaceable comrade”. Patel’s untimely death comes just when he was expected to talk to the two party factions that have been warring publicly over the past few weeks. He had an excellent rapport with the “Group of 23” seniors who have aired concern at the drift and leadership crisis in the Congress, and he alone could have persuaded Sonia and Rahul Gandhi to take the middle way and seek a truce. Not too many in the Congress have the authority or stature to mount pressure and bring to the negotiating table veterans like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma and Veerappa Moily, as well as the Rahul loyalists who have openly condemned the seniors. While Manmohan Singh never shows any interest in such conflicts, A.K. Antony is said to be seriously ill. Antony and Mallikarjun Kharge have anyway taken a partisan position by attacking the “Group of 23”. Some like Ashok Gehlot, Kamal Nath and Amarinder Singh could possibly play a role in resolving the dispute and uniting the party but none of them can match Patel’s networking and conciliatory skills. It’s now up to Sonia to rise to the occasion and prevent disintegration of the party at a time the country is looking to the Congress to resist the overwhelming dominance of Narendra Modi. However, any truce will now take much longer, and the possibility of organisational elections being delayed by a few months cannot be ruled out. What has given Patel’s death the feel of a crisis is that seniors like Azad who could have filled the vacuum, both in terms of organisational supervision and negotiations with friendly parties, are sitting on the other side of the fence. It won’t be easy for Rahul to find another treasurer and interlocutor equally trustworthy and efficient. Some, however, argue that Patel’s domineering presence was the biggest hurdle to the process of transformation and that unifying the party may have become easier now. A section within the Congress has long viewed Patel with suspicion — as an obstacle to Rahul’s complete takeover of the party machinery. But Sonia and Rahul intervened on Wednesday to ensure the departed soul received the respect from the party that was his due. K.C. Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, has ordered the party flag flown at half mast for three days. While the body could not be brought to the party headquarters because of the Covid protocol, the Congress arranged for it to be sent to Patel’s village in Gujarat by special flight. Patel wanted to be buried in his native village. Seniors and young leaders expressed their condolences. Sonia led the mourners, saying: “I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress party.” She added: “His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others. I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support.” Manmohan praised Patel’s knowledge of the Congress and his dedication. Rahul tweeted: “It is a sad day. Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset. We will miss him.” In a letter to Patel’s son Faisal, Rahul said: “I am saddened by the passing of your father. We have lost a leader who dedicated his life to the Congress party. Ahmed ji epitomised courage and loyalty in public life. He stood by the Congress party through its most difficult times.” “I will miss his wisdom, his intellect and his unwavering commitment to the Congress party. He will continue to guide us and inspire every Congress worker to carry forward our mission. My thoughts, prayers and love are with you and your family in this difficult time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Written test in Raj Bhavan for Odisha VC aspirants||Senior professors shortlisted by search panels for the posts of vice-chancellors of six state universities in Odisha were made to take a written test at the Raj Bhavan, a move many of the candidates and other academics described as humiliating. Some of the candidates said one question was: “If God appears before you and asks for a boon, what will you like to ask for?” The 16 shortlisted candidates had been invited to the Raj Bhavan on Monday for an “interaction” with the governor — the ex officio chancellor— before the final selection, three candidates told The Telegraph. But governor Ganeshi Lal, whose wife Sushila Devi had passed away on Sunday night, did not meet them. His secretary, Pramod Kumar Meherda, told the senior academics they would have to take a written test. “His (the governor’s) secretary came and gave us a piece of paper each with four questions. They asked us to write the answers in 45 minutes. Three officials were in the room while we wrote the answers. Then they asked us to go,” one of those shortlisted said, requesting anonymity. A second candidate said: “It was a joke. The written test was in bad taste. The officials were keeping an eye on us as though we would talk or something. If the chancellor was occupied elsewhere, the interaction could have happened another day.” The results were declared in the evening. Sunil Sarangi, former director of NIT Rourkela, said academic leaders needed to be respected. “If the VC is respected by the chancellor, he would treat his colleagues in the university with respect and the teachers would behave well with the students and vice versa. This helps healthy functioning of the institutions,” Sarangi said. He did not object to written tests per se but said they must be accompanied with a briefing from the chancellor, and not an official. Educationists could remember only one instance of a written test for would-be VCs. Two years ago, one such test was held to select a VC for Berhampur University, but the chancellor had interacted with the candidates. “If the chancellor wants a written test in the final round, it’s fine. But we expect the chancellor to treat the shortlisted candidates as colleagues. All of them have proven their academic credentials,” Sarangi said. “It’s expected that the chancellor should brief them on why he has chosen to hold a written test and request them to participate. But a briefing by his secretariat is, I think, not proper treatment.” The candidates said the four questions, reproduced verbatim here, were: 1. The universe is built on.... 2. The role of the university to build the universe? 3. You have work experience. The style of working? The spirit of working? 4. If God appears before you and asks for a boon, what will you like to ask for? A retired professor from an Odisha university, seeking anonymity, said the questions were woolly and irrelevant. “If these types of questions are asked, I’m afraid they may not help select a credible academic leader,” he said. He said the question on a boon from God ran counter to the scientific temper. An email to Meherda seeking reactions to the academics’ concerns brought no response. The six universities for which VCs needed to be chosen were Utkal University, North Odisha University, Fakir Mohan University, Rama Devi Women’s University, Khalikot University and Gangadhar Meher University. Six search panels had recommended the 16 names. The process of appointing state university vice-chancellors had recently been embroiled in another controversy when the government amended the Odisha Universities Act in September through an ordinance, changing the composition of the search panels. Search panels were earlier made up of nominees of the chancellor, the University Grants Commission and the syndicate of the university concerned. The ordinance replaced the syndicate representative with an Odisha government representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti's key aide arrested now, admired then||Mehbooba Mufti’s key aide, Waheed ur Rahman Parra, was arrested by the counter-terror National Investigation Agency on Wednesday in a militancy-related case, after which the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister released a 2018 video where defence minister Rajnath Singh is seen heaping praise on him. Parra, who had unbridled access to the Union home ministry, to which the NIA directly reports, during the previous PDP-BJP rule in Jammu and Kashmir, was picked up in connection with the arrest of deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh along with Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu. Parra is the first politician to be arrested in the case. Parra heads the youth wing of the PDP and was being interrogated at the agency’s New Delhi headquarters for the past two days. The arrest has come at a time Valley politicians who have formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of Article 370 have been accusing the Centre of unleashing the NIA to force them into submission and prevent them from canvassing for the upcoming District Development Council polls. Parra is to contest the election. PTI quoted an NIA spokesperson as saying: “Today, the NIA arrested Waheed Ur Rehman Parra, the youth wing leader of the People’s Democratic Party, in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in a conspiracy with the other accused persons.” Mehbooba hit back and described the arrest as “blackmail” and “intimidation” by the Narendra Modi government. The PDP chief tweeted a video where Rajnath is seen praising Parra during an event in Srinagar in 2018 when he was the home minister. Parra, as secretary of the erstwhile state’s sports council, had organised a huge audience of sports enthusiasts for a Rajnath event in Srinagar, a rare feat for any politician amid relentless stone-throwing those days. “For that (channelising the energy of the state’s youth in a positive direction), I want to specially congratulate the secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir Sports council, Waheed Parra. He has organised a wonderful programme here,” Rajnath, awed by the participation, said in the video. Mehbooba tweeted along with the video: “PDP’s @parrawahid applauded by then HM @rajnathsingh for strengthening democracy in J&K has been arrested on baseless charges by NIA today. No coincidence that he filed his nomination for DDC on 20th Nov & received NIA summons next day itself.” Parra is contesting from Pulwama. “Everyone knows at whose behest Davinder Singh worked,” Mehbooba tweeted. “Waheed has no connection whatsoever with this man & is being falsely charged. All just to blackmail & intimidate PDP & other mainstream political parties in J&K.” Davindar was a top counter-insurgency cop before he was arrested last year for ferrying top Hizb commander Naveed Babu and his associate in his car. The arrest was a major embarrassment for the security establishment and immediately brought the focus back on the dark secrets of the murky counter-insurgency world, even raising fresh doubts on the government’s claims on the 2001 Parliament attack. Afzal Guru, the prime accused who was hanged in 2013, had claimed that the attack was an insider job and Davinder had been involved. The claim was never investigated. Mehbooba said Parra had been illegally arrested in 2019 along with hundreds of politicians ahead of the scrapping of Article 370. “Yet his belief in democracy didn’t waver & he chose to contest the DDC elections. Seems like those who place their faith in the power of democracy will earn the wrath of a hostile & communal government. I can personally vouch for Waheed’s integrity, honesty & character. It’s up to the judiciary now to dispense justice & ensure @parrawahid is released at the earliest,” she tweeted. The NIA has conducted multiple raids in recent weeks in Kashmir and many claim it was being used by the Centre to prevent any resistance against the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel: Friend, peacemaker and Sonia’s voice||“Political management” is a crude expression. What it really stands for is harmonising contradictions, forging solidarities and cultivating trust. That’s what Ahmed Patel excelled in. The initials “AP” may have reverberated across the corridors of power for decades, but the man rarely inspired awe or fear. For, AP had quietly transformed into AB —Ahmed Bhai — the friendly politician who never used power as a weapon of retribution or blackmail. Patel wasn’t a mass leader but carved a space for himself in national politics with his dedication, hard work and extraordinary ability to win people’s trust, his humility and willingness to help people earning him popularity across the political spectrum. He was Sonia Gandhi’s eyes and ears during her first tenure as Congress president. His word was blindly accepted as hers, both within and outside the Congress. Patel’s behind-the-scenes management and unselfish loyalty were key to Sonia’s 18 years as party president being bereft of any major mishap or embarrassment. Tags like “behind-the-scenes operator”, “backroom strategist” or “political manager” often evoke distrust and contempt. But these labels, so often attached to Patel, fail to come close to encapsulating what he did for the Congress and Sonia, during whose long presidency he remained the pivot of the party’s politics and organisational affairs. The sheer volume of his engagements as political secretary to Sonia was awe-inspiring. From disgruntled party worker to dissenting leader, minister to party official, businessmen to bureaucrat, social activist to wheeler-dealer, he met hundreds of them every day and tried to resolve their problems. And whether it was a rebellious leader from Maharashtra or a ticket seeker from Odisha, they all knew that an assurance from him was an assurance from the party president. Ahmed Bhai heard every complaint, digested every invective, calmed every dissenter, reassured every favour seeker. He tried to respond to even the most mundane of queries from journalists, often after midnight. His cool temperament, unending patience and uncomplaining ability to handle countless responsibilities and grievances every day made him a buffer and a bulwark for Sonia, protecting her from the pressures and pitfalls of running a big organisation. Patel’s networking skills had helped Sonia forge the national coalition that ousted the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in the 2004 election. He could talk to any politician irrespective of their party’s relations with the Congress and get things done. During the UPA’s 10-year rule, Patel strengthened his ties with politicians from other parties by choosing accommodation and understanding over the use of force to extract favours. Among his greatest virtues were his ability to set aside personal ambition and his refusal to flaunt the trappings of power. Patel never became a minister despite calling the shots in the Congress. He kept a low profile at party or government functions, if he couldn’t stay away altogether. He abhorred media focus and often discouraged journalists from writing about him. Patel, however, understood the reality of factions in the party system and viewed politics as the cohabitation of diverse forces. He often said that problems could be “managed” if not “solved”, as the chief objective was peaceful coexistence. This trait of his was misunderstood by some party colleagues and political observers, who were suspicious of his role in persuading the Manmohan Singh government against taking strict action against then chief minister Narendra Modi over the Gujarat riots and fake-encounters. Many Congress leaders, young and old, felt there was a tacit understanding between Patel and Modi despite the raids and investigations he and his family faced under BJP rule and the personal barbs Modi subjected him to. During the last Gujarat elections, the Prime Minister had played on sectarian sentiments, referring to “Ahmed Mian” and hinting that Patel, a Muslim, would be chief minister if the Congress won in Gujarat. Nor did Modi and Amit Shah spare any effort to try and prevent Patel retaining his Rajya Sabha seat in 2017. While it’s true that personal enmity and coercive measures had no place in Patel’s politics, his loyalty to the Congress and Sonia was unquestionable. Yet his last days passed amid an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion within the party. Patel suffered this irony all his life: many party colleagues who drew strength from his authority also ran whisper campaigns against him. This despite his never having publicly shown any unease with the party leadership through the decades since he had begun his journey under Rajiv Gandhi. While the veterans Arjun Singh and N.D. Tewari had left the Congress after the demolition of the Babri Masjid on P.V. Narasimha Rao’s watch, and Sharad Pawar had formed his own party, Patel showed unflinching loyalty even when he was briefly removed from party posts. But the native of Bharuch in Gujarat — a Lok Sabha seat he represented thrice apart from enjoying five Rajya Sabha terms — realised he lacked Rahul Gandhi’s trust and had begun talking of retiring from politics. Yet his politics was so deeply entwined with Sonia’s that her return as party president again brought him to the centre stage of Congress affairs. Patel would have had a critical role to play in the Congress’s revival process. But at 71, he lost his battle against post-Covid complications after 55 days’ resistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
