27-11-2020||India||Agriculture minister ‘ready for talks’ with farmers||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, in an appeal to agitating farmers to end their protest, said on Friday that the Centre is ready to discuss all issues with them. Farmers have been marching towards Delhi against the three central farm laws, and after hours of clashes with the police in the national capital as well as Haryana, they were finally permitted to carry out their agitation at the Nirankari ground in Burari. Earlier in the day, Tomar had opined that the new laws will bring in tremendous improvements to farmers’ lives. He said the government was already engaging with various farmer bodies and they have been called for discussions on December 3. He urged the protesters to end their agitation and come forward to talk. "The government is ready for all discussions...," the minister said. Following a meeting between the farmer leaders and senior police officials, the Delhi Police granted them permission to hold the peaceful protests, one of the biggest in the national capital, after several hours of confrontation with the police at different border points with Haryana. On the other hand, Delhi Metro services resumed on all lines in the evening after they were disrupted since Thursday in view of the march. "Services normal at all corridors from 5:35 pm onwards," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted, adding that the services will be regular on all lines on Saturday. Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan borders were closed for traffic movement due to the demonstration and the commuters were asked to take an alternative route, the Delhi Traffic Police said earlier in the day. "Tikri Border is completely closed for traffic movement by local police. Traffic intending to go towards Haryana is also closed. All motorists are advised to avoid this route in view of the protest by Kishan Sangharsh committee," it tweeted. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Modi govt has to agree to farmers’ demands: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the farmers’ march to Delhi against the newly enacted central farm laws. He said that no government in the world can prevent the protesters from fighting the “battle of truth”. The former Congress president’s jibe came in view of thousands of farmers marching towards the national capital as part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, carrying flags and shouting slogans, after hours of clash with the police. At several borders of the city, the farmers were blocked by the police with barricades, teargas shells and batons. Later, the authorities allowed them to enter Delhi and protest peacefully, Delhi police said. The prime minister should remember whenever arrogance clashes with truth, it faces loss, Gandhi wrote on Twitter in Hindi. "No government in the world can stop the farmers who are fighting the battle of truth," he said. "The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws. This is just the beginning!" the former Congress chief tweeted, with the hashtag 'IamWithFarmers'. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will enter Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. They are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Dilli Chalo: After Punjab, UP farmers march to national capital||Hundreds of farmers from west Uttar Pradesh were headed towards Delhi on Friday to take part in the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march against the three central farm laws that have been newly implemented. Protesters from Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar and other western UP districts on Friday reached the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Greater Noida, in response to a call from the Bharatiya Kisan Union to join the march. They were stopped by the police upon their arrival. Shortly after, they moved on from the area as the news of farmers being allowed to Delhi came in. "We have started our onward march. But our route to Delhi is yet to be decided by our union leaders. We may take the UP Gate route (via Ghaziabad) or the Kalindi Kunj route (via Noida)," BKU's UP unit spokesperson Pawan Khatana told PTI. He further said that the BKU had shown support to the ‘Dilli Chalo’ call of Punjab and Haryana farmers against the farm laws. "These laws are anti-farmer and should be taken back or changed. There should be a new law on minimum support price of crops to benefit farmers," Khatana told PTI. "The situation at the expressway is peaceful and under control. There has been no violence or untoward situation. The police are making efforts to ensure there is no law and order situation," Gautam Buddh Nagar's Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Love Kumar said. Farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||States must rise above politics to combat Covid, says SC  ||The Supreme Court said on Friday that states would have to rise above politics, and harsh measures were required to contain the surge of COVID-19, observing, after submissions by the Centre, that things “have gone from bad to worse”. The apex court also said there were policies, guidelines and standard operating procedures (SoP) for COVID-19 management in the country but that there was lack of implementation by the authorities and no concrete steps had been taken to deal with the issue. “This is high time to take strict measures, otherwise the Central government's effort will go in vain,” the top court said. The observations, by a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, came after the Centre apprised it that the ongoing wave of the pandemic appears to be harsher than earlier. The bench, also comprising Justices R.S. Reddy and M. R. Shah, was hearing a case in which it had taken cognisance regarding the need for proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that states would have to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines and SoPs as this wave appeared to be harsher than the earlier ones. Taking note of his submissions, the bench said, then harsher steps were needed to be taken. “Things are going from bad to worse, but no concrete steps are being taken. States will have to rise above politics. All states will have to rise to the occasion. “Strict measures are required. This is high time to take strict measures,” the bench said, adding, “there are policies, guidelines and SoPs but there is no strict implementation. There is no will to implement all this.” When Mehta said that states would have to tighten up the implementation of measures to deal with the situation, the bench said, “Yes, otherwise the Central government's effort will go in vain”. The solicitor general said, “It cannot be ‘me’ versus ‘they'. It has to be ‘us’.” During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench observed, “We are watching celebrations and processions being taken out in which 60 per cent people have no masks and 30 per cent have their masks hanging.” Mehta informed the bench that 10 states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Delhi, were currently contributing around 77 per cent of the active caseload of COVID-19 in the country. The apex court, which posted the matter for further hearing on December 1, also took cognisance of the fire at the ICU of a designated COVID-19 hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat in which five patients died. It came down heavily on the states for not taking any concrete action to mitigate the problem despite repeated instances. Terming the fire incident at Rajkot as shocking, the apex court said this was very serious and reflected the situation of designated government hospitals as similar instances had taken place in other places too. It also asked the Gujarat government to submit a report on the fire incident by December 1. The top court on November 23 had said that the COVID-19 pandemic had worsened in Delhi and gone out of control in Gujarat. It had also directed the Centre and states to apprise it of the steps taken to contain the situation nationwide. It had expressed concern over the spurt in coronavirus cases across the country and said the situation was likely to worsen in December. “All states have to be ready to combat it,” it said. In the June 19 order, the apex court had directed the Centre and states to set up an expert panel for effective monitoring, supervision and guidance of government and COVID dedicated hospitals for providing proper care to patients. It had directed the Centre to bring uniformity in charges of testing and other facilities and ordered it to constitute an expert committee of senior doctors of Central government hospitals, GNCTD-run hospitals, AIIMS and responsible officers from the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||No respite for TN, Puducherry as more rain likely from Dec 1||Tamil Nadu and Puducherry may face rains from December one as a result of the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal on November 30, the regional weather office said on Friday. The system is expected to intensify into a depression later, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, S Balachandran, told reporters. "A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to intensify into a depression on November 30 and move towards the Tamil Nadu coast," he said. This will result in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry receiving widespread rains from December 1 to 3, he added. The forecast for more  rains for the southern state and the union territory comes a day after severe cyclonic storm Nivar battered Tamil Nadu and Pudicherry after making a landfall on early Thursday, bringing in heavy showers. At least three people were killed in Tamil Nadu due to the cyclone in rain-related incidents including tree and wall collapse, while more than a thousand trees were uprooted. Over the last 24 hours, northwestern districts in Tamil Nadu received rains, with Sholinghur in Ranipet recording the highest rainfall of 23 cm, Balachandran further said. He also forecast light to moderate rains in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the next two days in some places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Priyanka calls for 'one nation one treatment' as farmers' protest continues||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over attempts to stop farmers from marching to Delhi over farm laws, saying the prime minister who is worried about 'one nation, one election' should also implement 'one nation, one treatment'. Her attack on the prime minister came a day after Modi advocated 'one nation, one election' system and a single voters' list, saying polls taking place every few months hinders development. Posting a video on Twitter of water cannons being used on protesting farmers, Gandhi said, "To suppress the voice of farmers -- Water was rained on them. Roads are being dug up to stop them." "But the government is not ready to show or tell them that where MSP being a legal right is written," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The prime minister who is concerned about 'one nation, one election', should also implement "one nation, one treatment", the Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh said. The Delhi Police on Friday used tear gas shells and water cannons to stop farmers from entering the national capital. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will march to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa to protest against new farm laws. Farmers have assembled near the borders in tractor-trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march. Farmers' bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest||PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and her daughter Iltija on Friday claimed that they had been detained at their residence to prevent them from visiting the house of arrested party leader Waheed Ur Rehman Parra in Pulwama in South Kashmir. Reacting to the alleged detention, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said personal liberty is treated as a favour by the government, giving and withdrawing it at will, with no interference from the judiciary. "I've been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, JK admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid's family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers and their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case," Mufti tweeted in English and Urdu. "Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges and I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she also wanted to visit Waheed's family," she said. Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday for allegedly seeking help from Hizbul Mujahideen terror group in seeking their support in the 2019 Parliamentary elections in which Mufti was the PDP candidate. Mufti had sought security clearance for her visit to the residence of Parra at Naira village on Friday to meet his family. In a communication posted on her official Twitter handle, Additional Director General of Police and Director Special Security Group (SSG) S D Singh sought rescheduling of the proposed visit of the former chief minister to the Naira village on the demand of the Pulwama district police. The Pulwama Police sought the rescheduling of her programme citing that neither an anti-sabotage check nor a proper route sanitisation had been done as the entire manpower was committed for other election-related operation duties. Jammu and Kashmir is all set for the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls and by-elections to the panchayat and urban local bodies, scheduled to be held in eight phases beginning November 28. NC vice president Omar Abdullah accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of treating personal liberty as a favour. "Parking a truck in front of our gates is now the standard operating procedure for this admin. They did the same to my father recently to stop him from praying. Personal liberty is treated as a favour by the govt, to give & withdraw at will, with no interference from the judiciary," Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter. His father and NC president Farooq Abdullah was on October 30 prevented from leaving his residence to offer prayers at Hazratbal shrine on the occasion of Eid-Milad-un-Nabi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Kangana bungalow demolition smacks of malice, says High Court||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) action of demolishing a part of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow here smacks of malafide and was done to cause substantial loss to the actor and quashed the demolition order. The court also said it does not approve of authorities using "muscle power" against any citizen. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla noted that the action undertaken by the civic body leaves hardly "any manner of doubt" that it was unauthorised. The bench was hearing Ranaut's petition challenging the demolition carried out by BMC at her Pali Hill bungalow in suburban Bandra on September 9. The civic body has proceeded to act wrongfully and illegally against the rights of a citizen," the bench said. Ranaut had sought Rs two crore in damages from the BMC and urged the court to declare BMC's action illegal. On the issue of compensation, the bench said it was appointing a valuer who would hear the petitioner and the BMC on monetary damages caused to her due to the demolition. "The valuer shall by March 2021 pass appropriate orders on compensation," the court said. The civic body had opposed the plea and said the actor had brazenly and unlawfully carried out extensive alterations and additions to the bungalow in breach of its approved plan. Ranaut had filed the petition on September 9 when the demolition process was initiated by BMC. The court had in an interim order on September 9 stayed the demolition work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||SC extends Arnab Goswami's interim bail||The Supreme Court on Friday said the interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami and two others in an abetment to suicide case will continue till the Bombay High Court disposes of their plea, and stated that the judiciary should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. The apex court had granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, saying it will be ''travesty of justice'' if personal liberty is curtailed. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud on Friday gave reasons for granting relief to the TV anchor and two others in the case. It said Goswami's interim bail shall be operative for another four weeks from the day the high court decides his pending plea in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. The bench also said the Supreme Court, high courts and lower courts must be alive to the misuse of criminal law by the state machinery. They should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens, it said. "Doors of this court cannot be closed to the citizen who has prima facie showed state has misused its power," it said, adding that deprivation of personal liberty even for a single day is too much. There is pressing need for courts to remedy institutional problems of delay in dealing with bail applications, it said. Referring to the facts of the case, it said prima facie there is a disconnect between FIR and ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The top court had granted interim bail to two others in the case -- Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh -- on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each and directed that they shall not tamper with the evidence and shall cooperate in the probe. The accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Finally, farmers get permission to protest in Delhi’s Burari||The Centre has allowed farmers to enter Delhi and permitted them to hold their agitation at the Burari ground, claimed Punjab’s agricultural outfits that are protesting against the central farm laws on Friday. "We have been allowed safe passage to Delhi," Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said. He claimed that Union home ministry officials had permitted them a place in Delhi’s Burari to carry out their agitation. Confirming the news, Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said, "After holding discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari Ground in Burari. We appeal to all farmers to maintain peace," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal informed that the protesters were on their way to the destination. At the Tikri border, farmers were escorted by police personnel amid tight security around 3 pm and taken towards the Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the city. But those gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, had not entered the city till evening. Earlier, farmers had demanded that they be allowed to hold their protest at the Ramlila ground but the Delhi Police had denied the request. The Delhi Police has enhanced deployment of security personnel, stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons and used barbed wire for fencing at the Singhu and Tikri border points (Delhi-Haryana border) to prevent the protesters from entering the city. Delhi police used tear gas shells in the morning on Friday to disperse a group of farmers who had reached the Singhu border as part of their “Dilli Chalo” march to protest against the Centre's new farm laws, a senior police officer said. The shells were fired at the border point at Narela which connects Delhi with Haryana. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will enter Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. The might of the State was unleashed to prevent protesting farmers entering Delhi on Friday, triggering a political slugfest and calls for intensification of the agitation against the new farm laws. On Thursday, Haryana police used heavy construction equipment to position boulders as protection for their barricades and employed crowd-control vehicles to prevent the farmers approaching Delhi. This, after drenching the marching farmers from Punjab with water cannons on a cold and bleak Wednesday. The Haryana police action attracted more publicity for the agitation, the sight of farmers drenched with water cannons drawing sympathy even from the chattering classes who are generally unmoved by such issues. By Friday morning, heavy police deployment was in place at Singhu border, a possible entry point for farmers coming from Punjab and Haryana can enter the city. Five sand-laden trucks, barricades with barbed wire and three water cannons had been stationed to stop tractors being driven by the protesters. Also, drones had been deployed to keep a tight vigil to maintain law and order, police said. Another officer said barbed wire fencing was used at the Singhu border near the first barricade so that the protesters do not break the barricades put up by security personnel. By Friday morning, traffic had been diverted at several places along the national capital's border in view of the protest. Checking of vehicles has also been intensified at the Delhi-Gurgaon border leading to heavy traffic jams. CISF personnel have also been deployed on the Delhi-Gurgaon border. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police posted a series of tweets asking people to avoid outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu Border. "In view of the rally/ march/protest by All India Kishan Sangharsh co-ordination committee, the traffic police is diverting traffic from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very heavy in this area," it said. It further requested commuters to avoid Mukraba Chowk Delhi as there is diversion and vehicles are not being allowed towards Singhu border. However, inter-state vehicles are suggested to take Western/Eastern peripheral expressway. "Tikri Border is completely closed for traffic movement by local police. Traffic intending to go towards Haryana is also closed. All motorists are advised to avoid this route in view of the protest by Kishan Sangharsh committee," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet. In order to prevent farmers from entering Delhi, police deployment has also been made at NH-24, DND, Chilla Border, Tigri border, Bahadurgarh border, Faridabad border and Kalindi Kunj border. The Delhi Police has also sought permission from the AAP government to use the city's nine stadiums as temporary jails in view of the protest, government sources said. Metro commuters in the city faced inconvenience as the Delhi Metro announced the closure of exit and entry gates at six metro stations on the Green Line in view of the 'Delhi Chalo' march. "Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed," the DMRC tweeted. Farmers' bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 93 lakh mark||India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 93.09 lakh with 43,082 new cases in a day, while 87,18,517 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 93.64 per cent on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 93,09,787 and the death toll climbed to 1,35,715 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 492 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 4,55,555 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 13,70,62,749 samples have been tested up to November 26 with 11,31,204 samples being tested on Thursday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 492 new fatalities include 91 from Delhi, 65 from Maharashtra, 52 from West Bengal, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Kerala, 26 from Punjab, 25 from Haryana, 18 from Chhattisgarh and 12 from Karnataka. A total of 1,35,715 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,813 from Maharashtra followed by 11726 from Karnataka, 11669 from Tamil Nadu, 8811 from Delhi, 8224 from West Bengal, 7674 from Uttar Pradesh, 6970 from Andhra Pradesh, 4710 from Punjab and 3922 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Strong winds contribute to a cleaner Delhi air||Delhi's air quality improved to the moderate category on Friday morning due to favourable wind speed and is likely to get even better. The city's air quality index (AQI), which was 302 at 4 pm on Thursday, improved to 131 by 9 am on Friday. On Wednesday, the 24-hour AQI was 413, which falls in the severe category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Stronger winds and a drastic reduction in the contribution of stubble burning were two major reasons for cleaner skies over Delhi. V K Soni, the head of the India Meteorological Department's environment research centre, said the wind speed remained favourable throughout the night, leading to a better-than-predicted situation. Usually, winds remain calm at night. On Thursday night, favourable wind speed (8-12 kmph) led to better dispersion conditions, he said. The maximum wind speed is predicted to be 14 kmph on Friday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was just 1 per cent on Thursday and 2 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR. The minimum temperature was 10.2 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 25 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||A government geared to halt, not the Chinese but farmers||The might of the State was unleashed to prevent protesting farmers entering Delhi on a day dedicated to the Constitution, which begins with “we the people”, triggering a political slugfest and calls for intensification of the agitation against the new farm laws. Haryana police used heavy construction equipment on Thursday to position boulders as protection for their barricades, and employed crowd-control vehicles to prevent the farmers approaching Delhi. This, after drenching the marching farmers from Punjab with water cannons on a cold and bleak Wednesday. A collective of farmers’ organisations has given a “Dilli chalo” call to press the Centre to repeal the three new farm laws and introduce a bill that guarantees a minimum support price (MSP) for the farmers. The Haryana police action attracted more publicity for the agitation, the sight of farmers drenched with water cannons drawing sympathy even from the chattering classes who are generally unmoved by such issues. As visuals of the crackdown began circulating online, the Rakesh Tikait faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, which has not joined the all-India platform of farmers’ and farm workers’ organisations, called for an indefinite blockade of all national highways from Friday. The call is likely to be most effective in western Uttar Pradesh, where the organisation wields influence. Asked about the faction giving its own call, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said Tikait was clearly feeling isolated in the face of the support the farmers were receiving and had decided to join in. Tikait’s call remains an independent one and is not part of the programmes of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which is now gearing for the possibility of the farmers from Punjab entering Delhi. The farmers have managed to push past the barricades at eight points on the Haryana-Punjab border. AIKSCC leaders said the Punjab farmers had initially planned to hold pickets wherever they were stopped. But Wednesday’s water-cannoning by the Haryana police and the multi-layered barricading -- as though it was the Pakistan border -- agitated them so much that they decided to march on. Now that they have crossed into Haryana, the authorities' entire focus is on barricading Delhi, where the borders were sealed for the major part of Thursday. The Centre’s apprehension is that if the farmers are allowed to enter Delhi, they may well start a prolonged agitation as the Punjab farmers, in particular, are moving with rations to last them a fortnight. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal questioned the Centre’s efforts to prevent the farmers from protesting. “The three farm laws are anti-farmer. Instead of repealing these laws, the government is preventing the farmers from protesting peacefully and using water cannons against them,” he tweeted in Hindi. “This crime against the farmers is wrong. It is their constitutional right to protest peacefully.” A verbal battle broke out between the Congress chief minister of Punjab and his BJP counterpart in Haryana. Urging the BJP not to ask its state governments to use strong-arm tactics against the farmers, Amarinder Singh of Punjab said: “The hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside.” He underlined that the farmers had been protesting peacefully in Punjab for two months and asked why the Haryana government was provoking them by using force. “Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?” Amarinder tweeted. “It’s a sad irony that on #ConstitutionDay2020 the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed in this manner. Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully.” Khattar responded by accusing Amarinder of inciting the farmers and lying, and said he would leave politics if there was any trouble over the farmers securing the MSP. The Haryana chief minister also asked Amarinder not to put people's lives in danger during the pandemic. But this did not cut much ice, either with Amarinder or with the public in general, given that BJP leaders have themselves been holding rallies across the country through the pandemic. “It’s the farmers who’ve to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should’ve tried to talk to them before their #DilliChalo. And if you think I'm inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?" Amarinder countered. The Trinamul Congress reminded Haryana that it had always been viewed as a “farmer-oriented” state. “But today, the policies undertaken by the central govt have brought farmers on the roads. The same water that cultivates crops is being used to quell protests! Is this how @BJP4India doubles farmers' income in their states?" the party tweeted. While the Punjab farmers caught all the media attention because of the sheer numbers moving towards Delhi, smaller groups of farmers made for Delhi from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan amid reports they were being stopped at various places and their leaders detained. Elsewhere, farmers observed a “grameen hartal” (rural strike) in a show of solidarity with the nationwide strike call given by trade unions. In Delhi, some farmers made it to Jantar Mantar but their efforts to stage a protest were foiled by the police, who rounded them up within minutes and took them to different police stations. Most of them had been let off by evening. Since the “Dilli chalo” call was for November 26 and 27, the AIKSCC has asked farmers across the country to gherao central government offices and district headquarters on Friday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has invited the Punjab farmers for talks on December 3 but they are insisting the government talk to the farmers’ collective instead of trying to divide them state-wise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||ISC council signals delay in board exams||The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, ICSE council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Thursday evening. Arathoon told The Telegraph over the phone that there was no clarity on when the schools can reopen, even for Classes X and XII. He said the students were unable to attend practical classes, crucial for the board exams. “The schools and the board would like students to come to school for the practical classes and exams. Right now, the practicals that they are doing or what they are learning is through videos. But there is no hands-on training. There should at least be two months of practicals that they do and then exams can take place,” Arathoon said. He also referred to the upcoming elections in some states and the pandemic. Arathoon said: “Taking all these into consideration — the hands-on practical classes, election in some states next year and the fact that the pandemic is still on, I can’t see the board exams taking place before the end of May or in June.” Arathoon said that for the board exams to take place, parents’ consent to sending their children to school was necessary. “To have the board exams, parents have to agree to send their children to school.” He said the state governments too needed to take a decision on the reopening of schools, and being a “national board” the council had to take all the states into account. Usually, the ICSE and ISC exams begin in February and the exam timetable is published by the council by the end of November. The practical exams for the ISC take place as early as the first week of February. The Telegraph had reported on November 13 how teachers across schools in Calcutta were concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for the Class XII students who are to appear in board exams next year. Usually, for each of the science subjects — physics, chemistry and biology — Class XII students attend approximately 45 to 50 hours of practical classes in an academic year. This year there have been none so far. The heads of several ISC and ICSE schools had expressed concern about the loss of practical classes to the council. The council had asked the schools for feedback on teaching, coverage of the reduced syllabus, and the conduct of Classes X and XII assessments. The heads of several ICSE schools this newspaper spoke to said that because of the pandemic, the students were unable to perform experiments in school. Although the teachers were sending them videos of the assignments or showing live demonstrations online, it was not the same as doing hands-on experiments, they said. This year, the Class X and XII board exams had to be stalled midway because of the pandemic. Eight ISC papers and six ICSE papers were pending when the council suspended the exams in March. Later, the Supreme Court announced that the remaining Class X and XII exams for both the CBSE and the ICSE/ISC boards that had been rescheduled for July would be cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq: A scholar, reformer and educationist||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, Islamic scholar, reformer, educationist and the most important Shia cleric in India, died on Tuesday night in Lucknow after a prolonged illness. Sadiq, 81, had been admitted to Era Medical College on November 17 and was undergoing treatment for severe pneumonia. He had been battling colorectal cancer for the last three years. Lakhs of mourners across the world tuned into his funeral virtually, to pay their last respects to a man who had devoted his life to helping the poor. Born in Lucknow on June 22, 1939, to a family of Shia religious scholars — his father Syed Kalbe Hussain and brother Kalbe Abid were all acclaimed for their Islamic scholarship and oratory — Sadiq followed in their footsteps. He obtained a master’s in Arabic literature from Aligarh Muslim University and a doctorate from Lucknow University. In the 1970s and 1980s Dr Kalbe Sadiq was among the first clerics who went on lecture tours to the West where the tiny Indian Shia diaspora was growing. Along with preaching about Imam Husain and the martyrs of Karbala, he would also address the needs of his audience for an understanding of Islam, living in countries that were ignorant of its beliefs and rituals. Unlike other maulanas, Sadiq lectured in easy Urdu, peppered with English, so that youngsters could understand his message. Sadiq was a great believer of modern education and felt it was the only panacea to the problems of society. He exhorted Indian Muslims to arm their sons and daughters with both religious and modern education in order to eradicate the ignorance and poverty plaguing the community. In 1984, Sadiq founded the Tauheedul Muslimeen Trust, which over the years has given educational assistance and scholarships to thousands of needy and poor students irrespective of their religion. Renowned for his charitable work, Sadiq was the guiding force behind the Unity group of schools and colleges in Uttar Pradesh, the Era Medical College and Hospital, Hiza Charitable Hospital and many other educational and health establishments. A liberal at heart, what distinguished Sadiq from many other religious preachers was his propagation of secular values and inter-faith camaraderie. He stressed on Shia-Sunni harmony in Lucknow, which is known for its long enmity between the two sects that could even turn violent. Practicing what he preached, he regularly read Eid-ul-Adha namaz in congregation with Sunni Muslims. He also worked tirelessly for Hindu-Muslim unity amid rising religious polarisation. He represented the Shia voice as the long-standing vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, and in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case he urged Muslims to peacefully accept whatever the courts decide. Sadiq always looked at the bigger picture. In 2017, a couple of years prior to the Supreme Court’s verdict, Sadiq had even suggested Muslims give the Babri Masjid land to Hindus if “by giving away a piece of land the community can win millions of hearts” and establish communal harmony. Sadiq fought always on the side of justice. Despite his failing health in January this year he showed solidarity with the CAA-NRC protests by visiting the women at the Clock Tower in Lucknow. “If you don’t take back this law, then these demonstrating women, these children will unseat you one day,” Sadiq advised the Narendra Modi government from his wheelchair. Despite enjoying enormous following among the 50 million Shias in India and goodwill across communities, religions and countries, Kalbe Sadiq was an incredibly humble man living a Spartan life. He was a vegetarian by choice and had no desire or time for the pomp and ceremony that some religious leaders crave. He travelled by A/C three-tier trains to deliver his lectures and charged a very modest fee. If the organisers wished to give him more, he would tell them to donate it towards the education of orphans. The whole community today has been orphaned by his sad demise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Father Stan Swamy’s wait for sipper in jail||A court here on Thursday sought a reply from the prison authorities on 83-year-old tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s request that he be provided a straw and sipper in jail. He also filed a bail plea in the special NIA court on Thursday citing health issues. Earlier in the day, the court rejected his previous application seeking a directive to the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him during the arrest. On Thursday, the agency denied that it had confiscated his straw and sipper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Cyclonic storm Nivar kills 3 in Tamil Nadu, wrecks trees||At least three persons were killed in Tamil Nadu, over 1,000 trees uprooted and some low-lying areas marooned due to waterlogging following heavy rain on Thursday as severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Puducherry. Subsequently, Nivar weakened into a cyclonic storm and further into a deep depression, centred about 50km west-southwest of Tirupati at 2.30pm, officials of the India Meteorological Department said. According to the IMD, it will weaken into a depression during the next six hours. Heavy rains lashed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as Nivar made landfall in the early hours, leading to inundation and uprooting of trees. Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “We are closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Have spoken to CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and CM Shri @VNarayanasami and assured all possible help from the centre. NDRF teams already on ground to help people in need.” In Tamil Nadu, three persons, including a woman, were killed in rain related incidents such as tree and wall collapses in Chennai, nearby Ponneri and Villupuram, authorities said. Officials said about 1,086 trees were uprooted in Tamil Nadu and almost all of them have been removed. In a few places, overhead electricity cables snapped as heavy trees fell over them and also some vehicles. In Chennai, citizens in many parts complained of disruption in Internet. Chief minister K. Palaniswami visited Cuddalore, close to Puducherry, and took stock of the damage in the district. Low-lying neighbourhoods in Chennai witnessed flooding and water entered the houses of many residents. Rescue personnel ferried cooked food to the people using inflatable boats and while some chose to shift to the homes of their relatives, others continued to stay put battling odds. In city areas, civic workers pumped out stagnant waters from several locations. Airport operations, Metro rail and bus transport resumed on Thursday. State-run bus transportation services, suspended in Villupuram, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts from November 24, resumed from noon on Thursday. In neighbouring Puducherry, which saw heavy rains and inundation in some parts, there were no reports of loss of life because of the cyclone. Chief minister V. Narayanasamy said there were no reports of loss of lives adding whether boats and nets were damaged or not would be known only later. In view of the cyclone, a prohibitory order that was in force in the Union Territory since November 24 to prevent movement of people and also gathering was lifted on Thursday. In Andhra Pradesh, chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked SPS Nellore district collector to render all assistance to the family of the person who died of electrocution on Wednesday. In Chittoor district, three farmers went to their fields to fetch electric motors but were suddenly caught in a swirling flood from the Mallemadugu reservoir on Thursday. While NDRF and state emergency response and fire services personnel rescued two farmers, another was washed away and efforts were on to trace him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Aligarh Muslim University to take BJP flag dispute to SC||Aligarh Muslim University’s act of removing a BJP flag from an MLA’s vehicle after it had entered the campus will now go to the Supreme Court. The university has decided to challenge in the apex court an Allahabad High Court order refusing to quash criminal proceedings against members of the varsity’s proctorial board for having the flag removed from the SUV of Barauli MLA Dalveer Singh. The vehicle had come to take Vijay Kumar Singh, grandson of Dalveer and a first-year BA student, home on October 22 last year. Its driver Guddu Singh later complained to the chief judicial magistrate’s court against proctor Brij Bhushan Singh and the 12 other members of the board, alleging they had forcibly removed the flag and manhandled him. The university petitioned the high court on January 23 this year to quash the case, arguing its rules banned political parties’ flags inside the campus. On November 21, the bench of Justice J.J. Munir passed an order refusing to stop the proceedings in the lower court. University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said everyone on the campus — students, teachers and other staff —“meticulously” followed the ban on political parties’ flags. “After we failed to secure relief from the high court, the university management decided at a meeting to approach the Supreme Court to quash proceeding against university members who were doing their duty,” Kidwai said on Thursday. “The members of the proctorial board were standing at the Bab-e-Sayed, the main gate of the university, when the SUV entered the campus. The driver said the vehicle belonged to a BJP leader and that he had come to take a student home. But, following the university rules, the board members removed the flag.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Militants kill 2 jawans in Srinagar||Militants travelling in a car killed two soldiers during an attack on a quick reaction team of the army at the busy HMT crossing here, showing again their capability to strike at will in the city. There have been multiple militant attacks on security forces and half-a-dozen encounters between the two sides in Srinagar this year, betraying how the city is back in their focus after last year’s abrogation of Article 370. A police spokesman said preliminary investigations have revealed that militants travelling in a Maruti car took “undue advantage of crowded place” and fired indiscriminately at an army party, resulting in injuries to two jawans. “The injured jawans were rushed to the hospital for treatment; but both succumbed to their injuries and attained martyrdom. They have been identified as Sepoy Ratan (Lal) of 163 Battalion Territorial Army and Sepoy Deshmukh of 101 Battalion Territorial Army,” the spokesman said. Both were attached to the Rashtriya Rifles. “The movement of LeT and Jaish has been noticed in the area. We are investigating which group was behind the attack,” inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar said. Kumar said three militants were travelling in the car and it appeared two were foreigners and one was a local. Defence spokesman in Srinagar, Colonel Rajesh Kalia, said militants fired indiscriminately at the quick action team near Khushipora. “Being a crowded area, troops exercised restraint to avoid any civilian casualties and collateral damage,” he said. The area remains packed with vehicles during the day. The attack triggered panic and many vehicles were stuck in a jam. Official sources said there had been around a dozen militant attacks or gunfights between the security forces and militants this year in Srinagar, the highest in the last several years. In October, bike-borne militants carried out an attack on a road opening party of the 110 Battalion of the CRPF at Kandipzal area of Nowgam bypass, which killed two cops and left three others injured. In August, militants killed two policemen in an attack in a nearby locality. The city has witnessed around half-a-dozen encounters at Batmaloo, Nawakadal, Zoonimar, Malbagh, Mujgund, Parimpora and Panthachowk this year. There was also an attack on the BSF in Pandanch. When the BJP-led government scrapped Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir last year, it had claimed the move would end militancy in the region and bring peace, but that has remained a far cry so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Mother-tongue debut in some IITs, NITs||The government on Thursday announced its decision to introduce engineering courses in the mother tongue in some IITs and NITs from the next session. After education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held a review meeting with senior officials of the ministry, the Press Information Bureau said in a statement that a “seminal decision” had been taken to start technical education courses, especially engineering, in the respective mother tongues of the states where the IITs and NITs are located. A ministry official said the mother tongue version would be optional. Engineering courses in India are offered in English, while the Joint Entrance exams are held in English and Hindi. The education ministry believes that courses in the mother tongue will have many takers in the IITs and NITs. Other than reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, OBCs and economically weaker sections, a sizeable number of poor students get enrolled in these institutions. Many of them have had a vernacular education in school. The names of the institutions that will offer the mother tongue option have not been announced yet. Sources said IIT Banaras Hindu University could introduce engineering courses in Hindi. Former director of NIT Rourkella, Sunil Sarangi, welcomed the decision but favoured a gradual process. “Teaching of students in the mother tongue is essential and feasible. Language is not a barrier for teaching any subject. The preparation of study materials will take time. In 10 years from now, a complete degree programme in any branch of engineering can be offered in the mother tongue,” Sarangi said. He said employability and the reputation of Indian institutions globally would not be affected. Satya Narayanan, chief executive officer of the coaching institution Career Launcher, said teaching in the mother tongue would help democratise the professional education space. “Today, the professional education space is crowded with students from English-medium schools. There are talented students studying in regional-medium schools who can excel in courses taught in their mother tongue. This will give a level playing field to students from all sections of society,” Narayanan said. Syllabus pruning The government has decided that the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts JEE-Main, will come out with a new syllabus for competitive examinations “after assessment of the existing scenario in various boards”. An official said the syllabus for JEE-Main would be reduced because the school boards had pruned their syllabus by about 30 per cent in view of the pandemic. Exam feedback The education ministry will launch a campaign to seek the views of students, parents and teachers on how and when to conduct board exams next year. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said the schools had been talking to parents for the past two months to understand their concerns on the schedule of board exams. The practical exams usually start by February 15 while the written exams begin in March and continue till the third week of April. “By and large, parents in Delhi want the board exams to be pushed back by a month or a month-and-a-half. They want to see the Covid trajectory before taking a decision,” Wattal said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the board exams should be held in April next year while the practical tests should be conducted in March instead of February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Farmer rebuttal to Modi on Constitution Day ||While Prime Minister Narendra Modi was holding forth on constitutionalism on Thursday morning, the Congress tweeted a quote by Mahatma Gandhi: “What you do says what is most important to you. Action expresses priorities.” The message was posted along with several photographs and videos showing the police of BJP-ruled Haryana using force and water cannons to stop farmers from reaching Delhi to protest against the new farm laws. The Congress described the police action, on the anniversary of the day the Constitution had been adopted, as an attempt to crush the farmers’ rights. It described the farmers’ march to the national capital to convey their feelings to the government as perfectly legitimate. While Rahul Gandhi lauded the farmers for standing up to the authorities’ high-handedness, party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh tore into the government. “Are only the suited-booted friends of Modiji allowed to come to the national capital? Which part of the Constitution empowers the government to stop peaceful protesters from entering Delhi? Only aircraft will land in Delhi, tractors won’t enter?” Vallabh said. “The Prime Minister said today (that) KYC is ‘know your Constitution’. The first line (in the Constitution) is ‘We the People’. Modiji has forgotten that the Constitution is about the people, who include the farmers. “Why are they coming to Delhi? To request you to give a legal guarantee for an MSP (minimum support price). You talk about the Constitution and, on the ground, crush the farmers’ right to protest?” The Congress supports the farmers’ agitation and has been protesting the crackdown on their leaders over the past two days in Haryana. “Farmer leaders were picked up in midnight raids. Barricades, barbed wire, stones have been put up on roads to block the march,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “Farmers are (being) lathi-charged. Are they terrorists? Has the Modi regime become more cruel than colonial rule?” Former BJP ally Akali Dal, which had parted ways over the “draconian” new farm laws, too slammed the Haryana government. “Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest. Akali Dal condemns the Haryana government and the Centre for choosing to repress the peaceful farmer movement,” Sukhbit Badal tweeted. “Is it forbidden to go to Delhi? The protest is against the central government. Why is Haryana chief minister using force to stop farmers?” Badal’s reference to 26/11 — the November 2008 terrorist siege of Mumbai — reflected the seriousness the Akalis attach to the situation. The BJP has lauded the Prime Minister for agricultural reform and put up large hoardings across the country. Vallabh criticised Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar’s assurance that the issues would be discussed with farmers on December 3. “What will be discussed on December 3 can be discussed today as well. Is there a muharat on December 3? You don’t have time to talk to the farmers who worked in the fields during corona to ensure agriculture becomes the only sector to (show) positive growth,” he said. “But for agriculture, the minus 24 per cent (growth) would have been minus 40 per cent. What is Modi doing, what engagement is more important than the issue that has agitated 62 crore farmers?” The use of force against the farmers triggered a Twitter war between the Congress chief minister of Punjab and his Haryana counterpart from the BJP. Amarinder Singh, who didn’t try to stop the march in Punjab, tweeted: “For nearly two months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana government provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway? “It’s a sad irony that on Constitution Day the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed.... Let them pass (Manoharlal) Khattarji, don’t push them to the brink.... The hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside.” Khattar responded: “Amrinderji, I have said it earlier and I am saying it again, I will leave politics if there will be any trouble on the MSP. Therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers. “I have been trying to reach out to you for the last three days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable. Is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You are only tweeting and running away from talks.... Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the corona pandemic.” Amarinder responded: “Shocked at your response Khattar ji. It’s the farmers who have to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should have tried to talk to them before their Delhi march. And if you think I am inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi? “As for endangering lives during Covid-19, have you forgotten that it was BJP-led central government that pushed through those farm laws amid the pandemic, uncaring about the impact they’d have on our farmers? Why didn’t you speak out then Khattar ji?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Separated conjoined twin dies in Odisha||Balia, aged 5, one of the conjoined twins from Kandhamal who was separated from his brother following a marathon surgery at All India Institute of Medical Science, New Delhi, three years ago, passed away at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, on Wednesday. He was cremated on Thursday at his native village Milupada in Kandhamal. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik conveyed his condolences to the family and said that despite the best efforts of the doctors the child could not be saved. “May god give strength to the bereaved family members in this difficult time,” said Naveen. The twins were joined at the head since birth. Later on the initiative of the Odisha government, a marathon surgery was conducted at AIIMS, New Delhi, in 2017 to separate the craniopagus twins. After their separation, they remained in AIIMS for two years. In 2019 they came to Odisha and were under the constant supervision of doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Plea in Orissa HC for CBI probe into girl death||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in Orissa High Court seeking a CBI probe into the kidnapping and murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh district.  Bharat Vikash Parishad, which has filed the petition, has also demanded Rs 25 lakh as compensation for the family of the victim Pari. On Wednesday, the Odisha government had ordered a crime branch probe into the incident following a public uproar and mounting pressure from the Opposition. The Odisha Assembly again witnessed pandemonium over the issue on Thursday. The Opposition BJP and the Congress trained their guns on higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who hails from Nayagarh district, and demanded his resignation. He has been accused of shielding the culprits. The BJP also burnt effigies of the minister. Under fire from different quarters, Sahoo issued a statement on Thursday saying he welcomed the crime branch probe and that “whoever is involved in the murder case of Pari” should be brought to the book. “The issue should not be politicised. Let Pari get justice and the truth come to the fore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Bihar ‘inclusive’ pitch and parallel speech||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan emphasised on “social and communal harmony” and “inclusive development” by the state government while addressing the joint session of the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council on Thursday amid ruckus by the Opposition. At the same time, the CPI-ML read a parallel speech in the House to showcase the failures of the government. Setting the agenda and course of action for the new National Democratic Alliance government headed by chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar in the state, the governor highlighted the focus areas of governance. Chauhan’s speech had a distinct influence of what had been the thrust areas of Nitish in governance, but at the same time it did not fail to mention the welfare works of the BJP–led central government. “Social and communal harmony is prevailing in the state. The government’s policy is of zero-tolerance on crime, corruption and communalism,” the governor said.    Chauhan added that he fully believed that the government would “tread on the path of inclusive development and go ahead towards making a developed Bihar. We see an extensive awareness about development in different categories of the people, especially the youth, women and deprived sections”. In what could be seen as the government’s effort to address the rising crime graph in the state, Chauhan assured that it was determined to uphold the rule of law. “The government is determined to ensure development with justice and development of every region and section of the society. It is determined to maintain the rule of law. Law and order has been implemented without any animosity or discrimination. Organised crime has been strictly curbed and this will continue in future also,” he said. Chauhan asserted that the state government would strictly implement prohibition and continue its social campaign against child marriage and the dowry system. While highlighting the work done by the state government over the previous years, the governor said, “New programmes will be brought for the development of the state and all sections of the society. Bihar will be taken to greater heights of progress by the state’s own efforts and assistance of the central government.” While the governor was addressing the joint session, CPI-ML legislator Satyadeo Ram read a parallel speech to highlight the failure of the government on several fronts. “We are continuously seeing the murder of the constitutional rights of labourers and farmers. We are fully determined to protect the socio-economic and political rights and the Constitution,” he said. Ram, the Darauli MLA, pointed out that employment, quality education and health facilities, protection of the rights of farmers and labourers, and the rule of law and justice have come up as popular issues during the recent elections. “Unemployment, issues pertaining to migrant workers, and making contractual workers and teachers as permanent employees remained at the centre of the elections despite desperate attempts of the BJP and the JDU to stop them,” he added. The CPI-ML also asserted that though the NDA scraped through with a small margin, the poll mandate has come as a setback to the BJP’s efforts to make an “Opposition-free India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
