28-11-2020||India||Oommen Chandy ‘framed’ in 2013 solar bribery case||A former party colleague of a Kerala MLA has disclosed that then Congress chief minister Oommen Chandy had been wrongly accused of sexual abuse in a letter written by the complainant seven years ago. C. Manoj Kumar, estranged colleague and relative of lawmaker K.B. Ganesh Kumar, made the disclosure at a Congress campaign for the upcoming local body polls in Kollam on Friday. “I am revealing now that it was Ganesh Kumar and his PA (personal assistant) who made Sarita (Nair) change her statement,” Manoj told the UDF election meeting. Manoj was the state general secretary of the Kerala Congress (B), headed by Ganesh Kumar’s father Balakrishna Pillai. Ganesh Kumar is the lone MLA of the party that switched sides to the LDF in 2018. Manoj joined the Congress recently. Manoj confessed to have intervened in the matter after Ganesh Kumar sought his help to save himself from getting implicated in the 2013 solar bribery scam in which Sarita, director of a fraudulent company, was the key accused. “A sexual abuse allegation had cropped up against then chief minister Oommen Chandy. I am someone who believes that it (Chandy’s name) was added later,” Manoj said, adding that Ganesh Kumar tarnished Chandy after being ignored for a cabinet berth. After being arrested, Sarita had written a 25-page letter from jail accusing several Congress leaders, including Chandy, of sexually abusing her, taking undue advantage of her position. But the Congress had then claimed that four pages, including the allegations against Chandy, were added as part of a conspiracy. According to Manoj, it was Ganesh Kumar who forced Sarita to add Chandy’s name in the letter. “If I don’t reveal all this now I will face God’s wrath,” Manoj said. The solar scam had singed the UDF government, as Chandy and several of his ministers were accused of going out of the way to help Team Solar — a company floated by Sarita — get investments and orders for solar panels. The political uproar against his government had forced Chandy to appoint a judicial commission under retired Justice G. Sivarajan in 2013. In its findings submitted before the LDF government in 2017, the commission had established that bribes totaling Rs 2.16 crore had been paid to several leaders. “Oommen Chandy knew everything but remained silent,” Manoj said. Ganesh Kumar could not be reached for comment. Neither did he issue any statement. But Chandy told reporters that everyone already knew what Manoj had revealed on Saturday. “The truth will always come out. I am a believer (in God). How long can you hide the truth? It will come out one day,” said the 77-year-old former chief minister. “I was neither excessively sad when I was accused, nor am I happy when the truth has started coming out. I knew it (the allegation) will be proved wrong one day,” Chandy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
28-11-2020||India||Will not answer Khattar’s calls unless he apologises: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday that he will not speak to his counterpart in Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar if he does not apologise to farmers for "inflicting brutality" during their march to Delhi. According to a statement, the Punjab chief minister also denied allegations that he did not speak to Khattar over the issue despite the Haryana chief minister’s repeated attempts. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab's farmers, I will not forgive him, said Singh, while wanting him to apologise to the farmers. His reaction came after Khattar on Saturday alleged that his counterpart did not respond to his repeated attempts to speak with him over the phone for three days, despite him wanting to talk to Singh regarding the farmers issue. Khattar also alleged a conspiracy about the Punjab Chief Minister’s Office giving directions to the farmers to protest against the farm laws. Amarinder Singh said there is no way he would talk to Khattar again-- neighbour or no neighbour --after Haryana's use of water cannons and teargas shells against farmers. Singh said if he could talk to the prime minister and the Union home minister so many times on the farmers' issue, why would he have not taken calls from a neighbouring chief minister if he had truly called earlier. “Who's Khattar to come in between? What business does he have interfering in this whole affair,” Singh asked, questioning his decision of not allowing the farmers to go to Delhi. He also slammed the Haryana CM about his allegations regarding the Punjab PMO. “I am a nationalist to the core. I run a border state and will never do anything to create a law and order problem of any kind, he asserted, the Punjab CM said. For 60 days, the farmers were blocking Punjab's railway tracks, causing more than Rs 43,000 crore in losses to the state, without any problem. I will not take this nonsense from Khattar. Don't I have better things to do than to incite farmers, he asked. Sometimes they say it's Khalistanis who're managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it. Let them make up their minds,” said Amarinder Singh. “The CM declared that no political party was involved in the farmers' protests, which were a spontaneous reaction of farmers who were fighting for their future,” the statement says. Condemning Khattar’s allegations of farmers not abiding law and order, Singh said that Punjabis are law-abiding citizens and it is Haryana which is damaging public property and blocking the highways to stop farmers. Terming as ludicrous Khattar's claim that Haryana farmers are not part of the Delhi Chalo agitation, Amarider Singh said Punjab's intelligence showed that as many as 40,000-50,000 farmers from the neighbouring state have joined the march to the national capital, which even the Centre's intelligence reports would have borne out. “He (Khattar) doesn't know what's happening in his own state and he's telling me what to do in my state”, said Amarinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers set sights on Parliament House||Farmers, who had gathered at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on Saturday, indicated they would not relent till they reached central Delhi, the seat of power, and protest peacefully at Jantar Mantar near Parliament House so that their grievances are heard by lawmakers. The farmers, aggrieved over the three agriculture bills enacted by the government recently, iterated that they would not accept Delhi Police's offer to hold their protest at the Sant Nirankari ground at Burari in north Delhi. The numbers of demonstrators swelled at the Singhu border as farmers camping there for their “Dilli Chalo” protest march were joined by more farmers from Punjab and Haryana, all of them refusing to move towards the Sant Nirankari Ground, one of the largest in the national capital. "We have come all the way to protest against the Centre's new farm laws. What will we do at the Nirankari Ground in Burari, satsang? The government took votes from farmers by sitting in central Delhi. We want to go to Janpath and gherao Parliament House. We will not go back from here," said Manish Kadian, 38, a resident of a village in Haryana's Jhajjar district. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders criticised the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests and said talks with them was the only way out. The Congress leader tweeted a picture of a soldier showing a baton to an old farmer. “This is a very sad photo. Our slogan was 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan', but today a soldier is standing against the farmer due to PM Modi's arrogance. This is very dangerous," he wrote in Hindi. The Congress party said it would have been better if the Prime Minister talked to the protesting farmers instead of getting "himself photographed in corporate offices". As many as eight Opposition parties likened the attempts by police to stop the farmers' march towards Delhi by using tear gas, water cannons and by digging up roads to "repression" and "waging a war". Their leaders, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, DMK's T. R. Baalu, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, extended their support to the farmers and issued a statement. "Braving severe repression, tear gassing, heavy water cannons, roadblocks, police barricades and digging up the national highways surrounding Delhi akin to waging a 'war' on our farmers, tens of thousands of farmers have successfully reached the National Capital of Delhi. "We salute their determination and courage in this massive protest demanding the withdrawal of the retrograde anti-Kisan agri laws," they said in the statement. Among the other signatories to the statement were CPI General Secretary D. Raja, RJD MP Manoj Jha, CPI(ML) General Secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, AIFB's Debabrata Biswas and RSP General Secretary Manoj Bhattacharya. Gurmej Singh, 62, from Punjab, said the farmers would not give up unless they were able to reach Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Ground in the heart of the national capital and hold their "peaceful" protest there. “We will not go to Nirankari ground. We will either go to Jantar Mantar or Ramlila ground or we will sit here. We have enough ration for six months and will not leave the highway," he said. Singh, flanked by other protesting farmers, alleged that the Central government was anti-farmer and that its new agriculture laws would take away their livelihoods. "I am a farmer and all my life I have only done farming. We are ready to even sacrifice our lives but will not move back from here. This government is not for farmers. They are not concerned about farmers' issues," Singh said. Many of these farmers continued to hold their protest peacefully at the Singhu border where they have been holding meetings to decide on their next course of action and have also made arrangements for a longer stay at the Delhi-Haryana border. Many farmers cleaned roads, cooked their lunch and collected garbage, keeping in mind the importance of hygiene amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Tezveer, 49, a resident of Jhajjar and pradhan of Beri Anaj Mandi, said they welcomed the farmers of Punjab and extended full support to them. "The government should either take this law back or give MSP to the farmers. We come daily from Jhajjar to Singhu border and bring raw ration and other necessary things, including milk, for the protesters," he said. Most farmers gathered at the Tikri border between Delhi and Haryana have also refused the Delhi Police's offer to go to the north Delhi protest site. Sukhwinder Singh, who has been camping at the Tikri border since Friday evening, said, "We will continue to protest here. We will not move from here. Several other farmers are yet to join us from Haryana." Asked why, Singh said, "We don't want to go to any ground provided by them in Burari. We want to go to Jantar Mantar and hold a peaceful demonstration there. Meetings are being held, and until the next course of action is decided, we will continue to protest here at the border peacefully," he added. The farmers at the Tikri border looked prepared for a long haul with enough rations and utensils to cook food. They have been charging their phones in their vehicles. Jagtar Singh Bhagiwander, another farmer camping at Tikri, also maintained that they would not move ahead, but continue to fight for their rights from the national highway. “We won't proceed towards Burari. Yesterday, soon after we were granted permission to enter Delhi, we were told to move ahead in groups of 50 people one after the other. We refused to move in groups. "This is an attempt to separate us. If we have come together all the way crossing different borders, we will continue to stay united. As of now, we have decided to stay here at Tikri. We will continue our fight from here until further course of action is decided," he said. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||PM visits Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Pune to review vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited  Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune on Saturday to take the stock of Covid-19 vaccine development in the cities. The Prime Minister’s Office  (PMO) said that his visit was aimed at receiving first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in India’s mission to vaccinate its citizens. Modi started his tour by visiting the Zydus Cadila's manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, Modi reviewed the vaccine development process at the Zydus Cadila research centre in Changodar industrial area, over 20 km from Ahmedabad. Modi was extensively briefed about the vaccine development work at the plant by the company officials. He was briefed about the vaccine production procedure. He interacted with scientists and vaccine developers, an official said. "Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. The Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey," the prime minister tweeted later. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company is aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021 and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. Modi spent over an hour at the plant, before leaving for the airport, from where he left for Hyderabad at 11.40 am. Modi landed at the Hakimpet Air Force Station in the southern city where he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. Thereafter, proceeded to Bharat Biotech's facility located at Genome valley, located around 20 kilometers from the air force station. At the Bharat Biotech facility, the prime minister reviewed the development works of Covaxin, which is being made by the company to fight against Covid-19. He also interacted with Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella, scientists and senior management. "At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,"  he tweeted after the hour-long visit at the facility. The Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology is now undergoing phase-3 trials. Modi landed at Pune at 4:20 pm on Friday, after starting off from Hyderabad at 3:30 pm. He proceeded towards the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Manjari in a helicopter. At the facility, the prime minister interacted with scientists and took stock of the vaccine development work being carried out at the institute. Following that, he left for the Pune airport at 6 pm on his way back to Delhi. Modi's visit to SII was aimed at reviewing the progress of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanism, an official said. Serum Institute of India has partnered with pharma giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University for the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Chargesheet coming soon in case against Arnab Goswami||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said a charge sheet would be filed soon in the suicide case of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik, in which Arnab Goswami is an accused. The journalist, along with two others, is accused of abetting Naik and his mother’s suicide in 2018. "It is only after getting permission from the court, investigation into the Anvay Naik suicide case, in which Arnab Goswami is an accused, is currently going on. Very soon a charge sheet will be filed in this case," Deshmukh told reporters in Mumbai. The minister’s statement comes following the Supreme Court’s decision to extend Goswami’s interim bail, with the others, till four weeks. It stated that the judiciary should ensure that criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. The bench also ruled that the prima facie evaluation against Goswami and the others do not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The Alibaug Police arrested Goswami, Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on November 4 with links to the case. The journalist walked out of the Taloja prison on November 11 following the Supreme Court’s decision to grant him an interim bail. Deshmukh further said, "The decision of the court regarding the Kangana Ranaut case is related to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and not to the state government. Hence, there is no need for the CM or the home minister to tender an apology.” The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) action of demolishing a part of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow here smacks of malafide and was done to cause substantial loss to the actor and quashed the demolition order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||UP governor nod to ordinance against forcible religious conversions||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories. The promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 comes four days after the Yogi Adityanath government had approved a draft of the ordinance which also curbs religious conversions only for the sake of marriage. According to the ordinance, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate. It also has a provision under which if someone returns to their original religion, it shall not be deemed a conversion. While the onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the person accused of the act and the convert, it said. In case of contravention of the law, the ordinance says that the court shall grant appropriate compensation payable by the accused to the victim of conversion which may extend to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh in addition to the fine. The ordinance says no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion. An aggrieved person, his/her parents, brother, sister, or any other person who is related to him/her by blood, marriage or adoption may lodge an FIR about such conversion, according to the ordinance. In cases of mass religious conversion, the registration of the social organisations will be cancelled, and strong action will be initiated against them. If those previously convicted under the ordinance are caught again for the same offence, they shall be subjected to double punishment, it said. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, all the offences under this ordinance shall be cognisable and non bailable and triable by the sessions court, the ordinance said. In recent weeks, BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have revealed plans to enact laws to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which Hindu activists refer to as "love jihad". The Uttar Pradesh cabinet's approval to the ordinance followed the announcement by Adityanath that his government would come out with a law to deal with "love jihad". Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria last month, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of 'Ram Naam Satya Hai' to threaten those who do not respect their daughters and sisters. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had submitted a report last year suggesting a new law to check the forcible religious conversions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||AAP govt did not build a single hospital in 5 years, alleges Congress||In an attempt to corner the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government over health services in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress on Saturday alleged that the party thrives on just publicity and has failed to carry out public work. Citing data, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera in a press conference claimed that over the last five years, the state government has failed to open even one new hospital in the city. "This is a government which thrives on publicity and advertisement. But the ground reality is exposed at the time of a crisis like the Corona pandemic faced by us," Khera said. The AAP government did not immediately react to the statement. Khera also slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to three cities to review vaccine development works and claimed that everything has been turned into “event management”. "The government of India should have a clear policy over how and when it will allocate the vaccine among different categories as Rahul Gandhi has sought to know. Work should be done first, publicity can wait," he said. Furthering his attack at the AAp government, Khera said it had added just 776 beds in government hospitals during its ruling period in spite of promising 30,000 beds in the election manifesto. "This year, when Covid-19 pandemic is being faced by the people, the Delhi government has managed to spend only 25 per cent of its allocation on health services. It has also reduced the expenditure on the health sector that was 0.84 per cent of the GSDP," he alleged, citing data. He also claimed that currently just over 200 Mohalla Clinics were functioning despite the AAP government promising the construction of 1,000 of them. "The Delhi government has failed to do ground level work, and Delhi people are facing the consequences of its mistakes," Khera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Delhi march: farmers booked with attempt to murder charges||The Haryana Police has registered FIRs against state Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni along with several other farmers for attempt to murder, rioting, creating obstruction in government duty and other violations during their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, said officials on Saturday. On November 26, a case was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) among others at the Parao police station after Head Constable Pardeep Kumar filed a complaint, when hundreds of farmers gathered on the GT road near Ambala Cantt to proceed towards Delhi. Churani and many other unknown farmers have been named in the FIR, which adds that the BKU chief had assembled with several others near Mohra village in Ambala. It adds that Charuni refused to follow Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar’s order to not proceed further, and broke barricades with their tractors. It further says that the BKU chief had violated norms related to Covid-19, as did the others. A case against some farmers from BKU (Charuni) and others from Punjab was also registered at Panipat for violations relating to breaking police barriers and other charges. "A case has been registered under the provisions of section 188 IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under other provisions of the IPC," Inspector Rajvir Singh, SHO of Panipat's Police Station (Industrial) in Sector 29, told PTI. Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava had said on Thursday that the police had retaliated with "great restraint" when farmers broke barricades during their march. He had also informed that the farmers took the path of violence and pelted stones at many places thereby disturbing law and order. “Some police personnel sustained injuries, and police and private vehicles were damaged,” Yadava had said. "Agitating farmers not only damaged police barricades, but also proceeded by removing all the blockades and obstructions in an unlawful manner. Acting with restraint, police did not use force on the agitating farmers," he had added. On November 26, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC had been imposed to prevent people from gathering. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are marching towards Delhi as part of a protest to demand a repeal of the Centre's new farm laws, which deregulate the sale of agriculture produce. They say the laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Farmers continue agitation against farm laws on Singhu, Tikri borders||Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new Agricultural laws stayed put at the Singhu and Tikri border points for the third consecutive day on Saturday amid heavy police presence even after being offered a north Delhi ground to hold peaceful demonstrations. Numbers swelled at the Singhu border point as farmers gathered there were joined by more counterparts from Punjab and Haryana and they refused to move towards the Sant Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the national capital. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern range) Surender Singh Yadav, who took stock of security arrangements at the Singhu border, told reporters that around 600 to 700 farmers have so far reached the north Delhi ground. Yadav said police and administration have made sufficient arrangements for the farmers at the designated protest site, adding that he hoped more would go there. On Saturday morning, protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, held a meeting to decide their next course of action. After the meeting, a farmer leader said they would continue their protest there at the border. "We will not move from here (Singhu Border) and continue our fight. We will not return home. Thousands of farmers have come from Punjab and Haryana to join the protest," he told PTI. Another farmer said they would sit at the border and not move to the Nirankari Ground. "We will not go to the new protest site, and we will continue our protest at the national highway," he said. On Friday, hundreds of farmers entered the national capital to hold a peaceful protest at the Sant Nirankari Ground after facing teargas and water cannons and clashing with security personnel while thousands remained at border points, undecided whether to go to the demonstration site identified by police. The day witnessed police using teargas shells, water cannons and multi-layer barriers to block the protesters and the farmers pelting stones and breaking barricades in some places in their determination to push through as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' march against the Centre's new farm laws. Sukhwinder Singh, who has been camping at the Tikri border since Friday evening, said, "We will continue to protest here. We will not move from here. Several other farmers are yet to join us from Haryana. They are on their way. We won't move from here and will continue our fight from here." Asked why they don't want to enter the national capital despite being permitted by the Delhi Police, Singh said, "We don't want to go to any ground provided by them in Burari. "We want to go to Jantar Mantar and hold a peaceful demonstration there. Meetings are being held, and until the next course of decision is taken, we will continue to protest here at the border peacefully," he added. The farmers at the Tikri border seem to have come prepared for a long haul. They have brought utensils to cook food and are charging their phones in their vehicles. Jagtar Singh Bhagiwander, another farmer who is at Tikri, maintained that they won't move ahead and would continue to fight for their rights from the national highway. "We won't proceed towards Burari. Yesterday, soon after we were granted permission to enter Delhi, we were told to move ahead in groups of 50 people one after the other. We refused to move in groups. "This is an attempt to separate us. If we have come together all the way crossing different borders, we will continue to stay united. As of now, we have decided to stay here at Tikri. We will continue our fight from here until the further course of action is decided," he said. Meanwhile, more farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) will enter Haryana on Saturday for their march towards the national capital. "Our group of farmers on tractor-trolleys will soon enter Haryana through the Shambhu interstate border," said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. They had begun their march from Amritsar on Friday. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||NPRD to send Father Swamy, a Parkinson’s patient, a sipper in jail||Father Stan Swamy’s painful wait for a staw and a sipper cannot be tolerated anymore, a prominent disability rights outfit that is planning to send the drinking aid to the jailed Parkinson’s patient, said. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled's (NPRD) statement came after a special court in Mumbai on Thursday rejected the Elgar Parishad case undertrial’s request for the same. "The painful wait that Swamy will have to endure for a sipper cannot be tolerated any longer. December 4, when the very same court decides again, is seven days away. Stan cannot be refused fluids for such a long period. The NPRD and its affiliating units have therefore decided to send sippers to the jailor of Taloja Jail, Maharashtra, to be given to Stan Swamy," the NPRD said in a statement. The 83-year-old was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 from his Ranchi residence and is currently lodged in the Taloja prison. Being a Parkinson’s patient, he pleaded with the NIA to hand him a straw and a sipper, following which the court denied his request and sought the central agency’s response on his request. The court will further hear the matter on December 4. The NPRD also appealed  to all disability rights organisations, activists and all those who seek justice for the activist and stand in defence of his rights to join this campaign and send sippers to Swamy. "It took 20 long days for the NIA to come up with a claim that they did not seize these items from Stan's possession. Even if we accept the NIA's contention, the special court should have taken a humanitarian view and ordered that he be provided with an utensil that would assist him in intake of fluids including water. The refusal to do so is atrocious to say the least," the NPRD said. Father Swamy is an individual living with Parkinson’s disease, which is a condition recognised as disabling as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and expressed resentment at the persistent denial of the drinking aids to the tribal rights activist. The NPRD further said in its statement, “As per various laws and international conventions to which India is a signatory, it is obligatory that Stan Swamy be provided with requisite age and disability appropriate requirements, assistive aids including straws and sippers as also human care assistance". "Denial of the same constitutes a violation of his basic rights," it added. Swamy was arrested for his alleged role in inciting violence in the Bhima Koregaon case near Pune on January 1, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Modi in Hyderabad to oversee Bharat Biotech's Covid vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Hyderabad on Saturday as part of his three-city tour to take the stock of Cpvid-19 vaccine development. After landing at Hakimpet Air Force station here, he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Hyderabad on Saturday as part of his three-city tour to take the stock of COVID-19 vaccine development. After landing at Hakimpet Air Force station here, he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. He then proceeded to Bharat Biotech's facility located at Genome valley, a life sciences cluster about 20 km from the AF base, officials said. The Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology is now undergoing phase-3 trials. The vaccine is being developed and will be manufactured at Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) facility in Genome Valley in Hyderabad. Modi will be interacting with scientists and senior management of the city-based vaccine maker on the status of Covaxin, officials said. After his hour-long visit to the facility, the PM will proceed to Pune, where he will visit the Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine. Earlier this morning, Modi visited pharma major Zydus Cadila's manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, Modi reviewed the vaccine development process at the Zydus Cadila research centre in Changodar industrial area, over 20 km from Ahmedabad. After his arrival at Ahmedabad airport from Delhi shortly after 9 am, Modi flew to the Zydus Cadila plant and held discussions with the promoters and executives of the company, an official said. Zydus Cadila has announced that the phase-I clinical trial of its vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D is over and it has commenced phase-II clinical trials from August. Modi was extensively briefed about the vaccine development work at the plant by the company officials. He was briefed about the vaccine production procedure. He interacted with scientists and vaccine developers, an official said. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company is aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021 and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. Modi spent over an hour at the plant, before leaving for the airport, from where he left for Hyderabad at 11.40 am. The PM will be flying back to the national capital after the stopover in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 93.5 lakh ||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 93.51 lakh with 41,322 new infections being reported in a day, while 87,59,969 people have recovered so far pushing the national recovery rate to 93.68 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases increased to 93,51,109 and the death toll climbed to 1,36,200 with the virus claiming 485 more lives, the data updated at 8 am showed. After showing an upward trend for three days in a row, the active COVID-19 caseload decreased to 4,54,940, remaining below 5 lakh for the 18th consecutive day. It comprises 4.87 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), more than 13.82 crore samples have been tested till November 27 with 11,57,605 samples being tested on Friday. The 485 new fatalities include 98 from Delhi, 85 from Maharashtra 46 from West Bengal, 29 from Haryana, 27 from Punjab, and 23 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala among others. Of the total 1,36,200 deaths reported so far in the country, 46,898 were from Maharashtra followed by 11,738 from Karnataka, 11,681 from Tamil Nadu, 8,909 from Delhi, 8,270 from West Bengal, 7,697 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,976 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,737 from Punjab, 3,938 from Gujarat and 3,224 from Madhya Pradesh among others. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slips back into 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality slipped back into the "poor" category on Saturday, a day after it had improved significantly due to favourable wind speed. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 209 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Stronger winds and a drastic reduction in the contribution of stubble burning were two major reasons for cleaner skies over Delhi on Friday. The winds slowed down at night allowing the pollutants to accumulate. The maximum wind speed was 18 kmph on Friday. It is likely to be 15 kmph on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was just two per cent on Friday and one per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR. The weather department said the maximum temperature was likely to settle around 26 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Farmer suicide bid in front of Odisha House ||Two farmers from the Athagarh area of Cuttack district attempted self-immolation near the Odisha Assembly on Friday protesting against the alleged loan irregularities by the cooperative banks in their area. Though six farmers had reached Bhubaneswar from Athagarh with the intention of attempting self-immolation to highlight the issue but only two managed to come close to the Odisha Legislative Assembly gate. As soon as the two tried to set themselves on fire by dousing themselves with kerosene on Friday afternoon, the security personnel deployed in front of the Assembly whisked them away within minutes. As they were being carried away they shouted that they had been cheated by the cooperative banks. “People have taken loans in our names and we are being asked to pay. How can I pay the Rs 3 lakh that was taken against my name,” asked one of the farmers. Farmer leader Seshadev Nanda said: “Brother of Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare Co-operation Ranendra Pratap Swain was earlier the president of the Cuttack Central Cooperative Bank. During his tenure huge loans were sanctioned to people through cooperative societies. Even loans were given in the name of farmers, who are illiterates. Even some time they put the signatures only without knowing that money was taken against their name. But the real beneficiaries were others. We demand the cooperative banks to display the names of the people who have taken loans.” Police said: “As the road passing by the Assembly is open for public commutation, people suddenly get down from auto-rickshaws and start pouring kerosene on themselves to draw attention to the issues they want to raise. But we have prevented mishaps every time.” Earlier on Tuesday, parents of a five-year-old girl had tried to commit suicide in front of the Assembly demanding justice for their daughter who was murdered in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Cry to sack minister over Odisha girl death||Pressure is mounting on Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to sack higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who has been accused by the Opposition of shielding the culprits involved in the kidnapping and murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh, the home district of the minister. Though the chief minister on Friday announced a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) into the incident, the move has failed to satisfy the BJP and the Congress, the two major Opposition parties. The issue continues to generate heat both inside and outside the Assembly. While the Assembly witnessed pandemonium with both the Congress and the BJP demanding resignation of Sahoo, workers of both parties continued to organise demonstrations against the government in different parts of the state. Naveen, who had earlier announced a crime branch probe into the incident, said on Thursday, “If an SIT investigation is what is required, the state government will take steps in this regard and do it immediately. My government is committed to a free and fair investigation and we always want justice to be done.” However, it is yet to be clear whether the probe will be conducted under the supervision of the judge of the high court or by the police itself. Though the chief minister appealed to all parties to cooperate, his appeal failed to evoke a desired response from the Opposition. Senior BJP legislator Jaynarayan Mishra said, “There is ambiguity in the chief minister’s announcement. He has not clearly spelt out that there will be an SIT inquiry. He is trying to divert attention from the issue. We want the minister to immediately step down. Unless and until he resigns, justice cannot be done to the family of the five-year-old girl. The case should be referred to the CBI.” Outside, BJP and Congress activists tried to gherao the Assembly on the issue. A group of Youth Congress workers, led by its state president Smruti Ranjan Lenka, tried to sneak past the security corridor surrounding the House. They jostled with the police in their bid to march towards the Assembly demanding justice for Pari, whose parents had attempted self-immolation outside the House a few days ago. The Congress workers were taken into preventive custody. “The minister should immediately step down,” said senior Congress legislator Tara Prasad Bahinipati. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. Her parents have alleged that since the people involved in the crime are close to minister Sahoo, the police are not taking any action in the matter. Problems mounted for Sahoo after the sarpanch of Laxmiprasad panchayat in Nayagarh, Soumyaranjan Pradhan, alleged that the minister was protecting the main accused Babuli Nayak, who is considered close to Sahoo. Pradhan alleged that the local police was also trying to suppress the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Bipin Rawat under fire for attending China-owned MG Motor event||The perils of papering over border mismanagement with economic nationalism have hit home in an unlikely but telling manner. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has come under fire for attending an event organised by MG Motor here on Wednesday. The cause was noble: “Putting more electric vehicles on the road.” But the catch lay in the guardianship of the automotive company. MG Motor is headquartered in the UK but its overall ownership trail leads to China. MG Motor is a subsidiary of SAIC Motor UK, which is owned by SAIC Motor, a Shanghai-based, Chinese state-owned automotive design and manufacturing company. SAIC stands for Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation. A day before the clean-energy event in Delhi on Wednesday, the Narendra Modi government had banned 43 Chinese mobile apps. Earlier, another 59 and 118 such apps had been banned in two tranches in measures tom-tommed by admirers of the Modi government as a stunning retaliation for Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh. Rawat was not alone. BJP parliamentarian Meenakshi Lekhi and Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Kulaste too were at the MG Motor event, which apparently was part of a central government-promoted programme on electric vehicles. Photos tweeted by MG Motor showed Rawat in full uniform, posing with Lekhi at India Gate while flagging off a trial run by the company’s latest electric vehicle. Lekhi heads the joint parliamentary committee on the personal data protection bill, which had taken up the issue of Ladakh being geo-tagged as part of China by Twitter. A call and a text message to Lekhi remained unanswered. Contacted by The Telegraph, spokespersons for the defence ministry, the army and the BJP declined comment. But some defence ministry officials expressed shock in private. “It’s shocking. The presence of the CDS at the event in uniform is completely inappropriate and has raised many eyebrows in the defence ministry,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. An army officer said: “We are very curious — why did he attend the event?” A retired lieutenant general was furious. “What kind of message is he (Rawat) conveying to the armed forces amid one of the worst flare-ups on the China frontier?” he said. “BJP MPs too attended the event just a day after the government banned more Chinese apps. This is ridiculous at a time the government has been asserting there cannot be business as usual in the face of Chinese attempts to unilaterally change the facts on the ground along the border.” A Twitter user, Abhishek, wrote: “Hope Shri Bipin Rawat and Ms Lekhi know that this is a Chinese car company. While our soldiers are dying at the border our general is flagging off Chinese cars? Jai Hind.” A tweet from MG Motor had on Wednesday said: “We are proud to participate in the first-ever tech trial run from Delhi to Agra with the MG ZS EV.” It said the trial run “was flagged off by @M_Lekhi and General Shri Bipin Singh Rawat at India Gate today”. A media statement from the company said the event was “part of the Government of India’s mission to put more EVs on the road by 2020”. Congress leader Manish Tewari expressed surprise in a tweet on Friday. “Why would the CDS Gen Bipin Rawat flag off the trial run of a car produced by a Chinese-owned company... in the middle of the worst border standoff with China? Was he unaware or not briefed or it did not matter???” he wrote. A Twitter user, Shankar Rathore, said: “Barely five months ago 20 Indian soldiers made supreme sacrifice at the Galwan Valley when Chinese troops attacked them with stone-age weapons. It is so shameful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||First recession in 24 years but signs of turnaround emerge||The Indian economy is in recession for the first time in 24 years but the latest available figures also suggest the pandemic-induced contraction is easing off, marked by a pick-up in manufacturing. The economy reported a year-on-year contraction of 7.5 per cent in the three months to September or the second quarter of 2020-21, which on the back of a whopping 23.9 per cent contraction in the first quarter meant two consecutive quarters of contraction. An economy gets into a recession if it reports a contraction in two consecutive quarters. This is the first time India is doing so since 1996, when the Centre started releasing quarterly GDP (gross domestic product) figures. The figures for the second quarter were an improvement on a consensus estimate of an 8-9 per cent contraction, a sign of the economy being on the mend after the disastrous first quarter. Manufacturing surprised analysts by reporting positive growth on an annual basis in the second quarter at 0.6 per cent against a severe 39.3 per cent contraction in the first quarter. Construction and trade, including hotels and transport, reported contractions of 8.6 per cent and 15.6 per cent, respectively, though these were an improvement from the previous quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Centre allows marching farmers to enter Delhi||The Narendra Modi government has allowed the protesting farmers passage into Delhi after moving heaven and earth for two days to block them by digging up a national highway, using water cannons and firing tear-smoke canisters. Around 3pm on Friday, the Centre agreed to let the farmers enter Delhi and proceed to the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari where they will be allowed to camp. With the Modi government still sticking to its earlier date for talks — December 3 — the farmers’ organisations are gearing up for the long haul. Although the offer of talks is to farmers from Punjab, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has demanded that all peasants’ organisations be involved in the discussions. The AIKSCC is among the prime movers of the agitation. In a statement, the AIKSCC stressed that the farmers had very specific demands — repeal of three new farm laws and withdrawal of the proposed Electricity Bill, 2020, besides a legally guaranteed minimum support price. The bill envisions a pruning of the power subsidy and more privatisation. The government, sources said, had wanted to avoid a prolonged agitation in the capital, wary of having to deal with another Shaheen Bagh-like situation. The State machinery’s use of its full force to stop the farmers, however, has proved counter-productive for now. Not only did the farmers dig their heels in, the government’s iron fist generated sympathy for them. Attempts on social media to draw on Lal Bahadur Shastri’s “Jai jawan, jai kisan” slogan and accuse the government of turning the “jawan” against the “kisan” would also have influenced the government’s tactical switch, given the importance the current disposition attaches to slogans. While the government has yielded on one count, parallel efforts are on by the Right-wing ecosystem to run down the farmers’ protest. Apart from amplifying complaints about traffic snarls, the government’s supporters are also highlighting stray incidents of violence by the farmers and comments by some of the motor-mouths among them, besides alleging Khalistani links. The excessive use of force by the government has caught international attention. British Labour MP and shadow international development secretary Preet Kaur Gill on Friday commented on a photograph of farmers being water-cannoned. She tweeted: “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India.” The Dalai Lama tweeted and then deleted the following message: “A farmer takes care of his land not out of some sentimental affection for the soil, but because his livelihood depends on it. We, likewise, have to look after the community we live in. Having a sense of universal responsibility is not only relevant, it brings satisfaction.” The AIKSCC said it was for the government to lay its cards on the table for the negotiations to start. The AIKSCC is a constituent of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which has been set up to coordinate the “Dilli chalo” protest that has brought farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to Delhi. Now that the Centre has allowed the farmers entry to Delhi and given them a designated spot to protest, the AIKSCC is anticipating an inflow into the city over the next couple of days and will decide its course of action accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||AAP government rejects Delhi Police request for sub-jails to imprison farmers||Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government rejected the police’s request on Friday to declare nine stadiums in the capital as sub-jails to imprison farmers protesting the new agricultural laws. After Delhi police, which reports to the central government, sought permission for taking over the stadiums in the morning, several top AAP leaders, including MP Sanjay Singh and MLAs Raghav Chadha, Saurabh Bharadwaj and Jarnail Singh spoke out against the move that would amount to criminalising what they called a peaceful protest. The AAP said the farmers, mainly from Punjab, had reached Delhi after “much struggle”, facing tear-gas shells, water cannons and lathicharge by the police at various border points along their way to the national capital. Following the remarks, Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain replied to the police through the state’s principal secretary (home) Bhupinder Singh Bhalla. Jain’s letter to Delhi police said: “The demands of the farmers are well justified and the central government should immediately accede to their genuine demands. Throwing them into jails is no solution to the issue. The farmers’ protest was peaceful and non-violent. It is the constitutional right of every law-abiding Indian citizen of the country. The farmers who were leading a peaceful protest should not be locked in prisons, therefore, I have rejected the proposal of the Delhi police immediately.” Although AAP is known for militant activism like the Arvind Kejriwal-led sit-ins outside Parliament in 2014 and inside the lieutenant governor’s residence Raj Niwas in 2018, the party had distanced itself from the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime from December to March. The Delhi government has also sanctioned the prosecution of several students, suspended AAP municipal councillor Tahir Hussain and former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan on terrorism charges for organising the protests that the police have linked to the communal riots in February in which 53 people were killed. Later on Friday, eight AAP MLAs from Punjab, as well as Jarnail Singh — who is also the party’s state in-charge, courted arrest while trying to protest outside the Prime Minister’s residence on Lok Kalyan Marg. Jarnail Singh said: “Till these three dark laws are not rolled back, the farmers will continue their protest, and the AAP stands in support with them.” MLA Chadha said: “The right to protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society, and the Arvind Kejriwal government will take every possible step to uphold this right.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||ICU fire in Gujarat kills 5 Covid patients||Five coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out in the ICU of a designated Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat early on Friday. This was the seventh outbreak of fire at a Covid hospital in the past six months in Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state. The Supreme Court, which took suo motu cognisance of the incident, chastised the Gujarat government for multiple incidents of fire at Covid hospitals, expressing shock at the lack of will to prevent such tragedies. Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said 26 patients at the hospital had been rescued and shifted to other facilities. The fire broke out around 12.30am in the ICU on the first floor of the four-storey Uday Shivanand Hospital at Anand Bungalow Chowk. Around 31 patients were admitted at the time, Patel said. Chief minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the incident and ordered a probe into the fire. He announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said: “Of the 11 coronavirus patients admitted in the ICU ward, five lost their lives in the fire.” The preliminary probe has revealed that the fire was caused by a short circuit in a ventilator, Patel said. The Supreme Court noted that incidents of fire at Covid hospitals had been taking place frequently in Gujarat. “This is shocking! And let me say this is not the first incident. We are taking suo motu cognisance of this incident…. There are SOPs, there are guidelines but there is no will. This is not a solitary incident. Some measures need to be taken to prevent fires in hospitals,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre. The bench made the remarks when Mehta sought to argue that the Centre had already issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to states and Union Territories on dealing with the pandemic. The court asked the Gujarat government to file an affidavit to explain the steps taken to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. “The incident is shocking and not the first of its kind. Those responsible must be brought to book,” Justice Shah, who hails from Gujarat, observed. When Mehta said he would ask the Gujarat government to constitute a committee to deal with the rising incidents of fire, Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, replied: “We do not want a committee, we want proper steps to be taken.” Justice Reddy, who had earlier been the Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court, asked: “The Union of India issues guidelines but what is the implementation of it in this state? No development of vaccines, everything is in trial stage! Look at the gatherings in states! A second wave of the crisis has already begun.” “You need to go to the root cause of it (pandemic-related lapses)…” Justice Shah weighed in. In a written order, the court said: “These incidents are being repeated from state to state and from hospital to hospital. “We notice that neither concrete steps have been taken by the states in this regard nor any mechanism to prevent or ameliorate the situation is in place….” Mehta assured the court that the government would take preventive measures to deal with the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Campaign to send sippers to Stan Swamy in jail||A disability rights body on Friday launched a campaign to send sippers to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai a day after a court rejected Parkinson’s Disease patient Stan Swamy’s plea for the return of his straw and sipper. The CPM-backed National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) urged disability rights groups and activists to mail the sippers to the jail where Swamy, an 83-year-old Jesuit and tribal rights activist, is awaiting trial in the alleged Elgaar Parishad Maoist plot. Swamy, who cannot drink liquids without sippers, had on November 6 petitioned a court requesting the National Investigation Agency to return his straw and sipper. He said it had been seized when he was brought to the jail on October 9, a day after his arrest in Ranchi. NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang told The Telegraph last week: “It is false, wrong and mischievous to say that NIA has (in its possession) accused Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper. The matter is between the accused and jail authorities as the accused is in judicial custody.” On Thursday, PTI reported that the special NIA court had rejected Swamy’s plea after the agency denied having seized Swamy’s straw and sipper. “It took 20 long days for the (NIA) to come up with a claim that they did not seize these items from Stan’s possession,” NPRD general secretary Muralidharan said in a statement. “Even if we accept the NIA’s contention, the special court should have taken a humanitarian view and ordered that he be provided with a utensil that would assist him in taking fluids, including water. The refusal to do so is atrocious.” Swamy has “moved a fresh application seeking permission to use a straw and a sipper and winter clothes”, PTI reported. It said the court had sought the jail’s reply and adjourned the matter till December 4. Junior Maharashtra home minister Satej D. Patil had tweeted on November 7 that a straw had been given to Swamy. However, in a letter received by a friend of Swamy on November 18, the priest wrote that since his “sipper-tumbler” had been “disallowed at the prison gate”, he was using “a baby-sipper mug, which I purchased through the prison hospital”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Nitish loses cool over Tejashwi charges||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar exploded in anger at leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the Assembly on Friday following his stinging attack over criminal cases, including a three-decade-old murder case. “He is talking nonsense. He is lying. He is the son of a friend who is like a brother to me so I keep tolerating him. I do not say anything. Who made his father (Lalu Prasad) the leader of Lok Dal legislature party? Does he know?” a furious Nitish asked. The chief minister, who was screaming at the top of his voice, took everybody by surprise by his sudden rage. Legislators belonging to the Opposition Grand Alliance, especially the Rashtriya Janata Dal, sprang up from their seats and created a din, but he did not stop at this and continued in the same vein. By this time MLAs of the ruling NDA also stood up, shouting in support of Nitish. In no time, the members of the Opposition and the treasury benches trooped into the well, shouting and gesturing menacingly at each other. They almost came to blows before marshals intervened. This forced Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to adjourn the session for half-an-hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
28-11-2020||India||MiG operating from INS Vikramaditya crashes near Goa ||A MiG-29K fighter jet of the Indian Navy operating from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya crashed off Goa over the Arabian Sea on Thursday night. A search is still on for one of the two pilots who had ejected on time. “One pilot recovered and search by air and surface units is in progress for the second pilot. An inquiry has been ordered to investigate the incident,” the Indian Navy said in a statement on Friday. “The mishap occurred on Thursday after the twin engine origin jet had taken off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya,” said a navy official. This is the third mishap of a MiG-29K aircraft over the past year. In November last year, a MiG-29K trainer aircraft had crashed outside Verna village in Goa. Both the pilots had ejected safely. In February this year, another MiG-29K that was on routine training sorties had crashed after being hit by birds over Goa. However, both the pilots had ejected safely before steering the jet away from habitation. The INS Vikramaditya was part of the recent Malabar exercise involving navies from the US, Japan and Australia in the northern Arabian Sea. The exercises were centred around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarines and aircraft of the participating navies, had engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days from November 17 onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
