29-11-2020||India||Serum Institute rejects charges levelled by vaccine trial participant||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India on Sunday rejected charges that AstraZeneca-Oxford's COVID-19 vaccine candidate has serious side effects and said it will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for "malicious" allegations. A 40-year-old Chennai-based business consultant, who was a volunteer for the third phase of the vaccine trial conducted by Serum Institute of India (SII), has alleged serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions and has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to SII and others, besides seeking a halt to the trial. He was administered the shot at Chennai's Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites. "The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer's medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation between the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer," Serum Institute of India said in a statement. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the COVID vaccine trial, it added. "The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent. In spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company," Serum Institute said. It is evident that the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive, it added. "The Serum Institute of India will seek damages in excess of (Rs) 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims," the statement said. The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating if the adverse event as claimed to have been suffered by an Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trial participant in Chennai is related to the shot administered to him. A law firm on his behalf has sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO AstraZeneca UK, CEO Serum Institute of India, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice-Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said the causal link, if any, of the serious adverse events with the investigational product is objectively assessed in any clinical trial following a pre-defined scientific pathway and within a stipulated period. "Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine," Panda said. The notice given on November 21 by the law firm said, "Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future." "He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crore within two weeks from the receipt of this notice," it added. The notice also said that testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, "failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||UP opposition parties flay Centre, ask it to reconsider three farm laws||With farmers of at least three states laying siege on Delhi borders in protest against the three central farm laws, the Uttar Pradesh opposition parties on Sunday hit out at the Centre, asking it to reconsider these laws. "The farmers of the country are angry and agitated over the three farm laws enacted recently by the Centre. It would be better if the Centre reconsiders these laws enacted without forging any consensus with farmers," said Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav too flayed the Centre, accusing it of seeking to mortgage the country to the rich. "Insulting farmers by calling them terrorists is the worst face of the BJP. The BJP, which favours the rich, is conspiring to mortgage farms, farming, small business, trading, roads, transportation and everything else to the rich," he too said in a Hindi tweet. "If farmers are terrorists for the BJP, the BJP leaders and workers should pledge not to consume the food grown by them," he added. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the party will continue its fight till the laws are withdrawn. Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) president Shivpal Yadav too urged the Centre to consider its farm laws, while criticising the use of force on farmers heading to Delhi from Punjab and Haryana. He said the Centre must reconsider the farm laws. "Those caning the 'anndatas' (grain providers) are not t to stay in power. Major problems can be resolved through talks. There is no place in a democracy for repression of public aspiration, said Shivpal Yadav. Rashtriya Kisan Manch president too accused the Centre of repressing farmers and urged it to reconsider the farm laws. For the past two days, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have been laying siege at different borders of the national capital in protest against the central farm laws. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have been expressing fears that these laws would lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Seeking to allay farmers' fears, the Centre has been insisting these newly enacted laws would give farmers greater market access across the country and increase their income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Vaccine: DCGI, ethics committee probing claim of ill-effect in trial||The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are inspecting if the negative event as claimed to have been suffered by a Covid-19 vaccine volunteer in Chennai are linked with the shot administered to him. A 40-year-old business consultant from Chennai, who received a trial shot of the vaccine administered to him by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, has sought for Rs 5 crore as compensation for allegedly developing serious psychological and neurological symptoms after taking the dose. He was administered the shot at Chennai's Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites on October 1. A law firm on his behalf has now sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO, AstraZeneca UK, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research. Besides the compensation of Rs 5 crore, the man has also demanded that the testing, manufacturing and distribution of the vaccine be stopped immediately. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said, “Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine.” The DCGI had on September 11 directed the SII not to sign up any new volunteers in phase II and III trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders. This comes in view of the pharma giant stopping the vaccine trials abroad due to an ''an unexplained illness'' of a volunteer. However, on September 15 it permitted the Serum Institute of India to recommence the trial. "Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future,” the November 21 notice of the law firm states. "He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crores within two weeks from the receipt of this notice," it adds. The notice also states that the testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, "failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Farmers spurn Shah offer, calls for unconditional talks||Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws decided on Sunday not to shift to the Burari ground in the national capital and stay put at the Delhi borders. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had on Saturday appealed to the farmers to shift to the Sant Nirankari ground in Burari that was offered to them for peaceful protests and said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place. But thousands of farmers continued to protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders on the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. “We have decided that we will stay put at the Delhi borders. We will not go to Burari,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill said over the phone. The decision was taken by representatives of several farmers organisations, he said. Farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadian, who is the president of BKU (Kadian), too said that the protesters would not shift to the Burari ground. Reacting to the Union home minister's appeal, Kadian told reporters near the Singhu border that the Centre should not impose any condition for holding talks with the farmers. “We do not want any pre-condition. We want a meeting TO be held without any condition. We are ready for talks,” Kadian said. More farmers were likely to join the protesters at the Delhi borders soon, a farmer leader said. The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and various factions of Bharatiya Kisan Union had given the call for the “Dilli Chalo” march. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that these will pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3 amid efforts by various sections of the ruling establishment to label the agitation as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. “Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar should make up his mind first. One moment he says Khalistani elements are involved. The next moment he says Amarinder Singh is behind it. Is Amarinder a Khalistani?” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh asked on Saturday. He referred to a video clip in which an angry farmer is heard saying that if Indira Gandhi could be targeted, who was Modi. The same clip, which seemed to represent the personal rant of an anguished individual, was cited by the BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, too. While police in Haryana and Delhi, which both report to BJP governments, have moved heaven and earth to stop the farmers from marching to Delhi — digging up highways, firing tear gas shells, putting up barbed wire fences, blocking roads with trucks and firing water cannons at the protesters, a large number of whom are elderly — the party’s leaders have attempted to malign the farmers by linking them with “Khalistanis”. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh arrived at the state’s Ghazipur border with Delhi to join the agitation for the repeal of the farm laws, forced through Parliament by the Modi government. Farmers came from Madhya Pradesh too, another BJP-ruled state, besides Congress-ruled Rajasthan. In Haryana, BJP ally JJP gave the lie to Khattar’s statement that only Punjab’s farmers were protesting when it issued a statement saying: “During the past two days, farmers, especially those from Haryana and Punjab, are marching to Delhi in support of their demands. Thousands of farmers are on roads to keep their views before the government….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||UP lodges its first case under the new anti-conversion law||Uttar Pradesh has lodged its first case under the new anti-conversion law at Bareilly district on the basis of a complaint filed by the father of a young woman. According to officials, the case was registered in the district's Devarniyan police station on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi issued a statement on Sunday saying that a case was registered by Tikaram, a resident of Sharif Nagar village under Devarniyan police station (in Bareilly). He accused that a man named Uvaish Ahmed, also a resident of the same village, had tried to convert his daughter through "allurement" (bahla-phuslaakar). The case was filed under the new law against Ahmed. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions that provides for imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. The promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, came four days after the Yogi Adityanath government approved the draft of the legislation which also curbs religious conversions only for the sake of marriage. Under the law which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate. The ordinance mainly envisages that no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||New farm laws have reduced farmers’ issues: Modi||As farmers carried out their protest braving the chilly winters in Delhi against the Central farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asserted that they have not only unchained farmers from several shackles but have also given them new rights and opportunities. Addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the prime minister said that the recent amendments have started to reduce the problems of farmers in a short span of time, citing the example of  a Maharashtra farmer who used the provisions of the new laws to get the money guaranteed to him by a trader. "Since ages, these demands of farmers which at one point of time or the other all political parties had promised to them, have now been fulfilled. After deep deliberations, Parliament recently passed farm reform laws," Modi said. "These reforms have not only freed the farmers from various shackles, but have also given them new rights and opportunities. In such a short span of time, these rights have started reducing the problems of farmers," he added. The comments from the prime minister comes at the backdrop of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have crossed several hurdles to march to Delhi, gathering at the borders of the national capital as well as the Burari ground, determined to voice against the laws. They have gone through several adversities, including facing water cannons, teargas and batons from the police at Delhi and Haryana. During his address, Modi touched upon various other topics ranging from the idol of goddess Annapurna, stolen in 1913 from Varanasi, being brought back to India from Canada, to emphasising that educational institutions should harness the strengths and talents of their alumni. He also hailed the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor in November last year as historic. The culture of India is gaining popularity all over the world, he noted. "One such effort is by Jonas Masetti, who is based in Brazil and popularises Vedanta as well as the Gita among people there. He uses technology effectively to popularise our culture and ethos," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Delhi to record its coldest November in 10 years||Delhi is set to record its coldest November in at least 10 years, the Meteorological Department said, adding that the mean minimum temperature of the month hovered around 10 degrees Celsius this year. The national capital has an average minimum temperature of 12.9 degrees Celsius during November. From November 1 to November 29, the city has recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.3 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest in at least a decade, India Meteorological Department data shows. The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius last year, 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 12.8 degrees Celsius in 2017 and 2016. With the minimum temperature remaining less than 10 degrees Celsius for the seventh consecutive day this month, Delhi’s lowest temperature today was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius. “On November 23, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius -- its lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality remains poor, likely to worsen further||Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday and is expected to deteriorate further due to a fall in temperatures and calmer winds. The Air Quality Index of the national capital stood at 245 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 231 on Saturday, 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Meteorological Department said while the maximum wind speed was 15 kmph on Saturday, it might reduce to 8 to 12 kmph on Sunday and Monday. “Winds are predicted to slow down on Sunday. Therefore, Delhi's air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the "poor" to "very poor" category over the next two days,” the Met department said. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while the maximum is predicted to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, it added. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was 4 percent on Saturday, 2 per cent on Friday and just 1 per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally inches 94-lakh mark||India’s Covid-19 tally has surged to 93.93 lakh with 41,810 cases over the past 24 hours, while 88,02,267 people have recovered from the infection, pushing the recovery rate to 93.71 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data on Sunday. The total number of coronavirus cases climbed up to 92,92,919 while the death toll mounted to 1,36,696, as 496 new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in the country, data updated at 8 am on Sunday showed. The Covid-19 fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. There are 4,53,956 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data mentioned. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 13,95,03,803 samples have been tested up to November 28 with 12,83,449 samples being tested on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||CoBRA officer killed, 9 commandos injured in blast at Chhattisgarh||An officer of the Central Police Reserve Force’s (CRPF) forest warfare unit, Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), was killed and nine others were injured when Maoists caused an IED blast at the Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, officials said on Sunday. Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao, 33, was injured in the attack and succumbed to them in the wee hours of Sunday. The improvised explosive device blast occurred around 9 pm on Saturday in the Chintalnar forest area of Sukma district, which is 400 kilometers from Raipur. The injured personnel were evacuated by a Mi-17 V5 helicopter of the IAF around midnight, after which Bhalerao passed away. Seven commandos are being treated at a hospital in Raipur while two are being given medical care at a unit hospital at Chintalnar, located in the south Bastar area of the state, the officials said. The injured troops are part of the 206th battalion of the CoBRA. The blast took place when a joint force of the local police and the CoBRA were out on a domination exercise. The team was scouting the area for the induction of five new battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force and establishment of their new camps in this area and that is when the IED went off, official sources said. Bhalerao, a resident of Nashik in Maharashtra, was a decorated commando and had been adjudged the best in various combat competitions, a senior officer of the force said. He joined the CRPF in 2010 and came to CoBRA in 2019. The CoBRA was raised by the CRPF in 2009 as a special guerrilla combat wing for undertaking anti-Naxal operations as well as combating insurgents in the northeast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Shanties make way for Modi in Varanasi||When the police arrived on Tuesday to demolish their shanties, the 200-odd residents of Varanasi’s Sujabad slum knew that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be visiting the neighbourhood again. The homes of these 70 families had been demolished also on February 12, four days before Modi’s previous trip to his constituency. Modi will now reach Varanasi on November 30. The Prime Minister is scheduled to watch a festive Kartik Purnima spectacle on the Ganga’s ghats and a light-and-sound show in nearby Sarnath. “Last time, bulldozers razed our huts of mud, plastic sheets and hay because Modiji was to unveil a statue of Deendayal Upadhyaya in the nearby Padav locality. Sujabad lay on his route,” Ram Das, 70, told The Telegraph over the phone on Friday. “We are getting used to such things. There is no denying that we are a blemish on the face of the constituency of PM Sir,” Das said. Jeera Devi, 50, said: “I wonder if PM Sir would ask his officers to provide an annual schedule of his programmes so that we could ourselves demolish our homes and shift four days before his visits and return after a few weeks.” After the February expulsion, “some of us went outside the city for a few months while others shifted to the lanes and alleyways near Sujabad along the Ganga”, Das said. The families — Dalits from the Dharkar or Bansfor caste who have lived in Sujabad for decades, making and selling bamboo products like baskets, mats and hand fans — survived somehow with help from local NGOs. “We gradually began returning at the end of October after some social workers got the authorities to give the go-ahead. Now, a month on, the ordeal has begun again,” Das said. He said the slum dwellers had this time built makeshift shanties of bamboo and plastic alone, and the police and civic workers were able to demolish them using their bare hands and sticks. Varanasi sub-divisional magistrate Pramod Kumar Pandey said: “Certain steps are taken for the security of the Prime Minister. However, we will look into the problems of these people.” State law and justice minister Neelkanth Tiwari, who is managing Modi’s programme in Varanasi, didn’t answer calls. This time the displaced families haven’t left the area. They have been living in the open on the lanes, making sure they cannot be seen from Modi’s route. However, officials have asked them to leave. Modi’s helicopter is to land in the afternoon in the Dumri locality, barely 150 metres from Sujabad. The Prime Minister will address a meeting of about 5,000 invitees in adjoining Mirzamurad, then catch a boat from nearby Rajghat to Dashaswamedh Ghat. There he will watch the celebration of Dev Deepavali, a local festival held every Kartik Purnima that marks the killing of demons by the gods. All the 80 ghats of the Ganga in Varanasi are decorated with earthen lamps on the occasion. Cultural programmes are held at the Dashaswamedh and Rajendra Prasad ghats. Later in the evening, the Prime Minister will visit Sarnath, 15km from Varanasi city, to watch a newly started light-and-sound show on the life of the Buddha. Saurabh Singh and Athira Murli, two social workers who have been helping the Sujabad slum dwellers, have handed the local administration a memorandum asking them to make alternative arrangements for these families before displacing them. Athira, who has been working with the United Nations secretary-general’s panel on digital cooperation to achieve universal connectivity by 2030, contrasted the bustle of the beautification drive on Modi’s route with the despondency of the displaced slum dwellers. “...500 municipality staff are working their way through Sujabad/ Padav this morning. There are over 200 cleaning workers (sweepers) tidying the road from Padav to Sujabad/ Dumri helipad,” he wrote in an email on Friday. He said a 1.5km stretch was “clouded” with the dust raised by JCB machines, amid “beaconing lights emerging from official vehicles pacing frantically to and fro”. “In between Padav and Dumri helipad road, along the inlet side, over 200 people — infants, children, disabled elders, women, and men — can be seen sitting with distress and disappointment evident across their faces,” Athira said, referring to the displaced families. Saurabh, who runs the Inner-voice Foundation, said he and his colleagues were trying to ensure rehabilitation for these families. “We are working on multiple efforts to get the government’s attention. Unfortunately, we’ve only had disappointments so far,” he said. Saurabh underlined that one of the displaced families’ biggest worries was the safety of their women, especially in a state that has reported a series of atrocities on young women in recent years. “With the increasing crimes against women, the mothers have the added worry of the safety of their adolescent daughters as well as other women,” he said. “Jeera (Devi) married her daughter off hurriedly in September as she had no other option to ensure her safety.” Saurabh added: “The administration has issued voter identity cards to these families against their Sujabad address. Also, the higher courts have said that any displacement should be preceded by a rehabilitation plan, but it’s never followed here.” Banarsi Lal, village panchayat chief of Sujabad where the slum is located, said: “These families had been living here for decades, but the administration refuses to recognise them as humans.” A local BJP politician, seeking anonymity, said: “We have been requesting senior government officials for a long time to make some arrangements for these people on a vacant plot of government land along the Varanasi-Chandauli road so that they are not displaced repeatedly.” He did not explain how, if the ruling party indeed wanted such a step, government officials could keep stalling it. “This time, we will take it up with the office of the Prime Minister that was opened in Varanasi in 2014 to solve the problems of the local people,” he said. The office, popularly called “mini-PMO”, witnesses regular visits by central ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Varanasi teachers told to light diyas for PM Modi||Nearly 1,500 schoolteachers have been given the assignment of lighting earthen lamps along the Ganga’s banks in Varanasi on Monday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits his constituency to attend Dev Deepavali celebrations. Academics have opposed the decision, saying teachers cannot be made to act like party cadres. This year, the Varanasi administration has decided to light five lakh diyas on the 7km stretch on the other side of the river between Raj Ghat and Assi Ghat. Chief development officer Madhusudan Hulgu has issued a direction seeking the participation of teachers in Varanasi in lighting the diyas, a programme that will last 20 minutes. The stretch has been divided into 20 sectors of 350 metres each and officials have been entrusted specific sectors. Each sector has 20 sub-sectors and each sub-sector has been assigned to a lead teacher. Each lead teacher will have a team of 15 teachers to assist in lighting the diyas. The district administration will provide the diyas, oil and cotton. The rehearsal for the event started on Thursday. Around six teachers this newspaper spoke to said they had not been provided any transport allowance. The teachers come to the ghats and take boats to reach the other side of the river for the rehearsals. Each teacher is having to spend Rs 40 to cross the river on a shared boat. Nearly 1,500 teachers, including women, have been involved. “Tomorrow will be our last rehearsal. For the past three days, we have not been able to take online classes. We travel to the other side of the Ganga and practise lighting the diyas. The administration has given the order, every teacher has to follow it,” said a teacher, preferring anonymity. Basic education officer Rakesh Singh has issued the chief development officer’s circular about lighting five lakh diyas to block education officers who have circulated it among the schoolteachers. Educationists and the Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Siksha Mitra Sangh (UPPSMS), an association of para-teachers, have criticised the move. “This is wrong. Teachers are supposed to teach. Under the Right To Education (RTE) Act, they cannot be engaged in any non-academic work except elections, census or disaster management. Lighting diyas is certainly not a teacher’s job. Such work will demotivate and demoralise teachers,” said Tribhuvan Singh, UPPSMS vice-president. Prof Madhu Prasad, a retired Delhi University teacher and member of the All India Forum for RTE, said lighting diyas at the Prime Minister’s event was party work for which teachers could not be engaged. “Party workers should do this job. Teachers cannot be replacements for party workers,” she said. Prasad said teachers deserved respect. “Treating them as cannon fodder for a spectacle meant for the Prime Minister is disrespecting them,” she said. Prasad pointed out that the Prime Minister had time to attend Dev Deepavali celebrations but not for meeting agitating farmers in Delhi. She said teachers should not be engaged in jobs related to elections, census and disaster management, too. “Most government schools do not have one teacher per class. Engaging them in non-teaching activities means the government does not bother about teaching in schools,” Prasad said. District magistrate Kasuahal Raj Sharma did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Rakesh Singh, the basis education officer, did not wish to comment. “I am in a meeting. I cannot talk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Khattar hurls charge, awaits ‘some solid evidence’||Farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh joined their comrades from Punjab at Delhi’s borders on Saturday, pushing back against the ruling party’s attempts to discredit the agitation against the Narendra Modi government’s farm laws by labelling it variously as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. “Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar should make up his mind first. One moment he says Khalistani elements are involved. The next moment he says Amarinder Singh is behind it. Is Amarinder a Khalistani?” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh asked. Singh added: “What information does he have that our intelligence doesn’t have?… Instead of making funny statements on TV, why not ask the central intelligence agency to state the facts?” Khattar, whose claim that no farmers from his state were part of the agitation was answered by protesters who displayed Aadhaar cards before television cameras to show they were residents of Haryana, had declared on Friday evening that “Khalistani” separatists were part of the protests. Asked for specifics, the senior BJP leader appeared to admit he had made the dangerous allegation without verified proof, saying: “We have reports on some unwanted elements in the crowd. We will disclose the details once we get some solid evidence.” He referred to a video clip in which an angry farmer is heard saying that if Indira Gandhi could be targeted, who was Modi. The same clip, which seemed to represent the personal rant of an anguished individual, was cited by the BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, too. While police in Haryana and Delhi, which both report to BJP governments, have moved heaven and earth to stop the farmers from marching to Delhi — digging up highways, firing tear gas shells, putting up barbed wire fences, blocking roads with trucks and firing water cannons at the protesters, a large number of whom are elderly — the party’s leaders have attempted to malign the farmers by linking them with “Khalistanis”. Malviya tweeted on Friday: “What kind of farmer agitation is this? Is Captain Amarinder Singh playing with fire? When will Congress realise that politics of aligning with radical elements has reached its sell-by date?” All television channels perceived to be close to the government have run debates in the past two days on alleged Khalistani involvement, again with no proof. The BJP’s official Twitter handle doesn’t mention the “Khalistani” angle but accuses political parties of misleading and instigating the farmers. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh arrived at the state’s Ghazipur border with Delhi to join the agitation for the repeal of the farm laws, forced through Parliament by the Modi government. Farmers came from Madhya Pradesh too, another BJP-ruled state, besides Congress-ruled Rajasthan. In Haryana, BJP ally JJP gave the lie to Khattar’s statement that only Punjab’s farmers were protesting when it issued a statement saying: “During the past two days, farmers, especially those from Haryana and Punjab, are marching to Delhi in support of their demands. Thousands of farmers are on roads to keep their views before the government….” The party urged the Centre to hold an early meeting with the farmers. The Congress, which has opposed the farm laws from the start and fully supports the protests, is moving cautiously to deny the BJP a chance to turn the government-versus-farmer issue into a Congress-BJP battle. A senior Congress leader told The Telegraph: “It is unfortunate that concerns about the future of farming, particularly the system of minimum support price, are being maligned in this manner. But we don’t want to join issue with the BJP on such baseless allegations as they are looking for diversions and are itching to discredit the movement.” Rahul Gandhi too has been restrained. Referring to the FIRs lodged against farmers by the Haryana government, he tweeted on Saturday: “To raise voice against injustice is not crime but duty. The fake FIRs filed by Modi government can’t deter the farmers. This battle will continue till the black laws are withdrawn. We believe in ‘Jai Kisan’ and will continue doing so.” He described as “dangerous” a photograph showing a BSF jawan hitting an old farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Doubts hang on J&K District Development Council polls||Mohammad Sultan Shah of Theed village, a Srinagar suburb, was deeply agitated when Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped last year. But the shopkeeper is unwilling to trust the seven-party alliance that wants Article 370 restored and has asked Kashmiris to vote for it and turn the District Development Council elections into a referendum on the issue. So, as the eight-phase election got under way on Saturday, Shah chose to stay away despite a trickle of voters heading towards a booth opposite his shop. “All these parties (in the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration) have been in power at one time or the other in our state, but look at the drain adjoining my shop. All these years they could not repair it,” Shah, sporting a salt-and-pepper beard, said. “How do you expect them to fight for our larger goals? I put my trust only in God.” Many others have a deeper objection to the major partners in the alliance, such as the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and the People’s Conference. They see these parties as having helped consolidate the Indian State’s grip over Kashmir in the past. Their reluctance to vote may explain why the first phase clocked a modest 40.65 per cent turnout in the Valley. In contrast, polling was 64 per cent in Jammu division, whose Hindu majority had hailed the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status. The overall participation in Jammu and Kashmir stood at 52 per cent. One of the alliance’s biggest problems, therefore, is the scepticism of many ordinary Kashmiris who otherwise support its key planks: restoration of Article 370 and revocation of the new laws that allow outsiders to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir. A friend of Shah who is a mason by profession said the fault of the parties that make up the alliance is that they strengthened the “roots of the Indian State in Kashmir” over the decades. For many, National Conference founder Sheikh Abdullah’s support for Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India is behind their current plight. Many others accuse the PDP of bringing the RSS into Jammu and Kashmir. The PDP was part of a ruling coalition with the BJP until the ally withdrew its support in 2018. “A candidate came to me asking for votes but I candidly told him that I wouldn’t vote. Are they not the same people who sold us to Delhi?” Shah’s friend said, asking not to be named. “Obviously, we are for azadi -- only that can alleviate our pain.” Apart from the perception handicap, the seven-party alliance is allegedly up against dirty tricks being played by the BJP-led central government. It claims that many of its candidates were locked up to prevent them campaigning. However, alliance leaders say they are confident of victory. “There may be people who are boycotting (the election) but there are many others who trust us and are coming out to vote for us,” Ali Mohammad, alliance candidate from the Harwan area of Srinagar, said. “But (the government machinery) is being used against us. Look at these (dozen-odd) voters: all of them have come to vote for me but are being told their names are missing.” While many Valley booths saw voters turning up in ones and twos, many others witnessed long queues despite the cold weather. State election commissioner K.K. Sharma said the voting was by and large peaceful in the 43 constituencies that voted on Saturday. The district council has 280 seats in all. Sharma said that Reasi district had recorded the highest turnout of 74.62 per cent, followed by Rajouri at 70.52 and Poonch at 68.69. All three are in Jammu. In the Kashmir division, Budgam district recorded the highest polling percentage at 56.96, while Pulwama was bottom at 6.7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah offers early talks to farmers||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday evening tried to reach out to the agitating farmers, saying the government was ready to hold early talks on all their demands before the scheduled date of December 3. But for that the farmers would have to move from the highways at Delhi’s borders to the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari, designated for them by Delhi police. “If all the farmers’ unions want the government of India to talk soon, before December 3, then I want to assure you all that as soon as you shift your protest to a structured place, then the very next day the government is ready to hold talks over all your concerns and demands,” Shah told news agency ANI. “At many places farmers are staying with their tractors and trollies on highways in this cold. I appeal to them hat Delhi police are ready toshift you to a bigger ground. Please go there,” the BJP leader and home minister said. He assured the farmers that they would be allowed to hold their protest at the designated ground. Members of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the main collectives mobilising the farmers, said the various organisations representing farmers and farm workers would meet on Sunday to decide on the course of action. Despite the apparent defiance, the intensity of the farmers’ agitation has caused concern in the government and underlined the need for handling the situation with care. Shah’s appeal seemed to bare the worry as he tried to defuse the situation by offering early talks. The government had initially sought to dismiss the agitation, feeling that it would remain confined to Congress-ruled Punjab and eventually fizzle out. However, farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana joined the marchers. On Saturday afternoon, farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh also joined the protest. Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan said the farmers’ resolve had forced the government to climb down. He criticised Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar for trying to communalise the farmers’ agitation by alleging Khalistani links, calling it a sign of desperation. On how long the protests would continue, Yadav said in a video message: “It is for the government to decide how long. Meet our demands and we will go away, or else we have a lot of patience to continue with our agitation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
