30-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers: Got MSP this kharif season; worried about future||Forty-four-year-old Ranveer Singh, Pradhan of Shahbazpur village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab, has travelled with his fellow farmers (125) in six tractor-trolleys covering a distance of about 425 km in this winter and reached the Delhi border. “I have sold about 125 quintals of kharif paddy in an APMC mandi and received MSP payment in my bank account. But what is the guarantee this will continue if such trade is permitted outside mandis. This is our worry,” said Singh, a protesting farmer at Singhu border here. Like other protesting farmers associated with over 32 farm organisations, his only demand is “repeal of the three new farm laws” enacted by the central government which he fears will dismantle the MSP system and put next-generation farmers at risk of exploitation by private players. “No doubt, we are getting MSP now. We are not sure if we will get it after 4-5 years. This fight is to protect the interest of next-generation farmers,” he said. Stating that many options have been provided under the new laws to trade outside mandis, he said however this will only weaken the existing government’s APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) mandi system. “Like government schools and hospitals, the new farm laws will only weaken our mandis. We know mandis will not go away, but entry of private trade in over next few years will only weaken the mandi system,” he explained. Another farmer Baksheesh Singh, 60, from Patiala added, “All that we are demanding from the Centre is an assurance that the private players like Adanis and Ambanis will not buy below MSP if we sell our produce outside the mandi.” He also alleged that the entry of private players has weakened many government sectors from education to healthcare, where the poor cannot afford to get admission. When asked that the Centre under the new law has provided for dispute resolution mechanism at sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and District Collector (DC) level, Singh said, “They are government people and they will listen to private players instead of farmers.” “When the current system is running smoothly, what is the point of having new laws. Even arthiyas (middlemen) are private players, but we are dealing with them for many years,” he said. Another farmer Balavinder Singh from Bathu Chak village in Amritsar district – who reached the Delhi border to participate in the protest – is of the view that the way farmers are treated by the central government does not instill confidence even if it claims the reforms are in the interest of the farming community. As per the official data, the government’s paddy procurement has increased by 18.60 per cent to 316.93 lakh tonnes so far in the current kharif season. Out of which, Punjab alone has contributed 202.74 lakh tonnes which is 63.97 per cent of the total procurement. Jagveer Singh, 60, who has travelled all the way from Patiala district said, “We are protesting peacefully here. We have the right to protest – good or bad. We are not goondas, which some ministers are saying to us. We will return to hometown only after the Centre repeals the laws.” While most of the protesting farmers are demanding for a repeal of all three new farm laws enacted by the central government, but their concerns are largely related to only one law – The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act (FPTC Act). Farmers also claimed that they are protesting out of their will and not been funded by any political parties. In a series of tweets, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad sought to refute criticism of the farm laws by some farmer bodies and opposition parties. Many misconceptions like the farm bills are a conspiracy to not offer farmers MSP, are being spread, he said, adding that the reality is that these legislations have nothing to do with the minimum support price. “The MSP has been in force and will remain in force,” he said. Big companies will not be able to exploit farmers following these laws, as farmers can walk out of contract anytime without paying any penalty, the Union minister asserted. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, “Don’t have misconceptions about the farm laws. Farmers of Punjab have sold more paddy in mandi than they did last year and at a higher MSP. MSP is alive and so is mandi. And government purchase is also taking place.” Upset over the government’s response, Bharat Kisan Union (Dakunda) General Secretary Jagmohan Singh said, “We want unconditional talks with the government. We will not come to the discussion table unless some of our farmers who are in Burari ground are not allowed to come out. It is a mini-jail.” Sticking to their demands, hundreds of farmers from Punjab – who have reached Delhi borders in their tractor-trolleys from districts of Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Fatehpur Saheb – said the ball now is in the court of the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Social media campaign to muster support for agitating farmers, launched by Congress||On Monday, Congress launched a social media campaign to muster support for the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying, when farmers raise their voice, it resonates across the country. The party asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why a conspiracy was being hatched to destroy the minimum support price (MSP) system and snatch away the livelihood of 62 crore farmers. “The Modi government has persecuted the farmer - first it brought black laws and then used lathis against them, but it forgot that when the farmer raises his voice, it resonates throughout the country. You also raise your voice against the exploitation of farmers and join the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. “The farmer of the country has come to Delhi in the cold, leaving his home and fields, to voice his protest against the black agriculture laws. In this battle of truth and untruth, with whom do you stand - the ‘Annadata’ (food-giving) farmer or the PM’s capitalist friends,” Gandhi said in another tweet. The former Congress chief urged the common man and Congress workers to stand in support of the protesting farmers and provide them with food. “The question is why is the farmer out on the roads, travelling thousands of kilometers and is stalling traffic. PM Modi says the three farm laws are in favour of the farmer, but if these laws are in the farmer’s favour, why is he not happy and why is he protesting,” asked the Congress leader. “These laws are for Narendra Modi’s two-three friends and are aimed at stealing from the farmers. That is why we all have to together stand with the strength of India ‑ the farmer,” he said. Sharing a one -minute-long video in which the Congress party asked the government to listen to the grievances of the farmers and to not use force against them, he flagged off the campaign. The video alleged that while the farmers produce food grains to feed the country, they had to face water cannons and lathis at the hands of the Modi government. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also joined the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign and shared the same video to highlight the plight of the farmers. “In the name of farm laws, all billionaire friends are benefitting. How can farm laws be framed without even talking to farmers? How can the interests of farmers be ignored?” she tweeted in Hindi. “The government will have to listen to the farmers. Let us together raise our voice in support of farmers,” she said while seeking public support for the farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged the prime minister to suspend the three agri laws and take back all 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers without any pre-conditions. He also demanded that Modi should himself talk to the representatives of all farmer unions and assures them of their grievances being redressed. “When will you withdraw the black farm laws? Why is conspiracy being hatched to destroy the MSP system? Why are you conspiring to snatch the livelihood of 62 crore farmers? Food growers of the country are crying for justice. Why are you using tear gas and batons to break their morale?” Surjewala asked Modi. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said, “Lakhs of farmers who are protesting the anti-farmer laws passed by the govt have now been stopped outside Delhi. If the BJP is convinced of the laws passed by them, they should have to courage to meet the farmers and convince them.” Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat lamented on farmers who are helping the country’s falling economy being rewarded with the new “black laws” and their grievances not being heard. “There is a conspiracy to take away the MSP, demolish the existing mandi structure and end the procurement system through the FCI,” Rawat said. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said the treatment meted out to the protesting farmers is condemnable and the central government should initiate a dialogue with them. Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said the face-off between the farmers and central government over farm laws is fraught with grave consequences for law and order and the nation’s internal security. The Congress on its official Twitter handle demanded that the government must stop the alleged violence and atrocities against the farmers who are exercising their right to protest. “Use of brute force on the souls that feed a billion stomachs is nothing but grave, inhumane, gut-wrenching injustice. India will not stand for this. India will #SpeakUpForFarmers,” the party tweeted from its official handle. A host of party leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid, and Sunil Jakhar also spoke in support of the farmers and urged the government to redress their grievances. The Congress has launched a day-long online campaign in support of the farmers who are agitating on the roads against the farm laws. The ongoing protests by thousands of farmers against the Centre's new farm laws entered the fifth day on Monday, with the protesters threatening to block all five entry points to the national capital. Rejecting the Centre’s offer to hold talks once they move to the Burari ground, the farmers said they will not accept any conditional dialogue and vowed to continue agitating until their demands are met.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||In Delhi for 'decisive battle', farmers show no signs of backing down ||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agricultural laws at Delhi border points on Monday said they have come to the national capital for a "decisive battle" and asserted that they will continue their agitation until their demands are met. Addressing a press conference at Singhu border, a representative of protesting farmers said that they want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to their "mann ki baat'. "Our demands are non-negotiable," he said and claimed the ruling party 'will have to pay a heavy price' if it does not heed to their concerns. We have come here to fight a decisive battle," he said. Another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that around 31 cases have so far been registered against protestors to "suppress" their agitation. Chaduni said that farmers will continue their agitation until their demands are met. The desperation of the protesting groups is such that they are more worried about the new laws than the Coronavirus that is wreaking havoc across the world. Amid fears that the 'Delhi Chalo' protests by farmers will lead to coronavirus spreading faster, their leaders said the black laws enacted at the Centre are a bigger threat than the contagion. There had been few signs of social distancing as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their protest last week against the three new agro-marketing laws, setting off on a march to the national capital. On the way, they skirmished with police at barricades and since Friday are massed at Delhi's entry points, many of them sheltering inside tractor-trolleys. Masks appear to be a rarity and there is little attempt at keeping a distance from each other, safeguards meant to prevent the infection from spreading. But as experts fear that the event could become a coronavirus superspreader, farm leaders say there are more pressing concerns before them. "The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus as farmers fear they will lose their livelihood with the implementation of these laws," Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI over the phone. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers' agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls. "When Bihar elections took place, where was COVID-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus?" he asked, in an apparent reference to the election rallies. He claimed that the issue comes up only when farmers begin agitation for their rights. The Delhi Police initially declined permission for the farmers' protest in the city, citing the threat of COVID-19. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar lashed out at his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, saying he will be responsible if the gathering of farmers worsens the coronavirus situation. Singh has backed the protest. A spokesperson for the BKU's Haryana unit led by Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday claimed that farmers are trying their best to keep COVID-19 at bay. As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre's farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them, he said. He said it is now up to the Centre to accept their demands. When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said, "No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back." In Sonipat, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers. Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance, he said. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out, he added. The health department also plans to carry out random tests for COVID-19. We are trying to take all necessary measures so that everyone remains safe amid the pandemic, he said. We are also urging farmers to wear masks and try to maintain social distancing. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground and had said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place. A meeting of over 30 farmer groups on Sunday rejected Shah's offer for talks before the scheduled date of December 3 and demanded an unconditional dialogue. Thousands of protesters refused to budge and spent another night in the cold at the Singhu and Tikri border points. Their representatives had said that Shah's condition that they shift the protest is not acceptable and claimed Burari ground is an "open jail".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||290 tigers dead in the past 19 years in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh has lost 290 tigers over the last 19 years but the central Indian state still has more than 675 tigers, including 125 cubs, in the designated reserves and in the wild, a top Forest department official said on Monday. Claiming that the population of tigers has actually "gone up", he said Madhya Pradesh will continue to remain the "tiger state of India". The official said only five per cent of the deaths of big cats had occurred due to poaching or in man-animal conflicts. Most of the deaths of the tigers occurred either in territorial fights or due to natural causes, he added. "Madhya Pradesh has lost 290 tigers so far since 2002," Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Alok Kumar told PTI. However, there are 550 big cats in tiger reserves in Kanha, Bandhavgarh, Pench, Satpura, Panna and Sanjay Gandhi reserve and in the wild, he said, adding that there are 125 cubs in the parks. Kumar said about 10 to 20 more tiger cubs might be roaming in the wild. "They can't be captured as they might be deep inside the jungles. When they turn young and venture out, we would be able to see them," he added. Kumar said movements of tigers were recorded through camera traps, patrolling and other means. Asked about the deaths of 290 tigers since 2002, Kumar said, "As the number of tigers has risen, they are fighting for territorial control. We are losing 25 to 30 striped animals every year. Of them (the deceased tiger), 95 per cent were weak and old. While the remaining five per cent of (290) tigers were killed by poachers or in man-animal conflicts". Queried on whether territories of the majestic beasts have shrunk due to encroachments, he said, "We do have an adequate area for tigers". Kumar said there was no talk on increasing the area for the striped animals. "The habitat of tigers needed to be protected, and for this people need to be made aware as well," he added. Kumar said the typical lifespan of a tiger living in a reserve is 12 to 13 years. Responding to a query, he said Madhya Pradesh will continue to remain the tiger state of India. "The tiger state tag pulls tourists to Madhya Pradesh. Our tourism is largely big cat-centric," said MP Wildlife Board (MPWB) member Abhilash Khandekar. He said the state government should take utmost care to conserve its "tiger state" status so that it does not lose out on tourists and thus revenue. "We don't have many big industries in MP. So each tiger counts for us," he said. He said that economy of Panna region had been adversely affected in 2005 when the population of big cats dwindled in the Panna Tiger Reserve in 2005. Earlier, MP had lost the 'tiger state' tag to Karnataka in the all India tiger estimation exercise for 2010, primarily due to alleged poaching in the Panna Tiger Reserve. That time, MP had 257 tigers compared to 300 in Karnataka. In the 2014 tiger census, MP slipped to no.3 position in the country with a population of 308 striped animals, after Uttarakhand (340) and Karnataka (408). The central Indian state regained the top slot in the 2018 Census with a population of 526 tigers, two more than Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||New laws bigger threat than coronavirus, say protesting farmers||Amid fears that the 'Delhi Chalo' protests by farmers will lead to coronavirus spreading faster, their leaders said the black laws enacted at the Centre are a bigger threat than the contagion. There had been few signs of social distancing as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their protest last week against the three new agro-marketing laws, setting off on a march to the national capital. On the way, they skirmished with police at barricades and since Friday are massed at Delhi's entry points, many of them sheltering inside tractor-trolleys. Masks appear to be a rarity and there is little attempt at keeping distance from each other, safeguards meant to prevent the infection from spreading. But as experts fear that the event could become a coronavirus superspreader , farm leaders say there are more pressing concerns before them. The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus as farmers fear they will lose their livelihood with the implementation of these laws, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI over the phone. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers' agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls. When Bihar elections took place, where was COVID-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus, he asked, in an apparent reference to the election rallies. He claimed that the issue comes up only when farmers begin an agitation for their rights. The Delhi Police initially declined permission for the farmers' protest in the city, citing the threat of COVID-19. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar lashed out at his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, saying he will be responsible if the gathering of farmers worsens the coronavirus situation. Singh has backed the protest. A spokesperson for the BKU's Haryana unit led by Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday claimed that farmers are trying their best to keep COVID-19 at bay. As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre's farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them, he said. He said it is now up to the Centre to accept their demands. When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said, "No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back." In Sonipat, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers. Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance, he said. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out, he added. The health department also plans to carry out random tests for COVID-19. We are trying to take all necessary measures so that everyone remains safe amid the pandemic, he said. We are also urging farmers to wear masks and try to maintain social distancing. Unions have expressed apprehension that the new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, says that the new laws give farmers options to get higher prices for their crops and the MSP regime will still continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Another storm coming Tamil Nadu's way after Cyclone Nivar ||Less than a week after Cyclone Nivar battered Tamil Nadu, another storm is expected to affect the southern state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The cyclone will cross the Sri Lanka coast on December 2 and will bring heavy rain over Tamil Nadu and Kerala, it said. Last week, a very severe cyclonic storm Nivar had hit Tamil Nadu. While there were no reports of loss of life, about 2.5 lakh people were housed in cyclone shelters in the state as part of safety measures. The IMD has issued a red-colour coded warning for the southern areas of Tamil Nadu, Kerala in view of the brewing storm and said that these areas are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall. As the sea is expected to become rough due to the weather system, fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and along and off east Sri Lanka coast, Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from forenoon of December 2 for the subsequent 24 hours. Also, those who are out at sea are advised to return to the coast by November 30, it said. According to the IMD, a well-marked low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression. "It is very likely to intensify further into a deep depression during the next 24 hours. It is also likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross the Sri Lanka coast around the evening of December 2," the IMD said. "It is very likely to move nearly westwards thereafter and emerge into the Comorin area on December 3 morning, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. The IMD said squally weather with wind speed would gradually increase becoming 55-65 kilometres per hour gusting to 75 kmph over the southeast and adjoining the southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over southwest Bay of Bengal, along with and off Sri Lanka coast. Winds with a speed of 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph are likely over the Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from December 2 forenoon for subsequent 24 hours, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Govt calls all-party meet to discuss Covid situation||The Union government has called an all-party meeting to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic situation on December 4, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to interact with floor leaders of various parties from both houses of parliament, official sources said on Monday. The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry is coordinating the meeting and has extended an invitation to all parties, they said. Floor leaders of all parties from Lok Sabha as well as Rajya Sabha have been invited for the meeting, which will be held virtually on Friday from 10.30 am onwards, sources told PTI, adding that Modi will chair it. This will be the second all-party meeting called by the government to discuss the COVID-19 situation since the outbreak of the pandemic. The first meeting was held on April 20 amid a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. The top brass of the government including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah besides Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi will also attend the meeting, they said. The government is likely to brief the parliamentarians about various steps it has taken to deal with the pandemic and may also touch upon the advances being made in vaccine development and distribution. The floor leaders of different parties include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O' Brien of the Trinamool Congress, Midhun Reddy and Vijayasai Reddy of the YSR Congress among others. Modi has held multiple meetings with chief ministers, laying special emphasis on states with high COVID-19 caseload, to review the situation there and offer suggestions. The prime minister on Monday held a virtual meeting with three teams working on developing and manufacturing COVID-19 vaccine. He had also visited pharmaceutical companies in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune on Saturday, to review coronavirus vaccine development work there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||PM holds virtual meet with teams developing, manufacturing Covid vaccine ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a virtual meeting with three teams working on developing and manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine and said they should take extra efforts to inform people in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy. A statement from the Prime Minister's Office said that Modi also asked the companies, represented by these teams, to come out with their suggestions and ideas regarding the regulatory processes and related matters. "The PM advised all the departments concerned to engage with the manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit to serve the needs of the country and the entire world," it added. These teams were from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd Pune, Biological E Ltd Hyderabad and Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd Hyderabad. The prime minister appreciated the efforts being taken by scientists in these companies to come out with a vaccine solution to tackle Covid-19. The potential of various platforms for vaccine development was also discussed, the statement said. Matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc in respect of delivering the vaccines were also discussed. All the vaccine candidates discussed are at different stages of trials and detailed data and results are expected early next year onwards, it added. Modi had on Saturday visited Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of coronavirus vaccines at facilities in these cities. The total coronavirus cases in India have mounted to 94,31,691 with 38,772 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,139 after 443 more fatalities were reported, according to Health Ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||This November the coldest in Delhi in 71 years, says IMD||The month of November was the coldest in the national capital in 71 years, with the mean minimum temperature dropping to 10.2 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department. Delhi had recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius in November 1949. The mean minimum temperature for November was 9.6 degrees Celsius in 1938; nine degrees Celsius in 1931 and 8.9 degrees Celsius in 1930, according to IMD data. Normally, the mean minimum temperature for the month of November is 12.9 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius last year, 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 12.8 degrees Celsius in 2017 and 2016. Delhi also braved four cold waves in November on the 3rd, 20th, 23rd and 24th. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. On Monday, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius. This is the eight-day this month that the minimum temperature remained below 10 degrees Celsius. On November 23, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius -- its lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius, according to Srivastava. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality slips back into 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality turned very poor on Monday and is predicted to deteriorate further with calm winds and low temperature allowing the accumulation of pollutants. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 307. The 24-hour average AQI was 268 on Sunday. It was 231 on Saturday, 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The winds were calm at night time. During the day, the maximum wind speed is expected to be 10 kmph, according to the India Meteorological Department. Winds are predicted to slow down further. Therefore, Delhi's air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the poor to very poor category over the next two days, it had said earlier. The minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday and the maximum is expected to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed will be around 2,500 m2/s on Monday and is likely to be 2,000 m2/s on Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has reduced as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was 6 per cent on Sunday, 4 per cent on Saturday, 2 per cent on Friday and just 1 per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Less than 40,000 Covid cases for the seventh time this month||The number of Covid-19 cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 for the seventh time this month, taking the infection tally to 94.31 lakh, while the recoveries surged to 88,47,600, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,31,691 with 38,772 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,139 after 443 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 88,47,600, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.81 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate declined further to 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 20th consecutive day. There are 4,46,952 active cases in the country which comprise 4.74 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,03,79,976 samples have been tested up to November 29 with 8,76,173 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers reject conditional offer after Modi's Mann Ki Baat||The agitating farmers amassed at the Delhi-Haryana border for the past two days have rejected the Centre’s talks offer that had come with the condition that they shift to Delhi’s Burari area where a ground has been designated as a protest site. The farmers appeared to dig in their heels after Sunday morning’s Mann ki Baat — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly radio broadcast — in which he extolled the new farm laws they are protesting against. Modi offered the country sage advice on topics such as a Vedanta teacher in Brazil and an Annapurna idol but made no mention of the farmers’ agitation. However, by nightfall, the potential of the agitation to cripple the national capital appeared to have dawned on the political leadership. Senior ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar went into a late-night huddle at the home of BJP national chief J.P. Nadda. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has called on all farmers to proceed towards Delhi. Earlier, with the absence of train services in mind, farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh alone were being encouraged to come while their peers in other states protested in their own areas. Given the attitude of the government, however, the organisation felt the need for a greater show of strength as well as a need to prove that the anger against the new farm laws was not Punjab-specific but much more widespread. The farmers have been agitating over the past couple of months against the new farm laws and an electricity ordinance that seeks to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution, besides pushing their longstanding demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. After the government had tried to stop the farmers reaching Delhi with tear gas, water cannons and barbed wire, a sliver of hope had emerged on Saturday night with home minister Shah offering talks before the scheduled December 3 farmer-government meeting. But the hope faded quickly with the arrival of a letter from home secretary Ajay Bhalla around 11pm on Saturday. In the letter, received by leaders of the 30 farmer organisations spearheading the agitation in Punjab, Bhalla set conditions for the talks: clear Delhi’s borders and move to Burari. In a video message from the Singhu border on G.T. Karnal Road, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the letter had made it clear that the government was treating the agitation as a law-and-order situation and not an agriculture-related one. Else, the agriculture secretary would have written to the farmers, Yadav contended. Yadav and All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah alleged that the government was asking the farmers to move to Burari because it wanted the agitation out of the limelight. Also, they said, those farmers who had reached Burari had reported that their names and addresses were being taken down, and that those trying to leave the ground there with their tractors were being blocked. “It is as though they are trying to create a Jallianwala Bagh-like situation,” Mollah said. “Condition put forward for talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to Burari. It is not a park but an open jail,” Surjeet Singh Phul, state president of Bharayiya Kisan Union Krantikari (Punjab), said on the offer for talks. The Punjab-based farmers’ bodies have made it clear they want the government to talk not just to them but to the national movement of farmers. This involves over 400 farmers’ bodies that have formed several collectives. “They have rejected the government’s attempt at divide-and-rule,” Mollah said. Echoing Yadav, he said that while Punjab’s farmers may be at the vanguard this time, the three laws and the electricity ordinance were agitating farmers across the country. “We are ready for talks but not as per the conditions set by the government,” Yadav said. “At least, say you will reconsider and then an atmosphere will be created for talks; but this doublespeak is not the way to go,” he added, referring to the contradictory signals coming from the government. While Shah had adopted the most mellowed of tones to offer talks before December 3, Modi had talked up the new farm laws less than 12 hours later. “The farmers don’t want to be lectured the way the Punjab farmers were in the second round of talks over the past couple of months,” Yadav said. “Stop making it sound as if the farmers don’t know what is good for them.” He added: “Stop calling them names. First you have called them Khalistani. Next you will find a few Muslim farmers and say this movement is Islamist. Stop trying to discredit this movement and at least do what then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi had demanded in 2011 — a legal guarantee for MSP.” Yadav questioned the government’s pandemic logic against the agitation — Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has threatened to hold his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, who supports the farmers’ protest, responsible for any spike in Covid cases. Yadav asked why the pandemic had not been an issue the previous Sunday when BJP ally Dushyant Chautala organised a rally in the Mewat region. “Stop using the pandemic as a political weapon,” he said. In his latest Mann Ki Baat, Modi hailed the new farm laws but made no mention of the farmers’ agitation. Some of the other topics his speech covered: ⚫ Jonas Masetti, also known as Vishwanath. Jonas teaches Vedanta and Gita to people in Brazil ⚫Recently in Kevadia, I also got a memorable opportunity to spend time with birds ⚫These cherry blossoms have further enhanced the beauty of Meghalaya ⚫A very old idol of Devi Annapurna is returning to India from Canada||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||All pillars enforcing BJP agenda: Mehbooba Mufti||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday mentioned the courts and the Election Commission while saying key institutions had been “compromised” and were “implementing the BJP’s agenda”. She accused the Opposition of keeping silent out of fear. The People’s Democratic Party chief alleged the Centre wanted to ban her party because she was speaking out against the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. “Unfortunately, what they (the government) cannot do on their own, they bring the courts forward. If a poor man was hit earlier, he would seek redress from the courts. Now they (the BJP) are doing all this through courts,” she said at a news conference. “Unfortunately, all our institutions... are implementing the BJP’s agenda in total. They are at the forefront of implementing the BJP agenda. We don’t know who to go to.” Referring to the ongoing District Development Council elections, Mehbooba said the candidates of the seven-party alliance that is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 were being locked up to prevent them from campaigning. The PDP is part of the alliance. Mehbooba questioned last week’s election of the Srinagar mayor — who is from a party close to the BJP — at a time the code of conduct for the DDC polls was in force. “When there was a code of conduct in force, how can you go for a mayor’s election (by the councillors)? Unfortunately, the Election Commission of India, a big institution supposed to protect democracy... is singing their (the BJP’s) tune,” she said. Mehbooba said democracy was being murdered in Kashmir in the name of the DDC elections and that the country’s top institutions should have tried to prevent it. “Unfortunately, they are compromised,” she said. Her comments on the courts came in the context of the BJP targeting senior Valley politicians for alleged land-grabbing in connection with the “Roshni scam”. The crackdown came after Jammu and Kashmir High Court had quashed as illegal the 19-year-old Roshni Act — which regularised the encroachment of government land by thousands — and ordered the release of all the beneficiaries’ names. “What is Roshni? It was a scheme which has been turned into a scam. The real scam is the electoral bonds scam. For the last year and a half, the Supreme Court is not hearing it,” Mehbooba said. “The act was passed (during) the National Conference (government’s) time and implemented during (then Congress chief minister Ghulam Nabi) Azad sahab’s time. It was a law, our Assembly passed it. If it (land encroachment) has been legalised by law, how is it a scam?” Mehbooba said many of the beneficiaries were poor people who were being served with eviction notices. She said if rich people had benefited, the government should go after them and spare the poor. She said she was being told directly and indirectly not to speak about the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. “I’m told I’m provoking people. They want to get to me, ban my party,” she said. She accused the BJP government of using the anti-terror law UAPA as a political weapon. “If there is no proof against anybody, he is arrested under the UAPA…. Tomorrow, they can tell anybody that it was not (Nathuram) Godse but your grandfather who killed Gandhiji. He can do nothing and will be booked under the UAPA. Who will raise questions, because there is no bail for six months,” she said. The National Investigation Agency had recently arrested Mehbooba’s aide Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in a militancy case, and she was reportedly put under informal house arrest to prevent her visiting his home. The government has denied putting any such restrictions on her. “You have dubbed Muslims as Pakistanis; Sardars are called Khalistanis, activists are called ‘urban Naxals’, students and girls are called ‘tukde tukde gang’ and ‘anti-national’...” Mehbooba said. She accused the BJP of trying to divide the country through slogans such as “love jihad”. “The Opposition says nothing; they are scared (of being called) anti-nationals,” she said. Mehbooba said the government was scouring her accounts and government files from her tenure as chief minister to try and find evidence of wrongdoing. She said the government had found nothing and was now raiding the people to whom her family had sold their ancestral property in Bijbehara, Anantnag district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||CDSCO disregards serious volunteer side effects in Covid vaccine trials||India’s drug regulatory agency threatens to erode the credibility of the country’s vaccine evaluation processes through its opacity on serious adverse events in at least two volunteers in India who received candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease, medical experts said. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has released no information about probes into a flu-like illness in August in a volunteer in Nagpur who received a home-grown candidate made by Bharat Biotech, and a neurological illness in October in a volunteer in Chennai who received the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate. Doctors discharged both volunteers after treatment in hospitals, and the vaccine companies conducting the clinical trials have asserted that the adverse events the two volunteers experienced were probed and found unrelated to the candidate vaccines. Experts have underlined that clinical trial protocols are typically designed to record and investigate every adverse event that occurs — minor to severe — in trial volunteers, and that all adverse events may not be triggered by the candidate vaccines under evaluation. Researchers involved in the trials have told The Telegraph that in both instances, the trial teams informed the local institutional ethics committees and the CDSCO of the adverse events, as required, within 48 hours after the volunteers reported the events. But experts say the lack of official statements on either of the probes from the CDSCO — the country’s apex regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines — points to a troubling opacity that has dogged several of its decisions on Covid-19. “It is possible the investigating panel did not see any need for even an interim trial halt,” said Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “But when this is not said authoritatively, with laid-out reasoning, by the regulatory authorities, it contributes to an erosion of trust.” The volunteer who developed a neurological illness after receiving the AstraZeneca candidate vaccine has sent a legal notice to the CDSCO, AstraZeneca, Oxford University and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India which conducted the trial, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation. The Serum Institute released a statement on Sunday evening accusing the volunteer of “spreading malicious information” with “pecuniary motive” and threatening to seek Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer. “The allegations in the (legal) notice are malicious and misconceived,” Serum said. “While the Serum Institute is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the Covid vaccine trial. “The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent…. He still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company.” The notice sent by a Chennai-based law firm on behalf of the volunteer claims there has been an attempt “to conceal the entire episode of the adverse reaction suffered by (the volunteer) as a non-event” and go ahead with the clinical trial. Public health researchers say the institutional ethics panel and the CDSCO would have likely initiated their probe into the event by mid-October as the volunteer experienced the adverse event on October 11, ten days after receiving a shot. The lack of a halt in the trial suggests a probe was completed and the CDSCO chose not to make the findings public. “This opacity is based on presumptions that ‘authority knows best’ and is part of the pervasive attitude of both State and non-State authorities in India,” Rath said. Experts have also underlined that throughout the Centre’s response to the pandemic, the CDSCO has done little to explain the rationale behind any of its regulatory decisions involving the drugs approved for use to treat Covid-19 patients. “We need far greater transparency from this agency,” said Anant Bhan, a bioethics researcher and visiting professor of community medicine at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore. “Not saying anything about a probe on a serious adverse event does not help.” Bhan said the CDSCO had released its decisions on various drugs and candidate vaccines against Covid-19 without any information on the reasoning or the lines of argument in favour of those decisions. “We also don’t know who guided those decisions,” Bhan said. Doctors with expertise in clinical trials say that while all adverse events need to be recorded and investigated by the data safety monitoring board, they need not be placed in the public domain during the trial. “There are checks and balances — the data safety monitoring board is independent,” said Urmila Thatte, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial College, Mumbai. “But after the trial, all the data should be available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||PM's defence of new farm laws delivers lethal blow negotiations: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s defence of the new farm laws when lakhs of farmers were protesting on the streets had delivered a lethal blow to the prospects of the proposed negotiations, demonstrating the government’s disinterest in resolving the crisis. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The home minister and the agriculture minister pretend to be interested in a dialogue with the farmers. The Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat programme defends the farm laws. If the Prime Minister is standing in favour of these laws despite such widespread protests, what will be the outcome of a dialogue? Who should the farmers expect justice from? What will be the purpose of talks? Modi’s arrogance and obduracy are writ large on his stance.” Surjewala added: “The truth is that the Modi government intends to serve the capitalists and exploit the farmers. The Prime Minister is unaffected by the anguish and struggle of 62 crore farmers. The government wants to hand over the agriculture trade worth over Rs 20 lakh crore to crony capitalists. The seriousness of the government is reflected in home minister Amit Shah’s attitude — he can’t travel 15km to the Delhi border to talk to the farmers but will fly 1,200km to campaign for municipal elections in Hyderabad.” The Congress has consistently accused the government of steamrolling the three farm bills through Parliament to help private companies. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi also responded to Modi’s views expressed in the Mann Ki Baat radio address. “The promise was to double the farmers’ income but the Modi government ensured multifold increase in the incomes of Adani-Ambani. Those who are still defending the black laws cannot provide a solution in favour of the farmers,” Rahul tweeted. The Congress has decided to run a social media campaign on Monday — named Speak Up for Farmers — although the farmers’ unions have firmly rejected any political participation in their movement. But almost every non-BJP party, including former allies Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, has extended support to the movement. The Congress on Sunday sought an apology from the Prime Minister and Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar for the efforts by Khattar and other BJP leaders to malign farmers by alleging a Khalistani link. The Congress also demanded that the government withdraw the three farm laws, cancel the 12,000 FIRs filed by the Haryana government against agitating farmers and that the Prime Minister himself reach out to the farmers for a dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Modi hails the new farm laws that cultivators are fighting ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the new farm laws as a game-changer for farmers while making no mention of the farmers’ protest that has reached Delhi. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have marched to Delhi, braving barricades, barbed wire, water cannons and tear gas in BJP-ruled Haryana, to protest against the new laws. Their tenacity has forced the Centre to blink and agree to let them enter Delhi provided they all gather at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. Modi, however, ignored the massive protest as he delivered his monthly radio address to the nation, Mann ki Baat, on Sunday morning. On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah had offered the farmers a meeting earlier than the scheduled December 3 talks if they moved from the highways at Delhi’s borders to the Samagam Ground, but the Prime Minister made no such appeal. As he had done in the past, Modi claimed the new laws had liberated farmers and opened up new possibilities for them. “My dear countrymen, new dimensions are being added to agriculture. The agricultural reforms in the past few days have also opened up new doors of possibilities for our farmers,” the Prime Minister said, according to the government’s English translation of his Hindi speech. The farmers say the new laws take away the safety of a minimum support price and leave them at the mercy of big companies. Modi claimed the provisions in the new laws represented longstanding demands by the farmers that his government had now met. “Every political party, at some point or the other, made the promise” but none apart from his government had fulfilled it, he said. Modi said farmers were already enjoying the benefits of the new laws. He said a farmer in Maharashtra had used a provision in the new laws to get a trader to pay his dues. While not even acknowledging a protest led by Sikh farmers, the Prime Minister showered praises on the Sikh community in the context of Guru Nanak Jayanti, which is on Monday. He recalled how he had got the Lakhpat Gurdwara in Kutch, Gujarat, restored after it was damaged in the 2001 earthquake. “Not only was the renovation done, its glory and grandeur were restored too. All of us were bestowed with ample blessings of Guru Sahib,” he said. Modi also mentioned the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, a visa-free corridor from the Indian border to the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, which happened on his watch. “The opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in November last year was historic. I shall cherish this lifelong in my heart,” he said. He praised the Sikh community for feeding people during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Shah promises to rid Hyderabad of the 'nawab and nizam culture'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised to rid Hyderabad of the “nawab and nizam culture” if the BJP wins the municipal corporation elections. Shah was in the southern city on Sunday to campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, scheduled to be held on December 1. While canvassing on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Hindutva mascot Yogi Adityanath had backed the idea of renaming the IT hub as “Bhagyanagar”, boasting how he had undertaken a similar exercise in his state. Shah and Adityanath are part of a steady stream of central BJP leaders who have trooped to Hyderabad to campaign for the local body elections, lobbing polarising topics such as Pakistan, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Osama bin Laden, Bangladeshi and Rohingya refugees. The BJP has made an unprecedented bid for the municipal corporation, eyeing the larger goal of getting a foothold in the southern state of Telangana. Since Hyderabad, which has a 43.5 per cent Muslim population according to the 2011 Census, is the stronghold of AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi, who represents the Lok Sabha seat, the BJP has been seeking to target him to achieve its political motive in the state. “I want to assure the people of Hyderabad that we will take steps to rid Hyderabad of the nawab and nizam culture and turn it into a mini-India,” Shah said, addressing the media after a road show in the city. “We want Hyderabad to give up the nizam culture and become a modern city,” the Union home minister added. A day earlier, the saffron-clad Adityanath had said: “If we win, we will turn Hyderabad into Bhagyanagar…. Faizabad can be named Ayodhya, Allahabad is now Prayagraj, then why can’t Hyderabad be Bhagyanagar?” While campaigning, BJP MP and youth wing chief Tejashwi Surya had called Owaisi an “avatar of Osama Bin Laden” and accused the local MP of bringing “Rohingya Muslims” to the city. On Sunday, Shah too targeted Owaisi and his party. The BJP leader said the problem of water-logging in the city was due to the “appeasement” of “Majlis”, a reference to Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), who Shah accused of promoting “illegal constructions”. “If the BJP comes to power it will demolish all these illegal constructions,” Shah said. The BJP smelt an opportunity in Telangana after its recent surprise victory in the Dubakka Assembly by-election. The party feels that Telangana, like Karnataka, could become another BJP bastion in the south where it has been struggling to gain a toehold. The BJP now has just two MLAs in Telangana. The decline of the Congress in the state has also encouraged the BJP to try to take over the space of the principal Opposition. “We are already the principal Opposition and after the next election we will rule the state,” Shah said on Sunday, launching an attack on chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who heads the TRS. Shah took on KCR for his “undeclared alliance” with the “Majlis”. “Why does he (KCR) not come out openly and declare his alliance with the Majlis?” Shah asked. He accused KCR of overlooking illegal constructions by the AIMIM due to “appeasement politics”. The ruling TRS and the AIMIM dominate the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. In the last polls, the TRS had won 99 and Owaisi’s AIMIM 44 of the 150 seats. The BJP had managed just four and the Congress two. The TRS has often been friendly towards the BJP, backing the Centre on even controversial legislation in Parliament. The BJP, however, has now decided to train its guns on KCR in its bid to emerge as a challenger, replacing the Congress. Shah accused KCR of remaining cooped up in his “farm house” and neglecting governance, claiming that this would help the BJP to rise in Telangana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Cong leader Anand Sharma rearranges tweet after ‘confusion’||Senior Congress leader and spokesperson Anand Sharma has rearranged the sentences in a  tweet on the Prime Minister after the original version raised eyebrows in the party. “Prime minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for COVID-19. That alone will lift morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation. Also respecting the institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. Urging Prime Minister to ensure that an efficient and equitable platform is functional as the vaccine arrives,” Sharma had tweeted. The tweet  triggered speculation about his intention and caused consternation in some sections of the party, especially because it went against the official line and Sharma is suspected to be among the Group of 23 that wrote to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party. Sharma later clarified: “Regretting the error in our earlier tweet where the lines got misplaced, resulting in some avoidable confusion. The original tweet reads as follows: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for Covid. This is acknowledging and respecting the institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. Urging PM to ensure that an efficient and equitable platform is functional as the vaccine arrives. That alone will lift the morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation.” The revised tweet suggests an equitable distribution system, not Modi’s visit, will lift the morale.,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||How a mother coped with PM visit to Varanasi||When police demolished a Varanasi slum on February 12 ahead of a visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it wasn’t the looming hardship of a life on the streets that most worried the suddenly homeless Jeera Devi. Nor was it the fear of hunger, although the forced eviction meant a loss of livelihood for the 70-odd families that lived in the Sujabad slum and wove bamboo baskets, mats and hand fans. What bothered Jeera Devi most was the safety of her 16-year-old daughter, forced to live in the open with her parents, exposed to the stares of strangers in a state with a chilling record in gender crimes. “We were living in a neighbourhood alley, without a roof over our head, along with many of the other evicted families. Passers-by stared at my daughter. Local louts leered at her and the other young women, and misbehaved with them,” Jeera Devi, 50, said. The Varanasi administration demolished her bamboo-and-plastic shanty with the rest of the slum again last Tuesday — barely a month after the 200-odd slum dwellers had returned —ahead of another Modi visit, scheduled on November 30. But thrown on the streets again, Jeera Devi this time has one problem fewer to worry about. She had married off her daughter the last time to protect her from harm, although she believes that underage marriage is “galat” (wrong). “It was the only option I had — to find a groom for my daughter. We found the groom in Chiraiyakot, Mau district, gave Rs 2,500 as dowry and married her off on September 25. Now she is safe,” Jeera Devi told The Telegraph. “I knew that marriage at such a young age is wrong, but what else could I have done?” Over the past few years, Uttar Pradesh has witnessed horrific allegations of rape and brutality — from the 2017 Unnao atrocity that has landed a BJP lawmaker in jail to the September 2020 Hathras gang-rape-and-murder. The state tops the National Crime Record Bureau’s report for 2019, accounting for 15.3 per cent of the country’s crimes against women. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has, however, claimed that crimes against women have fallen by 27.32 per cent compared with 2016, when Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister. Jeera Devi’s husband Raja Ram said their elder daughters, aged 22 and 20, were married and so was their eldest son Deepak, 30. Younger sons Abhishek, 19, and Golu, 14, live with their parents. Sujabad is split into two parts: a village with brick houses and well-off people and the site where the slum had stood for decades with its 200-odd Dalit residents from the Dharkar and Bansfor castes. “A group of businessmen in Sujabad wanted us to vacate the area so they could store sand, stones and iron bars at the site,” Jeera Devi said. Her eldest son Deepak said the henchmen of these “sand and stone sellers” had helped the police demolish the slum both times, while misbehaving with the younger women and “using foul language”. Raja Ram said that after the February 12 eviction, the family had survived on food provided by an NGO. The slum dwellers had returned at the end of October, after social activists persuaded the authorities to let them, only to be thrown out again last Tuesday. Modi, the Varanasi MP, had come the last time to unveil a statue of BJP icon Deendayal Upadhyaya in the Padav locality, barely 500 metres from Sujabad, on February 16. This time, after his chopper touches down at a temporary helipad in nearby Dumri on November 30, his motorcade will travel through Sujabad to reach Mirzamurad, 1km away. Modi will also watch celebrations of Dev Deepavali in Varanasi and a light-and-sound show in Sarnath, 15km away. “The land where these people live belongs to the government. We wanted them to vacate the area because it’s close to the road along which the Prime Minister will pass,” a Varanasi Nagar Nigam official said on the condition of anonymity. “There’s a proposal to shift all the slum dwellers of the city to another government plot on the Varanasi-Chandauli Road, but the final decision is yet to be taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||‘India is steeped in blind faith, parties exploit it’ ||Indian democracy is feudal, ruthless and despotic, says Kerala writer Paul Zacharia, chosen earlier this month for the state’s highest literary award, the Ezhuthachchan Puraskaram, in an interview with Nazeem Beegum. You were so hopeful about the country turning around from the present political situation before the Bihar election results were declared. Do you think the communal agenda is gaining momentum again? People are voting communally everywhere, not just in Bihar. Every party is using the communal card to create a vote bank, not just the BJP. The parties openly say it without any shame. The problem of communalism comes up when you try to turn your communal attitudes against another community to eliminate or isolate or suppress it. India has not been secularised — there exists the entire problem. We are still steeped in blind faith and it is exploited by political parties. We have not progressed like Europe, which progressed after the Industrial Revolution, Enlightenment, scientific revolution and the demolition of Christianity. Europe progressed only after Christianity was deconstructed. Religion ceased to be a force in European society. That was the moment of awakening and progress for the entire western culture because people started thinking freely. In India, that never happened. So, if you ask me about the Bihar elections, all played these cards very well there, and the BJP has proved that it is smarter than other parties. Do you think Indian voters are mixing their religious faith with  political beliefs? Many voters in states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh or any such state are illiterate. Unlike (voters) in Kerala or even Tamil Nadu, they have received no modern education. They might be able to read and write but beyond that they have not been able to look at the world with new eyes and an understanding of what is happening. First of all, there is a feudal set-up where the village pradhan commands for whom they should vote. Second, they are not able to differentiate between communal parties and others. This political illiteracy and lack of education makes millions incapable of distinguishing between the communal appeal and the political appeal. Our communal parties are experts in confusing and mixing up the two, and cheating the people. Kerala is going to face  crucial local body elections next month. Do you think these elements will play a role there? Yes, because at the micro level, communal passions are stronger and can be exploited better than at the Assembly and parliamentary levels. But in Kerala, people are different from other states as they have received a certain amount of education and have a general awareness of what is going on. People are a little more demanding, and know their community needs and what they want to improve their lives. Besides, the Left still has a very strong hold on Kerala. The Left has a hold across all communities — Hindus, Muslims and Christians. That is a very important factor. There is a growing nationalistic fervour in north India that favours the BJP. But it is not happening elsewhere. How do you explain this? That again is (a result of) illiteracy. These superfluous emotions are exploited where people are illiterate. Therefore, when somebody talks about nationalism in Kerala, Malayalis know they are as nationalist as anybody else….  Hindi is a blanket language covering several cultures, and so the identities are always mixed up. This is one reason that such foolish and ridiculous ideas are being sold easily to populations who have no identity to claim. Moreover, Hindi as a language has been misappropriated by those who hold power. Those looking for larger power use the language used by the majority. Could you tell us about your Delhi days? I was there for 20-22 years. I went (there) as a greenhorn fellow from the south and I had, frankly, O.V. Vijayan (author and cartoonist) to help me learn about Delhi. Through Vijayan, V.K. Madhavan Kutty (journalist) and people like them, I came to understand how the Indian power system works, how Indian politics works, and what kind of agendas are taken at the end of the day, what kind of puny little people have power in India and how they take India for a ride. I learned the fundamental thing: how democracy is also taken for a ride by people with money, muscle power and all kinds of agendas, like the communal agenda. The basic thing I learned in Delhi is that democracy is only a mask and just a catchword, and that Indian power is always feudal, despotic and ruthless. I never had any occasion to change that viewpoint. So when I see Modi & Co. acting in a particular way, I’m not surprised. Whenever the nation travelled in the wrong direction in the past, the voices of intellectuals were heard from Delhi. Why isn’t that happening now? When you talk about the Nehruvian and Indira Gandhi days, yes, intellectual voices did rise. That generation is dead. The question of intellectuals and individual voices having an impact on governance is almost nil. After Independence, those things evaporated, mostly through political interference and suppression. The initiative was lost, and so you cannot look to Delhi or any other particular place in India for that. Intellectually eminent people are there, but scattered all over India. You are no longer a pariah for the Leftists, who assaulted you physically in 2010. Do you see a change in their attitude? You have won the government’s highest literary award too. That was done by some idiots at the local level of the (CPM youth wing) Democratic Youth Federation of India. I call them “pozhans” or stupid idiots. I didn’t care even then. But it was terrible (that) the people who did that were promoted. The very sad part was that the party justified that. I think V.S. Achuthanandan was the chief minister then. He, or the party, did not condemn the incident and one of its leaders justified it. It happened almost a decade ago. Maybe the party is changing slowly — I don’t know. But if the party still continues to be so, it’s not a problem for me or you. The party has to handle it. Speaking about the award, of course, it is an award constituted by the government, which is elected by the people. So I see it as an award from the people, not any institution. Nazeem Beegum is an independent journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||BJD expels ex-minister Pradeep Panigrahi||Odisha chief minister and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) chief Naveen Patnaik on Sunday expelled former minister and Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi who has been critical of government’s Covid management, from the party. He has been shown the door for his anti-people activities. The expulsion comes close on heels of the arrest of disgraced IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak whose son Akash was to marry Panigrahi’s daughter on December 11. An advance booking amount of Rs 20 lakh had been paid to the Taj Lake Palace hotel, Udaipur in Rajasthan, for the marriage reception. However, Panigrahi challenged the BJD leadership asking it to spell out the nature of the anti-people activities he has been accused of being involved in. “I have done all my duties sincerely. I even ensured the party’s victory in 12 out of the 15 Assembly seats in undivided Ganjam district whose management I had been entrusted with. Chief minister has given me my political identity, made me an MLA and minister. I have nothing to say against the chief minister. But there is a deep conspiracy behind such a move,” he said. The former minister said: “There is no political voice in the governance. The journalists also fear to tell the truth.” His wife, Sujata said: “After serving the party for 20 years the allegation that my husband was involved in anti-people activities has deeply hurt us. It should be clearly explained to the people and to us.” Sources said Panigrahi was unhappy with the vigilance raid on Pathak and subsequent arrest of the IFS officer and his son. On his would be son-in-law Akash, Panigrahi said:  “Akash was working in Romania but returned to Odisha to look after his ailing mother. He had secured the highest marks in GMAT in 2016 and later was recruited by the Tata Group.” Meanwhile, Tata Motors have also lodged a complaint with the Crime Branch against Akash for impersonating as MD (I-C) Tata Motors Passengers Division of Tata Motors, Pune and cheating  unemployed youths by promising them jobs in Tata Motors. BJD’ Ganjam district unit president Ramesh Chandra Chaupatnaik told The Telegraph, “It would not have been possible for Akash to cheat young job aspirants without  political patronage. He has accumulated huge properties. Panigrahi is involved in anti-people activities. It should be investigated.” The IFS officer has been accused of having acquired properties 435 times his known sources of income. About Rs 9.4 crore was found deposited in the sons’ bank account.  Pathak and his Akash were leading a lavish life and chartered planes during lockdown. Besides, luxury cars and flats, Pathak had a farm house in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||Sikkim plans civic polls in 2021||Elections to seven civic bodies in Sikkim are likely to be held either in January-end or the first week of February, four months after they were due but had to be postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. An indication to this effect was given by Arun Upreti, Sikkim’s urban and housing development minister, on Sunday. “We want to hold the elections at the earliest. We have started preparation for conducting the elections. I am hopeful the elections will definitely be held either by the end of January or the first week of February,” he said. The seven civic bodies are Gangtok Municipal Corporation (17 wards), Namchi Municipal Council (7), Jorethang Municipal Council (7), Gyalshing Municipal Council (7), Singtam nagar panchayat (5), Rangpo nagar panchayat (5) and Mangan nagar panchayat (5). Unlike in the last civic polls that were held in October 2015, the next elections would be held on a non-partisan basis this time after the P.S. Tamang (Golay)-headed Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) government amended the Sikkim Municipality Act 2007 in September requiring candidates to contest the polls in their individual capacity and not under the banner of any political party. In the last elections, the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards in the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank. Sources in the state election commission said the revised electoral rolls for the civic bodies were being prepared and would be notified soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
