01-02-2021||Amritsar||One death, 8 new cases in district||Speeding car runs over manTarn Taran: Gurpreet Singh (25) of Doburji (GT Road) died after being run over by a speeding car near Bath village on the national highway-54 on the Saturday night. The local Sadar police said deceased Gurpreet Singh was on his motorcycle when an i-10 No.PB-46, T-8586, coming from Amritsar, hit him from the back. Gurpreet Singh received serious injuries on his head and died on the spot. The car driver escaped from the spot. ASI Vipin Kumar, Investigation Officer (IO) said a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC had been registered against the car driver who was yet to be identified. OCCops seize lahan, illicit liquorTarn Taran: The police have seized 13,200 kl of lahan and 6,37,500 ml of illicit liquor in Kirian village on Sunday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said acting on a tip-off, the police arrested Ladi and Sonu of Kirian village. He said the duo was booked under Sections 61, 1, 14 of the Excise Act and the Prevention of Water and Pollution Control Act-1978. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-death-8-new-cases-in-district-206317
01-02-2021||Although the fear of virus still persists in people’s minds||Safety guards will lower their chances of getting infected||Open with strict precautionary stepsOnline classes are not a permanent alternative to on-campus classes. The physical presence of teachers is indispensable for students. Moreover, school promotes social interaction, physical and mental activities among children, which is not possible behind closed doors. Schools must open with strict precautionary measures. Monotony has to be broken. Teachers should keep an eye on students to ensure that they follow all safety norms. It’s high time that students start attending physical classes. Schools should open with staggered classes and follow Covid norms. Managements of schools should be accountable for ensuring safety of students. Covid and education have to run parallel till everyone gets vaccinated. Parents should send their children to school as enough time has already been wasted and now only few days are left for the current session to be over. Many have neglected their studies while at home. Online classes were not so fruitful due to poor net connectivity.Amarjit Singh QUESTIONEveryone, especially children, women and the elderly, like spending quality time in the city parks. Do you think the MC authorities are doing enough and providing proper facilities such as open gyms and good jogging tracks in all parks for its residents?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 4).Schools can’t be kept closed indefinitelyAlmost all schools have reopened for in-person learning whereas a few are still using hybrid mix of offline and online learning methods. Parents should send their children to school but they have many things to consider before doing that. Their reluctance can be understood but schools cannot be kept closed indefinitely. Schools play a significant role in children’s education, achievement, health and well-being. And board exams and session-ending school examinations are to be conducted offline. Even reports emanating from Europe hint that it is possible to send children to school. It is better for parents to send them to school than to let them stay out. However, safety is of paramount importance. They can be safe and secured in school if safety measures are used in letter and spirit to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. To ensure this, health experts, school authorities and teachers are working hard to provide a salutary atmosphere in the school premises. It is opined that children are less likely to catch and spread virus than those of the adults. Experts aver that going to school with safety guards in place helps protect pupils and lowers their chances of catching the virus. Washing hands, cleaning surfaces often, wearing masks, seating children spaced apart, grouping the same students and teachers together throughout the school timings, cleaning and disinfecting the common areas, health screening and monitoring, etc in the schools can embolden the parents to send their wards to school. To further boost their morale, schools should hold classes and other activities outside as much as possible rather than holding them inside a classroom. Floors can have markings to show students where to stand and walk. Besides school authorities are bent upon ensuring strict discipline and social distancing measures and following SOPs. It can act as an icing on the cake if schools would have isolation rooms, medical help and facilities of reporting exposures too. Above all, Covid vaccination drive in the country can instill greater sense of confidence in the parents. Taking into account all of this, parents should shed their inhibitions and send children to school.Tarsem S BumrahPartial reopening of schools in Covid“Students of Classes V to XII may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers,” stated the guidelines. Assemblies, sports and events which can lead to overcrowding should be strictly prohibited. Students, teachers, employees coming from contaminated zone should not be allowed to come school. The government also said that online or distance learning shall continue to be permitted. Studies have shown that children are less susceptible to severe Covid-19 as compared to adults. It depends on parents that they have to send their ward to school or not. This will be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians.Akshar Kumar SinglaKeep calm and send kids to schoolsWith the advent of Covid vaccination new cases are on the decline and people heaved a sigh of relief. In such a situation, parents should send their children to schools because there are no apprehensions anymore. We all have witnessed nightmarish time last year. However, things have changed and everyone is all set to restart their schools, colleges etc. There are innumerable students who have already encountered afflictions in studies since schools and colleges were closed owing to Covid-19. Additionally, pupils felt boredom at home in the lockdown because they had nothing to do except online classes. School plays an imperative part in student’s life and helps in harmonious and holistic growth of the pupils. Hence, parents should allow their children to go to schools, regardless of any fear.Saahil HansIt should be a call of the parentsNo doubt that anti-Covid vaccination programme started in our country since 16th of January and fresh cases of infection are also on decline, yet the fear of reemergence is not over. On 23rd 6,00,790 new cases were reported over world where as seven days average was 6,24,369. Moreover, many advance countries in the world like China, United Kingdom, Germany, France etc are reimposing the lockdown due to spread of contagious variant of coronavirus. Keeping in view the fear of spread, winter session of the Parliament was suspended and now budget session is arranged with utmost precautions. But in support of those who favour classroom studies, example of assembly of tens of thousands of farmers at the outskirts of Delhi could be quoted. There is no report of infected case in the said area since last two months after beginning of the agitation. In spite of all this government’s guidelines for wearing a mask, frequent washing of hands and physical distancing are in force. Moreover, in winter, children do often get caught up in the grip of cold and cough which are also symptoms of the virus, hence may give a handle to the rumour mongering. Even in modern times we should not forget the age old saying ‘prevention is better than cure’. Therefore the best course of action in this regard is to leave the decision on the parents to choose between classroom studies or online studies.Harsh N JoharParents in a catch-22 situationA catch-22 situation has apparently placed parents in a dilemma as schools are being readied to open and decision has been laid before guardians to take a call on, sending or not sending their wards to school. My personal take is blended schooling, online plus physically interactive, with necessary precautions by school such as distancing, masks-musts, personal sanitisers, food, water, sanitiser tunnels, temperature checking, two shifts, as a workable scenario for older kids. However, when I learn about precautions, with no letup by developed countries despite ruining economies, it makes me wonder about risks concerning our emotional investment and fabulous future human resource. While cases of Covid are seemingly on the decline, the reasons for this are many. Vitally, lack of free-tests by government (many centres closed), people refusing to get tested, kits not provided, disruption of life, fear of losing jobs, the paraphernalia of quarantine, lack of caretakers, high temperatures, etc. The immunity to situation combined with lethargy is the government’s refuge, with an eye on economics. No harm in it, but to open schools just when the vaccination is ongoing, is like jumping into a fast-emptying swimming pool. It could land with a fatal thud!Rashmi TalwarAdd nutritious items to mid-day mealsParents should send their children to school only if the Covid-19 rules are followed by both officials and pupils. Children might not follow the protocols because of peer pressure which must be corrected by teachers. Parents should motivate their children to always follow the basic guidelines relating to Covid-19 and encourage them to propagate these among their friend circles. Some more nutritious items can be added to the mid-day meals so that children’s immunity can be enhanced to eliminate the threat of coronavirus.Jatinderpal Singh BatthNo harm in complying with decisionDue to improved Covid situation, parents must send their children to the schools. It is very difficult for a child to get an education through digital means. Classroom teaching gives a lot of opportunity to learn. The children do not hesitate interacting with their teachers in a classroom. A lot of interaction between pears also improves quality of education since they play, dance together and perform so many activities together. Covid situation will further improve by the introduction of vaccine in the population at large. A heard immunity is bound to come after the vaccination drive. I request the parents that they must send the children for classroom teaching. Classroom teaching is the best means of getting education. However, Covid protocols must be adhered too. The parents as well as the teachers are best educators for making the children aware regarding protocols. Every school must follow the rules and regulations framed by Health Department of the state government regarding preventive measures. AC rooms as well as over congestion areas should be avoided. If children can go to congested bazaars, melas, temples and gurdwaras, what harm is there in sending them for on-campus teaching. Parents should not hesitate.Dr Karanjit SinghLooking forward to attending schoolsIt’s just great that my second home; my school, is reopening. There are, however, mixed feelings. There is an anxiety as well as a curiosity. As the vaccination for now is for the frontliners, we students and teachers are left with another vaccine ie precaution. As in the pre-vaccination time it was said, “Your mask and your sanitiser are the best measures to keep the virus away’’. I believe we need to follow it in the school as well. It should not be just any mask or a handkerchief but a three-layered mask to be worn compulsorily at all times. No sharing of food or stationary items like pens, notebooks or books and frequent santisation at all times – both of surface and hands. If one cannot keep a sanitiser, one must at least keep paper soap and wash hands with it for 21 seconds. As it is now a catchword in Covid time, the two metres distance, it is absolutely necessary. Wearing a mask and maintaining distance will give us best of both the worlds. I am eagerly looking forward to attending school.Armaandeep KaurShun apprehensions, follow precautionsReopening of school was something we have been ardently waiting for. Now this news has finally come. The apprehensions have not yet taken a backseat. Sending the teenagers to school fills me with worries. I am sure it must be taking best precautions to keep the students safe during this crucial time but I have certain suggestions to make. It must be ensured that proper distancing is maintained at all times, both inside and outside the classroom. There should be frequent surface santisation. It must be made compulsory for the students to bring their own sanitisers, so that they can sanitise their hands conveniently, school should also install foot-operated hand sanitiser machines at different points. This will ensure frequent hand sanitisation. Similarly, wearing masks should be made mandatory. Using of handkerchief and muffler in place of mask should be discouraged. Stair railings should also be sanitised by the supporting staff, as students tend to take its support while ascending and descending stairs. This time has taught us certain lessons and if these are followed around the premises students will stay safe and offline learning will go flawlessly well.Rajrani DuttRight time to take the leap of faithCovid-19 had propelled higher education online during last year. Presently, we believe that classroom teaching should be up and running with all due precautions. The academic institutions by and large are ready to face the challenges and overcome the same. The start of these offline classes is vital for keeping students of all levels on track, as classroom teaching enhances their grasping abilities and learning aptitude. Confluence of the social skills, sharing of the thought process and material things happens in the classroom environment only. Otherwise, the best learning occurs with students physically present and interacting in the classroom. The knowledge gained through social interaction is very vital when an individual has to grow and move around in the society. The practical and laboratory aspect of course curriculum is effectively possible only within the labs. Moreover, this pandemic has proved to be tough for students who lack access to internet and e-resources. Many low income college students lack the at-home resources required for remote learning. Now is the time to plan a vision for how education can emerge stronger from this global crisis than ever before with the blended knowledge gains methodology laying global resources before both the knowledge acquirer and disseminator and propose a path for exploiting education’s recent support in every community across the globe.Dr Ramandeep Singh DeolHolistic development possible in schoolsIn this pandemic, online learning is the new normal but it will never replicate the real school interactions. Although online classes have been conducted and the syllabus, learning and revisions are being executed to ascertain that no learning gaps exist. Nonetheless, online classes cannot be considered as perpetual alternate to physical classes in schools. The physical presence of teachers is essential for the holistic development of pupils. Moreover, schools instill social interaction along with variety of physical and mental activities that is otherwise impossible through the online learning available at homes. Therefore, schools must reopen with strict precautionary measures.Dr Nancy GuptaSafety of all on premises top priorityGlobally, reopening of educational institutions has prompted mixed reactions but looking at the learning needs of students the colleges should be reopened while preserving the health of students, faculty, and staff. Thus, every institution should implement best practices ensuring prudent reopening. There is no complete risk-free way to reopen. But resumption of institutions is now the need of the hour. For many new high school graduates, attending college has been a long-sought goal. We owe a responsibility towards the youth to provide the best educational experience possible which can be delivered in the classroom environment only.Navneet Gill‘Back to school’ should be new normalHope and hard work of scientists and pharmaceutical companies paid off and within a year’s time we are blessed with the vaccine to protect us against Covid. What seemed to be a miracle is happening now. With new cases at an all-time low, vaccination drive and keeping in mind persistent demand of parents, the Government of India took a major decision allowing schools to reopen in a phased manner. The virus has resulted in one positive thing: a much greater parents’ appreciation for the importance of schools. With all safety protocols in place, attendance in school should be encouraged because this is how students learn the best. Schools provide more than just academics. In addition to subjects, students learn social and emotional skills through extracurricular activities. The young learners are being instructed to return to school as the youngest minds have the most to gain. At their young age, kids soak up new skills at an accelerated pace. ‘Back to school’ must be the new normal as already missing out on schooling will have a long-lasting impact on the educational outcome and future prospect. It is the perfect time to be at school than home. Best time to develop friendships with fellow students, knowing faculty members, learning better how to manage time, gain knowledge and skills and have a positive mindset. Be happy to be back in school and having return to on-campus learning!!Varun Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safety-guards-will-lower-their-chances-of-getting-infected-206295
01-02-2021||---||SAD, AAP name candidates for Ward No.37 byelection||Amritsar, January 31Though the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced their candidates for the byelection, the campaigning had already started in Ward No.37 of the Municipal Corporation.The SAD gave the party ticket to Inderjit Singh Pandori, who had contested in 2017 but was defeated by a Congress candidate. On the other hand, the Aam Aadmi Party announced the name of Jaspal Singh Bhullar for contesting the byelection from the ward. Bhullar is general secretary of the Private Contractor and Labour Contractor Union, Amritsar, and is an active member of the party.Talbir Singh Gill, in-charge of the south constituency of the SAD, said, “We have started campaigning for our candidate. The party’s election office would be opened in Shaheed Udam Singh Nagar tomorrow in Ward No.37. The door-to-door campaigning is already going on.” Talbir claimed that Inderjit Singh Pandori was a very hardworking candidate of the party, besides being an honest activist and he would definitely win the election.Meanwhile, district president of the District Congress Committee Jatinder Sonia claimed that the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee would also announce its candidate within one or two days.The post of councillor of Ward No.37 fell vacant after the death of Congress councillor Harpreet Singh on April 30, 2019. Kulwant Singh, father of Harpreet Singh Goldy, has also presented his claim for the ticket. According to sources, he is a strong contender for the Congress party ticket.District BJP president Suresh Mahajan also called activists to submit their claims for the party ticket and names would be announced soon.The filing of the nomination papers started on Saturday and scrutiny would be conducted on February 4. The withdrawal of the papers would be done on February 5 and on the same day election symbols would be allotted to the candidates. The campaigning would end on February 12 and voting would be held from 8am to 4pm on February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-aap-name-candidates-for-ward-no-37-byelection-206249
01-02-2021||---||Ex-employee of Railways  
found brutally murdered||Amritsar, January 31In a shocking incident, a retired railway employee was brutally murdered by several persons at Mahal village.The deceased has been identified as Jagir Singh, a resident of Jabbowal village, falling under the jurisdiction of Tarsikka police station.The police have arrested Sukhwinder Singh, alias Aman, of Mahal village while his family members were absconding. A monetary dispute was stated to be the reason behind the murder. The accused strangled Jagir to death and later chopped his body and threw it in the drain near Mahal village.The deceased had been missing since January 21 and several parts of his body were recovered by the police on Sunday. Harwinder Singh, son of the deceased, told the police that his father had met Sukhwinder around 15 years ago, who worked as a daily wager at railway workshop.He said his father used to financially help the accused. Harwinder said during the lockdown, Sukhwinder borrowed Rs 20,000 from his father and was not returning the same.He said on January 21, the accused asked his father to collect money near Ganda Nullah. Harwinder said after sometime he tried to contact his father, but his mobile phone was not reachable. He said they tried to find his father, but could not trace him.Yadwinder Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said on Sunday, the police detained Sukhwinder and asked about the whereabouts of Jagir. The SHO said during interrogation, the accused confessed that he along with his father Ranjit Singh, mother Jaspal Kaur and wife Amandeep Kaur, strangled Jagir and chopped his limbs with sickle. The accused said they threw deceased’s body parts in the Ganda Nullah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-employee-of-railways-found-brutally-murdered-206250
01-02-2021||---||25-yr-old murdered, honour killing suspected||Amritsar, January 31In a suspected case of honour killing, a youth, identified as Gurpeet Singh (25), was on Saturday kidnapped and later killed by family members of the woman with whom he got married around four months ago.The police have booked the woman’s father Jagir Singh, his two sons Gurpreet Singh and Malkeet Singh, and paternal uncle Kashmir Singh, all residents of Mehdipura village along with five unknown persons on charges of kidnapping (Section 364, IPC), murder (Section 302, IPC) and criminal conspiracy (Section 120-B, IPC) and other relevant sections of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far.Raju Singh, brother of the victim, told the police that Gurpreet, who worked as a driver, married Harpreet Kaur of Mehdipura village against the wishes of her family in September last year. He said he was getting death threats from the bride’s family. Owing to these threats, they used to pick and drop him to his work.Raju said on Saturday, he along with his father was going to drop the victim to his work when two SUVs overtook and stopped their vehicle. They kidnapped Gurpreet near Arora petrol station. He said they looked for him here and there but failed to locate him.Raju said later Sahib Singh of Pandher Kalan village informed that Gurpreet’s body was lying near a brick-klin at Ghukewali village. He said when they went there, they found signs of injections on his left arm and a syringe was also found there. He said the accused killed him by injecting some poisonous substance into his body.Mantej Singh, Investigating Officer of the case, said investigation was under progress and the body was sent for a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-yr-old-murdered-honour-killing-suspected-206251
01-02-2021||---||Pulse polio drive begins||Amritsar, January 31 The three-day pulse polio drive in the district started on Sunday wherein around 45 per cent of the targeted children were administered drops. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh flagged off an auto-rickshaw rally to start the drive. He said the rally aimed at creating awareness among the masses.  “In the next two days, the health teams will run a door to door campaign and administer polio drops,” he said. The heath official said though India has been declared a polio free nation by World Health Organisation, the drive is aimed at ensuring complete wipe out of polio as cases were being reported in neighbouring countries. “People should cooperate with health teams and it is their duty to get their child immunised,” said the Civil Surgeon. District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said a total of 3,05,285 children below the age of five years would be covered in the drive. Tarn Taran: MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri launched the three-day drive to administer polio drops to children upto the age of five years at the Civil Hospital on Sunday. Dr Baljit Kaur, Deputy Director, Health Department, and Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta were present on the occasion.  As many as 1,45,091 kids would be administered drops in the district.  In the next two days, teams of the department would go door to door in slum areas and brick-kilns to administer drops. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pulse-polio-drive-begins-206252
01-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Panchayats’ resolution: One family member must join farmers’ protest||Tarn Taran, January 31 More than 150 panchayats out of the total 550 in the district, along with the gram sabhas, at meetings organised at respective villages on Sunday passed a resolution to support the farmers’ agitation. The panchayats and the gram sabhas decided that one member of each family in villages would take part in the farmers’ protest on Delhi borders. The family denying taking part in the morcha would be fined Rs 1,500. The panchayat of Fazalpur village in Khadoor Sahib block held a meeting under the chairmanship of sarpanch Mangal Singh. Members of the panchayat and representatives of all families participated in the meeting. Harpreet Singh, a panchayat member, said in the resolution, it was resolved that in case the participant became a victim of any untoward incident the villagers and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, would jointly compensate the affected family. Harnandan Singh, District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO), confirmed that as many as 150 panchayats along with gram sabhas had passed resolutions to support the farmers’ agitation and appealed to the villagers to take part in the farmers’ morcha on Delhi borders. There are a total of 550 panchayats in the district and more panchayats were expected to pass such resolutions in the coming days. Besides, activists of an NGO, ‘Sach Da Saath’, headed by Gurdev Singh Sandhu, were making appeals to villagers to accompany them to the protesting sites on Delhi borders on February 3 as they were going there on tractor-trolleys. The activists were appealing to the villagers through the public address system of the village gurdwara concerned.  While confirming the announcements, residents of Lalu Ghuman, Mannan and many other villages said the NGO was appealing to villagers that if anybody wanted to carry his own tractor-trolley, the organisation would provide free diesel worth Rs 5,000 for his tractor-trolley. There were reports that residents of every village have decided to take part in the agitation by one or the other way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panchayats-resolution-one-family-member-must-join-farmers-protest-206253
01-02-2021||---||4 held on charge of rape||Amritsar, January 31The police have booked four persons, including two women, for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl. The police have arrested the prime accused and his father. The accused have been charged with rape and under the POCSO and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The accused have been identified as Prithvi Malli, alias Vishu, his father Rakesh Malli, mother Rajni of Kot Khalsa and Ranju of Ghaziabad, Delhi.The victim, a resident of Lohgarh, in her complaint to the police on January 27 said she met Prithvi at a marriage function where they exchanged their mobile numbers. She alleged he took her to his aunt’s house in Delhi and made physical relations with her.The D division police have registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A and 376-D of the IPC, Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act and Sections 9 and 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-held-on-charge-of-rape-206257
01-02-2021||---||Snatchers on the prowl, three incidents in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 31Three snatching incidents were reported in the city on Saturday. In the first case, unknown persons snatched a car from a Jai Deep Singh Dhillon at gunpoint in Ranjit Avenue. Dhillon was on his way to drop his gardner, Suresh Kumar, near Amrit Anand Park.Dhillon said as they reached near Rose Garden, three persons came on a black car and snatched his vehicle at gunpoint. He told the police that his car contained Rs2 lakh, gold and registry papers.Investigating Officer Palwinder Singh said the victim was heavily drunk when the incident took place. He said the police teams were analysing the CCTV footage to find clues about robbers.In another incident, unknown persons snatched a mobile phone from Rajat Sharma when he was returning home from gym in Ranjit Avenue. The complainant said when he reached near hotel Best Western in B-block, two-bike borne persons came from behind and snatched his mobile phone.In the third incident, several persons travelling on an auto-rickshaw robbed a salesman of a courier company.The victim, Vinay Singh, told the police that he came back from Jammu on Saturday. He said at Vijay Nagar, the bus broke down and he hired an auto-rickshaw to reach the bus stand.Vinay said two persons were already sitting with driver in the front and two were sitting on the back seat. He said near Celebration Mall, the accused took a U-turn towards Kashmir Avenue and snatched his two mobile phones, wallet, which contained Rs4,000 and other documents. The victim managed to note down the registration number (PB-02-9027) of the auto-rickshaw.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-on-the-prowl-three-incidents-in-amritsar-206258
