02-02-2021||Amritsar||Financer kills minor son, wife before shooting self in Amritsar||A financer allegedly shot dead his five-year-old son and wife before killing himself too, police said here on Tuesday.Vikramjit Singh Mann had suffered huge financial loss during the lockdown period, the police said, adding he had been depressed for the last few months.A suicide note too was recovered from the spot, the police said.Mann took the drastic step and shot dead his wife Yadkiran Kaur and son Varsirat Singh with a gun he had borrowed from one of his friends a day earlier, said the police.Later, he also killed himself, they said.After hearing the gunshots, neighbours rushed to their house and found their bodies in a pool of blood. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/financer-kills-minor-son-wife-before-shooting-self-in-amritsar-206983
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Salaried feel let down, traders seek more push||The Union Budget presented by the Finance Minister evoked a mixed response among residents of the city. While the middle class slammed the Union Budget, senior citizens hailed the minor relief in not having to file the tax returns. The Budget proposals failed to cheer the entrepreneurs too.Saanya Aggarwal, a company secretary, said the Budget has not talked about any boosting measures on taxation and is concentrated more on the administrative reforms. There was no relief to the salaried middle class taxpayers which suffered the most due to the pandemic. There was no hike in the standard deduction limit in the Budget, no increase in compulsory audit limit except for digital transactions, no changes in income tax rates and no relief in GST slabs on the purchase of raw material. Besides, the anomalies in the National Pension Scheme (NPS) with regard to income tax benefits were also not fixed.There was no mention of ease of doing business, which was actually required. Export growth is a challenge but it also did not find any mention in the Budget.Dr SS Chhina, Senior Fellow, Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi, said the prices of general goods is likely to go up as a result of the agricultural cess of Rs 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs 4 on the same quantity of diesel. Because of this, the freight, passage expenses and the production cost would enhance instantly. The Budget proposals seem to be skewed towards privatisation. Large scale disinvestment, sale of airlines two public sector banks and encouragement to the FDI proves it all.Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said allocation of Rs 15,700 crore for the MSME sector, which has share of 40 per cent in the GDP, was highly insufficient, especially after the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. Announcement for the setting up of seven mega investment textile parks to attract investment in the sector brought some cheer among the textile players of the holy city, which was once known as the Manchester of India. Seth hoped that these textile parks would herald a new era for the economy of the country on a largescale scale so as to compete with South Asian and South East Asian competitors.He demanded income tax relief for senior citizen entrepreneurs aged 75 years or above, on the same lines as that given to other old pensioners.Avnish Khosla, All India Secretary of a Banking Trade Union, said, “We strongly condemn the proposed decision of privatising two public sector banks and an insurance company in the next financial year. The total target of Rs 1,75,000 crore disinvestment is like destroying wealth of country. This is exactly the same amount withdrawn from RBI reserves last year and transferred in the form of tax benefit to Corporates. So instead of disinvestment of government asset this 1,75,000 crore should have been collected by reimposing tax on the corporate sector, Khosla added.Dr Kuldeep Kaur Professor Economics and Dr BR Ambedkar Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University, says the Budget acknowledged the challenges during the pandemic and claimed to be fully equipped to support the economy to reset by announcing the six main pillars of Atamnirbhar Bharat Package, starting with healthcare and well-being. This includes increased spending of Rs 64,000 crores spread over six years. This should, however, be used to improve the quality of available infrastructure in rural and urban areas so as to tackle any pandemic in future. Extension of housing loan exemption is also a welcome step. However, Budget could have got gained more applaud if it could have mentioned something exclusive for the job creations as the unemployment rate increased during the pandemic. Some immediate steps were needed for the revival of MSMEs.Gunbir Singh- Founder Chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal Council, said the commerce segment was bracing itself for enhanced tax burden keeping in view the adverse fiscal scenario, falling GDP numbers as well as the healthcare challenges on the fiscal reserves of the nation. However, the union budget allayed these fears with no new tax levies, but instead looked at mobilising required funds through disinvestment and privatisation, thus monetising assets worth over Rs. 1.76 lakh crores while continuing down the tax reform path. District Congress Committee President Jatinder Sonia flayed the Budget for being ‘anti-people’.Prices of items of daily use are likely to go up as a result of the agricultural cess of Rs2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs4 on the same quantity of diesel. Because of this, the freight, passage expenses and the production cost would enhance instantly. The Budget proposals seem to be skewed towards privatisation. — Dr SS Chhina, senior fellow, institute of Social Sciences, New DelhiAllocation of Rs15,700 crore for the MSME sector, which has share of 40 per cent in the GDP, is highly insufficient, especially after Covid-induced economic crisis. Announcement of seven mega investment textile parks to attract investment in the sector has brought some cheer to the textile players. — Piara Lal Seth, President of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar MandalThe Budget acknowledged the pandemic challenges & is equipped to support the economy. The main pillars of Atmanirbhar Bharat Package will prove to be a good move. The spending of Rs64,000 crore, spread over six years, should be used to improve the quality of available infra in rural and urban areas so as to tackle any pandemic in future. — Kuldeep Kaur Professor Economics at GNDUThe commerce segment was bracing itself for enhanced tax burden keeping in view the adverse fiscal scenario. However, the Budget allayed these fears with no new tax levies, but instead looked at mobilising required funds through disinvestment and privatisation, thus monetising assets worth over Rs1.76 lakh crore. — Gunbir Singh- Founder Chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal CouncilThe Budget is silent on boosting measures on taxation and is focused more on the administrative reforms. There is no relief to the salaried, which suffered the most during pandemic. There is no hike in the standard deduction limit in the Budget and no increase in compulsory audit limit except for digital transactions. —1 Saanya Aggarwal, a Company Secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salaried-feel-let-down-traders-seek-more-push-206680
02-02-2021||Amritsar||2 gangsters held with weapons, two escape||The rural police have nabbed two alleged gangsters for firing at a police party on the Khalchian-Dhulka road here on Sunday evening while two of their accomplices managed to flee from the spot.The police recovered two .32 bore country-made weapons with eight live bullets and 2 gram of heroin from their possession.In a statement issued here on Monday, the police said the Khalchian police got a tip-off that around four youths carrying weapons were roaming in a car (CH01-BT-7818) and they were planning to commit some crime. Following this, a checkpoint was set up near the FCI godown on the Khalchian-Dhulka road and the police started checking vehicles.At the naka, the police team signalled a car to stop. However, the car occupants tried to speed away but hit a barricade. They started firing at the police party. The car fell into an agriculture field as it was being driven rashly. When the police surrounded the car, two of them managed to run away while firing at the police team.Those arrested were later identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Happy of Aladinpur village in Tarn Taran, and Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky of Mohalla Nanaksar in Tarn Taran. Those who fled from the spot were identified as Sema and Billa, both from Tarn Taran. The police have registered a case of murder bid, under sections of the Arms Act and the NDPS Act against them.According to the police, the accused were involved in the drug peddling and supplying illegal weapons. The arrested accused were produced in court and brought on police remand while raids were on to nab their accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-gangsters-held-with-weapons-two-escape-206681
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Thieves target 6 shops in Putlighar area||Tall claims of the police of night patrolling and nakas fell flat with thieves targeting around six shops and decamping with cash from the cash boxes of these shops by breaking open the shutters in the famous Putlighar market in the wee hours here on Monday. The police have started investigation and registered a case in this regard.A CCTV footage of the spot revealed that the accused were five or six in number who were travelling in a car. They threatened the security guard to kill him in case he tried to alert shopkeepers.Ashish Chug, owner of Khoobsurat Garment Shop, revealed that he got a call from another shopkeeper at around 3am and they reached the shop within a few minutes. He found the shutters half open while around Rs 1 lakh in cash was missing from the cash box.Another shopkeeper Ashwani, owner of Sham Sundar and Sons (a cloth and garment shop), revealed that there was around Rs 90,000 in cash in the box. Similarly, the thieves’ also targeted Novelty Garment Shop, owned by Amit Chug, and RK Prints located in the main bazaar of Putlighar. They also decamped with cash and other valuables from Sehgal Medical Store owned by BJP leader Deepak Sehgal and the adjoining Saini Medical Store.Deepak Sehgal said unscrupulous elements had no fear of the law as they targeted the shops with impunity. Earlier too, similar instances were reported from different parts of the city, besides Putlighar area.RK Dogra, owner of Dogra garment store, said there was a complete failure of the law and order situation. He said around two months ago, attempts were made to steal goods from his shop too. After this, he made adequate arrangements, besides installing CCTV cameras in and outside the shop. “The unknown thieves first targeted my shop and broke the CCTV camera. But they failed to break open the shutters of my shop,” Dogra said.The cantonment police said investigation was under progress after the registration of an FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-target-6-shops-in-putlighar-area-206682
02-02-2021||Amritsar||GNDU theory examinations from February 15||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has announced offline examinations for several semesters from February 15. The theory examinations of first, third, fifth, seventh and ninth semesters will commence and date sheets have been uploaded on the university’s website (www.gndu.ac.in).The university has already conducted offline examinations in first phase for several courses. The issue of offline exams had been opposed by a segment of students, who had earlier demanded that the university conduct the exams digitally. The varsity had then postponed the exams for affiliated colleges in wake of these protests. But with fresh guidelines by the government on reopening of schools and colleges, the remaining phase of offline exams will now be conducted by GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-theory-examinations-from-february-15-206683
02-02-2021||AMRITSAR||All talk & no action: Madan Lal Dhingra’s memorial hasn’t gone beyond just words||Even after the passage of three and a half years, the proposed memorial dedicated to freedom fighter Madan Lal Dhingra at his birthplace and ancestral home remains out of sight.Former health minister Lakshmi Kanta Chawla shot off a communique to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh reminding him of his announcement to raise a memorial at Dhingra’s birthplace during his visit to the holy city in 2017. The martyr was born here on February 18, 1883.Dhingra was hanged in Britain for killing Indian Army officer William Hutt Curzon Wyllie on August 17, 1909. His father Gitta Mall owned a house inside Sikandari Gate. It was demolished in 2012 after his descendants sold the house to a person who pulled down the old building. Currently, the remnants only have an old boundary wall and gate.Now as things stand, even eight years after the demolition the state government hasn’t raised the memorial – breaking off from the promise it had made.Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Smarak Samiti, headed by former health minister Chawla, has been mobilising opinion for making of a memorial for the past many years. She pointed out that the government was yet to procure the land. She recalled that the Municipal Corporation (MC) had even initiated the process to procure the same land where the buyer had demolished the original structure in 2012.The 430 square yard plot, where once the house stood, is a commercially prime area. Chawla said the government accepted the demand to perpetuate the memory of the martyr among the contemporary youth and generations by raising a museum also. “On behalf of the Samiti, I have submitted an undertaking to maintain the memorial,” she said.She feels it would be a great tribute to the martyr who laid his life for the nation at the age of 26. In 2009, the Parkash Singh Badal government had celebrated the centenary of Dhingra’s martyrdom. The demand to convert his house into a museum has been taken up with higher officials since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-talk-no-action-madan-lal-dhingras-memorial-hasnt-gone-beyond-just-words-206689
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Goodbye Syal fest, see you soon!||The month-long and first-ever virtual edition of Syal festival by the Majha House culminated with a session by Rajmohan Gandhi, Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson and an art historian. The festival was impregnated with series of literary virtual interactions throughout the month of January.The final session was dedicated to the death anniversary of the father of the nation and Rajmohan, who is based in the US these days, spoke on the topic of belonging and unbelonging. Talking to Sanjay Hazarika, director of Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), Rajmohan said this is a very sensitive and deep thought because an individual is not just connected to one city or one country, but our roots are very vast. “If we look at history, we get to know that India was the richest country in the world till 18th Century and people from far-off lands used to come here to get employment or settle here. During the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, there were many people in his court who belonged to various religions. The concept of belonging is very complicated to understand and define for them.”Referring to Kamala Harris, he said she is half-Indian half-Jamaican, but has lived all her life in the US. “So, how does the concept of belonging apply to her? When India was under the British rule, Indians did not get the feeling of belonging to their own land because they were not respected and were treated badly. Many Indians consider Kashmir as part of the country, but only associate themselves with Kashmiri Pandits and they consider other Kashmiris as separate class,” he explained, adding a passing reference of abrogation of Article 370. “Kashmir has been made a Union Territory by removing Article 370; the spirit of belonging does not come on its own. The idea of one nation, one language, one religion, is completely the opposite to the concept of belonging.”He also marinated the concept with the ongoing farmer agitation. “The farmers were not consulted at the time of taking the important decision related to the farm laws, which hurt their feeling of belonging. For this reason, they have all come together to tell that this country that leaders cannot be their rulers because they have chosen them. This movement is a manifestation of the spirit of belonging,” Rajmohan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goodbye-syal-fest-see-you-soon-206691
02-02-2021||Amritsar||This 11-year-old Amritsar tech prodigy already has his own company||Eleven-year old Meedhansh Gupta is no less than a child prodigy. He has been felicitated by the SGPC for preparing its website. Based in Jalandhar, his parents are also into website designing.Studying in Class V, he has been running his company where he teaches students and web development, and earns Rs 50,000 per month.At the tender age of nine, his name was registered in the India Group of Records and World Records India for developing a website. He was in Class III when he had started designing websites. He had started coding at the age of five. He credited his parents for teaching him coding and aimed to become a website engineer. His message to the children of his age group is to go for only that stream which they piques their interest.Even SGPC Chief Bibi Jagir Kaur did not mince words while praising the Gupta family in general and Meedhansh in particular. After inaugurating the SGPC’s new website, which he created for free, she stated that the entire information regarding the Shiromani committee and its activities would now be only a click away.“Sikh Sangat can easily learn about various departments, their working, SGPC’s income and expenditures through this website. It will bring much needed transparency in its working.” Besides, she added, books on Gurmat philosophy and Sikh history will be digitally available. Talking about the SGPC’s website, Meedhansh says, “I, along with my parents, developed the website in a month.”His parents, who teach the students of B Tech (computer science), noticed his curiosity in learning software engineering when he started interacting with the B Tech and M Tech students whom they had been teaching at their centre.Visibly happy, his mother Monica Gupta recalls, “He used to join the students at our centre to learn software engineering after school. Seeing his keen interest, we did not dissuade them. At the same time, we also did not exert any pressure on him to learn more about it.”A software engineer herself, she teaches website and software development. “Each child is blessed. The only need is to recognise their talent and channelise it to growth. We need to come out of the traditional path of education. The competition is mounting each day and the only need is to develop entrepreneur skills among young children, she contends.Meedhansh and his parents are running separate companies. His father Sandeep Gupta said his grasping skills are really good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-11-year-old-amritsar-tech-prodigy-already-has-his-own-company-206692
02-02-2021||Amritsar||IMA launches relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||The Indian Medical Association-Amritsar Chapter (IMA-Amritsar) today initiated a relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’. The IMA-Amritsar leaders stated that giving permission to the AYUSH practitioners or those with short medical courses is not in the interest of the qualified medical practitioners and the general public.They stated that it would lower the standard of the medical services available to the general public and mixing different therapies of medicine would not work. They stated, on the one hand the government was concentrating on the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) to promote quality of medical services, on the other, its new move is aimed at allowing unqualified medical practitioners to practice highly sophisticated medical procedures.IMA-Punjab President Dr Kuldeep Arora said the protest was being held on the call of national executive across the country. He said the medical fraternity would not allow the government to go ahead with the unjustified move which would jeopardise the lives of patients.IMA-Amritsar President Dr Amandeep Kaur said the protest would continue till the changes to the earlier law were repealed in view of the dignity of the medical practitioners and safety of the general patients.Former IMA-Amritsar President Dr RS Sethi said the government should have consulted experts before taking such a drastic step. He said the IMA fraternity was unanimously opposing the decision and it would announce its next course of action soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-launches-relay-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy-206693
02-02-2021||---||Parks for elderly, children soon in rural areas||Tarn Taran, February 1The district administration stated that 27 public parks are being developed in rural areas to provide better recreational facilities to the public. Deputy Commissioner Kuldeep Singh said the proposed parks would have children and elderly-friendly facilities.He said after completion of first phase of the project, 45 more parks would be developed in the second phase. He said Rs 2 crore are being spent for the ongoing project. He said 40 playgrounds are also being developed at a cost of Rs 4 crore.The DC said under the MGNREGA scheme, the district has provided employment to 41,847 houses to the tune of 15 lakh work days during the year 2020-21. He said the Punjab Government had set a target of constructing 2,875 sheds in district under the initiative of providing animal sheds to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parks-for-elderly-children-soon-in-rural-areas-206694
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Residents raise a storm over contaminated water supply||Residents of Guru Nanak Avenue on Majitha road and nearby areas are a worried lot as they have been getting water mixed with sewage at their homes for the past two days. The residents complained that the ongoing work of laying gas pipeline has caused damage to the water and sewer pipes as a result of which they have been getting contaminated water.They complained that they had been running from pillar to post to raise the issue with senior officials and public representatives, but to no avail.“We cannot even use water for bathing or washing. People are dependent on their relatives and friends who have submersible pumps at their homes. But it is a big trouble to fetch water from other houses,” said Dr RS Pannu, a resident of the area.The residents said the private company should have used scanners to mark sewer and water supply lines so that the damage could have been avoided. They stated that all such projects should be handled in a professional manner and inconvenience to the public should be avoided at any cost.An eye surgeon, Dr Baljit Singh Dhillon, another resident of the area, said, “The water reeks of sewage. People’s sanitary fittings and water geysers have been damaged. They would also have to get their water tanks cleaned. And all this happened because the private company, which has been given the contract for supplying piped gas, did not perform its job in a professional way.” He said the problem will be rectified at the earliest and action against the company for causing trouble to people and damage to public property must be taken.Meanwhile, a senior official of the MC said the Mayor himself visited the spot today and repairs have begun. He said the problem would be rectified as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-raise-a-storm-over-contaminated-water-supply-206695
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Primary classes begin with caution in Amritsar schools||After a gap of over 10 months, the primary classes began in government and private schools of the district as per the state government guidelines on Monday.The Education Department had announced the resumption of primary classes at all schools from January 27, but the resumption of classes happened from today after schools completed the formalities of parental consent and preparing the premises as per the safety protocol.The schools registered an average of 7 per cent attendance for its primary classes beginning from Class 1 on the first day. The classes were conducted only for three hours as most students were seen wearing masks and face shields while coming to school. The government schools also reopened their primary wings. The schools are asking parents to bring their wards to school for primary classes as school transport is being avoided to be on the safe side.Punjab was among the first states to reopen schools for higher grades ahead of the board exams. Keeping in mind that the students of pre-primary classes are kids, officials of the department and management have been directed to remain more attentive towards them.Meanwhile, relaxing the norms, the cinema halls and multiples too have been allowed up to 100 per cent capacity. The fresh SOPs include strict monitoring by the Health Department and management on any health safety violations, maintaining a six-foot distance between individuals at common lounges, waiting areas, wearing of masks mandatory and staggered show timings to avoid crowding or overlapping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/primary-classes-begin-with-caution-in-amritsar-schools-206696
02-02-2021||---||Three arrested with heroin||Amritsar, February 1The police have arrested three persons for allegedly possessing heroin in separate incidents on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Rajat Kumar of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Manoj Kumar, alias Monu Sultan and Jaskaran Singh, alias Rohit, of Jujhar Singh Avenue.According to the police, the Anti-Narcotic Cell arrested Rajat with 290-gm heroin and a mobile phone following a tip-off. He was brought on the police remand for interrogation.In the second incident, the Gumtala police nabbed Manoj and Jaskaran with 55-gm heroin. The duo was travelling on a bike and intercepted at a check-point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-arrested-with-heroin-206700
02-02-2021||Amritsar||Five booked for murder bid, firing||The cantonment police have booked over five persons on the charge of murder bid for firing at a house and using abusive language here on the intervening night of January 30-31.An old dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident while no arrest has been made in the case so far.Those booked were identified as Sahil, alias Kalu, Saurav Bhatti, KP, Amit Kumar, alias Ghulla, and Rahul, alias Aaru, all residents of Gawan Mandi area on Ram Tirath Road, besides several unknown persons.Ajay Kumar, alias Raju, a painter, told the police that at around 1.15am on Sunday, he along with his family was sleeping at home when the accused came outside his house and started creating a ruckus. He alleged the accused were using abusive language and challenged him to come out while firing.He said his son Amit had lodged a complaint against the accused with the cantonment police station where a case was registered against them last year. He said the accused were forcing them to withdraw the case and reach a compromise with them.He alleged that they attacked his house with an intention to kill them. ASI Sushil Kumar said a case under Sections 307, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25 (6), 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered and raids were on to nab them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-murder-bid-firing-206705
02-02-2021||Amritsar||3 mobile phones seized from jail||SGPC delegation meets TikaitAmritsar: Showing solidarity with the farmers’ cause, an SGPC delegation met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait at the Ghazipur border on Saturday. The delegation comprised SGPC’s senior vice president Surjit Singh Bittewad, former senior vice president Rajinder Singh Mehta, additional secretary Paramjit Singh Saroa and executive member Satwinder Singh Tohra. Mehta said the Centre was adopting unethical practices to curb the farmers’ agitation through its machinery. “The SGPC condemned the ‘misbehaviour’ meted out to Tikait by the police recently. Our purpose of meeting farm leaders was to extend our support to farmers against the farm laws. He said the SGPC had been contributing towards the protest at the Ghazipur border by organising langar and making arrangements for the stay. TNSThree held with banned pillsTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police have recovered 1,32,250 intoxicant pills from possession of three persons on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Paramjit Kumar, Rahul Bhargav and Sandeep Kumar, all natives of Rajasthan. He said the accused were to deliver the consignment to Dilbag Singh, a resident of Singhpura village. The police party signalled a car to stop at a naka. During inspection of the vehicle, cops recovered tramadol tablets. Superintendent Police (Investigations) Dr Mehtab Singh said the Dilbag has a criminal history and was already facing four cases. The accused have been booked under Sections 22, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. oc12 fresh cases reported in distAmritsar: The health authorities reported 12 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday in the district. With this, the total count of positive cases has increased to 15,055. The new cases include seven influenza like illness cases and five contacts of positive cases. The health authorities did not report any death in the last 24 hours in the district and the toll stood at 581. Meanwhile, with recovery of nine patients, the recovery count has reached 14,342. At present, the district has a total of 132 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-206713
