03-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Hell in a cell!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 2The increased use of mobile phones and computers due to the Covid-induced situation is surely a cause for concern for most of the parents and they are committed to keep a check to bring their children back on track during the year 2021.The parents stated that after attending online classes, the children used screen time for entertainment. With schools and public places closed, the children found themselves in a spot and gadgets became their fast companions. However, this has opened up a box of concerns for folks as many children presently are glued to the screen for more than six hours a day.“My biggest goal this year is to reduce their screen time. I have already started working on this but children have become habitual. I plan to reduce their use of mobiles or laptops for one hour daily,” said Jatinder Kaur, a school teacher.Other parents expressed that they are looking forward to push children towards physical activities and sports. “Earlier, schools were the only places where children had access to playgrounds. With schools reopening now, the children would get the opportunity again,” said Sonia Mahajan, a homemaker.They were also hopeful that the situation does not take a wicked turn again and schools run smoothly. Taking care of the children, especially pre-primary and primary classes students, had been a challenge for the parents as offices had resumed but the schools were still closed.The situation had been more critical for families where both husband and wife were working and the grandparents lived in a different city. “It surely was a difficult time. We had to leave the children with our parents and being old-aged they were troubled,” said Satinder Singh Bal, a local resident running a software company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hell-in-a-cell-207284
03-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC yet to adopt bylaws for relief to stray attack victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 2Though the state government has notified the Municipal Bylaws 2020 (registration, proper control of stray animal and compensation of victim of animal attack), these have not been adopted by the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) till date.As per the bylaws, the victim of a stray animal attack would get Rs1 lakh in case of death. The General House meeting of MC had proposed to adopt the bylaws on December 31 last year but the house put it off for next meeting.As per the bylaws, the registration of animals has been made compulsory. In case the animal is not registered, the pet owners will have to pay ten times the penalty than the registration fee. The registration would be renewed on April 1 every year. With the collection of registration fee, the MC shall construct cattle ponds of sufficient capacity for impounding the stray cattle.No one, be it the owner or in-charge of the animal, will be allowed at any public street or place. There is a provision to disqualify the person for keeping an animal in these bylaws.In case of disability, the compensation would be provided as per the disability certificate issued by the civil surgeon. In case of stray dog attack, a special compensation of Rs1,000 would be provided.However, the dog bite cases and stray cattle attacks are very common in the city but victims can’t apply for compensation as bylaws are not adopted by the MCA, as of now.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “The proposal of adoption is pending by the General House as it has asked to discuss the compensation amount and some other conditions.”It is worth mentioning that stray dogs had killed Chanda, four and a half year old girl, on January 6 at Malanwali village. However, no compensation has been delivered to the Murli Kumar, father of Chanda.Advocate Kuljit Singh said, “The MC failed to curb the population of stray animals so they have to pay the compensation. The father of the girl had gone to his native village in Bihar to conduct last rites of Chanda. We will file a case for compensation as soon he returns from village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-yet-to-adopt-bylaws-for-relief-to-stray-attack-victims-207285
03-02-2021||---||Covid jab for frontline workers begins today||Amritsar, February 2 The district Health Department is all set to launch Covid-19 vaccination for frontline workers at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital on Wednesday. Officials of the department said they had identified a total of 22,228 frontline workers for vaccination. The first phase for health workers had started on January 16. Till date, around 7,000 health workers from public and private hospitals have been given the first dose. A total of around 23,000 health workers had been registered with the Health Department for inoculation. District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said frontline workers included personnel from the state and Central Police Departments, the Armed Forces, Home Guards, civil defence including disaster management volunteers and municipal corporation workers. He said around 130 employees of the Deputy Commissioner’s office would participate in the immunisation drive on Wednesday. All arrangements for the vaccination drive had been made. “We have sufficient stock of vaccine doses which have been stored safely and as per the prescription of the experts,” said Dr Sukhpal. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the vaccination of health workers would also continue simultaneously. He said the drive was going on successfully and health workers were excited. “No health worker, who has been given the jab, has complained of facing any side-effects so far. The vaccines are completely safe,” he reiterated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-jab-for-frontline-workers-begins-today-207286
03-02-2021||---||City-based importers, exporters feel let down||Amritsar, February 2The city-based importers and exporters believe that they have been let down by the Union Budget. Businessmen opined that they incurred massive loss after the Centre raised the customs duty on import of goods from Pakistan by 200 per cent following the Pulwama attack on February 14 in 2019.After India stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories, Pakistan banned imports from India.In both the cases, traders suffered losses and it was a double whammy for them that the Union Budget did not had anything meaningful.The holy city exports basmati rice, shawls, tweeds and machinery, among others.Naavniit Miterr, chairman, CII (Amritsar Zonal Council), said, “Exports are sign of economic prowess. In the last decade, year on year growth rates have fallen from 24 per cent to three per cent. Yet adequate support in the Union Budget 2021 is missing. The fall in growth rates is evident in import growth as well. International trade is a force multiplier for national productivity. It insulates industry from domestic-consumption cycles. In Punjab the double whammy of freight and container movement blockade and diversions as well as delays thereto, have further jeopardised exports. The pandemic has increased more challenges.”Rajiv Sajdeh, importer and exporter, said, “Proposals to promote e-commerce exports show the foresight and long-term view. The Union Budget 2021 reflects the Centre’s intent on continuity and making India a five trillion economy. For the first time, the Budget has recognised the importance of textile sector.”He said, “The establishment of seven Mega Textile Parks with plug and play facility will be a game changer. This will attract large investments, boost employment and provide competitive edge to Indian textile exporters. Reduction of duty on nylon and increasing the duty on cotton are steps in the right direction.”Kannav Aggarwal, an importer said, “Focus on agriculture is the need of the hour. Emphasis on infrastructure will help in designing a road map for the next decade if the government is able to deliver what it has promised. Agriculture, textiles and infrastructure are the key pointers of any economy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-based-importers-exporters-feel-let-down-207287
03-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill---||His grit makes him cut above the rest||Tribune News Service Amritsar, February 2 Every morning, Hira Singh pedals his cycle from his home in Chheharta to the Lawrence Road, where he runs a stall to repair clothes.  A tailor by profession, Hira Singh specialises in stitching, fixing zips, buttons and making alterations.  Hira has just a stitching machine, a table and a stool in the name of a shop. He has set up his ‘shop’ in the corridor of the Nehru shopping complex. “Getting a shop on rent is a costly affair. It is better this way as I am not answerable to anybody as whatever I earn is just mine,” he said.  A go-to tailor, Hira Singh is always available even when minor alterations have to be made. As many tailors of the posh areas hesitate from taking up small assignments, Hira Singh’s skills come in handy. “Women these days do not have time to sew clothes and even fix a button.  “I get more work on holidays,” he says. Life might not be a bed of roses for Singh, but he does not sulk. “I work here from around 10 am till late evening. Sometimes, I even take clothes home,” he said.  “I have no fixed working hours. But I am contented. Had I been working at a shop under a supervisor, things would have been difficult,” he said, adding that for the poor, it is nothing but just their skill which helps them sail through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-grit-makes-him-cut-above-the-rest-207288
03-02-2021||---||‘Life of artistes on track post-lockdown’||Amritsar, February 2 A city-based model and now actor Honey Chugh feels post-lockdown things have been progressing well for artistes with work schedule resuming.  Chugh, who is currentlypromoting her short film ‘Ehsaas’ that was released on digital platforms recently, says that the pandemic had been a struggling time for actors, filmmakers promoting independent work.  “It takes a lot of time and energy for an artiste to get a good break in entertainment industry and with pandemic no one got to work for almost a year. There are a lot of talented aspiring artistes who will now be able to get the opportunity to work again and find creative outlet,” she said.  Honey has previously been a model, was one of the finalists in Miss Punjab 2019 and hails from Jaipur. She had been working on regular modelling assignments when the story of the short film was offered to her. She is a debutante in the flick made by Pritpal Pali, who also acts in the film, and has star cast mostly comprising city-based actors.  “The film is made as a message to depict how even the most aware people in society can fall prey to unconscious bias. The short film has been independently made and has lot of talented artistes from city. It’s a collective effort to make a good film with some value-based story,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-of-artistes-on-track-post-lockdown-207289
03-02-2021||---||Saffron party trying to discredit farmers’ movement: Congress||Jalandhar, February 2 Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman and vice-president Himanshu Pathak on Tuesday said the BJP’s IT cell was trying to discredit the farmers’ movement in the country. Addressing a press conference, Himanshu Pathak said, “We are all watching how the harmony among Sikhs, Hindus and Dalits is being disrupted by the BJP in this historic peasant movement.” He said, “Under a conspiracy, the BJP sends goons in disguise to local people among farmers and these goons beat up farmers in front of the police and then in the name of law and order, farmers are being targeted by the police, which is actually a ‘Gujarat model’. He said, “Now it is being applied to the people of Punjab and farmer organisations and journalists opposing it are being targeted. I want to warn these people to change the way you do things because we are not fools that you will easily make a Hindu-Sikh issue and separate it from the original withdrawal of three agricultural laws.” Pathak said soon after the Delhi riots, the BJP had taken out a tiranga yatra there and now the same model was being implemented in Punjab also. “The BJP IT machinery is already working on a war footing to discredit the movement by maligning Sikhs and trying to spread hatred in India, especially against Sikhs. Specially designed campaigns are underway to discredit the character of the movement,” he said. He said, “Some people who use India’s national secret information to carry out their agenda are not on the NIA’s radar, but ordinary farmers agitating for rights there are called by the NIA (National Investigation Agency). Such a move can be used by the government to discredit the movement or to disrupt Hindu-Sikh relations across Punjab and India.” Pathak called Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as a clown and back-up team of the BJP and RSS and warned them against trying to fool the farmers of Punjab. He said that on 26 January, the Delhi government provided DTDC buses to the police to stop the farmers of Punjab. He said that Kejriwal should explain why he provided these buses to the police. Isn’t it right to call you a traitor? One who shows sympathy to the farmers and sheds crocodile tears and then also offers his government support to stop the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saffron-party-trying-to-discredit-farmers-movement-congress-207290
03-02-2021||---||Air India launches direct flights to Rome, Amritsar residents elated||Amritsar, February 2The launching of direct flights from the city to Rome by national carrier Air India for the months of February and March has been welcomed by residents. They have also urged the airline to continue these flights even after March 2021 as regular scheduled flights.Last month, Air India had announced to launch direct flights from Amritsar to Rome on February 1, 11 and 21 and March 4, 14 and 24. The airline is operating its state-of-the-art Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner with 256 seats (238 economy, 18 business) on this route. The same aircraft will return on the next day from Rome to Amritsar and then fly to Delhi. At present, the airline has opened booking for these flights only till March 25.The inaugural flight for Rome took off from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport on February 1 with 242 passengers. The flight originated from Delhi and then made a short halt at Amritsar airport to fly direct to Rome. A majority of the passengers boarded from Amritsar.Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative, said, “Amid the pandemic and suspension of many international flights, the start of the new year has brought some good news for Punjabi diaspora in Italy.”Gumtala thanked Air India, the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Government of India and Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri for these flights as the direct flight would reduce travel time to just seven to eight hours. Rome has become the third destination in Europe to be directly connected with Amritsar after Heathrow (London) and Birmingham in the UK. All these destinations are currently served by Air India. Booking for direct flights to the UK is now open till the end of October 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/air-india-launches-direct-flights-to-rome-amritsar-residents-elated-207291
03-02-2021||strap||Riding the high wave||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 2Ashray Gupta, proprietor Hindustan Pharmaceuticals, is all set to establish an in-house research and development (R&D) centre to assist manufacturing of basic drugs isolated from natural plant sources and exported to first-world countries this year.A chemical engineer by qualification, he says a highly qualified team of scientists would be introduced to handle these equipments to carry out work to meet the international standards as most of the items are exported to developed countries like the USA, Germany, Japan, UK, Hong Kong, Egypt, South Korea, Thailand, Egypt, Israel, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and more.About five scientists and 15 other professionals would be hired. About 60 people are already working in the unit. For this, two-floor R&D centre on a floor area of 1,800 sq ft, comprising complete testing facility of raw materials and finished goods manufactured by them would be in place.Latest and high-tech equipments like high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), medium pressure liquid chromatography (MPLC), spectrophotometers, high pressure thin layer chromatography (HPTLC), gas chromatography and many other equipments necessary for research purposes for plant-based natural products would be imported.Most of these machines are being imported from countries like Japan, South Korea and the USA.The unit was established in 1971 by his father Raman Gupta. During its formative years, the unit was engaged in isolating and manufacturing the basic chemicals from natural plant sources. The company has taken long strides all these years to maintain its image of manufacturing, supplying standard and quality products in the international market. “They have used our products all these years and vouched for its authenticity,” he says.The company earns more than 85 per cent of its turnover in foreign exchange. Moreover, the state government has felicitated the firm twice with coveted export awards.Sharing his future plans, Ashray tells, “The company has also decided to go for manufacturing and marketing of standardised herbal extracts of several medicinal plants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/riding-the-high-wave-207292
03-02-2021||---||Auto-rickshaw driver attacked, dies in hospital||Amritsar, February 2Kuldeep Singh (35), a resident of Brar village, falling under the jurisdiction of Lopoke police station was murdered by unknown persons near Tandoora Wala Chowk on Sunday.The unidentified persons used sharp-edged weapons and caused severe injuries on Kuldeep’s neck, thus leaving him critically injured. Kuldeep was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he breathed his last.Deyal Singh, elder brother of the deceased, told the police that around 11.30 pm on Sunday, he got a call from Pargat Singh, a driver of ambulance (108), that some unknown persons had attacked Kuldeep and left him critically injured.He said he along with former sarpanch Chanpreet Singh and nambardar Manohar Singh reached the Civil Hospital around 12.30 am where doctors declared him dead. He said Kuldeep is survived by two children and his wife.Sub-Inspector Prem Singh, Investigating Officer, said there was no breakthrough in the case so far. He said the police have scrutiniaed CCTV footage in the area, but could not find any clue of the accused.He said a case has been registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC against unidentified persons at Division B police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/auto-rickshaw-driver-attacked-dies-in-hospital-207294
03-02-2021||---||Skill development centre opened at Khalsa College||Amritsar, February 2With a view to promoting professional courses and providing employment opportunities, a new Khalsa Global Reach Skill Development Centre was inaugurated at Khalsa College here on Tuesday. The centre will have IAS, IPS, PCS and other competitive examination departments apart from vocational courses wings to prepare students for top jobs as per the new industrial requirements.After inaugurating the centre, Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) president Satyajit Singh Majithia said modern education must focus on professional courses and skill enhancements as per the new global requirements of placements. “We hope that the Centre would emerge as a skill development centre of repute in future,” he said, thanking the US-based Khalsa Global Reach Foundation, which has funded the building of the centre.KCGC secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina said, "The four-storey ultra-modern building, which is spread in 0.75 acres, is constructed at a cost of around Rs 8 crore. College principal Dr Mehal Singh said, “The management has always been serious about adding new facilities for the students as well as modern techniques. The building will also house a computer lab and a library for students’ convenience.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/skill-development-centre-opened-at-khalsa-college-207295
03-02-2021||---||ASI, constable assaulted, 2 held||Amritsar, February 2 The Beas police have booked five persons for allegedly assaulting an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) and injuring a constable of the anti-smuggling cell when he tried to rescue the ASI near the Baba Bakala flyover here on Sunday night.Two of the attackers, identified as Gurjant Singh of Dhianpur and Sandeep Singh of Sheron village, were arrested on the spot while the remaining suspects managed to flee from the spot.ASI Charan Singh told the police that after finishing his duty at a checkpoint he was returning to the Beas police station when a speeding car hit his car from the rear. He said he came out of his car and occupants of the other car also came out and started arguing him. They soon entered into a scuffle and tore his uniform. He said an anti-smuggling cell team was passing by the spot. On seeing him, they stopped and tried to intervene. However, the accused hit constable Baldev Singh with a stick on his head leaving him injured.While Gurjant and Sandeep were nabbed, their accomplices Gurpreet Singh of Buddha Theh village, Honey of Sheron Baga village and Hasna managed to escape.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Sardool Singh said a case of murder bid, physical assault on a government servant while discharging duty and other relevant sections of the IPC had been registered against the five accused. Raids were on to nab the absconders, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-constable-assaulted-2-held-207296
03-02-2021||---||Bhavanites bring laurels||Amritsar, February 2The 28th Children Science Congress titled ‘Science for Sustainable Living’ was organised by the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology at Pushpa Gujral Science City from January 29 January 30 virtually.Two teams from Bhavans SL School (senior and junior catergory) showcased their talent.Senior team comprising Yatish and Thluxmi bagged the first position and Avni and Tanvi ranked second in junior category.Both the teams would now present their projects at the national-level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bhavanites-bring-laurels-207297
03-02-2021||Amritsar||Substandard manure: 4 booked||OCM Mill staffer commits fraudAmritsar: Sunil Sharma, manager, OCM Textile Mill, who used to look after Employees Provident Fund and ESI wing, disappeared after allegedly committing fraud with the firm. The Chheharta police have registered a case under Sections 420, 424, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Sections 43, 66 (C) and 66 (D) of the IT Act against Sharma. Omesh Metha, HR manager, OCM Textile Mill, told the police that Sharma was working with the firm since January 1996. He said during an audit in January, the company found fraud in the PF advance payments for the year 2014-15 and 2015-16. When the accused was asked for a written statement, he submitted his resignation and disappeared along with his family. Mehta said the accused deleted entire data from the computer. Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Chheharta police station, said investigations were underway and efforts were on to trace the accused. TNSTwo arrested for mining sandTarn Taran: Illegal sand mining is going on unabated in areas alongside the Beas and Sutlej in the district. A police party arrested two brothers, residents of Dubli village here, with a vehicle filled with illegal sand here on Sunday. The police said the accused, identified as Gulshan Kumar and his brother Suresh Kumar, were arrested for violating mining norms. The police said both were illegally extracting sand from the Sutlej riverbed. The accused had been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21-A of the Mining Act. Rohit Prabhakar, Sub-Divisional Officer-cum-Mining Officer, Tarn Taran, seized a sand-filled tractor-trolley from Bhalojla village near the Beas on Sunday. oc1 death, 10 new cases reportedAmritsar: The health authorities reported one Covid-19 related death in the district on Tuesday. With this, the toll reached 582. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Vohra, a resident of Ram Tirath road. The district health authorities reported 10 new positive cases, which include six influenza like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 10 patients, the recovery count has increased to 14,352. At present, the district has 131 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/substandard-manure-4-booked-207301
03-02-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Missing since R-Day, farmer in police custody||Tarn Taran, February 2Ignoring all personal differences, residents of Sheron village here have come forward to look after the family of Sandeep Singh alias Sonu Cheema, who, besides three others from this district, had been missing since January 26.Sandeep’s family was informed by the Alipur (Delhi) police that he was in their custody.The three others who went mysteriously missing were Jugraj Singh and Navdeep Singh of Van Tara Singh village (Khalra), who were reportedly involved in hoisting a “kesri flag” at Red Fort, and Gurjot Singh of Talwandi Sobha Singh (Patti). The whereabouts of these three are still unknown.Sandeep, 36, is a landless farmer and had gone to Delhi on January 20 with a convoy of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. His family comprises his wife, a 12-year-old son and an 8-year-old daughter.With limited income, his family was not in the position to follow the case at a Delhi court.Village sarpanch Satpal Singh and Dilbag Singh, a representative of a political party, were among those who visited Sandeep’s family today and assured all help.Despite all odd circumstances, farmers of the area vowed to go to Delhi to participate in the agitation. Satpal said a jatha of farmers would leave for Delhi tomorrow.Activists of “Sach Da Sath”, an NGO, under the leadership of Gurdev Singh took out protest marches in the area today to motivate everyone to leave for Delhi with them on February 3. They offered diesel worth Rs 5,000 if any group wanted to go to New Delhi on their own vehicle.Meanwhile, workers of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) held a protest in Panjwar village today. Baljit Singh Gandiwind, district president of the organisation, condemned the Centre for its “indifferent” attitude. The farmers burnt an effigy of the Centre too.A jatha of more than 500 farmers left for Delhi today from different villages in the district.Landless farmer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-since-r-day-farmer-in-police-custody-207316
03-02-2021||Amritsar||Prayers offered in Golden Temple for success of farmers' stir||A delegation under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.BKU (Haryana) general secretary Dumpy Pehalwan said the purpose was to offer prayers for the success of the farmers’ struggle against the central agricultural laws.An akhand path was performed at Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Gurbaksh Singh. The prayer was conducted by sarpanch Charanjit Singh Sakanwali and his associates on behalf of the BKU (Sidhupur). Later, they took along the holy water from the sarovar of the shrine which would be distributed among the protesting farmers.“The martyrdom during the struggle would not go waste. The farmers have vowed never to return before getting the farm laws scrapped,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prayers-offered-in-golden-temple-for-success-of-farmers-stir-207096
