04-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Decision on Ranji Trophy evokes mixed response from city players||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 3Veteran and present Ranji players have aired mixed response over the BCCI’s decision for not holding Ranji Trophy First-Class cricket tournament this domestic season. The tournament is held between November and February every year. This is the first time in 86 years that the coveted tournament will not be played.Present Ranji players, on the pre-condition of not disclosing their names, said, “it is the dream of every sincere cricketer to play in the Ranji and show their talent before the national selectors. The coveted tournament is the stepping stone before entering the national team. Omission of a full season meant that many players lost a vital year of their career, dashing their chances of making it to the national team.Ravneet Ricky, a veteran Ranji player, is all praise for the BCCI. He said when most of the tournaments in other disciplines were simply washed away due to the pandemic, the national body still managed to organise Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and IPL which had fuelled hopes for the Ranji action.“However, being a four-day fixture and involving 35 teams means that a total 90 days are required to organise this edition. Given the limited time period left, it is simply not possible,” he added.Having represented Punjab for nearly 15 years, Ricky played 75 first-class matches between 1997 and 2011. He was the best batsman with over 300 runs in the Junior World Cup in 2000 held in Sri Lanka which India U-19, led by Mohammad Kaif, had won. He had scored a century against Australia in the semifinal.He accepted that one-day matches have its downsides in identifying the right kind of player. So, the four-day game of Ranji Trophy is considered as best platform for a cricketer to show his character in the chosen department like batting, bowling, fielding, wicket-keeping and more. “Good players are those who can handle the game for a long time. For this reason, players like Sunil Gavaskar, Rahul Dravid, VVS Laxman, Sourav Ganguly and others are still liked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/decision-on-ranji-trophy-evokes-mixed-response-from-city-players-207668
04-02-2021||---||RAAHI project: 15-year-old wins Smart City logo designing contest||Amritsar, February 3Fifteen-year-old Kanishka Verma, a student of DAV Public School, has been declared the winner for the logo designing competition, organised by the Amritsar Smart City Limited for its ‘RAAHI’ (Rejuvenation of Auto-Rickshaw in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention) project. Amritsar Smart City project is working on a programme funded by French Development Agency, AFD, and operated by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs called CITIIS (City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) programme.Under the CITIIS programme, RAAHI project has been started to improve public transportation and to reduce pollution levels in the city.Komal Mittal, Corporation Commissioner and CEO of Amritsar Smart City, said: “One of the many goals of RAAHI is to replace diesel-run autos with e-autos, along with charging stations that will be constructed in the city to charge e-vehicles. For this, financial subsidy and loan on easy interest rates will also be provided to the auto drivers. The RAAHI project had announced logo designing and slogan writing competition in December last year for the same project. Under this, residents were asked to design logos and slogans according to the requirement and structure of the project. Kanishka, a student of Class X of DAV Public School, has designed the winning logo that captures the spirit of holy city and aim of RAAHI.“I had come up with a design that is simple yet on point as per the identity of Amritsar. It took me a few days to come up with multiple designs and improvise,” said Kanishka, while receiving her certificate from MC Commissioner Komal Mittal.Mittal said out of all designs received under the competition, Kanishka’s was the best and in line with the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raahi-project-15-year-old-wins-smart-city-logo-designing-contest-207671
04-02-2021||---||DC administered Covid shot||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 3On the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for frontline warriors, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira along with other senior officials of the district administration were administered the dose at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital on Wednesday.The district administration has identified around 22,228 frontline workers. Those who volunteered for vaccination include Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshi Aggarwal, Amritsar Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Vikas Heera and Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia.The Deputy Commissioner said people were afraid and facing hardships since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now, the vaccine will end fear and anxiety as it will help in developing immunity,” he said. Khaira asked residents to not believe in rumours as the vaccine had been tested thoroughly and was completely safe.“Over 7,000 health workers in the district have been administered the dose in the district and none of them reported any adverse affects,” said the Deputy Commissioner.Earlier, the administration had started vaccination drive for health workers on January 16. Initially, the response was limited, but later it picked up the pace and around 7,300 health workers of the public and private hospitals were administered the vaccination.The health officials said around 80 employees were given injections at the Civil Hospital today. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh and District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said ample arrangements were in place to complete the ongoing phase of vaccination on time.Tarn Taran SSP vaccinatedTarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale along with other 20 officers got vaccinated at the Civil Hospital on the first of the drive for frontline warriors.The SSP asked his colleagues to create awareness and get vaccinated to make society Covid-19 free. OC19 fresh Covid casesAmritsar: With 19 fresh positive cases reported from the district, the total count of Covid infections has increased to 15,084. The new cases include 10 Influenza-like-illness cases and nine contacts of positive patients. The district has not reported any death in the past 24-hours. A total of 582 deaths have been reported till date and the recovery count has increased to 14,360 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-administered-covid-shot-207672
04-02-2021||---||Op beautification: A dump yard earlier, it’s a park now||Amritsar, February 3The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) has developed a park at a site of a dump yard in Ward No.40.Komal Mittal,CEO, ASCL-cum-MC Commissioner, said a Gandha Nullah used to flow along the Bularia Park in Ward No. 40.Mittal said after covering the nullah, this place was turned into a dump yard, but now this stretch of three hundred meters has been converetd into a beautiful park.Walkways, swings, open gym, LED lighting, gazebos, two badminton, volleyball and basketball courts are being developed in the park.Paddam Kumar, who works at a school opposite the park park, said earlier, people used to defecate here and this place was used to dump garbage. Now, this site has been developed into a park, he said.Suresh Kumar, a shopkeeper said he had been running his shop here for the last 20 years and the used to stink due to heaps of garbage. Now, we will not only get rid of stench, but those living nearby can go for a morning walk and exercise in the open gym, he said.“The beautification works of all the parks under Phase-I is almost complete. Under Phase-II, 25 parks will be developed,” said Mittal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-beautification-a-dump-yard-earlier-its-a-park-now-207673
04-02-2021||---||Need to revitalise manufacturing sector, says CII||Amritsar, February 3The CII has asked the state government to give priority to strengthening the manufacturing sector and development of industries in the ensuing state’s Budget.Rahul Ahuja, Chairman, CII, Punjab, said the focus should on creating world-class industrial zones and clusters, attract investments from anchor industries, rejuvenating small-scale sectors by aligning state schemes and policies with the central schemes. He added that there was also a need to make land available for industrial development at competitive rates in the state.He said: “The CII believes that Punjab offers opportunities in varied sectors such as textiles, engineering, food processing, leather and sports goods among others. The need of the hour is to somehow lay its hand on some big ticket investment in core manufacturing which could create a domino impact in creating a vibrant downstream industry, besides bringing in a new age technology and capital.”The CII, in its pre Budget-memorandum to the state, emphasised a special impetus to usher reforms in key domains such as labour, power and environment.Bhavdeep Sardana, vice-chairman of the CII, said, the focus on issuing labour licenses in a time bound manner, providing dedicated labour helpline numbers for each district and a Common Application Form (CAF) for both e-labour and invest Punjab Portals should be created to avoid duplicity.CII wishlist suggests that the government should also identify clusters for agro and horticulture related products and cash in on central government schemes such as one district– one product to create sources of employment and livelihood for the local populace at their doorsteps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-revitalise-manufacturing-sector-says-cii-207674
04-02-2021||---||Please keep this area clean||Amritsar, February 3Lakhbir Singh Chauhan, a retired assistant professor of a local college, likes it all neat and clean – whether it is his home or locality. At a ripe age of 75 years, he’s playing an active role in social services.Chauhan resides in the B block of New Amritsar. A few years back, as old as 2007, he decided to plant trees on the roadside and open spaces in the area. He motivated others also in the area and planted hundreds of trees. He didn’t stop there as next step undertaken was ensuring their survival by taking care of saplings. Today, the central verges and roadside paths are covered with lush green trees.A few months ago, Chauhan found that the Amritsar Improve Trust (AIT) cleans the main roads of the locality but internal alleys were ignored. The dense thicket had become a safe haven for reptiles and rats. Similarly, a large number plots are lying vacant where wild growth flourishes across the year.“The congress grass is a health hazard. I have started uprooting it in the area and decided to hire workers to support my cause. I have also hired a gardener and pay him monthly salary for removing the weeds and seasonal pruning of trees,” added Chauhan.He said it was all for his own satisfaction and wanted to keep myself engaged with some work. “The residents support me but I spend money from my own pocket only. If more people join in for welfare of surroundings, more problems would be addressed and eventually solved. I always encourage youth to serve the society,” he spoke, before brushing aside the soppy effects the number 75 brings, “I am 75 but feel young while working for society. The plantation of trees and cleanliness are my passion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/please-keep-this-area-clean-207675
04-02-2021||---||11 nominations filed for Ward No. 37 bypoll||Amritsar, February 3As many as 11 persons have filed their papers for the Ward No. 37 bypoll till the last day of filing nominations on Wednesday. Apart from candidates of the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), one covering candidate of each party filed nominations. Two Independent candidates also filed their papers from this ward.Additional District Electoral Officer Ranbir Singh Mudhal said they received papers of eight candidates on Wednesday. Three candidates filed the nominations on February 2.According to information, Manohar Singh would contest from the BJP and Gagandeep Singh Sehjaara got a ticket from the Congress.The SAD gave a ticket to Inderjit Singh Pandori, who had contested in 2017, but was defeated by the Congress candidate. The Aam Aadmi Party declared Jaspal Singh Bhullar as its candidate.The District Electoral Office will scrutinise papers on Thursday and candidates can withdraw their nominations till Friday. The election will be held on February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-nominations-filed-for-ward-no-37-bypoll-207676
04-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||‘Rapid rise in start-ups’||Dr RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor of Chandigarh University, said, “Students from Punjab are performing exceptionally well in the field of research and entrepreneurship. Out of 900 patents filed by students and the faculty of Chandigarh University, around 104 patents are attributed to the students from the state.”He said due to this, state’s ranking has improved from 12th position to 7th in the recently released annual rankings by the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks.“More than 31 start-ups (28 per cent) out of 108 at Chandigarh University Technology Business Incubator (CU-TBI) have been established by students of Punjab in the last three years,” said Bawa. He said, “A total of 6,617 students bagged jobs from 691 multi-national companies during 2020.”Informing about national-level entrance-cum-scholarship test of Chandigarh University, Dr Bawa said, “The CU has launched CUCET-2021 (Chandigarh University-Combined Entrance Test), which offers scholarships worth Rs33 crore and those scoring more than 90 per cent in the test will be offered 100 per cent scholarship for the entire course.” He said, “The CUCET-2021 which will be conducted at various exam centres in 21 states, in two sessions, till May 2021. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rapid-rise-in-start-ups-207677
04-02-2021||Amritsar||Youth shot at, one booked||Extended timings for Metro busesAmritsar: The Punjab Bus Metro Society (PBMS) has extended timings of metro bus being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS). Komal Mittal, CEO, PBMS, said now buses will ply from 6 am to 10 pm. Bus number 201 from India Gate to Golden Gate will leave for its destination on 6.03 am. The last bus will leave for India Gate on 8.45 pm. Bus number 401 from Verka Canal to Golden Gate will start its journey on 6 am and the last bus from Verka Canal will depart at 8.58 pm. Bus number 301 on the third route, Verka Canal to India Gate, will depart at 6 am and the last bust at 8.58 pm. TNSVOA distributes blankets to needyAmritsar: Voice of Amritsar, a local NGO, distributed blankets to needy at Preet Nagar gurdwara on Majitha Road here on Wednesday. Former president of the organisation Seenu Arora said many people fall ill due to lack of blankets or clothes in winter days and this was the modest effort of the organisation to help such vulnerable people. Apart from running sapling plantation campaigns in the past, the VOA had also distributed ration to poor during the lockdown period. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-one-booked-207679
04-02-2021||The urge to give back to their hometown has led several NRIs to do their bit who have lent a modern shape to the buildings of government elementary school and government middle school in Bakipur village. Both the schools were situated in a joint complex. Complex of both the schools were renovated with construction of wall around the campus and flooring of interlocked tiles. The staff of both schools beautified the courtyards by constructing six parks in the complex which is now dotted with flowering plants||Doing their bit: NRIs give back to their roots||No end to encroachments on busy roads in cityThe encroached roads in the Tarn Taran market have continued to pose threat to the traffic. Vehicles parked on both the sides of the main GT Road prevent the smooth flow of vehicles. The commercial establishments too have extended their shops, hence narrowing the roads more. The encroachment is not just temporary but permanent one. The Municipal Council tried to remove the encroachments from the Kasur Nullha bridge towards Amritsar during the Covid pandemic period but things went back to the same within a few days. Few days back, the traffic police organised a march against encroachment in the town with more 100 traffic policemen. The situation got more worst after the traffic police march.Paidal yatra For our farmer brothersKirian village youths organised a ‘paidal yatra’ (foot march) to Sri Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar, to pray for the success of farmers’ agitation. The youths led by Baljit Singh and Manjinder Singh were disturbed over the Jan 26 act of some mischievous elements. The youths started their march in the early morning from their village and after covering a distance of more than 60 kilometres, reached Sri Harmandir Sahib late in the evening. While passing through Tarn Taran, the youths expressed their concern over Delhi incidents and decided to pray to the Almighty for the success of the farmers’ agitation. The youths also expressed their concern over the unemployment rate in the rural areas. They requested everybody to pray for the peace and harmony in the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doing-their-bit-nris-give-back-to-their-roots-207684
