06-02-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC bypoll: 5 candidates in fray from Ward No. 37||After withdrawal of nomination papers on Friday, only five candidates are left in the fray to contest civic bypoll from Ward No. 37 in the city.Candidates include Gagandeep Singh Sehjaara of Congress, Inderjit Singh Pandori of Shiromani Akali Dal, Manohar Singh of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jaspal Singh Bhullar of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Ranveer Singh Rana of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).The candidates started conducting door-to-door campaigning in the ward. Talbir Singh Gill, in-charge, South Constituency (SAD), held a rally in the Ward No. 37 in support of the party candidate.The candidates and activists of political parties had been campaigning aggressively for civic polls in Majitha, Ramdas, Rayya, Ajnala and Jandiala Guru.A total of 97 nominations were filed for 11 wards in Ramdas. Out of which 22 candidates of Congress (including covering candidates), 11 of SAD, 12 of AAP, 10 of BJP and 42 Independent candidates filed their nomination papers. In Majitha, the BJP did not field any candidate. A total 75 aspirants filed their nominations for 13 wards. As many as 25 nominations were filed by Congress, 26 by SAD, 19 by AAP and five Independents.In Ajnala, only two BJP candidates filed nomination papers in 15 wards. As many as 118 aspirants filed their nominations, of which 31 are from Congress, 28 from SAD, 24 from AAP and 33 Independents. In Jandiala, 79 nomination papers were filed for 15 wards. Out of these 21 nominations were filed by Congress, 18 by SAD, 16 by AAP, five by BJP and 19 by Independent candidates.A total 87 nominations have been filed for 13 wards in Rayya. Dushyant Gautam, in-charge, BJP, who was in the city, claimed that BJP candidates had filed nomination papers from each ward, but the Congress government got their nominations cancelled forcefully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-bypoll-5-candidates-in-fray-from-ward-no-37-208672
06-02-2021||Amritsar||2 booked for rape in separate cases||The Gharinda police have booked a person for allegedly raping a minor girl in Chak Mukand village.The accused has been identified as Heera Singh, a resident of same village.A case has been registered under Sections 376 and 363 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused.The victim’s father told the police that on February 2, the accused forcibly took his 14-year-old daughter to his house and raped her. He said the victim told him that the accused used to sexually harass her earlier as well.The police said medical examination of the girl was conducted and her statement was recorded. Cops said they were conducting raids to nab the accused.In another incident, the Sadar police have booked a person for allegedly trying to rape a 9-year-old girl. The incident occurred on January 22.The accused has been identified as Varun of Bhutanpura village. The victim’s mother told the police that the accused lived opposite their house and on January 22, her daughter informed her that the accused removed her clothes and tried to rape her.The police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 511 of the IPC and Section 10 of the POCSO Act.3 members of auto gang heldDays after a salesman of a courier company was robbed by an auto-rickshaw gang, the police have arrested three members of the gang. The accused have been identified as Dharmvir Singh, Vikas Kumar and Ajay of Nangali Bhatha. The police have seized the auto-rickshaw, which was used in the crime, along with three mobile phones and cash from them.The victim, Vinay Singh, told the police that on January 29, he went to Jammu and on his way back, his bus broke down at Vijay Nagar. He said he hired an auto-rickshaw to reach the bus stand.He said two persons were seated in the front and two were sitting on the rear seat. Vinay said near Celebration Mall, the accused took a U-turn and went towards Kashmir Avenue where they snatched his two mobile phones, his wallet containing Rs4,000 and other documents.Gurmeet Singh, SHO, Majitha Road police station, said following investigations, the police zeroed in on the accused and arrested them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-rape-in-separate-cases-208674
06-02-2021||Amritsar||GNDU Amritsar successfully conducts on-campus exams||Taking a final call on the online-offline examination row, the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on Friday announced that the first phase of offline examinations conducted on-campus have been completed and will go ahead with the scheduled offline exams for affiliated and constituent colleges across Jalandhar, Amritsar and Gurdaspur from February 15. The university authorities said in accordance with the instructions of the Punjab government, both practical as well as theory examinations, will be conducted for colleges.“The university had conducted the offline exams in accordance with the instructions of Punjab government,” said Prof Sarbjot Singh Behl, dean Academic Affairs. He added the students were provided a conducive environment and conditions to be able to appear in the examinations by observing all the precautionary guidelines.Prof Manoj Kumar, professor in-charge examinations, said after the successful run of offline examinations in the university campus, the examinations in the colleges are scheduled to be held from February 15 in compliance with the instructions of Punjab government orders. He said that the university has taken cognizance of hundreds of appeals and petitions from the concerned students for conduct of offline examinations in support of the government’s decision and approached the affiliated colleges to ensure efficient and smooth execution of holding examinations while observing the essential protocols and mandates.He said the practical examinations have already started in various colleges, which will be followed by the conduct of theory examinations. “We have given student-friendly changes like giving open choice of attempting five out of eight questions thus removing the restriction of attempting at least one question from each section, another chance of appearing in April in case a student misses the February dates due to some extraordinary circumstances beyond one’s control, providing an extra opportunity of reappear/ supplementary exam over and above the normal chances. All these have been put in place for facilitating the students in these trying times of prevailing precarious situation,” said Kumar. He added that the evaluation process of the examination already conducted is in progress and likewise the evaluation of the exams to be held will also be declared at the earliest in a designated time frame to ensure the saving of academic year of the students.“The student community at large has responded well towards the decision as it has allayed their apprehensions of losing precious time and assurance of completion of their courses in the stipulated period while maintaining the propriety and sanctity of their degrees, which is crucial for their future careers and higher studies in India or abroad,” he signed off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-amritsar-successfully-conducts-on-campus-exams-208675
06-02-2021||Amritsar||Not deposited arms yet? Get ready to face FIR||The Amritsar rural police would register an FIR against the arms licence holders who failed to deposit their arms with the police stations concerned or the arms dealers in view of the upcoming nagar panchayat and nagar council polls.In a statement issued here, the police authorities said on January 29, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Gurpreet Singh Khaira, using his powers entrusted under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, had issued a ban on carrying arms, keeping in mind the upcoming elections in Rayya, Ajnala, Ramdas, Majitha and Jandiala Guru. He ordered the arms licence holders to deposit their arms with the respective police stations or their arms dealers.A majority of the arms licence holders had deposited their arms, but there were several of them who had not deposited the same.Taking a serious view of this, the Amritsar rural police have decided to register FIRs against the offenders and for this, instructions have been passed to the police officials. They said the police were also keeping an eye on the unscrupulous elements to thwart any untoward incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-deposited-arms-yet-get-ready-to-face-fir-208676
06-02-2021||Amritsar||Rs 5.65 cr STP to be set up near Beas||The Punjab Government inaugurated a sewage treatment plant (STP) near Beas yesterday, which will be constructed at a cost of Rs5.65 crore.Under this project, localities of Budha Theh village, Guru Nanak Pura and three other villages of Beas will be benefitted. This initiative of the government is being appreciated by the sarpanches, panches and dignitaries of the villages.Common among three villagesDisclosing this here on Friday, Mandeep Singh, Executive Engineer, Water Supply Department, said this would be a common sewage treatment plant for three villages with a capacity of 2.8 MLD. He said with the setting up of this sewage treatment plant the sewage water would be treated and used for agriculture. This will also solve the problem of water.Besides this, special efforts were being made by the Water Supply Department to ensure cleanliness in the villages and also provide canal water for drinking purposes.Mandeep Singh said the Punjab Chief Minister had inaugurated 15 water supply schemes in Amritsar district at a cost of Rs507.63 lakh and would benefit 22,043 residents. He said the Chief Minister had also laid the foundation stone of 20 water supply schemes at a cost of Rs382 crore and 6,28,801 people of the district would be benefited from these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-5-65-cr-stp-to-be-set-up-near-beas-208677
06-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Gang involved in preparing fake driving licences busted||The local CIA staff busted an eight-member gang involved in preparing fake driving licences and other documents on Wednesday. The gang was working from the Goindwal Sahib area. Three of the gang members have been arrested while others are absconding.Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, who was leading the team of the CIA staff, said the three arrested were identified as Harburbhej Singh of Muglani, Kuldeep Singh Raju of Kot Mit Singh (Amritsar) and Gurjashandeep Singh of Bugha village. They were produced before the court from where they were sent for seven day police remand. The other three absconding accused have been identified as Dilbag Singh, Soni of Bharowal and Happy of Kang village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-involved-in-preparing-fake-driving-licences-busted-208678
06-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Office-bearers of pensioners’ association elected||The office-bearers of the district unit of the Pensioners and Senior Citizen Welfare Association , Punjab, were elected in a meeting organised here on Friday. The current demands of the organisation, too, were discussed during the meeting.Ajit Singh Fatehchak was elected as president; Devinder Singh Grewal, general secretary; Gurdev Singh Sandhu, chairman; Kulwant Singh Dhotian Patron and Kulwant Singh as treasurer.The organisation in a resolution demanded for the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report since January 1, 2016, restoration of the cashless health scheme up to Rs5 lakh with some amendments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/office-bearers-of-pensioners-association-elected-208679
06-02-2021||Amritsar||6 GNDU students clear PCS (Judicial)||NSS cadet bring laurels to cityAmritsar: NSS cadet Nag Inder Pal Singh has brought laurels by participating in Republic Day parade. At present, the cadet is pursuing MSc Physics from DAV College. College Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said Nag Inder also participated in national sessions camps at Manali and Jaipur and received the ‘Best Cadet’ award. Nag Inder said Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited their Republic Day camp and addressed the cadets. TNS4 booked for looting Rs10LTarn Taran: The police have booked four persons for looting Rs10 lakh. Complainant, Ashwani Kumar, alleged that his daughter was abducted on the night of February 2 by three residents of Sarhali village. He said her daughter connived with the accused and decamped with Rs10 lakh from the house. Sub-Inspector Amandeep Kaur said the accused have been identified Preetpal Singh, Anil Pal Sukhjit Kaur and Rubina (daughter of the complainant). A case has been registered. OCBody recovered from pondTarn Taran: The Goindwal Sahib police have recovered a body of a person from a pond at Fatehbad village on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Jagga (25) of Fatehbad village. The deceased was missing since Tuesday. Harjinder Singh, elder brother of the deceased, said Jagga used to work as a labourer with a constructor. The police have lodged a complaint under Section 174 of the CrPC. Jagga is survived by a five-month-old son. OCDC gets Covid-19 vaccine jabTarn Taran: DC Kulwant Singh got himself vaccinated against Covid-19 during the second phase of the vaccination drive held at the local Civil Hospital on Thursday. The doctors kept the DC under their supervision for 30 minutes. The DC had appealed to all frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated against the virus to ensure their safety. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-gndu-students-clear-pcs-judicial-208680
