07-02-2021||---||Five nabbed with three country-made weapons in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 6The police have nabbed five persons, including a notorious criminal, for allegedly possessing three country-made weapons.The accused have been identified as Davinder Singh (notorious criminal); Manraj Singh, alias Manu; Manraj Singh, alias Sartaj; Gurmit Singh and Germanjit Singh; all residents of Tarn Taran. The accused were travelling in a car from the Golden Gate to Airport Road and were intercepted at a checkpoint near Vallah.The police recovered two.315 bore rifles and a .32 bore pistol with 19 live cartridges from them. The accused failed to produce any documents related to the weapons.“Davinder was absconding in a murder bid case registered with the Tarn Taran police,” said Sanjiv Kumar, SHO, Vallah police station. He said his brother, Dharminder Singh, alias Goli, was languishing in Patiala jail.The SHO said during preliminary probe, Davinder told that notorious gangster Shubham had a rivalry with him and he had even attacked him family members in the past.The police said they were produced before the court, which sent them on the police remand for further interrogation. The accused have been booked under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-nabbed-with-three-country-made-weapons-in-amritsar-208881
07-02-2021||---||Five booked, 2 held for mining sand in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 6The district administration as well as the Police Department have miserably failed in curbing sand mining in the rural belt if the Friday’s seizure is anything to go by.On Friday, the police had registered four separate cases of sand mining with two cases each in Majitha and Ajnala police stations. Two persons were arrested and two tractor-trailers loaded with 500 square feet sand each were also seized.Those arrested were identified as Sukhdev Singh of Dharamkot Pattan village in Dera Baba Nanak and Rashpal Singh of Khanoval village, who were intercepted at Nangal Punnuan and Sohian Kalan village, respectively.ASI Kuldeep Singh of the Majitha police station said the police got a tip-off that accused Rashpal Singh was involved in mining sand at the Ravi riverbed at Kot Rai Pattan village and Gaggomahal village. He was going to sell the same via Sohian Kalan village after passing through different villages in Majitha. The police set up a check-point at Sohian Kalan village and arrested the accused.Similarly, Sukhdev Singh was arrested from Nangal Pannun village following a tip-off. The Ajnala police have also booked Kashmir Singh and Mahinder Singh of Khanwal village and Bachan Singh of Sahowal village after the Mining Department officials found mining being done illegally from the lands owned by them. The police said mining officers along with the police parties visited Khanwal and Sahowal village and found mining being done at different places. Though no machinery was found, they came to know that the owners of the land were involved in illegal excavation at night. Therefore, the complaints were lodged with the police.Those residing in the villages along the Ravi river belt pointed that the illegal excavation was more rampant than it appeared. They said the patronage of political leaders irrespective of any political affiliations to the offenders and inefficacy of the police and district administration was leading to the plundering of natural resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-2-held-for-mining-sand-in-amritsar-208882
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Massive public response in Tarn Taran as well||Tarn Taran, February 6On a call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha for joining the ‘chakka jam’, a large number of farmers, labourers, employees, political and social organisations, etc, took part in it here on Saturday. Farmers, joined by people, staged dharnas at different parts of the district and demanded the revocation of the controversial farm laws.Activists of the anganwari, ASHA, mid-day meal workers’ organisations also participated in the dharnas.Workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, All-Indian Kisan Sabha, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and members of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, participated in the dharnas. Volunteers of the AAP too organized a protest in the district.Women workers of different organisations, too, participated in the protests. Besides, farmers staged dharnas in Chabal, Bhikhiwind, Harike, Sarhali, Rasulpur, Khadoor Sahib, Patti and other places.Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Prithipal Singh Marimegh, Daljit Singh Dialpura, Arsal Singh Sandhu, Jasbir Singh Gandiwind, among others, addressed the protesters. They warned the Union Government against using repressive measures against farmers to suppress their agitation. The leaders said the farmers across the country were determined to stick to agitation path till the controversial three farm laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/massive-public-response-in-tarn-taran-as-well-208883
07-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill---||Former IAS officer turns filmmaker||Tribune News service Amritsar, February 6 Former IAS officer Bakhtawar Singh has found his true calling within a year of his retirement from the prestigious service as he is ready with his new film. It depicts how the police-politician nexus and justice eludes the poor and common masses.  A poet who has penned numerous lyrics for the likes of Nooran sisters, Yakoob Khan, Saida Begum and others singers, Bakhtawar Singh has donned the hat of story, screen and dialogue writers for the new project which would be launched at Art Gallery on Sunday.  “During my days of service, I saw how politician and police nexus prevailed. I have seen how in case of an enquiry, the junior most officers are made scapegoats,” said Bakhtawar.  The former IAS officer revealed that his experience of administration has helped in managing the affairs of the shooting. “Film making these days is very professional and administrative experience helps in it a lot,” he said.  Bakhtawar said he had retired from the service in February 2020. “A fortnight later, the nationwide lockdown was announced. It was during this time that the idea was conceived and I started writing. Later, when restrictions were removed, we started the shooting of the film,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-ias-officer-turns-filmmaker-208884
07-02-2021||Amritsar||One death, 15 new cases in Amritsar district||Minor abducted, three bookedTarn Taran: A 13-year-old girl student, studying in Class VII of a local convent school, was abducted from here on Friday. The police booked three members of a family for abducting the girl. The main accused behind the crime is alleged to be a 16-year-old boy, a student of another local convent school. The other two booked were his father Satnam Singh and mother Jaswinder Kaur. All three are residents of Majjupur village. In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father alleged that the 16-year-old boy committed the crime in connivance with his parents. ASI Gajjan Singh, investigating officer of the case, said the police were collecting details of the mobile calls of the accused to locate them soon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-death-15-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-208885
07-02-2021||---||295 candidates in the fray for civic elections in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 6The final list of candidates for elections to municipal councils and nagar panchayats was released by the electoral officer here on late Friday evening. Now, a total of 295 candidates are in the fray for elections to two municipal councils, three nagar panchayats and one municipal corporation ward in the district.On Friday, 210 persons who had filed their nomination papers withdrew their candidatures. There are a total of 67 wards in the two municipal councils of Majitha and Jandiala Guru and the three nagar panchayats of Ajnala, Ramdas and Rayya.This time 72 persons would contest as independent candidates. As far as political parties are concerned, the BSP is contesting only one seat, which is from Ward No.37 of the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar. Only 21 candidates of the BJP are contesting in the district. No candidate from the BJP is contesting elections in Majitha.As many as 67 Congress candidates are contesting from all wards in the MCs and nagar panchayats of district. Besides, the AAP and SAD candidates are contesting from 65 seats.As many as 58 candidates are contesting from 11 wards of Ramdas nagar panchayat, 43 from 13 wards of municipal council, Majitha, 55 from 13 wards of Rayya nagar panchayat, 66 from 15 wards of Ajnala nagar panchayat and 68 from 15 wards of Jandiala Guru municipal council. After finalising the candidature, the District Electoral Office also allotted the elections symbols to the candidates. The candidates of the registered political parties got party signs while Independent candidates got elections symbols such as truck, AC, letter box, tractor and table.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/295-candidates-in-the-fray-for-civic-elections-in-amritsar-208887
07-02-2021||PK Jaiswar||Prickly but pleasing friends!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 6Navtej Singh’s love for cacti and succulents knows no bounds. A proud parent of thorny beauties, he spends a considerable amount of money buying these.A resident of Navapind village located on the Amritsar-Mehta road on the outskirts of the city, he is an owner of a Maruti Suzuki Service Centre. He believes these prickly beauties are very much a part of the ecosystem and contribute to it in their own way.“Usually, people think that keeping cacti in the house brings misfortune. But I believe that people should shun this superstition and instead embrace these thorny beauties,” he said, adding, “Anything that is a part of mother nature can’t be harmful in any way.”Hundreds of plants on the rooftop aesthetically placed on balcony and stairs of his under-construction house bear testimony to his love for them.Navtej has a collection over of 1,500 cacti and succulents, which he bought from exhibitions in Delhi, Chandigarh and from famous nurseries in the last over 28 years. “I don’t really care about my expenses when it comes to spending on these,” he said.His love for cacti dates back to the times when he visited his maternal parents and fell in love with a cactus plant. He then started collecting these from different sources.Among different varieties of cacti and succulents that he owns include astrophytum, euphorbias, sedums, melocactus, echeverias, mammillarias, sansevieria, kalanchoe, moon cactus, cristate, golden barrel and silver barrel. He is also skilled in grafting technique.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prickly-but-pleasing-friends-208888
07-02-2021||---||Two-week refresher course in languages kick starts at GNDU Amritsar||Amritsar, February 6 A two-week online refresher course in the languages was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, with 50 participants from several states of India, including Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttarakhand. While inaugurating the course, Prof Sandhu noted that languages were the backbone of education. He also shared that National Education Policy-2020 has given an impetus to nurturing the faculty of languages and early training of students in their mother tongue. The course will be held by the human resource development centre at GNDU.  Course coordinator Prof Sudha Jatinder contributed towards making the programme an enriching experience for the participants. Director HRDC Prof Adarsh Pal Vig ensured full support during the two-week course. He told the participants that UGC-HRDC, GNDU was among the top rated HRDC in the country and these courses would promote as well as develop the progression of native languages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-week-refresher-course-in-languages-kick-starts-at-gndu-amritsar-208889
07-02-2021||Amritsar||‘Committed to motivating young guns toward sports’||To encourage girls’ participation in sports, the SGPC has set up a separate Directorate of Sports for Girls. Hockey Olympian and Arjuna Awardee Rajbir Kaur, who is also a former captain of national team, has been appointed as its director and Surjit Kaur, hockey Olympian, as its deputy. An advisory committee has also been constituted comprising women who excelled in sports. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Apart from the director and deputy director, the task of chief adviser in the advisory committee has been given to hockey Olympian gold medallist principal Roopa Saini. The rest of the members of the advisory committee include national basketball player Harpreet Kaur Barnala, international basketball player retired principal Sumiti, former cricketer Poonam Arora, Bibi Parminder Kaur Pannu and Bibi Rajinder Kaur, both national hockey players.” Three hockey academies were being run under SGPC’s sports department catering to schools and colleges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/committed-to-motivating-young-guns-toward-sports-208890
07-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Traffic halted for months, Railways needs more time for upgrade||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 6Even as the movement of trains had been stalled for over 11 months at the Amritsar railway station, the Railways needs more time to develop minor stations in and around the city.The Northern Railway’s Ferozepur division has been working towards augmenting capacity building at the Amritsar railway station by developing minor stations situated in its periphery for the past many years.The ambitious approach was chalked out to meet the rising railway traffic and footfall of passengers. Over the years, it had become a common grievance of passengers that trains were unnecessarily halted at unscheduled stops on the city outskirts. It had increased the waiting period for approaching trains, which had to wait on the city outskirts for the platform to clear.Work on to develop minor stationsThe Khasa and Chheharta stations, which fall on the Amritsar-Attari railway line, were to be upgraded.The basic structure already existed at these minor stations and there was a need to augment facilities, infrastructure and amenities to handle the passenger rush and trains.The Chheharta railway station, which is over 4 km from the main Amritsar station, is being developed to act as a washing line. Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Ferozepur division, said two trains would be cleaned and washed simultaneously. “It takes at least 10 hours to wash a train,” he said.Operation of goods trains from the Chheharta railway station will be shifted to the Khasa station, where some office structures are being raised. The Chheharta station was used to load and unload merchandise and earned monthly revenue of Rs 9 crore.The DRM said two platforms had already been made operational at the main railway station to accommodate the daily arrival of 76 trains on average and departing of as many trains. He said it would be finished this year.“Bhagtanwala, which is already handling loading and unloading of cargo, needs more infrastructure to handle the rush once the situation normalises,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traffic-halted-for-months-railways-needs-more-time-for-upgrade-208891
07-02-2021||---||Two days on, case registered against unknown driver||Amritsar, February 6Two days after a woman was killed and several others were injured in a Punjab Roadways bus accident, the Jandiala police have booked the unknown driver of the bus, the Punjab Roadways authorities and the private company involved in the repair of national highway.On Thursday evening, a Punjab roadway bus went out of control and fell on a side near Chohan village located on the Amritsar-Jalandhar road. The onlookers pulled the victims out while a woman Manveen Kaur (45), a resident of Fattuwal village, sustained critical injuries. She was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.Amandeep Singh, an eyewitness of the incident, and resident of Makhdoompura area in Jalandhar told the police that he was going to Jalandhar on his car while the Punjab Roadways bus PB-08-9645 was going at very high speed. He said near Chohan village, the road was dug up for repair while no barricading was put up to warn the commuters regarding it. He alleged that the bus lost control and fell on a side after uprooting the iron angles. He added he, along with other people of the adjoining areas, pulled the passengers out while a woman was badly stuck and got seriously injured. She was taken out in the presence of the police. He said he immediately rang him up and called him to the hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.He said as the bus was badly worn out, it should not have been allowed to ply on the road. He added that the highway authorities failed to barricade the dug-up road, hence endangering the lives of people. A case has been registered under Sections 337, 338, 279, and 304 A of the IPC.Laxity blamed for mishapThe commuters said as the Punjab Roadways bus was badly worn out. It should not have been allowed to ply on the road. Not only this, even the highway authorities failed to barricade the dug-up road, hence putting the lives of commuters in danger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-days-on-case-registered-against-unknown-driver-208892
07-02-2021||The historic city of Kalanaur is all set to have yet another milestone. Already famous for the fact that emperor Akbar’s coronation ceremony was held here in 1556||Another one!||Stop for checkingAhead of the civic body polls to be held in Gurdaspur, Dinanagar, Qadian, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Batala and Pathankot on February 14, the Excise Department has chalked out elaborate plans to ensure liquor is not transported from one place to the other. Commuters travelling on the main roads of the city are being asked to stop and get their vehicles checked. The department has asked the cops to help them to ensure liquor does not flow freely in the city. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said he had deployed a separate team with the Excise Department. Till the polls are held, commuters are being requested to ensure not even a single drop of liquor is placed in their vehicles, inadvertently or otherwise.Straight driveThe pulse polio drive launched by the district health authorities turned out to be a successful one. Normally, the rich and affluent prefer to get the vaccination for their kids from private hospitals. However, this time they came out in droves on an appeal made by Additional Deputy Commissioner Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu. An elated Sandhu himself toured the length and breadth of the town to supervise the drive. At the jail road he stopped at Dala Enclave where some children were being administered doses by Civil Hospital doctors. “It is good to see vaccination booths set up near the bus stand and the railway station. This was done to ensure children, below the age of five, travelling with their parents, too, could be given the dose. The Covid protocols were observed at almost all the places. A little known fact is that during the beginning of the 20th century, the Americans were afraid. They were afraid of the Russians. They were afraid of the economy in the years leading to the Great Depression of the 1920s. They were afraid of Hitler and most importantly they were afraid of polio which had struck the country in a big way. However, big leaps of medical science enabled them to eradicate the disease in its entirety. Now, the US is a polio-free country. We, in India, too, should use technology in medical research to get rid of polio.” said Sandhu. — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-one-208895
07-02-2021||---||People from all walks lend support to chakka jam in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 6The three-hour ‘chakka jam’ organised by the farmer unions received an immense response from general public as protests were held at several places here on Saturday. Even people from non-agriculture sectors participated in the protest and demanded from the government to repeal the three controversial agri laws.The protests were held at Golden Gate, Choagawan, Ajnala, Attari, Airport Road, Rayya, Beas, Jandiala Guru and several other places. Leaders of the farmer unions said the ‘chakka jam’ was completely successful besides being peaceful.Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said, “People are unanimous in protesting against the draconian agri laws. Even elected local bodies representatives such as sarpanches and panches from all political parties participated in the protests.”Leaders of the farmer unions said the protest on Delhi borders would continue till their demands were accepted. Dalbir Singh Bedadpur, who along with other farmer leaders blocked the road at Rayya, said, “We are thankful to people who participated in the protest and expressed their solidarity with us. The government’s tricks to divide people on religious lines have failed.”Members of Students For Society also blocked the GT road outside Guru Nanak Dev University and demanded that all farmers arrested after the January 26 incident in Delhi be released immediately. Raising slogans against the Modi government, members of the Khalsa College Students’ Forum too participated in the protest.SFS leader Jaskamal Singh also criticised the government for restricting internet services. “With such cheap tactics, the government is trying to muzzle the voices for farmers,” he commented.Khalsa College Students’ Forum leader Amiteshwar Singh said, “People should strongly support the cause of the farmers as once corporate giants set up their monopoly, consumers would be at their mercy. We all should stand united against the government in this fight against corporate honchos and privatisation,” he urged the students.Damdami Taksal honours Tikait Amritsar: Expressing solidarity with the farmers’ cause, members of Damdami Taksal (Bhindranwale, Mehta) on Friday joined the protest at Ghazipur border, Delhi. Taksal spokesperson Prof Sarchand Singh told that the contribution of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait in reviving the farm agitation with new life after it suffered set back due to January 26 tractor parade violence, was recognised by presenting him with siropa, Sri Sahib and a turban on his head at the Ghazipur stage. While addressing the gathering Giani Jiva Singh, Damdami Taksal activist accused the Modi government of being a puppet in the hands of the capitalists and ignoring the interests of the farmers. He said that nothing short of repealing the three black farm laws could be acceptable to the farmers. He appealed to the farmers to exercise restraint and continue their struggle. “Damdami Taksal stands with the farmers to meet their demands. Every effort would be made to save the farmers who have been carrying out peaceful agitation in Delhi for 72 days using their rights of democracy. The media reports suggest that the government was all set to suppress the peasant movement it had now become a mass movement and the government would have to withdraw the black law,” he said. Earlier, the Damdami Taksal delegation included SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, Dharam Parchar committee member Ajaib Singh Abhyasi, Sant Samaj spokerperson Baba Gurbhej Singh, Giani Sahib Singh, Giani Palwinder Pal Singh Buttar, Jatha Sukhdev Singh Anandpur and Jatha Jarnail Singh, Kala Sarpanch Mehta. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-from-all-walks-lend-support-to-chakka-jam-in-amritsar-208886
