08-02-2021||---||Row erupts as century-old trees axed at Amritsar's Urban Haat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7A controversy erupted after nearly century-old trees were chopped in the Urban Haat area here a few days ago.Urban Haat came on the 125-year-old British Colonial era building of Victoria Jubliee Hospital established in 1891The incident drew the ire of several environment and heritage lovers. Earlier, too, an age-old Peepal tree was axed by negligent authorities. At that time as well, much hue and cry was raised, but it proved to be futile as authorities turned a blind eye to this.Environmentalist Deepak Babbar said it pained him to see the green heritage of the city being plundered by people for their vested interests while authorities preferred to look the other way rather than taking action.Urban Haat came on the 125-year-old British Colonial era building of Victoria Jubliee Hospital established in 1891. The SAD-BJP government had restored and revamped the building in consultation with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage in 2015 after spending huge amounts with an aim to boost the tourism in Amritsar. The building, which was lying abandoned, is located on the prime location near the Historical Company Bagh, around 1.5 km from Golden Temple.Initially, the government had decided to develop the replica of the famous Lahore Food Street to boost the city’s tourism. Now, the project has been given to a private firm which is now reportedly converting the building into a hotel. The Amritsar Development Authority had sublet it to a Bathinda-based firm Food Library in November 2018.Amarjit Singh, marketing head of the firm, said a thorough process was followed and an auction was conducted by the PUDA in this connection. “We have followed the due process and took the requisite permission from the authorities in this regard. We are developing the structure in a phased manner. The trees would have blocked the entrance of several shops being constructed as a part of the project,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/row-erupts-as-century-old-trees-axed-at-amritsars-urban-haat-209503
08-02-2021||---||Civic elections: Cops keep tab on habitual offenders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7With civic body polls scheduled for February 14, habitual offenders have come under the radar of the Amritsar (rural) police. The police have booked Ashok Kumar, a resident of Jandiala, as he failed to deposit his licensed weapon at police station or at a gun house. He was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Since imposition of the model code of conduct, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Khaira ordered residents to deposit their weapons. However, many residents failed to abide by the ordersSince imposition of the model code of conduct, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, ordered residents to deposit their weapons. However, many residents failed to abide by the orders, thus the Deputy Commissioner ordered registration of FIRs against them.The police have also initiated action under Section 110 of the CrPC against habitual offenders in Jandiala, Beas, Ajnala, Ramdass and Majitha.The booked have been identified as Deepak Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Robin, Manpreet Singh, Jobanjit Singh, Gurpal Singh, Sarvan Singh, Jaspinder Singh, Hardev Singh, Pinder Singh, Manpreet Singh, Dharminder Singh, Jodh Singh, Deputy Singh and Avtar Singh.Senior police officials visited the polling booths and supervised the security arrangements in the district.Police officials said they were keeping a tab on anti-social elements to ensure that they do not create trouble during the polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-elections-cops-keep-tab-on-habitual-offenders-209504
08-02-2021||---||Despite farmers’ protests, BJP nominee stays upbeat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7Despite Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) facing severe criticism due to the ongoing farmers’ stir over three agri laws and saffron outfit activists reportedly hesitating to contest the civic body elections on the party symbol, Manohar Singh, a BJP candidate from Ward No. 37, launched his door-to-door campaign on Sunday. He said he didn’t face any opposition during public meetings in the ward.Several activists of the BJP have refrained from contesting civic polls on the party symbol and instead are in the fray as IndependentsManohar claimed that he was expecting some resistance as people were annoyed with the party, but he found out that the Opposition was spreading false propaganda against the BJP in the entire state.“I have initiated door-to-door campaign from today. I got good response from residents of the Ward No. 37. Everyone promised to cast their vote in my favour. A false propaganda is being spread against the BJP. There might be some sections of society, but in general there is no such issue,” said Manohar, who had been associated with the BJP for the last 18 years.“I have a long association with the BJP, but I am contesting election for the first time. It is an opportunity to serve society. I am in the fray for development of the ward,” he said. The MC ward number 37 has been reserved for the Backward Class and in 2017 Congress’s Harpreet Singh Goldi defeated SAD-BJP candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori.After the alliance between SAD and BJP came to an end over the agri laws, the saffron outfit will be contesting civic polls separately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-farmers-protests-bjp-nominee-stays-upbeat-209505
08-02-2021||---||SAD to officials: Admn favouring Congress in Bhikhiwind violence||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, February 7The district administration on Sunday had to face an embarrassing situation during the joint meeting of officials of the district administration and representatives of different political parties when SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha condemned the alleged partial attitude of the district administration towards the Congress regarding the February 2 violent incidents in Bhikhiwind.The meeting was presided over by Vinay Biblani, state election observer for elections to the municipal council, Patti, and the nagar panchayat, Bhikhiwind. He reviewed the arrangements for the elections to Patti and Bhikhiwind local governments. The SAD leader alleged that the administration was partial towards the ruling party in the Bhikhiwind case. Workers of political parties along with their respective candidates had gone to file their nomination papers when violent incidents occurred at the site.In these violent incidents, cross firing between SAD and Congress workers also occurred. Over 200 SAD workers had been booked by the Bhikhiwind police. The SAD leader alleged that the police were raiding the houses of SAD workers to demoralise them. On the instructions of the State Election Observer, SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha lodged a complaint (in writing) with Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Kulwant Singh requesting action.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Kulwant Singh and SSP Dhruman H Nimbale were among other officials present in the meeting. Representatives of the Congress, SAD, BJP, AAP, CPI, CPM, NCP, etc, were also present in the meeting.Candidates from five of the total 19 wards of the municipal council, Patti, have already been elected unopposed. These were said to be the members of the ruling Congress party while for the remaining 14 wards, there were a total of 54 candidates in the fray — 19 of the Congress, 13 of SAD, three of the BJP, 14 AAP, three of the BSP and two Independent candidates. The total number electoral (voters) were 30,863 in Patti.For elections to nagar panchayat, Bhikhiwind, there were a total of 9,011 voters and the number of wards was 13 and all wards were going to the polls. Fortysix candidates were in the fray with 13 each of the Congress, SAD and AAP and six of the BSP and one Independent. The administration assured them of fair and fearless elections and sought people’s cooperation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-to-officials-admn-favouring-congress-in-bhikhiwind-violence-209506
08-02-2021||---||City to get hi-tech water testing lab||Amritsar, February 7The government has spent estimated amount of Rs584.86 lakh on establishing hi-tech laboratory in the holy city. Jaswinder Singh Chahl, senior engineer of water supply, said in this sum building costs Rs232.86 lakh and equipment costs Rs352.00 lakh. He said there are only three state-level laboratories in Punjab i.e. hi-tech multi-district laboratory Amritsar, trade water effluent and amp, research unit Patiala and regional advance water testing laboratory SAS Nagar.He said that hi-tech multi-district water testing laboratory directly impacts Amritsar and neighbour districts in northern region of Punjab.While describing the highlights of this laboratory Chahl said it is fully capable to conduct the testing of heavy metals in water like arsenic, aluminum, lead and cadmium. He said that it can also conduct tests regarding bacteriological parameters like presence of coliform in potable water. “Also, it is capable of conducting waste water parameters like Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and Dissolved Oxygen (DO),” he added. Beside this, it can also cater the basic chemical parameters and cations and anions of potable water. Laboratory has a capacity to conduct 1,200 samples per month.Talking about the impact on public drinking water system, Singh said primarily it caters to the need of water testing of various water supply schemes of DWSS, regularly conducts water testing of various government departments such as Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Punjab Mandi Board and the MC. He said all schools, colleges, universities, hospital or households can utilise the facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-to-get-hi-tech-water-testing-lab-209507
08-02-2021||---||No state-level function on Attariwala’s martyrdom day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7Members of the General Sardar Sham Singh Attariwala Trust and residents of the area are perturbed as the yearly state-level function to pay tributes to the Sikh general and martyr would not be organised at India Gate this year.The function was held near the statue of Sham Singh Attariwala near the war memorial. A separate function is also organised at Sham Singh’s memorial in Attari. In a press conference here on Sunday, Harpreet Singh Sidhu, general secretary of the trust, said, “The state-level function was being held every year for the last 12 years. Every year, we had to approach senior officials to ask them to organise a function in memory of Sardar Sham Singh,” he said, adding that this year, the officials concerned stated that no such function would be organised.A martyr of the Anglo-Sikh war, Attariwala had participated in many campaigns, including the Battles of Multan, Kashmir and the Frontier Province. Owing to his courage and influence over the Khalsa army, Sham Singh was nominated to the Council of Regency set up by Maharani Jind Kaur for the minor sovereign Maharaja Duleep Singh. During the first Anglo-Sikh war, he crossed the Sutlej, vowing to lay down his life rather than return in defeat. Following his death in the battle, Attariwala was cremated at his Attari village.Sidhu said:“The government should make such an arrangement as the function is organised every year. “We want the government to pass a notification in the regard,” he said, adding that the trust would be organising an event at the Attari memorial. He added that the government should also make appropriate arrangements for the upkeep of the martyr’s memorial at Attari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-state-level-function-on-attariwalas-martyrdom-day-209508
08-02-2021||---||Gangster Nahar brought  on production warrant||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7The Sadar police have arrested Nitin Nahar, a gangster associated with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, after bringing him on production warrant.He was arrested in connection with a firing incident in which a liquor contractor Ricky Bhalla was attacked for ransom on June 11, 2020. The police had arrested Harsimran Singh, alias Simmu of Kishangarh Colony and Rikshit Sahni of Hansli Wali Gali at that time. Bhalla had alleged that the duo called him from different numbers and demanded money while threatening him.Police probe revealed that Nitin Nahar, alias Sonu, of the Indira Colony in Gate Hakima had provided weapons to Harsimran and Rikshit. Nahar was nabbed by the Amritsar rural police in a joint operation with organised crime control unit from the Attari area on June 19 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-nahar-brought-on-production-warrant-209509
08-02-2021||Is the MC doing enough and providing proper facilities in all parks for its residents?||MC should identify needs of community & act accordingly||Open Gym, tracks are not up to the markThe MC authorities have not done enough to provide better facilities in several residential parks of the city. We also lack good jogging tracks. There are several loopholes behind this. First of all, ‘self-proclaimed’ presidents of colonies are not giving complete information to the area councilor as a result of which the MC fails to take the requisite action. Even I have two houses. The one in Shubhum Enclave, GT road, faces the park face but has zero maintenance. We have seen that there is neither an open gym nor a jogging track there. Many studies and researches have shown that physical activity outdoors lowers a person’s blood pressure and heart rate. As a result, exercising outdoors feels less strenuous than indoors, which in turn, pushes you closer to your maximum performance. Train outdoors, push yourself to the limit and keep breaking your personal record! When you exercise outdoors, you get fresh air which helps alleviate insomnia. Regular exercise and fresh air will help you to fall asleep and improve the quality of your sleep. Outdoor workouts are often completely free of charge, because exercise parks, tracks, stairs and other exercise locations outdoors are usually open to all. Outdoor exercise is good for your wallet. Even in our holy city we didn’t see cleanliness.Baljeet JohalAuthorities should make some normsIt is needless to say that city parks are in a deplorable condition because the Municipal Corporation does not pay heed. Stray dogs live in the parks and at times attack people taking a walk. Besides, some people often engage in sordid activities like playing cards, drinking and smoking and so on. Parks are meant for children to play there and recreational activities for people like jogging and yoga, etc. But the present scenario shows the other side of the park which should not have happened. The seats are broken and one can easily find empty bottles of alcohol here and there. It’s extremely high time to think of this issue otherwise our children will be deprived of playing in the parks. The authorities should make some norms and take stringent measures against those who break the rules at public places.Saahil HansTaking care, doing up parks necessaryThe MC authorities shall maintain the parks by doing proper and cleaning of weeds, unwanted plants, thorns and bushes periodically and spraying of pesticides, fertilisers as required. Landscape paintings on the sidewalls of park should be in desired shape and size to make it beautiful and attractive. Pipeline music should be run in morning and in evening which will calm and relax the minds. A separate area for yoga and exercise should be outlined for elderly and women. Quality swings for children, should be designed for their play. Underground drainage system, more dustbins must be there in parks. Deputing a policeman at the entrance can help in keeping unsocial elements at bay and from obstructing the green, clean and saftey of the park. Parks should not be used or encroached for any other purpose.Radhika MahajanCivic bodies must execute AMRUT missionFirst and foremost, duties of the MC authorities should be to maintain park’s greenery by planting best quality winters and summer annuals saplings in time. The civic bodies must execute the AMRUT mission of Punjab government for enhancing and upgrading of green spaces in parks and formed recreation centres with special light on children-friendly facilities to play. Park must be enriched with proper water supply, lightening maintenance, solid waste management system and proper toilets which should be properly maintained apart from underground drainage system. For women and elderly, there must be a particular size of an area designated for yoga and other workout routines. A policeman should be deployed to ensure the safety and security of all. The authorities should also recruit their own attendant to take care of park’s basic amenities and also report some restrictive activities which are a commonplace thing in the parks. He should be liable to charge some nominal entry fee by which people should also understand by themselves their own social responsibility and duty to keep the park clean and green.Ankur guptaMuch more needsto be doneThe MC authorities are not doing enough and providing proper facilities such as open gyms and good jogging tracks in all parks for its residents. Most of the parks in city lack these. Even in parks where open gyms and jogging tracks are there, they are not in good condition. Much more is needed to be done by for providing and maintenance of good parks for the residents of city. The MC authorities need to ensure that all parks are covered for providing open gyms and good jogging tracks. Secondly, clean drinking water and neat toilets needs to set up in all parks.Sanjay ChawlaLack funds? MC should seek helpIn my opinion the MC is not working to its full potential. Such parks are easily available in Chandigarh then why not here. The MC needs to pull its socks up. It seems there are infra or manpower or financial constraints. It should request the government for the same and work with zeal, so that people’s laurels can be earned and Amritsar stands as tall as Chandigarh in terms of parks with tracks and open gyms and at the same time public should help the MC in maintaining the dignity of such parks.Raj MohanA private hand for maintenance?The development of park culture started with the arrival of Om Prakash Soni on the scene as first Mayor of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MCA) and ended with the departure of Anil Joshi as Local Bodies Minister Punjab. Both of them did a lot for real development of the parks in the city. Before that parks used to be ‘rada maidan’ meant for children to play cricket in the morning and evening and elderly persons to play cards in between. Though it is difficult to develop a park with all the proper facilities like lush green ground with eye-catching flower beds, gyms, children’s playgrounds, fountains, etc but the more difficult part is the maintenance. The musical fountains of Ram Bagh gardens popularly are lying dysfunctional since Anil Joshi lost the Assembly election. It is not possible for the MCA to maintain the parks as they are unable to do even their routine works. So, maintenance work should be given to private hands but without making any payment to them. As three clubs are running in Ram Bagh gardens on municipal grounds and their lease agreement renewal is overdue, it should be renewed with a condition for maintenance of whole of Ram Bagh gardens with musical fountains, gyms and tracks. Similarly in all parks, Verka booths have been provided space by the Municipal Corporation and they are doing brisk business, so they should be assigned the job of maintenance of the respective park as well.Harsh N JoharMC must spare more funds for parksParks are meant for enjoyment, recreation, entertainment, diversion, relaxation and leisure time activities. They have trails for walking, biking and other allied activities. They play an important role in the social, economic and physical well-being of the cities and their residents. In the present times, they are recognised as powerful tools for urban communities and local economies. But, the MC authorities are not doing enough for providing proper facilities because of which many a city parks remain in shambles. It should spare more funds for the maintenance. Dogs should be prevented from pooping in the parks to provide a neat and clean environment there. Attractive benches ought to be built and placed where they are needed the most. A provision for a small free library should be made to enable the visitors to feel the joy of reading a book or so. Trees should be planted to enhance the park as well as the urban landscape. Some chandeliers should be hung there like that of the ‘chandelier tree’ of Los Angeles that has become a local landmark for the dozens of lighting fixtures. Neon lights can also be installed as they help reduce crime. The MC should identify the needs of the community and act accordingly. Trained gardeners should be employed to look after the shrubs and flowers to improve the outlook of the parks. Security guards should also be deputed to avert untoward incidents. Ward councillors should be entrusted with the task of ensuring the tip-top condition of the parks. The police should inspect the parks at least thrice a week so that nefarious elements are kept at bay. Since city parks are crucial to social cohesion they should be developed, refurbished and maintained on a priority basis. City parks can certainly become a boon rather than a bane if the authorities provide facilities of gyms and jogging tracks for children, women and the elderly to enjoy. And this is not a tall order.Tarsem S Bumrahdeploy cops to check drug addicts at parksThe MC has failed to keep up the open gyms and parks and saved from being frequented by undesirable and bad elements. Hoards of such people can be seen gathered around areas meant for public use being occupied all the times. This deters the active participation of women and children in parks. Also, rampant open defecation by pet owners near open parks leads to environment pollution amid foul smell. The MC and police authorities should deploy patrolling officials in the evening and morning hours to check this menace.Anil VinayakCity parks have changed for worseIn the Company Bagh, there used to be a separate ‘ladies park’ towards Hukam Singh Road, a volleyball ground and sanglan wali ground (now children park) towards Madan Mohan Malwiya Road. The site of volleyball court, which produced international players, is now almost a dump yard. Sanglan wali ground also produced some international gymnasts. There also used to be a swimming pool, where there is presently an abandoned zoo. All around the walled city, across the internal circular road, there used to be very well maintained parks where the children and boys played different games. In some of these parks there used to be wrestling akharas too. For example, in a park before the PBN School Dara singh used to practice in an akhara in his younger days. Similarly in Gheesi Bagh, near Ram Bagh, many national level wrestlers practiced regularly, and in Sakatari Bagh, Dr Manmohan singh used to study at night, under a municipal lamp. The vast Gol Bagh used to be the playground for the young boys of inner city. It is not for nothing that a city like Amritsar produced so many gold medallists of international stature and has had the privilege to churn out Bollywood stars like Geeta Bali, Rajesh Khanna, Jatinder, Dipti Naval, Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgan. The old timers know that area surrounding Phula Singh da Burj was a vast playground, where the annual sports mela was held, and Harbhinder singh, who would later become one of the best forwards in hockey, used to be adjudged as the best athlete. The Challi Khuh park was also a great attraction site. In all big parks, the studious boys would go for serious studies. Of late, there is one change to be seen and that is abundance of interlocking unevenly laid tiles, tailor-made for damaging your hips and knees. The Galliara Scheme had destroyed Amritsar’s many beautiful parks. The authorities like the MC, Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) and ADA must give top priority to this heritage of the holy city.Hardish sandhuInstalled equipment already threadbareThe maintenance of parks is very mediocre resulting in the growth of plants on jogging tracks. Though gym equipment is installed in parks, many of these have corroded to rusting due to neglect of authorities. Stray dogs usually enter parks causing littering and increasing the risk of dog-bite cases. Some lights of the parks are not functional causing inconvenience to joggers. The MC should address these points as parks are one of the very limited options available with the residents to enjoy greenery in an urbanised environment.Jatinderpal Singh BatthQUESTIONThough the authorities are trying their best to end the menace of begging, people seeking alms are a common sight. What should the district administration, police and social organisations do to stop this practice?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-should-identify-needs-of-community-act-accordingly-209510
