09-02-2021||---||7 stray pups ‘poisoned’ to death in Rani Ka Bagh area, four critical||Amritsar, February 8As many as 11 stray puppies were allegedly poisoned by unidentified persons here on Sunday night, of which four are fighting for life and are under treatment, while the remaining seven have died.The incident occurred in a public park located near Punjab Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni’s residence in the posh Rani Ka Bagh locality.The incident came to light when area residents informed the Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association headed by Dr Rohan Mehra about the incident. He along with his team members immediately reached the spot and rushed four puppies for treatment. The doctor attending them said their condition was serious.Dr Rohan pointed out that unidentified persons apparently served them food laced with poison. The carcasses of these pups were found in different parts of the park in the morning.The association while condemning the incident said a complaint had been lodged with the Rani Ka Bagh police station for registering an FIR and identifying the person who committed the cruel act.“Area residents were perturbed over the incident, as they used to feed these puppies. They were shocked to see their bodies lying in different parts of the park and informed our volunteers,” said Dr Rohan, demanding the registration of a criminal case against the accused.“We do hope that the police would investigate sincerely and arrest the accused. The cops will find a clue after going through the CCTV cameras in the locality and near the park,” he said.ASI Bhupinder Singh, investigating officer, said the case was being registered and the matter was being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-stray-pups-poisoned-to-death-in-rani-ka-bagh-area-four-critical-209698
09-02-2021||---||Take instructions of women panel seriously or face music: PSWC head||Amritsar, February 8Punjab State Women Commission’s (PSWC) Chairperson Manisha Gulati held a Lok Adalat at the local Police Lines here on Monday wherein she listened to the grievances of victims who came from border areas.Speaking to mediapersons, she pointed out that the women police stations were bound to follow and implement the instructions regarding a case issued by the commission in letter and spirit, but it has come to light that the police stations, including women police stations, ignore the same. She warned that punitive action would be recommended against the officials, who overlook the instructions passed by the commission.She also pointed out that in order to facilitate the victims belonging to five districts of border belt who could not go to Chandigarh for lodging complaints or during hearings in their cases, the PSWC would set up a camp office in Amritsar so that maximum of victims could approach the commission for help. She further added that it would also recommend the Punjab government for appointing professional counsellors so that both the aggrieved parties could be counselled for reaching a mutual consent for resolving the dispute and saving the families from breaking up.She said a majority of cases coming to the State Women Commission were of domestic violence. She also said such cases were rising and this was a cause of concern.Komal, a resident of Makhanwindi village, lodged a complaint with the PSWC, while alleging that she got married to an Army man in June last year. She alleged after three months of marriage, he left her as she was suffering from a skin ailment. She also alleged that her husband also got her one month pregnancy aborted. She said her family had informed about the skin disease to her husband before the marriage.She alleged her husband was demanding a car in dowry but her father could not meet the illegitimate demand. She said though they lodged a complaint with the police, it did nothing. She alleged an uncle of her husband was in the police who was threatening of lodging false cases against her family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-instructions-of-women-panel-seriously-or-face-music-pswc-head-209699
09-02-2021||---||Devoted to discoveries: Her journey from city to Humboldt varsity is no mean feat||Amritsar, February 8While many girls of the region have been struggling to have access to basic education, the ones like Amita Bhatti (34) stand out as a shining example of women empowerment. City-based scientist has just returned from Germany after completing her PhD in microbial molecular medicine from the prestigious Humboldt University that has had eminent alumni, including Albert Einstein, Karl Marx, Angela Davis, Max Weber and among others, producing 57 Nobel laureates as of 2020.Amita was part of the extensive research project undertaken at the Ivy-League University and she carried out her research in the field of microbial biofilms, studying compounds from Indian medicinal plants. Her research was carried under renowned microbiologist Dr Regine Henge.Back home after completing her research, Amita, who is the first scientist in her family, calls her journey from grassroots to the Ivy-League University as “big achievement”. “I was always inclined towards practical application of scientific concepts. I pursued my BSc and MSc from GNDU and during that time, I used to do lot of practical work. I consider laboratory as my second home and when the opportunity of a government scholarship for higher education came knocking on my door, I never looked back,” She said.Hailing from a family of humble financial means, her passion for microbiology-based research made her apply for National Overseas Scholarship and she was among few students selected in 2017 for the programme that is funded by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Working under world-renowned scientists at Humboldt, said, Amita, was life changing experience. “The biggest difference I experienced was their attitude towards research. Young researchers are given independent working environment and respect, with no spoonfeeding. Research at any stage is considered important and focus is on its implementation rather than taking credit for publication,” she said.Having worked at Humboldt, Amita choose to settle in India and give back to the country in her best possible way. “I want to do something for my country and as a scientist, I would rather choose to work in my country than any other place. I want to carry out working in my field of research and commit to my roots.”Her father Amrik Bhatti, a retired bank employee, could not feel more proud. “In our family, education was considered a privilege rather than a right. She is not just the first scientist in the family but also the first person to reach such great heights in field of education. I feel grateful for her achievement,” he said. Her mother Meena Bhatti is a matriculate and a former councilor while her father is a graduate.First scientist of her familyPart of an extensive research project undertaken at the Ivy-League University, Amita Bhatti (pic) carried out her research in the field of microbial biofilms, studying compounds from the Indian medicinal plants. Back home after completing her PhD, Amita, who is also the first scientist in her family, calls her journey from grassroots level to a foreign university as a 'big achievement'. Hailing from a family of humble financial means, her passion for microbiology-based research made her apply for National Overseas Scholarship and she was among few students selected in 2017 for the programme that is funded by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The Humboldt University boasts some eminent alumni such as Albert Einstein, Karl Marx, Angela Davis, Max Weber and among others. It has produced 57 Nobel laureates as of 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/devoted-to-discoveries-her-journey-from-city-to-humboldt-varsity-is-no-mean-feat-209700
09-02-2021||---||‘Need to endorse cultural events’||Amritsar, February 8The long hiatus in the city’s otherwise buzzing cultural and theatre itinerary seems to be over with all prominent cultural spaces now open for live performances.Amritsar has been a nurturing ground for talent in field of theatre, folk arts and literature. As the entire year was lost to the pandemic, artistes hope for healthy revival of live performances.“The most important agenda for the year must be to instil live in art forms that were most hit during the lockdown, including folk theatre. One needs to accept the challenges that were thrown at us by the Covid-19 and resume the theatre or any performing art scene with enthusiasm. Another area that needs serious consideration is to create enough financial reserves for artistes and art spaces,” said Kewal Dhaliwal, a theatre thespian, who is chief of the Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi and Virsa Vihar Society.Dhaliwal has announced to host three-day Punjabi theatre festival at Virsa Vihar from February 26 and a theatre festival in March.Supporting the revival of live performances full-throttle, Suvidha Duggal, theatre artiste and director, said events must be held keeping in mind the new normal. Duggal showcased her latest play “The Cancelled Honeymoon”at the Art Gallery, with a star cast comprising city-based actors. The 60-minute play is the second event to premier at the Art Gallery after reopening in November 2020.Arvinder Chamak, who is a part of the play, was among the first artiste in the city to host live performance after reopening. His play “Love Guru” was staged for a limited audience at the Art Gallery. “The pandemic has hit us hard and more so, it impacted our cultural landscape. The more cultural activities and events will be organised, the more prospects will be created for artistes and fraternity to move on towards normalcy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-endorse-cultural-events-209701
09-02-2021||---||Civic poll: Flag march taken out in rural belt||Amritsar, February 8Rural police on Sunday took out a flag march in different parts of the rural belt in view of upcoming Nagar Panchayat and Nagar Council polls in Jandiala, Ajnala, Ramdas, Majitha and Rayya.In Ajnala, a police team led by DSP Vipin Kumar held the march which ended at Ramdas. Similarly, a police team led by SHO Beas marched at GT Road in Rayya area. Jandiala SHO along his team held the march in Jandiala Guru. Meanwhile, Ajnala police also took out a flag march near Civil Hospital there.The police officials in a statement issued here on Monday said that permanent nakas were being held in view of the security measures being taken for ensuing polls.They said there were 13 sensitive points – Bandala bypass, Dharad village canal, Rayya, railway crossing Majitha, Bajwa Hospital Majitha, Kukkrawala village, Rajatal, Beas bridge and chowk and Chabba village. They said round the clock checkpoints were established at these points and checking of vehicles has been intensified.Police officials said these nakas would also help in checking distribution of liquor and money among the voters for influencing the results. They said mobile patrolling parties and PCR teams were covering the entire rural belt to thwart any untoward incident.Meanwhile, Anil Bhatia of Krishna House in Ajnala was booked by the police for not depositing firearms thereby violating the orders issued by the district administration regarding the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-poll-flag-march-taken-out-in-rural-belt-209702
09-02-2021||---||Will set up new solid waste mgmt projects, says  Sarkaria||Amritsar, February 8 The state government would soon set up solid waste management projects at Jagdev Kalan and Malunangal, which would eliminate the problem of collection of garbage from villages. Dilraj Singh Sarkaria, chairman, Zila Parishad, said in collaboration with Khanna Paper Mill, they have installed 4,000 dustbins and roped in 20 carts to collect dry and wet waste from villages. He said they would give 5,000 saplings to be planted at Harsha Chhina block. Dilraj said under the guidance of Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria the Punjab government would provide clean drinking water in every village. Sarkaria said Khanna Paper Mill’s management has launched a special drive to make rural and adjoining areas greener. He said other corporate houses should also come forward. Sarkaria said a campaign has been launched to provide water and sanitation to every house on February 1. He said the carts have been provided by Khanna Paper Mill for collection of wet and dry garbage. Additional Deputy Commissioner Ranbir Singh Mudhal said under the Swachh Bharat Mission, villages were being made free of trash. He said the main objective of the campaign was to provide clean water to people. He appealed residents to save water. Suneet Kochhar, managing trustee, Madad Charitable Foundation, and director of Khanna Paper Mill, said the Madad Charitable Foundation was formed in 2011 with the objective to carry out social work. Kochhar said from time to time, the foundation has contributed to Jammu & Kashmir Relief Fund, helping the victims of Jaura fatak accident, distribution of twin bins under the Smart City project for Amritsar city, helping the police and the district administration during the pandemic and giving financial assistance to under privileged children at Nishkam School.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-set-up-new-solid-waste-mgmt-projects-says-sarkaria-209703
09-02-2021||---||Miner honoured posthumously||Amritsar, February 8Amritsar-based mine engineer, Jaswant Singh Gill, was honoured posthumously with “The Legend of Punjab” award by the All-India Human Rights Organisation in Ludhiana on Sunday.The award was received by his wife Nirdosh Gill and son Dr Sarpreet Singh Gill.Bumba Mukherjee, chairman, All India Human Rights Organisation, said the award was bestowed upon Gill in recognition of his outstanding act and unparallel bravery in saving 65 coal miners trapped in the flooded Mahabir coalmine in Raniganj area of West Bengal on November 16, 1989. Jarnail Singh, chief, All India Human Rights Organisation, said Gill worked with the state-owned Coal India and rescued the miners with a help of a special capsule.Earlier, Gill was conferred “Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak” by the then President of India, Ramaswamy Venkataraman, in November 1991, said Manmohan Chaggar of the organisation.In November 2013, Gill was also recognised with “Special Award for Outstanding Contribution Made in Saving Lives of Trapped Miners” along with a cheque for Rs one lakh during the 39th Foundation Day ceremony of Coal India in Kolkata.Gill succumbed to a cardiac arrest in November 2019 at the age of 80, leaving behind a poignant legacy of bravery and heroism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miner-honoured-posthumously-209706
09-02-2021||---||Recarpeting work in Ward No. 71 inaugurated||Amritsar, February 8Om Prakash Soni, Minister for Medical Education and Research, Punjab, inaugurated the recarpeting work of a road in the Fatehpur area in Ward No. 71. Soni said a 1.5 km-long and 33-feet wide road would be constructed at Fatehpur village from Amritsar-Bhikhiwind Road to JDS School and footpaths would also be constructed. Soni also said LED lights had already been installed in Ward No. 71 and a new tube well had been installed to solve the issue of the potable water. Soni also heard the grievances of people and directed the authorities concerned to resolve the issues on the spot.OP Soni also reviewed the ongoing development works in Ward No. 71 and directed the contractor concerned to complete all works within the given time without compromising the quality. He said any negligence in development works would not be tolerated.Mohinder Kaur, President, SC Wing Bharatiya Janata Party, along with her colleagues joined the Congress party in the presence of minister. Mohinder Kaur said she was impressed by the development work being carried out by Soni in the area and the policies of the Congress party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recarpeting-work-in-ward-no-71-inaugurated-209707
09-02-2021||---||Tarksheel Society demands repeal of farm legislations||Amritsar, February 8Activists of the Tarksheel Society held a protest on the Lawrence Road here on Monday. Besides, protests were also held in rural areas by different farmer unions. They demanded that the Union Government must repeal the three contentious farm laws.Activists of the society, led by its leader Amarjit Bai, said the Union Government was behaving like a despotic dispensation and ignoring the well-being of the biggest section of society (farmers. “Only those governments are remembered by people who take care of the well-being of all sections of society,” he said.Sumit Singh, head of the society, said the government had proved itself to be a most insensitive and anti-people dispensation so far. Farmers had been protesting in the open and away from their houses for the past 74 days but it did not melt the ego of the government, he said.He said instead of lending an ear to the protesters, their voice was being scuttled by disconnecting internet and barricading roads. He said the government had preferred to embrace corporate houses over farmers.A rally of tractor-trolleys (150 in number) was taken out on the Rajasansi road. Farmers from Rajasansi, Bal Sachandar, Heir, Kambo, Meerankot, Khairabad, Gumtala, Loharka and other areas took part in the rally. On the way, they were welcomed by people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarksheel-society-demands-repeal-of-farm-legislations-209708
09-02-2021||---||Jalandhar brush aside Doaba, Mohali trounce Ludhiana||Amritsar, February 8Jalandhar and Mohali won their fixtures against Doaba Heroes and Ludhiana, respectively, during the AGA Gold Cup cricket tournament (under -19) on Monday. Two separate matches were played at Gandhi and Amandeep grounds in the tournament being held with the support of Trident Group and Amandeep Group.At the Gandhi ground, Jalandhar batted first and posted 190 runs in 40 overs for nine wickets. Akashjit Singh, with his knock of 48 runs off 75 balls, was the major run-getter for Jalandhar.Chasing the target, Doaba Heroes were swept aside in just 37 overs as they bled wickets at regular intervals and could make post scoring 155. Akashjit, an all-rounder, impressed with the ball as he scalped five in eight overs giving only 17 runs. He was adjudged the man of the match. In another match Amandeep ground, Mohali trounced Ludhiana. Mohali batsmen successfully chased the target of 209 runs.Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Dr Shabhaz Singh, OP Kanojia, Tilak Raj, Aman Randev, Gurbir Chadha, Surinder Arjun, Manmohan Singh, Sharat Sekhri, Vijay Dhingra, Rajan Trikha, IS Bajwa, Balraj Mehra, Raj Kumar Sharma and other executive members of the Tournament were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jalandhar-brush-aside-doaba-mohali-trounce-ludhiana-209709
09-02-2021||---||'The Cancelled Honeymoon' brings audience back to theatre||Amritsar, February 8The Drama Club in collaboration with Voice of Amritsar staged the play ‘The Cancelled Honeymoon’. The play was written by Palak Kundra and directed by Suvidha Duggal and had star cast, including Arvinder Chamak, Indu Aurora, Rachit Sarpal and others. Highlighting the core issue of dealing with the lockdown and ensuing challenges that were truly felt last year, the play also highlighted the dilemma of living a privileged life. Lead actors Suvidha Duggal and Anmol played a couple that are forced to leave their lives of comfort and privilege and faced with sudden grind of life as the lockdown is announced. As their comforts give way to more realistic struggles of life, the cracks start to appear in their relationships followed by despair. The supporting star cast, too, played their part well in carrying forward a story that resonated with audience. Suvidha said that the entire cast and team of the play took a risk by organising a live performance for the first time after reopening. “It was a risk as we did not know if the audience would want to be back to live theatre. But we got a great response and gave break in between the play for the audience to refresh themselves. I hope that theatre gets back on track with more such plays and audience in given time as the lockdown had hit the fraternity badly.” The play was also streamed live on social media and has been uploaded on YouTube channel for wider reach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-cancelled-honeymoon-brings-audience-back-to-theatre-209711
09-02-2021||Amritsar||Two killed in road mishap||Employee of DC office bookedTarn Taran: Karwinder Singh Cheema, an employee of the Deputy Commissioner’s office, was booked in another case of preparing fake arms licences here on Sunday. He was already facing a number of criminal cases under the same charges. In the present case registered by the Patti Sadar police, besides Karwinder Singh, his another associate Kanwaljit Singh of Bhaini Gurmukh Singh, too, was nominated accused. A case under Sections 465, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC was registered. Three months ago, Karwinder was booked for issuing 400 fake arms licences after collecting huge amounts and was booked. OCFarmers’ Jatha leaves for DelhiTarn Taran: Farmers’ Jatha under the banner of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab (Kot Budha), from border area Toot village left for Delhi Morcha on Monday. Harbhal Singh, Sawaran Singh and other leaders while addressing the occasion called on farmers to be united as the Union Government had accepted its defeat and was left with no option other than suppressing the farmers’ agitation by converting the dharna site into an open jail. The leaders appealed them to remain peaceful. The farmers left in tractor-trolleys with rainproof makeshifts. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-killed-in-road-mishap-209712
09-02-2021||---||Robbers’ gang busted, 4 arrested||Amritsar, February 8The Beas police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers by arresting its four members who allegedly used to loot cash and other valuables from commuters after finding them alone on the road.The accused were identified as Bhupinder Singh of Naushehra Pannuan, Ravisher Singh, Inderjit Singh and Baaz Singh, all residents of Sheron village. Their fifth accomplice Akashdeep managed to escape.The police recovered an air pistol, three expensive mobile phones, sharp and blunt weapons from their possession. They were travelling in a car (DL-2C-R-1735) when they were intercepted at a checkpoint on the main GT Road here on Sunday. They were going towards the Tarn Taran side.ASI Balkar Singh, investigating officer in the case, said they got specific information that the accused used to rob commuters travelling on main highways. They had committed several robberies in Ludhiana earlier and now they were planning more in Rayya.When a police team signalled him to stop, the accused tried to speed away. However, they were intercepted while Akashdeep managed to slip away. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC has been registered against them. The police have started their interrogation after a court remanded them in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-gang-busted-4-arrested-209714
09-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||It's an emergency!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 8Owing to the huge shortage of radiologists in the public health centre, the ultrasound services are unavailable for the patients at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital here.The insiders at the hospital stated that the ultrasound scan centre is lying closed since the start of Covid-19 pandemic as the then radiologist had joined Government Medical College as a senior resident.For around 10 months now, the patients are forced to get their scans conducted from private scan centres which charge more fee than the government hospitals do.The ultrasound scans are importantly required in monitoring neo-natal health during pregnancies. Besides, the test is also used to diagnose many other problems of the abdominal area. A senior doctor on the condition of anonymity said, “The radiologists are not ready to join government hospitals as they have much better earning prospects at private centres. Further, they are not required to perform medico-legal duties which sometimes mean visiting courts.” He added even if a radiologist somehow joins public sector, he prefers to leave due to comparatively poor working conditions.If JBMM Civil Hospital, which is one of the best district hospitals in state and has bagged many awards at national level is unable to ensure ultrasound scan services, the condition at other hospitals can imagined easily.Senior Medical Officer at JBMM Civil Hospital Dr Chandan Mohan said, “There is huge shortage of radiologists.” He added that to ensure pregnant women get the scanning facilities the Health Department has signed a contract with a private diagnostic centre. “The arrangement has been made under Jnani Shishu Suraksha Yojna and centre would be paid by the department while pregnant woman would get free scan facility,” he said. The official claimed that the service for pregnant women resumed on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-an-emergency-209715
