10-02-2021||Amritsar||Khalra Mission Organisation seeks release of Nodeep Kaur||Also read: Parveen Kumar, an office-bearer of the organisation, said on the one hand the government was chanting slogans such as ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padao’ but on the other it was brutalising a 23-year-old labour activist. Moreover, instead of supporting innocent Nodeep Kaur, they supported the factory owner, he said, adding that people were being labelled as Khalistani, Pakistani and Maoist.#FreeNodeepKaur pic.twitter.com/nOFUPLuHZY  The organisation demanded that Nodeep Kaur be released immediately and all three FIRs registered against her be cancelled. Another activist Virsa Singh Behla said what could be more embarrassing than the fact that Navreet Singh, a farm law protester, was shot dead by the police and another youth was injured, adding that instead of taking action against the police, action was being taken against journalists, who revealed the secret.That’s pure hate from these people ! Don’t create hate people create love !Thank you raising your voice @meenaharris #FarmerProtest #FreeNodeepKaur https://t.co/DczLb5xKgj  All false cases registered on January 26 should be cancelled and youth and farmers should be released, he demanded. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalra-mission-organisation-seeks-release-of-nodeep-kaur-210423
10-02-2021||Amritsar||13 fresh cases reported in Amritsar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-210380
10-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Let’s get down to business||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 9Headquartered in the holy city, a pre-Partition chartered accountant firm, BD Bansal and Company, is engaged in hiring more professionals to consolidate its position in major cities of north India.A leading tax consulting firm, it has been providing professional services like direct taxes, execution of joint ventures, acquisition and mergers, besides conducting audits at New Delhi, Ludhiana and Amritsar.Satish Bansal, director of the company, says, “We neither retrenched staff nor delayed the payment of salaries to employees during the lockdown period. Now, we are looking towards expansion by hiring more professionals, especially CAs”. The staff strength at Delhi office is being increased from presently 35 to 44, in Ludhiana from 10 to 14 and at the local office two more CAs were being added to already 20 employees.His company has been providing services to big industrial units and companies, but it will definitely require the changes due to the effects produced by the Covid-19 pandemic to normalise trade. Clients of the company include big shots like Munjal Group, Mittal Group, International Tractors Ltd, Khanna Paper Mill and many others. According to Bansal, things post-lockdown are not the same as before but people are trying their best to innovate, which is mainly on account of having surplus time by holding meetings on Zoom. For example, people dealing in auto parts are moving on to manufacturing or trade of other parts. Those who have time and surplus cash could expand further.“We plan to expand by opening a fourth office in Gurgaon and hiring more staff. This may be implemented later this year,” he states. He anticipates that it will take some more time for the business to normalise. “The demand which was there before the lockdown will return, once things are settled down. Entrepreneurs are valuing time management and prefer electronic platforms.”A fellow CA of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), New Delhi, Bansal joined family company after completing his CA in 1976 where his forefathers Bishan Das Bansal and RK Bansal had already nursed. His son Sumit Kumar Bansal also did CA and followed suit in 2001.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lets-get-down-to-business-210365
10-02-2021||---||Woman mugged in city while withdrawing money from ATM||Amritsar, February 9  An unidentified person snatched cash from a woman withdrawing money from an ATM in the Chheharta area here on Monday.  The incident was captured on the CCTV camera installed at the ATM cabin and outside on the main GT Road.  The victim has been identified as Neha Verma, a resident of Kot Khalsa area. She works at a diagnostic centre. She told the police that she was withdrawing cash  when a person came inside and snatched it from her. The CCTV footage revealed that there were two miscreants. One of them was outside on a bike.  She told the police that first she withdrew Rs2,000 from the ATM, which she kept in her pocket and then she withdrew Rs8,000 from the machine. She said as she was collecting the cash, the accused entered and tried to snatch it. When she tried to resist, he scuffled with her and later fled with the cash.  The police officials reached the spot and started investigation after registering an FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-mugged-in-city-while-withdrawing-money-from-atm-210366
10-02-2021||---||Properties worth Rs 2.23 cr of drug peddler freezed||Amritsar, February 9  The Amritsar rural police have frozen two properties worth Rs 2.23 crore of a drug peddler, identified as Judgebir Singh, alias Chairman, a resident of Daoke village  near the Indo-Pak border here. He had procured over 100 kanals of agricultural land in the name of his mother from ill-gotten wealth by way of drug peddling. According to the police, the Lopoke police had arrested three persons, identified as Gurdev Singh, Major Singh and Prabhjit Singh, all residents of Kakkar Kalan village, with 7.5 kg of heroin on October 21 last year. Following their interrogation, the police had nabbed Judgebir Singh in July 2020. With the Punjab Government taking stern action against drug peddlers to stem rampant drug abuse and ordering to seize their properties, the Lopoke police found his two properties — one in Bharobhal village and the other in Tajuchak village. The police said Bharobhal village, he had amassed over 70 kanals of agricultural land, while in Tajuchak village he had over 32 kanals of land. Both the properties were in the name of his mother. After verifying the details, the police sent the cases of two properties for evaluation to the competent authority in Delhi. The value of both properties was stated to be around Rs 2.23 crore. Following the orders, the police froze both properties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/properties-worth-rs-2-23-cr-of-drug-peddler-freezed-210367
10-02-2021||---||Attack on dairy owner: Over 12 booked for murder bid||Amritsar, February 9  Panic gripped Guru Nanak Pura falling under the jurisdiction of Kot Khalsa police station on Monday evening after several armed persons led by a notorious criminal attacked a dairy owner. The victim, Avtar Singh, saved himself by pulling down the shutters of his shop. The armed assailants even tried to break open the shutters with sharp-edged weapons. The suspects even fired shots in the air. The suspects have been identified as Raju and Danish, both residents of Lohgarh, besides 12 unidentified persons. Raju had recently come out on parole. Manjit Singh, Station House Officer, Kot Khalsa police station, said raids were on to nab the suspects while further investigation was under progress. He said they were scrutinising CCTV footage for more clues. Avtar told the police that his friend (Deepu) had a minor quarrel with Raju a few days ago and he managed to strike a compromise between them. The victim said Raju kept a grudge and he along with his accomplices attacked him with an intention to murder him. The Station House Officer said a case has been registered on charges of murder bid and under the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-dairy-owner-over-12-booked-for-murder-bid-210368
10-02-2021||---||‘Unity among farmers need of the hour’||Amritsar, February 9A group of youngsters have constituted ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha Committee’ (Attari) to support the protesting farmers.The panel would spearhead the movement without being associated with any particular farmer union.Harjodhbir Singh Jodha, a youngster, said, “We have constituted a committee. It will spread a message of unity.”He said most farmers and non-farmers who regularly visit the protest sites at Delhi borders were neither associated with any farmer union nor with any group. “The devastating laws will affect everyone. We want to convey a message that one can support the cause without joining any particular union.”Another youngster, Jasneet Singh, said, “We believe that unity among farmers is the need of the hour.”The team had earlier hogged the limelight at Singhu border when they took up to cleaning the entire area every morning. “We had taken a huge stock of brooms with us while going to Delhi. We performed seva every morning, which was appreciated by all,” said Sarabdeep Singh.Another team member Sunny Maan said, “A senior leader from the district, Rattan Singh Randhawa, has appreciated our efforts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unity-among-farmers-need-of-the-hour-210369
10-02-2021||---||Farmers stop BJP nominee from campaigning||Amritsar, February 9Some residents of Tej Nagar on Sultanwind Road opposed the candidate of the BJP and party activists when they were going to conduct a door-to-door campaign in Ward No. 37 on Monday. A video of the incident went viral last night, in which the residents, who claimed to be farmers’ supporters, raised slogans against the BJP and the central government.According to information, Manohar Singh, BJP candidate from Ward No. 37, and around 50 activists assembled in the house of a BJP activist in the Tej Nagar area. Around 7.30 am, when they were going to conduct a door-to-door campaign, a local youth stopped them near the New Tej Nagar chowk.Sarwan Singh, one of farmer activists associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee in Ward No. 37, said, “We questioned them about the recently enacted farm Acts. Then we asked them to stop campaigning till the government repeals the agricultural laws. We will not allow the BJP to hold any public meeting till the government meets our demand.”Residents claimed that all BJP activists were from the other localities. “No one was from Ward No.37. Even the candidate is not from this area. We have no personal enmity with anyone or any party. But our farmers are sacrificing their lives. They are being abducted by the police. The government wants to ruin our fields and dairy business,” said Gurpreet Singh, another farmer union activist in Ward No. 37.Manohar Singh said, “It might be the act of Opposition parties. No farmer was among those persons who opposed us in Tej Nagar. They were carrying flags of some farmer unions but were not associated with any. We are campaigning in the ward and meeting our cadre and everything is going on peacefully.”15 booked for not depositing armsTarn Taran: Though most residents in Patti and Bhikhiwind deposited their weapons ahead of the civic body polls scheduled for February 14, some persons who failed to do the same had to face the music. The Patti police have booked more than 15 persons, including a woman, for not depositing their weapons to date. The accused have been identified as Balwinder Kaur, Gurdev Singh, Joginder Singh, Harbir Singh, Mandeep Singh, Piara Singh, Shamsher Singh, Balwinder Singh, son of Arjun Singh, Balwinder Singh, son of Amreek Singh, Rajinderpal Singh, Balbir Singh and Surjit Singh, among others. Lakhbir Singh, SHO, Patti city, said there were a total of 874 licensed weapons and 95 per cent persons have deposited their weapons with the police. He said the violators would be dealt with sternly. The SHO said the accused have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC. “In Bhikhiwind, there are 249 licensed weapons and 222 persons have deposited their arms,” said Head Constable Jarnail Singh. He said a case has been registered against the violators under Section 188 of the IPC. Earlier, the Bhikhiwind police had booked more than 200 persons after firing was reported between SAD and Congress workers at the time of filing nomination papers on February 2. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stop-bjp-nominee-from-campaigning-210370
10-02-2021||---||2 kg of heroin, weapon seized||Amritsar, February 9 The Border Security Force in a joint operation conducted with the Punjab Police confiscated 2 kg of heroin along with a pistol and 11 live bullets from across the barbed fence near Rajatal border outpost on Tuesday.  The contraband was hidden under the ground around 200 metres ahead of the barbed fence.  An official of the Amritsar rural police said they got a tip-off about the smuggling of heroin from across the International Border, which was shared with the BSF authorities.  Later, a joint operation led to the seizure of the contraband. Further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-kg-of-heroin-weapon-seized-210371
10-02-2021||---||Salaries not disbursed, staff flay Finance Dept||Amritsar, February 9 Employees of the state government on Tuesday criticised the Finance Department for stopping salaries of Group A and Group B employees of various departments recently. Leaders of the two employees associations — the Punjab State Ministerial Services Association (PSMSA) and the Sanjha Mulazim Manch — stated that the employees had still not received salaries for the previous month. PSMSA general secretary Jagdish Thakur said, “The salaries have been held back because the departments didn’t take permission from the Finance Department to manage special funds received from the government.” He said the employees did not have anything to do with the said accounts as these were under the control of department heads and senior functionaries. Another leader Tajinder Singh Dhillon said, “The government cannot punish all the employees for a fault which is its own.” He said non-disbursal of salaries had caused a serious financial crisis to the employees. The employees’ leaders stated that it seemed that the government had taken the arbitrary step to hide its financial crisis. Dr RK Sharma said, “Many of the employees who have been affected have been working actively as frontline workers since the outbreak of the Covid-19 disease. The government move is demoralising the employees and salaries should be disbursed at the earliest.” He said instead of punishing all employees, the government could take action against the officials responsible for not taking the permission for the said accounts. The employees associations stated that earlier too their salaries were delayed without any reason. They threatened that it would be forced to initiate a protest if the government did not disburse salaries in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salaries-not-disbursed-staff-flay-finance-dept-210373
10-02-2021||---||Offline exams: 10-member panel to look into matter||Amritsar, February 9 Guru Nanak Dev University’s management met protesting students on Tuesday and announced to form a 10-member core committee to take up the matter of offline exams.  Students were protesting the decision of the university to conduct offline exams for its affliated colleges that are scheduled to take place from February 15.  While students had threatened to go on hunger strike, an initiative taken by Dean Academic Affairs Prof S Behal and registrar KS Kahlon met students and reached a decision to form a 10-member core committee, which would address the issue at the earliest.  “This committee will comprise two members from GNDU, four from colleges and four students. The committee will draft a resolution and meet Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to discuss the matter further,” said Navdeep Singh, a student leading the protests.  The committee will also have a meeting with  Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at his office on Thursday to apprise him of the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/offline-exams-10-member-panel-to-look-into-matter-210374
10-02-2021||---||Marwaha: Farm stir worsening Covid-induced economic crisis||Amritsar, February 9Rajinder Singh Marwaha, senior vice-president of the SAD’s trade and industry wing, has claimed that the ongoing farmers’ agitation has further aggravated the Covid-induced economic crisis in the border districts.“As these districts depend on the rest of the country for raw material and customers, the economic condition here is worsening,” he said.‘Resume trade with Pakistan’Marwaha, who is also chairman of Trade and Industry Association (border zone), said all rail and road networks had been blocked, which was leading to huge losses for the majority of the industries based in this part of the country.“We were the first ones to lose business in early March due to Covid. After the announcement of Unlock-5, all tourism-oriented states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa are back in business. However, there is absolutely no movement in this border state, especially in Amritsar,” he said.He said people associated with industries such as bars, pubs, café and textiles were facing economic hardship.Marwaha, along with other members of the association, appealed to the government to reopen the Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border, Shatabdi Express, domestic flights, historic Sikh shrine at Kartarpur Sahib and India-Pakistan trade to help bring back the flow of customers.Marwaha said there was an urgent need to resume bilateral trade with Pakistan as over 100 trucks used to cross over, employing around 4,000 drivers and 2,500 labourers.Other demands included minimum one-year moratorium on all working capital, interest payments, loans and overdrafts, soft loans at concessional rate of interest up to two years, waiver of fixed charges on electricity bills, automatic extension of all licences for six months and allowing banks to restructure loans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/marwaha-farm-stir-worsening-covid-induced-economic-crisis-210375
10-02-2021||---||Sports Day to be dedicated to Balbir Singh Sr||Amritsar, February 9 Gurinder Singh Mattoo, president, Sarhad-e-Punjab Sports Club (regd) that functions as sports body and an NGO promoting various games in the district, said this year’s National Sports Day would be dedicated to Olympian Balbir Singh Sr. The club had written a letter to Punjab Chief Minister and Punjab Director of Sports on June 10, 2020 demanding that the Olympian Balbir Singh Sr (Padma Shri/Arjuna awardee), who passed away on May 25 last year, must be celebrated through sporting events held in his memory.  “The Punjab Government has accepted our demand and in a letter dated February 9 said that National Sports Day on August 29 will be dedicated to the hockey legend,” he said, adding that to encourage youth in state to take up hockey, several matches and tournaments would be held in each district and village youth and sports club would be engaged in promoting and developing sporting talent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-day-to-be-dedicated-to-balbir-singh-sr-210376
10-02-2021||Our Correspondent ---||SAD, Cong promote drug trade: AAP MLA||Tarn Taran, February 9 AAP MLA Kulwant Singh Pandori on Tuesday accused the Akali Dal, Congress and the BJP of promoting drug trade in the state for “personal benefits”. “Leaders of these parties misled people, who will now take revenge by defeating their candidates in the upcoming municipal bodies’ election and in the assembly election next year,” Pandori said. Addressing public gatherings in Patti and Bhikhiwind while campaigning for the party candidates for the MC poll, he said Punjab had been ruled by the Akali-BJP and the Congress for the past 70 years, but the wrong policies of these parties ruined the state. “But now people have become aware. They will no longer fall into the trap of false promises,” he said. Pandori said every AAP candidate who would win the upcoming poll would focus on building concrete roads in various localities, making streetlights functional in all areas and putting in place a workable drainage system. He said Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi Government had set an example of development in front of the world by giving good education, health and free electricity to the locals. “Similarly, in Punjab also, we will set an example of development by improving the health and education sector,” he added. The party activists organised marches in Patti and Bhikhiwind in favour of the party candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-cong-promote-drug-trade-aap-mla-210377
10-02-2021||---||Amritsar beat Majha Heroes||AMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 9 On the fourth day of the eight-day AGA Gold Cup under-19 cricket tournament, Amritsar routed Majha Heroes and Patiala Heroes got the better of Majha Hereos here on Tuesday.  Playing at the Gandhi stadium, hosts Amritsar notched up a facile 235-run victory over the Majha Heroes. Riding on the knocks of Sarthak Sharma (134 runs off 126 balls) and Taranbir Singh’s 78, Amritsar amassed a total of 326 runs in 40 overs for four wickets. Chasing the mammoth target was always going to be an uphill task for their opponents, and so it proved to be. Majha Heroes broke into a cold sweat early on giving away wickets cheaply to be bowled out for 91 runs. Amritsar’s Manroop Singh took five for 20 in 7.3 overs and was declared the man of the match.  In another match at the Amandeep ground, Patiala Heroes defeated Malwa Heroes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-beat-majha-heroes-210378
10-02-2021||Amritsar||One more held in dentist robbery case||One more person has been arrested in the robbery case of a dentist and her family, who were robbed of lakhs of rupees and jewellery after being taken hostage on January 6. The police have recovered Rs 3 lakh from the possession of the suspect, who has been identified as Dildar Singh of Krishna Nagar, along with a sharp weapon. Earlier, the police had arrested Davinder Kaur and Daljit Kaur of Krishna Nagar, Kot Khalsa, Shammi alias Aman alias Amu of Islamabad, and Gupreet Singh, alias Fateh, of Sewa Singh Nagar on Ram Tirath Road here. The police also recovered a country-made weapon, two scooters and Rs 65,000 from their possession at that time. Dr Shivangi Arora was at her residential clinic in Shastri Nagar when the incident took place. Two of the accused had come on the pretext of getting treatment.  Later, their two more accomplices barged into the house and tied Dr Arora and her helper Priyanka and then held her mother-in-law and children hostage at gunpoint. While escaping from the house, they forgot gloves and a “datar” behind. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-held-in-dentist-robbery-case-210379
