11-02-2021||New Delhi||SpiceJet to start Ahmedabad-Amritsar, 23 other domestic flights||SpiceJet said on Thursday that it would start 24 new domestic flights in February from various cities including Ajmer, Jaisalmer, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru.   The airline said it would be the only airline to start flights on the Ajmer-Mumbai route and Ahmedabad-Amritsar route.The new flights also included four new seasonal flights connecting Jaisalmer with Delhi and Ahmedabad, the airline said in a release.The airline will also launch daily flights on the Ahmedabad-Bengaluru, Kolkata-Guwahati and Guwahati-Delhi routes.“Flights between Ahmedabad-Bagdogra-Ahmedabad and Chennai-Kolkata-Chennai will operate three days a week while flights from Patna will operate five days a week to Bengaluru and twice a week to Surat,” the release said.Also, flights from Surat to Chennai would operate four days a week, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spicejet-to-start-ahmedabad-amritsar-23-other-domestic-flights-210844
11-02-2021||---||Dak to Lahore fame Amy Singh talks about her poetic sinews||Amritsar, February 10Majha House and the Prabha Khaitan Foundation literary programme ‘Akhar’ brings together writers and poets of regional languages of different states to showcase their talent. After its launch in 2019, where the first participant was Padma Shri poet Surjit Patar, continuous series of events featuring many upcoming and eminent poets were organised.The latest edition, held in virtual mode, featured young poet and activist Amy Singh. Amy is known for her unique and much-acclaimed literary initiative Dak to Lahore, where she wrote letters addressed to General Post Office Lahore, as a peace initiative. Talking to Prof Gurupratap Khairah, an academician and writer, Amy said she wrote her first poem at a tender age of six. “Later, I encouraged the poet inside me and continued to write and read to mother and grandmother and take suggestions from them,” she added.But things changed for good with ‘Dak to Lahore’. The simplest of trigger for the initiative, Amy shared, was when a popular eatery in Chandigarh changed its name from Lahori Dhaba to Lucknawi Dhaba amidst Indo-Pak tensions in the December of 2016. “This move made me think about the reason and emotions behind such hostility when most of our generation does not even know people from across the border. So, I decided to write an open letter addressed to General Post Office Lahore and later when I uploaded it on social media, it became viral. That’s when more people joined in from across the border and it became a movement,” she shared during interaction.Her second attempt to build literary temperament has been cross-connection poetry in which she wants to bring poetry out of books and rooms. She has been reading poetry at several public spaces in Chandigarh, including Sector 17 plaza, gardens, at intersections and many have joined her. “I never cared much for criticism and will continue to write fearlessly,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dak-to-lahore-fame-amy-singh-talks-about-her-poetic-sinews-210687
11-02-2021||---||2 immigration agents booked||Amritsar, February 10The police have booked two immigration agents for duping a person on the pretext of sending him abroad.The accused have been identified as Sukhjinder Singh Gill of Ranjit Avenue and Kuljit Singh, a resident of Gumtala bypass.Complainant Lovepreet Singh told the police that the accused cheated him of Rs 1.98 lakh. The police said Kuljit also kept passports of Harmanpreet Singh and Malkiat Singh on the pretext of sending them to Italy.After preliminary investigation by Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarbjit Singh, a case under Section 420 of the IPC and 13 of the Punjab Travel Regulation Professional Act 2014 has been registered against the accused.2 hurt, 30 booked in clash over drainageTarn Taran: The Sarai Amanat Khan police have booked around 30 persons at Chheena Bidhi Chand village after two groups clashed over drainage of water. The injured have been identified as Harwinder Singh and his elder brother Chamkaur Singh. The accused have been identified as Gursewak Singh and Sukhwinder Singh, among others.Station House Officer Inspector Harpreet Singh said cops and elders of the village were holding a meeting to resolve the matter when the accused armed with weapons, trespassed into the house of Harwinder.The accused have been booked under Sections 323, 324 and 452 of the IPC, said the SHO. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-immigration-agents-booked-210688
11-02-2021||Charnajit Singh Teja||Amritsar’s firefighting system set for overhaul||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 10The Amritsar Municipal Corporation would soon upgrade its fire brigade wing under the Smart City project. The MC would purchase ultra-modern equipment from the US, Japan and Italy.A pre-dispatch inspection of the equipment was held at the MC’s office in Ranjit Avenue on Tuesday. Five companies showcased their equipment. The MC selected victim locator camera and breathing apparatus sets, air compressor, piercing nozzle and handheld nozzle apparatus.Chief Fire Officer Lovpreet Singh said inspection was done to thoroughly check the equipment before purchasing it. He said, “Victim locator camera is used to search for people buried under debris after a structure or building collapses. Breathing apparatus sets and breathing air compressor are useful to fill empty cylinders on the field. Piercing nozzle is used to drill a hole in a wall. The handheld nozzle apparatus helps in controlling fire.”The MC would also look to strike a deal for smoke exhauster, which assists in clearing smoke from a building. It’s quite challenging for firefighters to douse flames in a smoke-filled building, he said.“Such ultra-modern equipment is being used by developed nations. Amritsar will be the first city in the state, which is going to purchase hi-tech equipment under the Smart City project. We conducted a pre-dispatch inspection on Tuesday and order will be placed soon,” said Lovepreet. Earlier, the MC had purchased fire suits, nozzles, pumps and vehicles in the first phase of the Smart City project.Narrow streets in the walled city pose a major challenge to firefighters in the city. Most buildings lack clearance from the Fire Department and century-old structures usually collapse during monsoons. As there’s no provision of water hoses, firefighters collect water from sarovars and tanks of malls.The new equipment would help firefighters to rescue victims and douse flames at the earliest. Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, among others, were present during the pre-dispatch inspection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-firefighting-system-set-for-overhaul-210689
11-02-2021||Neha Saini||Science clubs run by Amritsar-based teachers become hotspot for budding scientists||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 10Albert Einstein had once said, “To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard old problems from a new angle, requires creative imagination and marks real advance in science.”Pushing for developing scientific temperament and building a future generation of innovators, keeping in mind the advancement in science, a few city-based teachers are running network of small science clubs that are proving to be hotspot for budding scientists. These community science clubs have been established in rural belt by the government schoolteachers and are affiliated to the VIPNET programme (Vigyan Prasar NETwork) started in 1998 by the Central Government with an objective of providing a fillip to the science clubs movement in India. Under the programme, any individual with a scientific bent of mind can form a network to weave all science clubs, societies, organisations to promote scientific activities.Sanjeev Sharma, a science teacher from Government Senior Secondary School, Jabbowal, has been running Infinity Science Club at his school, working with a group of 20-30 students to develop ideas that have won accolades at the National Science Congress. Leading their project of turning agricultural waste into biofuel, he and his team of students have developed a solid biofuel using parthenium plants (better known as congress grass). He said the project also provides us opportunity to recycle the waste paper and filthy water from RO filters.He had earlier worked on a project to turn agricultural waste into ethanol. “The motive behind our science club is to encourage and engage students as well as local community to adapt to a scientific way of life. We mostly do projects in the field of agriculture science,” says Sanjeev.Another teacher, Pankaj Sharma, who runs a village science club at Bhoewali, too, has been encouraging kids to think out of the box. Recently, Arshdeep Singh, one his students and a son of a daily wager, won the Inspire Award from the Department of Science and Technology for developing a prototype of a low-cost air purifying system. Pankaj says that it’s important to build scientific temperament not just in youth, but also local communities. “If we have to move towards an inclusive sustainable society, then we have to understand the basic concepts of science and implement them in our lifestyle,” he says. Pankaj has been running the club for past 10 years. He is helped by the local village community to generate resources for his club.While Sanjeev and Pankaj work with senior kids, Ritu Gagan, a science teacher from Government Elementary School, Patalpuri, Majitha, is running the only primary science club of the district in her school. Her students fall in the age bracket of 4-7 years. “I start with basic concepts of science like magnetism, evaporation and other simple techniques that I make them learn through various activities. I have made a small kitchen garden in my school to teach kids about organic farming. I often engage their parents in the process of learning as well,” she shares. Ritu has been running VIPNET approved science programmes in her club. “I have 40-50 students and they all come to my class eager to learn. I believe we need to build scientific minds, not political ones for the country to progress,” she adds.All of these science clubs are self-funded yet they prove a point. “There are lot of judgements and misconceptions about government school teachers and education. But, the reality is very different. We work with kids who come from such backgrounds where education is not a priority. The drive we see in them to rise above their means…is incredible. Our effort is to turn them into thinkers, innovators and not just degree holders,” Sanjeev resolves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/science-clubs-run-by-amritsar-based-teachers-become-hotspot-for-budding-scientists-210690
11-02-2021||Amritsar||Theatre artiste Makna to open expo on Covid warriors today||Renowned theatre artiste and film personality, Gurinder Makna, will unveil an exhibition on Covid warriors at KT Kala Kendra on February 11. Makna said: “The exhibition includes a total of 20 portraits of individuals from all walks of life, including sanitation workers, milk vendors, vegetable vendors, doctors, nurses and social workers, who played an important role during the lockdown.”  A special portrait of patwari Kartar Singh, who had come forward to cremate a body of Covid patient, will be showcased during the expo. Due to the fear of contracting the virus, a few families had even refused to cremate their loved ones and the likes of Kartar Singh performed this duty. Another portrait will be of Pearl, who distributed ration and motivated people during the lockdown, said Makna. “All the portraits are made by using water colours. As I was locked inside my house and no theatre activity was going on, I diverted my energy towards painting. It helped me stay calm and focused,” he said. Makna said he believes that had it not been for common people who came forward to help society, the lockdown period could have been tougher. “Even well to do families were unprepared. Vegetables, milk and other essentials, including medicines, were out of reach during the first few days,” he said. Makna said the ribbon will be cut by a safai sevak. “It is our way of thanking sanitation workers who ensured that streets were cleaned and garbage was lifted every day,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theatre-artiste-makna-to-open-expo-on-covid-warriors-today-210691
11-02-2021||---||Don’t believe in rumours, vaccine safe: Nodal Officer||Amritsar, February 10 A lecture on the Covid-19 awareness, its causes and vaccine was conducted on the third day of NCC’s annual training camp at DAV College on Wednesday.  Nodal Officer Dr Madan Mohan was the guest speaker. More than 125 students from different colleges have been participating in this five-day camp. Dr Madan said, “The Covid-19 pandemic is an unprecedented situation and doctors have managed to overcome the hardships.”  He said people would perhaps never come to know about sacrifices, which were being made daily by nurses, Class IV workers, doctors and paramedics, among others. He informed about the Covid-19 vaccine and stressed that people should not believe in rumours. The cadets appearing for B and C certificate examinations of NCC have been participating in this camp. The cadets underwent Covid-19 test two days before the start of the camp. Warrant Officer SB Singh, Sanjay Kumar, PK Pandit, Laxman Singh and P Singh, among others were conducting the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-believe-in-rumours-vaccine-safe-nodal-officer-210692
11-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||She is finding solace in the world of books, medicines||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 10A day in the life of a medical student is never easy as it starts early and ends very late, says Manpreet Kaur, a MBBS final year student at Government Medical College.Irritation of the eyes, nose, throat and skin due to regular exposure to formaldehyde, medical students’ syndrome and sleep deprivation are a part and parcel of a medical students’ life.“Many times, medical students start perceiving that they are experiencing the symptoms of a disease they are studying. Basically, it is the fear of contracting a disease after coming to know of its existence,” explained Manpreet about the syndrome which has also been referred to as ‘second year syndrome’ or interns syndrome in medical science.For a medical student, especially if he or she is also preparing for a post graduation entrance test, a day means 18-hours of rigorous classes, clinical duties, and self study. “I hardly sleep 5-6 hours a day. Even your sleeping schedule gets disturbed as you have to attend to night duties frequently,” she said.As the colleges were closed in March last year due to Covid-19, the students misses their clinical classes till November 9 when the colleges were reopened. “Many of my classmates contracted Covid-19 while attending clinical classes where we get hands-on-training. People are still afraid of the disease but a doctor cannot say no to her patients.”Manpreet said, if it was not for Covid-19 she would have completed her degree and joined internship from January 1 this year if it was not for the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now we would complete our degree in six years instead of the five and half years,” she said.The extended duration of the degree has also increased the financial burden of the students as they have to pay hostel charges for longer period of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-is-finding-solace-in-the-world-of-books-medicines-210693
11-02-2021||AMRITSAR||NCC cadets participate in five-day firing exercise||NCC cadets participated in the firing exercise on the third day of the five-day Annual Training Camp, being held at ITI Ranjit Avenue. In evening, they took part in various sports . They also took part in open debate on 'addiction and depression among youth'. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ncc-cadets-participate-in-five-day-firing-exercise-210695
11-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Man dies of ‘drug overdose’||Tarn Taran, February 10A person allegedly died due to drug overdose in Patti on Wednesday. The body was recovered from an under construction bridge at Sarali Mandan.The deceased has been identified as Jugraj Singh (30), of Bahamniwala.Gurlal Singh, father of the deceased, said Jugraj became an addict around three years ago. Sub-Inspector Lakhbir Singh denied that Jugraj died of drug overdose. He said exact cause of the death could be ascertained after the post-mortem report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-dies-of-drug-overdose-210696
11-02-2021||---||Amritsar, Patiala book semis berth||AMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 10Hosts Amritsar along with Patiala booked their semifinals berth on the fifth day of the AGA Gold Cup U-19 cricket tournament on Wednesday.After winning the toss at the Gandhi Ground, Majha Heroes chose to bat first. However, the team caved in earlier than expected as they were bowled out in 26.5 overs for 85. In reply, Patiala made got the job done by scoring 87 runs in 22.1 over’s for the loss of three wickets. Patiala’s Aryaman was adjudged the ‘Man of the Match” for his five scalps in seven overs.The 10th match of the tournament was played at the Amandeep Cricket Ground between Amritsar and Malwa Heroes. Winning the toss, hosts decided to go with the bat and scored an impressive 285 giving away six wickets in 40 overs.Chasing the target, Malwa Heroes faded out at 156 in 33.5 overs. Amritsar’s Manroop, who scalped six in 6.5 overs, was declared the ‘Man of the Match’ as hosts won by 129 runs.Sports Day in memory of Balbir Singh Sr laudedSports lovers and enthusiasts are happy for declaring forthcoming National Sports Day in memory of late hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior. Gurinder Singh Mattoo, president, Sarhad-e-Punjab Sports Club, which has been promoting various sports in the district for the last 18 years, said representative hockey matches will be held in every district of the state.He claimed that the government took the decision after members of the club, led by chief patron Harmanbir Singh Gill, had forwarded a letter in this regard to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Director Sports on June 10, demanding that hockey Olympian Balbir Singh Sr (Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee), who passed away on May 25 last year, should be remembered for posterity. Mattoo said the government accepted the demand and the National Sports Day on August 29 will be observed in memory of Balbir Singh Sr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-patiala-book-semis-berth-210699
11-02-2021||A lecture on Covid-19 awareness||Lecture dwells on Covid awareness||Entrepreneurship summitThe Indian Institute of Management successfully conducted the first edition of its E-Summit in collaboration with the Centre of Entrepreneurship. Events such as start-up expo, up skilling workshops, and thought-provoking panel discussions were conducted to inculcate the entrepreneurial spirit among students. With workshops revolving around start-up curation, financing, valuation, and business pitching, the summit provided the budding entrepreneurs with a platform to learn the requisite skills. The event enabled the start-ups to present their business ideas in front of potential investors, industry experts, customers and helped them network with the VCs and experts for funding together with an opportunity to interact with the leading industry experts.Educational competition heldThe Education Department organised a competition dedicated to the ninth Sikh Guru Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib in different government schools in Taran Tarn. Events such as essay speaking and the poem recitation took place on the occasion. Satnam Singh Bath, District Education Officer (Secondary) said the Government Senior School, Kirtowal Kalan, Valtoha, Tarn Taran, Aladinpur and other schools organised a competition on the occasion.DAV College students get placedThe placement and training cell of DAV College has started a placement drive for 2020-21. Its main objective is to provide maximum employment to all students. Under this order, online placement drive of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company was conducted, in which a total of 110 college students participated from BSc (IT), BCA and BSc (Computer Science) and B.Com students. As many as 10 students of the college were placed and offered jobs by the company.Hindu college’s chirag honouredChirag Wahi, a student of B Com from Hindu College, was honoured by the college management as he participated in the Republic Day parade this year. He was a part of the Guard of Honor march. Principal Sanjeev Sharma said Chirag was among top 34 cadets from Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh at the NCC training school. He was also a part of the NCC team that was invited to interact with PM Modi at a dinner event at PM residence. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lecture-dwells-on-covid-awareness-210700
11-02-2021||The district administration||‘Wall of kindness’ fails to spread warmth||A true blue bibliophile!Jaspreet Kaur, a student of Class XII of the Government Girls Secondary School, Aladinpur (Tarn Taran), has been honoured by the school principal and the staff for her habit of reading books in the library. Jagbir Singh, principal of the school, said, Kaur, who is a brilliant student, often comes to the library in her free period and during the recess. She prefers to read more about the Sikh history and nature, especially birds. Gurmeet Kaur, her class in-charge, said Jaspreet Kaur got 88 % marks in Class X results and stood first in her native Government High school, Shahabpur-Dial village. She belongs to a middle class family as her father is a mason (building constructor). She is the youngest of the three daughters. Jaspreet said reading was her hobby and she reads extra books in her free time, which has added to her vocabulary in all language subjects.Beautifying the city’s green lungsThe district administration has launched a plan to construct park in every village for the residents of the several villages. According to the information, parks in 27 villages of the district, with a cost of Rs 2 cr, had been completed and the planning to construct 45 more parks in different villages was under process. The parks in Kallha, Boparai, Khadoor Sahib, Verowal and other villages had been completed. These parks were giving very beautiful look with green grass, flower plants of different verities and the trees. The parks are elderly-friendly. Swings have been set up for children too. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 27 parks had been constructed with a cost of Rs 2 cr. He added that 40 playgrounds with a cost of Rs 4 cr were under construction in the district. (Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wall-of-kindness-fails-to-spread-warmth-210701
11-02-2021||Amritsar||Promoting allied agri activities: Amritsar Deputy Commissioner||Leaders of Left parties hold meetTarn Taran: Leaders under the United Front of Left parties organised a joint meeting here on Tuesday. They chalked out a plan for the success of the proposed district-level joint conference (in support of the farmers’ agitation on February 22) in Tarn Taran. Daljit Singh Dialpur chaired the meeting. Prithipal Singh Marimegha, state leader of the CPI, was among others who addressed the meeting said that the Union Government was adamant on suppressing the farmers’ agitation. The leaders called upon people to be united to fight against the Union Government’s dictatorial attitude. OC‘Pulses source of healthy diet’Tarn Taran: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh in Tarn Taran, celebrated ‘World Pulses Day 2021’ on Wednesday under the theme “Nutritious seeds for a sustainable future”. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director (Training), KVK, said legume and pulses were source of healthy diet for humans and livestock as these have been considered as super food due to good source of protein, micronutrients, minerals and vitamin B. He said pulses replenish urea and minerals in soil and helps in avoiding climate change. Inter-cropping with pulses increases farm biodiversity, he said. Vikram Sood, project directorate, ATMA, said pulses were important for weight loss and their fiber, protein, and other nutritious contents ensure healthy heart. OC12 fresh cases reported in distAmritsar: The health authorities reported 12 fresh positive cases in Amritsar district on Wednesday. With this, the total count has increased to 15,141. The new cases include seven influenza-like-illness cases and five contacts of positive patients. No death has been reported in the last 24 hours and the toll stands at 585. With recovery of nine patients, the total recovery count has improved to 14,429. At present, the district has a total of 157 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/promoting-allied-agri-activities-amritsar-deputy-commissioner-210702
