12-02-2021||Dharamsala||HRTC to resume luxury bus service on Manali-Amritsar route on Sunday||After a gap of over 10 months, the state-run Himachal Road Transport Corporation’s luxury bus service on the Manali-Amritsar route will resume on Sunday.The bus service on the route was stopped in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Pankaj Chadha, regional manager of the HRTC, said the bus will start at 6.40 pm from Amritsar and reach Manali at 8 am the next morning through Pathankot, Dhsaramsala, Palampur, Mandi and Kullu.On the return journey, the bus will start at 8 pm from Manali.The official said around a dozen HRTC luxury buses were in operation from Dharamshala to other states before the coronavirus lockdown. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hrtc-to-resume-luxury-bus-service-on-manali-amritsar-route-on-sunday-211449
12-02-2021||---||Campaigning ends today, candidates make last-minute efforts to woo voters||Amritsar, February 11As campaigning for the civic body elections will end at 5 pm on Friday in Rayya, Ramdas, Ajanala, Majitha, Jandiala and at Ward No. 37 (bypoll) in the city, a total of 223 candidates from four major political parties and 72 Independent nominees have been trying their best to woo voters and reach maximum people.Though Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) candidates were not campaigning openly to avoid ire of famers, instead they were conducting meetings with their supporters.The Congress had organised a massive rally for its Ward No.37 nominee Gagandeep Sehjra at Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar on Wednesday. MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu asked residents to support Sehjra.Even Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) also conducted a rally for its candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori in Ward No.37. Pandori said, “The election campaign is going on smoothly and we hope that elections will be held peacefully. We are doing door-to-door campaigning.”In total there are five candidates in the fray from Ward No.37 — Congress candidate Gurpreet Sehjra, Inderjit Singh Pandori of SAD, BJP nominee Manohar Singh, Bahujan Samaj Party candidate Ranbir Singh Rana and Aam Aadmi Party nominee Jaspal Singh Bhullar.Meanwhile, the advertisement wing of the MC removed banners and flex boards of candidates from the Sultawind road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/campaigning-ends-today-candidates-make-last-minute-efforts-to-woo-voters-210983
12-02-2021||---||Cong protests against fuel price hike||Amritsar, February 11On the call of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), the district unit of Congress staged a demonstration against hike in diesel, petrol and cooking gas prices here on Thursday. The Congress leaders participated in the protest on horse cart.Speaking on the occasion, Jatinder Sonia, president, District Congress Committee (DCC), “The hike in fuel and cooking gas price derailed budget of every household. On the call of Sunil Jakhar, president PPCC are demonstrating against the Centre. The BJP is ruling the country but the questions are being raised for Congress. The Modi-led government made false promises to get in the power. Now, the country is facing serious crisis in economy and employment. The people don’t have money to meet the basic requirements of livelihood.”Sonia claimed that major corporate houses are looting the country and the common man is deep in poverty crisis.Meanwhile, MLA Raj Kumar Verka alleged that former PM Manmohan Singh used derogatory language for protesting farmers. “PM Modi has become a dealer for corporate houses and is deliberately not hearing the farmers. BJP is facing the flak in streets. The election results of civic body polls will reveal it all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-protests-against-fuel-price-hike-210984
12-02-2021||---||It’s final: No online exams for GNDU-affiliated colleges||Amritsar, February 11The Higher Education Office has rejected a demand to conduct online exams during a meeting between students and officials.In continuation with the issue of a section of students from Guru Nanak Dev University-affiliated colleges in Jalandhar, Batala, Gurdaspur and Amritsar, who had been raising the demand to conduct online exams, the matter has been put on hold as students sought postponement of offline exams by a month.Navdeep Singh, a student from Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, who had been leading the protest against offline exams, said eight members of the committee formed by GNDU participated in a virtual meeting. “Four principals and four students were present while two representatives of GNDU were absent. Our resolution was accepted, but our demand for conducting online exams was rejected citing the UGC guidelines.”He said, “We demanded that more time should be given to students to prepare for exams as numerous students could not get access to online classes due to connectivity issues. Regular classes should be conducted for a month to clear doubts of students, before they sit for offline exams.”He said their protest would continue as GNDU management has not taken the matter seriously. “Our protest under the banner of the Student Sangharsh Morcha will continue until our demands are met. We will sit on a hunger strike,” he said.Meanwhile, GNDU’s representatives could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-final-no-online-exams-for-gndu-affiliated-colleges-210985
12-02-2021||Amritsar||24 fail to deposit weapons, booked||Despite Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira’s directions to licence holders to deposit their weapons at police stations or gun houses ahead of the civic body polls, a number of residents have not deposited the same. On Thursday, the police have booked as many as 24 persons under Section 188 of the IPC for violating the orders.According to information, the Majitha police have booked 15 persons for not depositing weapons. The accused have been identified as Bakshish Singh, Anil Kumar, Om Parkash, Balraj Singh, Kuldip Singh, Ajit Singh, Palwinder Singh, Lakhbir Singh, Sawinder Singh, Harjinder Singh, Milkha Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Gurbir Singh, jasbir Singh and Savinder Singh.The Jandiala police have booked Angrej Singh while Beas police have registered a case against Balwinder Singh and Hemraj Singh.The Ajnala police have booked Avtar Singh and Gurmit Singh. The Ramdas police have booked Paramjit Singh, Kashmir Singh and Darshan Singh under similar offence. SP Gaurav Toora said they can even seek cancellation of licence if weapon holders fail to deposit them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-fail-to-deposit-weapons-booked-211095
12-02-2021||---||Unions get ready for Feb 18 rail roko call||Amritsar, February 11On a call given by the Samyukat Kisan Morcha for the ‘rail roko’ protest on February 18, leaders of the farmer unions in rural belt have started mobilising public support for it by holding regular meetings in villages.Dhanwant Singh Khatrae Kalan, district president of the Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab, said, “We have returned from Delhi borders to mobilise public support for the protest.” He had been camping at border points of Delhi since the start of the agitation.“While people are attending the dharna at the protest sites on Delhi borders, it is also important that all programmes given by the farmer union are made successful,” he said.A meeting of the union in the regard was held at Sarabjit Singh Bhittewid memorial. Datar Singh, state president of the Kirti Kisan Union, said public’s response to the farmers’ cause was phenomenal and they were going to join the protest daily.Sukhraj Singh Chinna said Sehbazpur village had unanimously resolved to send a jatha of 10 farmers to Delhi every week. “Till date, around 17 tractor-trolleys have left for the protest site from the village,” he said. Farmers from many villages in the district are taking turns to join the protest on Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unions-get-ready-for-feb-18-rail-roko-call-211098
12-02-2021||---||Perturbed over son’s death, couple ‘attempt suicide’||Amritsar, February 11Unable to come to terms with their son’s death (who had committed suicide) over three months ago, a couple allegedly tried to kill themselves with a gun at Chowk Mehta here on Wednesday.While the man, identified as Sandeep Singh, died on the spot, his wife Tajinder Kaur, who was critically injured, was admitted to SGPC-run Sri Guru Ramdas Institute of Health Sciences. The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.Manjinder Singh, SHO, Mehta police station, said Sandeep’s body was handed over to the relatives following a postmortem.Giving details, he said Sandeep Singh worked as a photographer. In October, their only son Harry had committed suicide. The 16-year-old boy ended his life after the couple stopped him from using excessive mobile. The incident left the couple shattered.The SHO said first Tejinder Kaur shot herself and later Sandeep shot himself and died on the spot. After hearing the gunshots, their neighbours rushed to their house and found them in a pool of blood. After informing the police about the incident, they rushed them to hospital where doctors declared Sandeep brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/perturbed-over-sons-death-couple-attempt-suicide-211108
12-02-2021||---||15 hurt in separate mishaps||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, February 11As many as 15 persons were injured in three road accidents that took place due to dense fog in different parts of the district this morning. Three persons suffered injuries in a pile-up involving many vehicles on National Highway No.54 near the local District Administrative Complex (DAC).According to information, a Punjab Roadways bus going from Moga to Amritsar rammed the rear of a stationary truck followed by four more vehicles, including a PRTC bus. Three persons were injured in the accident. One of them fractured his leg.ASI Surjit Singh, investigating officer, posted with the Sarhali police station, said on the complaint of Lakhbir Singh, driver of the bus of Moga depot, the police initiated further proceedings.The ASI said two cars had a head-on collision with each other near the Usman toll plaza on the national highway in which three persons were also injured.In the third road accident that took place on the Amritsar-Khemkaran National Highway near Gaggobua village, a rashly driven Innova car (PB-02 BU-2913) had a head-on collision with a four wheeler (popularly known as Chhota Hathi). The nine persons travelling in it were injured and admitted to the Civil Hospital where their condition is stated to be stable.They were going from their Dall village to Amritsar to attend a function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-hurt-in-separate-mishaps-211114
12-02-2021||---||Around 12K volunteers inoculated||Amritsar, February 11The move to vaccinate senior police and district administration officials seems to have worked as the number of volunteers to take the jab has almost doubled.The district health officials said more than 12,003 volunteers were administered vaccine to date.A fortnight ago, only 5,183 health workers had come forward to get vaccinated. The Covid-19 vaccination drive for health workers had commenced on January 16.On February 3, the second phase of vaccination for frontline workers started. In the last eight days, around 2,970 frontline workers were administered the dose.District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said, “Health and frontline workers who were hesitant earlier got motivated after senior officials opted for the vaccine.”He said rumours regarding adverse affects and efficacy of vaccine were baseless.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said none of the beneficiary who was given the dose has reported any adverse reaction. “Volunteers are kept under observation after administering the vaccine. A health team is always available to provide assistance to beneficiaries.” The Civil Surgeon said the district has a total of 23,000 health and 22,228 frontline workers who would be inoculated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/around-12k-volunteers-inoculated-211122
12-02-2021||Tribune correspondent Charanjit Singh Teja and lensman Sunil Kumar browse through the alleyways of decades-old bazaars of the holy city. Some have contorted||Alive & throbbing||Guru Ram Das, the fourth Sikh master, had laid the foundation for Chak Ramdas in 1577, which was on the Sher Shah Suri Road, connecting Delhi and Lahore. This city soon became well-known and the name was later changed to Amritsar. After its development, it emerged as a major trade centre in the region. To establish the base, Guru Ram Das had brought people from 52 trades and asked them to settle here. On his call, artisans and craftsmen settled and took to trading. And these centuries-old bazaars still continue to bloom. Bazaar Mai SevanWith 25 publishers abounding the market, it was once considered the world’s largest setting of Punjabi (Gurmukhi) books. But as of now, all glory has been lost in the mists of time.Majith MandiIt is a major market of dry fruits. Many varieties are available here. The dry fruits trade with Afghanistan is more than two centuries old.Kahian Wala Bazaar (spade market)The bazaar is located near Sultanwind Gate, where lohars (blacksmiths) largely engage with spades, sickles, trowel, hoe and other agricultural tools. The handmade tools are still in demand in the city and surrounding areas. Swords, shields and other martial equipment are also available in this marketPawayan Wala BazaarAmritsar is well-reputed for woodwork and carving. Before the Partition, it was known as the headquarters of wood carvers’ art in the region. The Muslim and Ramgarhia Sikh carpenters were masters in framing doorways, hanging balconies and artistic wooden facade, etc. After the Partition, the Muslims from Saharanpur took over and the shops in a narrow street near Hall Bazaar still satiate the need of wooden art.Bharbhunjyan Wala BazaarThe locals are fond of roasted grains. Keeping their voracious appetite in mind, this was established long ago. Roasted wheat, rice, grams, nuts and several other items are available here.Bazaar Paparan WalaHandmade crispy papads (fried dough wafers) of Amritsar are world-famous. Several city families have been engaged in this business for generations. It is located near the Golden Temple and is one of the major tourist hotspots. Apart from papads, there is a whole world of wadian, pickles and murabbas available in the market.Mishri BazaarOnce a popular market in narrow streets near the Golden Temple, it has been losing its sheen. Mishri (sugar candy) makers shifted to other trades due to low income. However, a few are still engaged, dishing out ‘khandd de khidaune’ (sugar toys), pattase, phullian (sugar coated rice) and other such sweets.Bhandyan Wala Bazaar (utensils market)In the past, a bevy of devotees who would make a pilgrimage to the city generally bought a copper or brass utensil as a memorabilia of their visit. There are two classes dealing in this, the kaseras and thatheras. The trade still flourishes in the interiors of the city, with new products, including plastic ware.Bazaar Kathian Wala (saddle market)It exists behind Akal Takht on the Golden Temple complex. The historians claim that when sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind asked Sikhs to present horses instead of other gifts to fight the Mughals, a special market was established for the ornaments of horses. A large portion of the market was demolished during the construction of galiara in 1988. But a few still sell kathian and other equipment.Chowk DholianSituated at Dholi Mohala in the walled city, the drum players’ community claim that there were devotees of a Peer residing in the area at the Guru’s time. The drum players can be seen standing near the historical gates at eventide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/alive-throbbing-211186
12-02-2021||Amritsar||11 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Contest to make roads greenerAmritsar: The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) has invited designs for ‘Street for People’ competition launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The contest aims at creating flagship initiatives in cities, which focus on livability. Cities will be required to re-imagine their streets as public spaces through the lens of economic regeneration, safety and child-friendly interventions initiatives, in order to ensure a green recovery from the pandemic. Komal Mittal, ASCL CEO-cum- MC Commissioner, said under this challenge, Ramsar Road connecting Shaheedan Sahib with Darbar Sahib and Municipal Corporation colony at Chali Khun has been taken as a pilot project. One can obtain all info at www.smartnet.niua.org. Participants have to register themselves by February 19 and submit their final designs by March 18. The ASCL would award Rs5,000 each to those whose designs get selected. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-211188
