13-02-2021||Amritsar||Armed persons hold couple hostage, take away 500-gm gold ornaments||Two armed persons robbed a retired teacher and his wife after taking them hostage in their house in Tilak Nagar area in the wee hours on Friday.They allegedly decamped with gold ornaments weighing around 500-gm (estimated to be around Rs24 lakh), besides cash. Nevertheless, the police authorities said the family was yet to give the details of the items taken away by the miscreants.Raises question mark over law and orderThe incident has once again raised a question mark over the law and order situation as the holy city has already witnessed two such incidents in the past three months. Earlier, a textile trader and a dentist were looted after being held hostage.The incident has once again raised a question mark over the law and order situation as the holy city has already witnessed two such incidents in the past three months. Earlier, a textile trader and a dentist were looted after being held hostage by brandishing sharp-edged weapons at gunpoint.The victim, identified as Janak Raj, told the police that the accused entered the house at around 4 am. Both miscreants were equipped with a pistol and a sharp-edged weapon. They threatened them and asked them to hand over jewellery and cash to them.Initially, Janak Raj tried to resist, but they thrashed him and locked the couple in a room. The unidentified robbers then broke open the almirah and decamped with gold jewellery, besides Rs30,000 cash from the house. The couple somehow came out of the house and informed the neighbourer, who called the police.Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station, said the footage of CCTVs installed in the area was being examined for important clues. As there was poor visibility due to dense fog in the morning, they faced problems in investigation. He said a case had been registered and further investigation was under progress.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said the role of some insider could not be ruled out as the accused knew that the elderly couple lived alone. Their son lives with his family in Mohindra Colony.Earlier, around five armed persons had robbed a trader’s family in Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area after holding them hostage on November 6 last year. The miscreants had entered the house by posing as sewer cleaners. On January 6, a dentist’s family was looted after being held hostage by miscreants. Around five persons had entered the house on the pretext of treatment of one of them. The police have solved both the cases in which the same gang was involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-persons-hold-couple-hostage-take-away-500-gm-gold-ornaments-211685
13-02-2021||Amritsar||GNDU accepts some demands, but says no to online exams||The GNDU authorities on Friday accepted some demands of the protesting students but categorically declined to conduct the online exams.Both sides held deliberations on the intervention of the police. For this, a 10-member committee comprising four principals, an equal number of students and two university representatives was formed. Apart from the leaders of the protesting students, Dean (Academic Affairs) Prof S Behl and registrar KS Kahlon also took part in the meeting.Earlier in the day, office-bearers of the Students’ Sangharsh Morcha, who were from GNDU-affiliated colleges located in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Jalandhar and Amritsar, sat on a protest for four hours.Navdeep Dakoha, one of the students’ leaders, said the university had accepted their demand of offering another chance of examination to those students, who would miss the opportunity to sit in the ongoing final examination, which will commence on February 15, in April.Besides, the final exam of those subjects, books of which were not available in the market, would be conducted later. Even the university would help in providing notes. He claimed the university authorities assured them that the colleges would not charge any extra fee for practical examinations and would direct colleges to issue roll numbers to all students this academic session. They have been protesting against the decision of holding the offline exams since January. Another student leader Deepak Bali said the university conducted online classes throughout the pandemic and never addressed problems like connectivity issues for students hailing from rural and remote areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-accepts-some-demands-but-says-no-to-online-exams-211688
13-02-2021||---||Campaigning ends, over to voters now||Amritsar, February 12As campaigning for the civic body polls concluded on Friday at 5 pm, the State Election Commission, district administration and the police have geared up to hold polls on February 14. Elections will be held in Ramdas, Rayya, Ajnala, Majitha, Jandiala and Ward No. 37 (bypoll) in Amristar city.Senior Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders were seen conducting door-to-door campaigning in the district.MP Gurjit Singh Aujla interacted with voters and party workers in Majitha. Aujla said, “The Congress is seeking votes on the basis of development. Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia was a minister for 10 years during the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) -Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tenure, but Majitha still lacks basic amenities. Development will be our top priority after winning the elections.” Senior Congress leader and MC councillor Harpan Aujla was also with the MP during the campaigning.Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka and MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia also conducted door-to-door meetings in Ward No. 37. Verka said, “I have visited all the civic bodies in the district. Today, I campaigned in Ajnala and Ward No. 37 for our candidates. No other party is in competition of the Congress and their nominees will lose their security bond. The BJP will be wiped off from the state.”Verka condemned SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for alleging that nomination papers of their candidates were cancelled. “The SAD is contesting from 1,500 seats in the state. Similarly, the Aam Aadmi Party’s nominees are in the fray from 1,600 seats. Both the parties will be defeated badly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/campaigning-ends-over-to-voters-now-211699
13-02-2021||Amritsar||Receiving threat calls, allege BJP candidates||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) leaders contesting the civic body polls in Amritsar and Tarn Taran complained of receiving threat calls during campaigning for not repealing three agri laws.Rahul Maheshwari, in-charge, BJP Tarn Taran unit, said, “I received three threat calls. Even other BJP nominees who are in the fray from Tarn Taran receive such calls daily. Despite filing complaint with the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police nothing concrete is being done.”He said there was no room for organising rallies and they just held house meetings to avoid any untoward incident. Hardyal Singh Aulakh, chief, BJP Amritsar (rural) unit, accused the Congress for deliberately conducting election at this point to harm the Opposition candidates. He asked, “Are civic polls being held without fear?”The saffron outfit fielded nine candidates in Jandiala Guru, six in Ramdas, five in Rayya and one in Ajnala.Aulakh said no candidate was fielded from Majitha as it was hypersensitive area and the police did not provide them security. He said they were compelled to hold small meetings during this period.Suresh Mahajan, chief, BJP Amritsar (urban) unit, said “A group of protesters raised slogans against the BJP candidate Manohar Singh, who is contesting from Ward No. 37 (byelection), whenever he campaigned.” He alleged that these people were not agriculturists, but workers of the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/receiving-threat-calls-allege-bjp-candidates-211706
13-02-2021||Amritsar||SP-rank officials to supervise security||In view of elections to five nagar panchayats round the corner, the Amritsar rural police have deputed SP-rank officials to supervise security arrangements in every nagar panchayat.In Amritsar, elections to nagar panchayats and councils would be held at Majitha, Ramdass, Jandiala, Ajnala and Rayya. Dhruv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar rural police, on Friday said each nagar panchayat would be supervised by an SP-rank officer. Besides, 10 DSPs and 15 Station House Officers were also deputed to ensure that the elections were held in a peaceful manner.”He said adequate arrangements were in place and a number of permanent checkpoints (nakas) were installed at the entry and exit points of the rural belt, besides at sensitive areas.“Armed policemen are deputed at these checkpoints and special emphasis is being laid on checking the supply of liquor and money to lure voters,” Dahiya pointed out.He said no outsider would be allowed during the polls in these nagar panchayats and if any outsider was found present there, legal action would be taken against him. He said mobile patrolling teams, PCR bikes and Rapid Response Teams were patrolling in the areas to keep a tab on the movements of anti-social elements who could vitiate a peaceful atmosphere during elections.Dhruv Dahiya said after the imposition of the model code of conduct, as many as 48 persons were booked in 25 cases for violating the prohibitory orders. A majority of them were those who had not deposited their arms with the police or with respective gun houses. Action was also taken against history-sheeters in the area, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sp-rank-officials-to-supervise-security-211707
13-02-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||DC office staff comes out in support of ‘controversial’ clerk||Employees of the DC office observed a pen-down strike on Friday and staged a dharna in the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in support of Karwinder Singh Cheema, the controversial clerk of the arms branch of the DC office.Shivkaran Singh Cheema, general secretary of the ‘Employees of the office of the DC, of which Karwinder Singh Cheema is the president, led the employees’ agitation.Case registered on 'fake' facts: LeadersThe clerk in question, Karwinder Singh Cheema, was booked for preparing more than 400 fake arms licences two months back, on the complaint of the DC. He procured anticipatory bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He was booked on the similar grounds last week. The leaders alleged that the recent case registered against Karwinder Singh Cheema was based on fake facts.Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, district president, Punjab State Ministerial Services Union, Punjab, Sukhpreet Singh, district convener, Sanjha Mulazam Manch, Punjab, Prithipal Singh District President of the Kanungo Union, Sarabjit Singh Sandhu, president, Revenue Patwari Union Punjab, were among others who addressed on the occasion of staging dharna. Leaders alleged that the Patti Sadar police about a week back had registered a case against Karwinder Singh under the alleged fake facts. The leader demanded the cancellation of the case without delay. The leader said in case the case registered against Karwinder Singh is not withdrawn till February 14, the employees would hold a demonstration against the local SSP on February 15.It was worth noting that the clerk in question, Karwinder Singh Cheema was booked two months back for preparing more than 400 fake arms licences, on the complaint of the DC. He procured anticipatory bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He was booked on the similar grounds last week. The leaders alleged that the recent case registered against Karwinder Singh Cheema was based on fake facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-office-staff-comes-out-in-support-of-controversial-clerk-211708
13-02-2021||Amritsar||‘Khalistani’ operative brought on remand,  3 weapons recovered||The counter intelligence (CI) wing of the Punjab Police have recovered two .32 bore pistols with six bullets and a .30 bore pistol with two magazines after interrogating alleged ‘Khalistani’ operative Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga, who was nabbed from Lucknow on February 8.The seizure was made near a flyover situated on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road. Jagga was brought on transit remand from Lucknow. Later, a local court had sent him to the police remand till February 15.Jagga was nabbed from Lucknow following the interrogation of his accomplice Jagroop Singh, who was arrested from Rampur Cheete village. The police had recovered five pistols from him. The CI wing had also brought a notorious gangster, Jasbir Singh Anngarhiya, on production warrant. Jasbir has as many as 30 criminal cases, including that of attempt to murder, robbery and the NDPS Act registered against him.Their arrest also brought forth the fact that anti-national elements in Pakistan were using notorious criminals and smugglers for carrying out their nefarious activities, including targeted killings and funding terror activities in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir.Last year, gangsters had killed Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu in Bhikhiwind allegedly at the behest of their Pakistan-based handlers.Recently, the NIA held an alleged hawala operator, Manpreet Singh, from the Loharaka road in connection with narco-terror module busted by the Amritsar police in 2020 after it had arrested a Hijbul Mujaheedin operative with Rs 27 lakh of drug money, which was to be used for funding terrorists in the Valley. Manpreet was an accomplice of notorious smugglers Ranjit Singh Cheeta and Iqbal Singh Shera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalistani-operative-brought-on-remand-3-weapons-recovered-211709
13-02-2021||Amritsar||Purushottam colony cries for sewerage system||Residents of Purushottam colony in Ward No.85 are living without a proper sewerage system and water pipes. As a result, sewage gets accumulated on the colony road. The colony is situated close to the periphery of Sadda Pind, which is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the city. The residents complain of apathy and total neglect by the MC which has failed to address their problems.“We have written to the MC repeatedly, also met its Assistant Commissioner and even our councillor in the regard but to no avail. The sewer and water supply pipes in our colony are yet to be laid and despite repeated assurances of clearance with regard to the matter, no work has been initiated. Sewage with the stench coming from it has become a nuisance for the residents,” said Vijay Kumar, who works with a private company and is a resident of the colony.The other issue the colony has been facing is that no pipes have been laid for supplying drinking water to residences. “We had been told that the project of laying water supply pipes has been approved and will start soon. But we want that the sewerage system must be laid first,” said Vijay Kumar. At a meeting held with MC officials here on Thursday, the residents were assured that work on laying sewer pipes in the area will begin within a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/purushottam-colony-cries-for-sewerage-system-211711
13-02-2021||Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa is an MLA from Fatehgarh Churian but his interest in the administrative and political affairs of the adjoining seat of Batala has stopped ringing bells among the locals. It is now crystal clear that the man will contest from the Batala seat in the 2022 Assembly polls. This development is giving goosebumps to three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri. The rivalry between the two is deep and intense. Bajwa apparently won Round 1 by bagging a majority of the tickets for his loyalists for the Municipal Corporation polls. Rivalry or no rivalry||Arch-rivals?||Civic poll: When odds are in one’s favourHistorically, polls to the civic bodies have never been fair. The element of integrity and fair play has always been missing. This time too things are no different with the Congress all set to sweep the elections. Invariably, the ruling dispensation in Chandigarh always helps. During the SAD-BJP reign from 2007-2017, the combination swept aside all opponents in all municipal polls held in 10 years. Now, it is the turn of the Congress to turn the tables. Intelligence agencies, too, claim that the SAD, BJP and AAP stand absolutely no chance. Observers are quick to point out the results of the Patiala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar Municipal Corporation polls held after the Congress assumed power in 2017. The ruling party won by a brute majority. So much so, that in Patiala the party won 59 of the 60 wards. Interestingly, the only ward they lost was when a re-poll was ordered and election observers were posted there. The SAD has now petitioned the Governor and has asked for central forces to be deployed. This is a perfect case of the pot calling the kettle black. It’s high time Akali leaders get to know that as you sow, so shall you reap!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arch-rivals-211714
13-02-2021||---||Don’t leave office between 3 & 5 pm: O&M officials told||Amritsar, February 12The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Committee of the Municipal Corporation has issued directions to senior officials of the department not to leave the office between 3 pm and 5 pm.Mahesh Khanna, Chairman of O&M Committee, said, “Residents were facing inconvenience due to the non-availability of officials in the offices. There was no specific time for the field visit of officers and employees. The councilors visited the head office for redressal of their complaints regarding water and sewerage but officers told them they were in the field. We want this practice to stop.”Khanna stated that the committee had issued directions to the department officials to visit the field in morning till lunch. After 3 pm, they should be available in the office, so that the residents and public representatives are able to meet them. “It would be compulsory for all officials, otherwise departmental action would be taken against them,” said Khanna.The MC gets a large number of complaints regarding the choking of sewage and water contamination every day. “We have a WhatsApp group. If any officer or employee gets some urgent call from the field, then he can leave the office. But he will have to click his photograph from the spot and post it in the WhatsApp group. The decision has been taken in order to streamline the complaint redressal system,” added Khanna.Meanwhile, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu conducted a meeting with officials of the Health and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) wing and took several decisions to cut the consumption of fuel on Thursday evening. The Mayor gave directions to employees to maintain log books regularly. Only drivers would drive MC vehicles and other workers would not be allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-leave-office-between-3-5-pm-om-officials-told-211715
13-02-2021||Tarn Taran||22-yr-old woman commits suicide||Two arrested with 1-kg heroinTarn Taran: A team of the local CIA staff, led by Sub-Inspector Anokh Singh, on Wednesday arrested two car-borne persons and recovered 1 kg of heroin from their possession near the local T-Point Sarhali road on the national highway. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused were identified as Ranjit Singh Rana and Gurjant Singh, both residents of Patti town. The accused in the interrogation revealed that they had their links with Chanchal Singh of Chheharta (Amritsar) in the drug trade. The police had launched a hunt to nab Chanchal Singh. A case under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against both accused by the local Sadar police. OCDC khaira reviews govt schemesAmritsar: Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Friday reviewed various works in the city. He said during third and fourth quarter of 2020-21, around 1,14,272 beneficiaries from the age of six months to six years, besides pregnant woman and nursing mothers, were benefited by supplementary nutrition programme. He said under the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana as many as 246 pregnant women were given financial help to the tune of Rs 12.30 lakh. He said the beneficiaries were given financial help in three instalments. District Programme Officer Manjinder Singh said around 32 children were found malnourished during national nutrition month (September 2020). He said the kids were given treatment at primary health centres. Khaira said women above 60 years of age were distributed bus passes. TNSSnatching: Case filed after 21 daysTarn Taran: After three weeks of being informed about a snatching incident, the police registered a case only on Thursday (February 11). The victim, Anju Arora, a resident of the local Gali Mann Singh Wali, was going to her shop situated in the town when two motorcycle-borne snatchers robbed her purse. The victim said soon after the incident she went straight to the police station to lodge a complaint but the police overlooked her request and she visited the police station regularly but her complaint was lodged only on Thursday. The victim said the purse contained Rs 18,000 cash, a mobile phone, Aadhaar card and PAN card. Balwinder Lal, investigating officer, said the victim lodged her complaint with the police only on Thursday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-211716
