14-02-2021||---||Radio’s popularity increased during pandemic, say industry professionals||Amritsar, February 13Being restricted to home, during the pandemic, made a lot of people go back to exploring the traditional media other than social media. Radio, being one such option, saw a surge in number of listeners. While sharing this information and a lot more, popular radio announcer Gaurav Kochchar, from All India Radio, Jallandhar, said that the radio listeners grew by 20% across the country during Covid 19 lockdown.Speaking at the webinar hosted by DAV college’s Department of Journalism to mark the World Radio Day that falls of February 13, Kochchar said that the popularity of radio can be gauged from the fact that radio is still very popular among all listeners. “Its programs focused on city activities, interviews with special people, entertainment programs, songs and news are being liked. Like newspapers, the credibility of radio again made it popular among people,” he said. Adding that social media’s popularity notwithstanding, people went back to traditional media including radio, for nostalgia. “Even UNICEF praised radio for its Covid pandemic awareness program detail across the world,” he said.Principal, DAV college, Dr. Rajesh Kumar said that during the pandemic, when there was a lot of misleading and prejudiced news on social media and news channels, newspapers and radio were the only credible media.‘It engaged, informed and entertained people’Radio professionals in city too feel that the surge in listenership during pandemic is a sign of change for good. “The fact remains that during pandemic, radio acted as one of the most significant channel of community engagement. It kept the people, informed, entertained and engaged,” says Rj Imran, working with a private radio channel.Radio also helped in coordinating relief and awareness prgrams during pandemic. Rj Sam, who works with a popular radio channel in city , says, “We received numerous calls from people in distress about government relief and aid program, and volunteers who were helping in in frontline work during pandemic. During the peak of lockdown blues, it helped people to connect with us through calls, sharing their problems. Radio is the only medium that connected people from across border as well as we received calls from few listeners from Pakistan, including a school team from an institute for blind in Pakistan. Its reach and impact is commendable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/radios-popularity-increased-during-pandemic-say-industry-professionals-212225
14-02-2021||---||No breakthrough in teacher couple dacoity case||Amritsar, February 13 A day after a teacher couple was robbed by unknown armed persons in Tilak Nagar area, the police are still clueless about the perpetrators of the crime.  The robbers had allegedly decamped with gold ornaments weighing around 500 gm, worth Rs 24 lakh, besides cash.  Victim Janak Raj told the police that the accused barged into their house at around 4 in the morning. The duo was armed with a pistol and a sharp-edged weapon. They threatened them and asked them to hand over the jewellery and cash to them.  They locked the couple in a room and broke open the almirah and decamped with gold ornaments and jewellery  Though there was no  breakthrough in the case, the police teams were constituted to identify and nab the suspects. The police have been scrutinising the CCTV cameras installed in the area to find some clues about the suspects while several history-sheeters were also questioned in this regard.  The police have procured the CCTV footage but it was not clear. They are now relying on technical investigations.  The police have picked mobile call dumps from the area in order to get some clues. The involvement of some insider is being suspected. “It appears that the robbers must have done a recce of the area before striking,” said Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-breakthrough-in-teacher-couple-dacoity-case-212226
14-02-2021||---||Five mobiles, habit-forming drugs seized from jail inmates||Amritsar, February 13  There is no end to incidents of sneaking mobile phones and other prohibited material into the high-security Amritsar Central Jail. Jail authorities on Friday confiscated five mobile phones and 250 habit-forming drugs and booked five prisoners, including two infamous drug peddlers (one of them is a cross-border drug smuggler and the other is former Army man Rahul Nayak of Haryana), in this connection. The seizure alarmed the jail authorities as well as intelligence agencies. Nayak along with two other persons was nabbed for allegedly smuggling drugs and weapons from across the Indo-Pak border using GPS-fitted drones in collusion with their Pakistani accomplices in January last year. The police had seized two Chinese-made drones, 12 drone batteries, some custom-made drone containers, an INSAS rifle magazine and two walkie talkie sets, besides suspected drug proceeds of Rs 6.22 lakh in cash from them. Another mobile was confiscated from drug peddler Sahil Sharma who was arrested by the Special Task Force in connection with the seizure of 197 kg of heroin from a rented house located in Sultanwind village in February last year. Among others who were booked for possessing mobiles include Gurlal Singh, alias Gill Ranjit Singh, and Massa Singh, alias Mandeep Singh, while a mobile phone was found unclaimed. A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered against them. Meanwhile, intoxicants were seized from a jail inmate who returned from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) after treatment. He was identified as Parampal Singh of Butt village falling under the Chatiwind police station. In his complaint to the police, Ravail Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Police, stated that Parampal was admitted to GNDH for treatment on February 3. After being discharged, he along with jail guard ASI Surinder Singh and constable Bikramjit Singh returned to the jail. During checking, the jail staff recovered 253 intoxicating tablets and Rs 500 cash from his possession. The intoxicants and sedative pills that were slipped inside the jail complex are sold at a very high price. Following the complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 22-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 42 of the Prisons Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-mobiles-habit-forming-drugs-seized-from-jail-inmates-212228
14-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||All set for polling today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 13The district administration claimed to have all arrangements in place to conduct the civic body polls (bypoll Ward No. 37) in a transparent manner on Sunday.The administration declared 53 polling booths hypersensitive and 31 sensitive. Around 1,000 employees have been deployed to conduct the elections at 84 booths.The voting will start at 8 am and end at 4 pm. The votes will be counted on February 17.Voters will exercise their franchise for three nagar panchayats, two municipal councils and one municipal corporation ward. A total of 75,087 voters, including 39,534 men and 35,553 women will cast their votes. As many as 295 candidates were in the fray from 68 seats in Amritsar district.Ranbir Singh Mudhal, Additional District Electoral Officer said, “We have made all arrangements to conduct fair and peaceful elections. Voters should exercise their franchise to strengthen democracy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-set-for-polling-today-212229
14-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Tight security in Patti, Bhikhiwind towns||Tarn Taran, February 13The border towns of Patti and Bhikhiwind have been converted into police cantonments with voting for elections to the local body government going to be held tomorrow.The administration has made tight security arrangements for these poll-bound towns where polling would be held on Sunday.On the verbal duel occurred on Friday between the Bhikhiwind SHO and SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha, the police had entered it in the Daily Diary Report (DDR). The video of the duel had gone viral on social media. The SAD leader warned the SHO that he would move the Punjab and Haryana High Court against his alleged partial attitude in the run-up to the elections.There are 19 wards in the Patti municipal council and 13 wards in the Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat Bhikhiwind where a total of 49 polling booths have been set up. Forty out of the 49 polling booths have been announced hyper-sensitive and the remaining nine sensitive. Congress candidates are set to be declared winners unopposed from five out of the 19 wards in the Patti municipal council where no candidates from other parties will contest the elections.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a total of 1,600 policemen, including PAP personnel, had been deployed in the poll-bound towns. Around 850 policemen have been deployed in Bhikhiwind and 750 in Patti.Both Patti and Bhikhiwind towns were being supervised by two SP-rank officials with five DSPs for Patti and six DSPs for Bhikhiwind.Police patrolling parties too had been deployed in both the towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tight-security-in-patti-bhikhiwind-towns-212230
14-02-2021||---||Electronics shop gutted in city||Amritsar, August 13A major fire broke out at an electronic shop (Arora Electronics) opposite intercity bus terminal on Saturday morning. Exact cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.According to information, the fire wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation received a call around 5 am. Around 11 fire engines from fire stations, Khanna Paper Mill, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee were pressed into the service to douse flames. Officials said it took them nearly six hours to bring fire under control.Lovepreet Singh, Additional Divisional Fire Officer (ADFO), said fire engines from various fire stations reached the spot within no time. “It was a major fire, which started at a godown and later engulfed the entire shop. A major challenge was to restrict flames from spreading to adjoining buildings. Our firefighters worked tirelessly.”He said a car parked outside the shop got damaged and no loss of human life was reported. Lovepreet said they used hi-tech gadgets to douse flames in a systematic manner.Owner of the shop claimed that goods worth crores were destroyed in the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/electronics-shop-gutted-in-city-212234
