15-02-2021||Open House||Disgusting to see able-bodied people surviving on alms||Awareness camps for beggars need of hourThe increasing menace of begging in our city has become cause for concern for everyone. The district administration should organise awareness camps for beggars whereby they are guided of begging laws in our country and bane of begging. The beggars must be guided and encouraged to do some work for their livelihood. In order to stop this practice, the police must increase their strength in the city and where ever they find beggars begging they should ask them to not do so and move away from place. The social organisations can provide great help to stop this practice. They can provide training to beggars for doing work according to their caliber by analysing first what work beggars can do easily and thereby after training helping them to get that work secured and earning a livelihood.Sanjay ChawlaLudhiana on track, others should followPolice officials of Ludhiana had started a drive recently to make the city beggar-free. This thing should be replicated in all cities of Punjab. Beggars are usually found at road crossings, asking for money from the passersby. They cause inconvenience to people while disrupting the flow of traffic at the same time. It has been recently seen that some fake their ailments so as to get money to buy drugs. Beggars should be identified and removed from all the major crossings of the city. Those who can’t work must be sent to shelter homes and those who can, must be employed by the government or private firms. Rehabilitation of beggars is very important so that their children don’t resort to begging in the future.Jatinderpal Singh BatthQUESTIONThe MC has a complaint redressal system — landline, toll-free number, email and web portal. Do you think these are effective and helpful in addressing the grievances of residents?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 18).Take stringent action towards physically fitThe alarming rise in the beggars is indeed an acute trouble for the society. ln order to eradicate such a social monster the authorities should take following measuresRehabilitation centres: The administration should set up rehabilitation centres for the beggars where free shelter, food, education are provided. Vocational training: The authorities should provide such people vocational training according to their interests and capabilities so to integrate them in the societies mainstream. Awareness: The citizens should be made aware against begging and should be encouraged to not to be generous towards them and spur such activities. Strict action: The administration should take stringent actions towards physically fit and mentally healthy beggars to put a full stop to this social evil. Though begging will not disappear overnight, the administration needs to pitch in efforts to stop it.Harshpreet KaurBig change in our attitude requiredTo end the menace of begging in the city, many attempts in the past were made by the local administration with the help of the police but without any fruitful results. Reasons for this failure are in our ages-old traditions and culture. Till date our traditional astrologers guide us to give alms to beggars on so and so day of the week. Irrespective of religion we belong to, outside our all religious places beggars are encouraged. Also, we define our culture as way of life, including lifestyle, language, music, dresses, eating habits in a particular region. But, it never means ‘work culture’. “Work is worship”, is simply a phrase to be used in writing but never applied in practice. To make easy money is our motto. Our local businesses flourished during the quota-permit period but flopped with the collapse of the same. Even now with a distressing state of economy our easy way of making money – share market – is booming as never before. The most hardworking animal donkey is referred in an abusive way in our routine conversations whereas Le Corbusier, the French architect, was so fascinated by donkeys pressed in action while Chandigarh was being built that he often compared himself to their lot. We claim ourselves as most religious people in the world but we forget the essence of Bhagwad Gita which says “peace results from the renunciation in action and not renunciation of action”. So solution to this problem does not lie with the local administration or police but needs basic change in our attitude in regard to our traditions and culture. We should not advise others about “work is worship” but do practise it themselves as the Supreme Court of India ruled sometime back “status is enhanced not by travelling in the red beacon vehicles but by work done by them.”Harsh N JoharNo central act to checkmate beggingBegging, a social problem of great magnitude and grave concern of our society, is closely associated with the problems of poverty and unemployment. In fact beggary is a slur and stigma in the fair name and face of our vibrant society. It has become a profession as healthy men, women and children adopt it willingly or unwillingly and become parasites for society and a curse to humanity. It is disgusting to see able-bodied, strong and sturdy people begging and living on alms. Such type of beggars should be shooed away. They should not be shown any pity and compassion. There is no central act to checkmate beggary. It has been left to the states to deal with the menace of begging. So, the district administration should arrest the able-bodied beggars and employ them as labourers in various constructive works. They should be encouraged to take charge of their lives so as not to become a burden on society. The ill, invalid and infirm ones should be hospitalised to ameliorate their wretched lot. The child beggars should be identified and should be sent to schools under the aegis of district administration and the government. The police, doing little to address the menace, should step up measures to restrict the spread. Police patrolling during peak hours ought to be beefed up to discourage the prospective beggars. NGOs should do welfare work more vigorously to reduce begging in the city. Social organizations and citizens together can play a pivotal role in at least minimising the problem. The administration should form rescue teams to identify gangs of beggars to be penalised in accordance with the existing rules and regulations. Even harsh steps can be taken against the professional beggars so as to teach them skills that enable them to start earning their livelihood. It is high time for the authorities to consider the issue seriously and initiate steps to put a blanket ban on the menace of begging and beggary.Tarsem S BumrahTell beggars to take charge of their livesThe homeless and destitute, landless labourers and other poverty-stricken indulge in begging in the absence of any employment. Some children are forced to beg by the begging mafia and also made to indulge in crimes. Beggars are a burden on the economy and do not produce anything. Often, such people take to petty crimes too. So, to tackle this: Identify children who beg and send them to school to provide free education till Class X. Rescue teams should be formed at district levels to identify and take the strict action against the gangs who force the poor, old aged and weak to beg. The old and infirm forced to beg should be sent to destitute homes and children sent to rehabilitation and training centres. Police can also help greatly – arrest physically fit and mentally alert beggars, traffic policemen/marshals must not be mute spectators to small children or young women with babies in arms walking from vehicle to vehicle at traffic light points and so on. Social organisations should also step up their efforts by hospitalising the ill to get the free treatment, with skill development techniques, and proper counselling should be given.Suneet KochharOne of the most conspicuous evilsWay back in mid-1980s, I had the chance to visit state administered beggars’ home in Kapurthala. It was housed in a very majestic looking spacious building. However, there was only one beggar lodged there and I was told in lighter vein that he might have gone out for begging. Of course, the place was in shambles though its visitor book showed that Secretary/Director Social Welfare Department had paid many visits there. In Amritsar, we have well run ‘Panghurha’ scheme for abandoned newly born babies, Pingalwara for the sick destitute, institute for the blinds, home for the destitute ladies and juvenile home for young delinquents and most importantly orphanage run by Chief Khalsa Diwan. Incidentally, Shahid Udham singh, who shot Michael O’Dwyer in London, to avenge the massacre of patriots at Jallianwala Bagh in 1919, was brought up in this orphanage. Raen Basera also exists for the beggars, but this place remains almost deserted. Some of the social welfare institutes are running very well but some are colossally neglected. Beggary, though legally banned, has emerged as one of the most conspicuous social evils. At every crossing, especially at the traffic lights, many beggars start knocking on the glasses of the cars to seek alms. This endangers theirs as well as drivers’ lives. Their regular presence does not indicate that the district administration is taking any step for their rehabilitation. Since majority of the beggars are able-bodied, they must be rehabilitated to start their lives afresh. Amritsar’s Pingalwara is known throughout the world for its charitable activities and it has the honour of the halo of Bhagat Puran Singh and its incumbent head Dr Inderjit Kaur. It may start the rehabilitation centre for the beggars. Since most of the social welfare schemes run by the government leave much to be desired, only social or charitable organisations can run such institutions.Hardish SandhuTo end begging, one must stop giving almsBegging is one of the most serious social issues in India. In spite of its rapid economic growth, India is a poverty-stricken country, which is also leading to the growth of beggars in the country. There are a few beggars in the country who actually are the real ones, who beg because they are handicapped, old or blind or they really need money for basic needs. There are many others who live far below the poverty line and opt for begging to earn their livelihood. But as the citizens of this country, it is our moral responsibility to stop this menace and the best way is to stop giving alms. It might seem that we are very heartless in not giving money to a little child begging on the street. If more and more people come out and take a pledge that they are not going to give a single penny to any beggar, irrespective of their need, I am sure beggary will be completely uprooted from our country.Akshar Kumar SinglaInculcate a sense of shame in beggingMy father never gave alms and reprimanded beggars to work at his home instead of begging. That actually inculcated a deep sense of shame in me for the act of encouraging beggars by giving alms. Hence, I followed in his footsteps and refused beggars, but gave to handicapped only, although I actively gave and garnered whatever little I could, as aid for lesser-privileged, calamities or causes. Concerning beggary, the administration and social organisations can have a huge role to spread the message of ‘shame in begging’ through all kinds of media. This can be thoughtfully done as non-government sponsored, thought-provoking content through video stories, content writing, audio media like FMs, TV programmes bringing into the limelight those born to beggars, who refused to stoop to beggary, fought the challenge, and rose up. When a sense of shame is attached to something, the habit gradually perishes. When people stop insulting human beings with their aid, just to encourage beggary cartels, the returns will no longer be lucrative for the business of beggary. Many children and adults may thus be saved from kidnapping and inhuman treatment besides tortures. In developed countries, a sense of shame was cultivated for using parents’ money for education and anything else, after a certain age, to encourage teenagers to work. In India, we are destroying the fabric of dignity of labour by categorising housework as lowly, whereas we should inculcate housework as the responsibility of all. In beggary, the fear factor of God’s wrath draws people to give, as also the empathy factor. Somewhere we need to channelise God’s wrath in the right direction and shame in beggary to get results. As far as police is concerned, it can only book a beggar for crime. Beggary is not a designated crime in India in the true sense.Rashmi TalwarInvent more ways to help themBegging for alms is demeaning, yet not assisting those in penury is inhumane. These times of job distress have accentuated stress amidst the downtrodden. Many men and women from decent households are seen seeking assistance now on the streets. Arrange for dignity of labour or assist them till you can.Gunbir SinghIt’s a disease, study symptoms and actBegging has become a growing menace, or you can call it a disease. How do you treat a disease? Well, you eliminate or bring down the symptoms. Yes, eliminate the symptoms or the reasons which are forcing them to beg. These are some of the measures/thoughts which came to my mind. Never give alms to young beggars, they are capable of working. By giving them alms we are encouraging them to beg more, instead encourage them to work and earn. Old people who are forsaken by their wards should be moved to old age homes. NGOs should come together and work on rehabilitation of such people by providing them some means of work. Also, there are beggars who ask in the name of religion, taking advantage of religious sentiments of Indian people. They should be strictly restrained. The government should start its own institutions, where widows, orphans and other helpless people may find shelter. This will prevent them from joining the profession of begging. Further, the government should also pass laws which should make begging by persons below a certain age a crime.Sandeep GorsiBeggars need no cash but careGood initiative of The Tribune to highlight the menace of begging, a social-economic evil as well as a crime redressal of which needs a comprehensive campaign of the government as well as society, including NGOs by saving the beggars from the clutches of their managers and engaging them in employment in a protective environment. Beggars need no cash but care.TS BhattiJob opportunities need of the hourTo stop it, people have to take initiative and instead of money give food and clothes to them. Once they run out of money they will have no choice but to work and earn. Secondly, the government should provide them free shelter so they will have no pressure for their lodging while they work and earn. Their children should be sent to government schools and youngsters should also at the same time given some vocational training to help them to earn a living going forward. The special fine should be imposed on people who give them money and discourage them to work and earn by themselves. Free community kitchens should be set up for really needy ones. Mafia gang of baggers should be busted immediately. A road map should be made by administration to remove beggars from streets in next two years. Job opportunities should be created for such peoples. To snub a begging should be in manifesto of all political parties. The traffic police should not allow them to sit/stand near traffic signals.Radhika MahajanNGOs must come togetherBegging is generally seen near railway station, bus stand, government offices, traffic lights, peripheral towns, religious places across the city. To stop this menace, the civil administration should take a strict action in case of organised or forced begging. Skill development institutions, where they should be taught skill enhancement or development techniques so they can stand on their feet and be aware about employment opportunities available under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MNREGA) scheme, should be established, which would benefit them and fulfill the labour needs of the administration. The civil administration can also protect their basic physiological needs such as food, shelter and clothing which will prevent them. NGO’s should come together and work on rehabilitation of such people by providing them some means of work and enlighten their children about right to education up to Class X. Social organisations should also teach them about family planning guidelines. Police should be made the rescue teams at district levels to identify the organised gangs of beggars which exploit the innocents and force them to beg for money, the members of which should be penalised and sent to jail according to existing laws and children are sent to rehabilitation and training centres.Ankur GuptaThey shun food, demand cashI have witnessed a plethora of beggars around the city demanding only cash from the masses. If someone offers them food, they just deny it and ask for money. This make me amazed that how can a beggar deny the food. The beggars are scared of policemen only since they chide them. At times, if a common man refuses to give money to beggars they turn cold. This thing is not acceptable and administration should think about it. I would like to emphasise on the fact that people who are wealthy should not give any money to beggars. There are multiple ladies who beg at traffic lights with their children. These women can easily work as housemaids and labourers at factories because they are physically fit. But the truth is they do not want to work and keep begging for money.Saahil Hans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/disgusting-to-see-able-bodied-people-surviving-on-alms-212656
15-02-2021||Amritsar||Family ties, personal connections at play||Though there was disenchantment among voters for several political parties amid the ongoing farming protest, a fairly good turnout was witnessed at all four nagar panchayat and municipal councils, where elections were conducted on Sunday.“In local government elections in rural areas, including village panchayats, nagar panchayat and municipal councils, as the constituencies are comparatively small, each candidate knows the voters in his area personally. The personal relations in these elections are very important,” said Joginder Singh, an elderly at Jandiala Guru, while explaining the relevance of personal relations in rural elections.In many areas, the voters reported that they had especially come from Delhi border to cast their vote. “My cousin is contesting from Ajnala, so I could not say no to him when he asked me to come back. I would go back again to the protest site,” said Sukhwinder Singh from Jandiala.The residents reported that though voters were not happy with the political parties they could not afford to strain their relations with the candidates who were mostly a part of their extended family. “Usually the local government elections in rural areas are not fought on issues. Factionalism and interpersonal rivalries play a deciding role in the victory or defeat of a candidate,” said a veteran journalist from Ajnala.The residents revealed that many of the girls who were recently married but their votes are listed in the area of their paternal homes came along with their families so that they could cast their votes. “The victory margins in these elections are usually very small and so every vote counts. The candidates and their supporters make sure that each and every vote is polled which also explains the good turnout,” said Rattan Singh, a voter from Ramdas. — TNSPeople queue up to cast their votes at a polling station at Ajnala on Sunday. vishal kumar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-ties-personal-connections-at-play-212645
15-02-2021||---||Amritsar district registers 71.2% turnout||Amritsar, February 14In Amritsar district, 71.2 per cent voter turnout was recorded for the municipal council elections in 67 wards of two municipal councils, three nagar panchayats and one ward of Amritsar Municipal Corporation (bypoll) for which elections were held on Sunday.The elections were held for two municipal councils —Majitha and Jandiala Guru, three nagar panchayats —Ajnala, Ramdas and Rayya, besides bypoll for Ward No. 37 of Amritsar MC.Ramdas nagar panchayat has reported a maximum of 81.82 per cent polling followed by Ajnala with 78.76 per cent. Majitha municipal council reported 76.50 per cent, Jandiala municipal council 74.10 per cent and Rayya nagar panchayat has recorded 63.27 per cent polling. The lowest poll percentage of 52.74 has been reported from Ward No. 37 of Amritsar MC (bypoll).Senior citizens, first-time voters turn flag bearersSenior citizens and first-time voters exercised their franchise in civic body elections. The residents were seen helping elderly and physically challenged persons to the polling booths. Ajit Singh (90), a resident of Kota Atama Singh, was chanting "Waheguru Waheguru" while sitting on the chair and returning to home after casting vote. He forgot when he casted his vote first time. Karandeep Kaur of Majitha, a first-time voter, said: "Our area is deprived of basic amenities such as road and sewerage. I hope that next councillor will make efforts to provide these faculties". The voting began at 8 am and concluded at 4 pm. At 10 am, Majitha had reported 16 per cent polling, Jandiala recorded 8 per cent polling, Ajnala 15 per cent, Ramdas 18 per cent, 17 per cent and MC Ward No. 37 reported around 13 per cent polling.At 2 pm, the district authorities reported a total of 55.50 per cent polling at all stations. With Ramdas reporting a polling of 71 per cent, Jandiala reported 58 per cent, Majitha 56 per cent, Ajnala 55 per cent, Rayya 51 per cent and Ward No. 37 reported a lowest of 42 per cent polling.For a total of 67 wards — Majitha (13 wards), Jandiala Guru (15), Ramdas (11), Rayya (13) and Ajnala (15) — and one ward of Amritsar Municipal Corporation (bypoll), a total of 295 candidates are in fray. Congress has fielded candidates in all 68 wards, SAD and AAP nominees in 66 wards each, the BJP has fielded candidates in only 22 wards while the BSP is contesting only from one ward. A total of 72 Independents are in fray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-registers-71-2-turnout-212646
15-02-2021||---||Only 52.74% come out to cast vote in Ward No. 37 of Amritsar||Amritsar, February 14The bypoll at Ward No. 37 of the Municipal Corporation witnessed low turnout here on Sunday. Only 52.74 percent voters cast their votes, which is far less than the turnout in nearby towns of the district. Out of 14,560 voters only 7,680 exercised their franchise. Only 3,509 women and 4,171 men cast their votes.There was no violence or major technical glitch reported in the Ward No. 37. Only one EVM machine started working with a delay of one hour. The polling officials gave one more hour in the evening to accommodate the voters. There were multiple reasons for low turnout. The residents claimed that a number of wedding functions were also scheduled on the weekend in the area.“Residents don’t show much interest in bypoll. The election campaign was also calm. There is a perception that ruling party candidate wins in the bypoll so people become reluctant to make extra efforts,” said Harbahjan Singh, a resident of Tej Nagar.“The turnout this time is lower than the previous MC elections in 2017. It was a low-key affair. The city always witnesses low turnout as compared to rural areas. The voters belong to low income groups and daily wagers in most of the areas of the ward. Daily wagers are reluctant to let go of a day’s wage for elections. Dense fog in the morning could be one of the reasons. But we are happy that election went peacefully,” said another resident Gurdev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-52-74-come-out-to-cast-vote-in-ward-no-37-of-amritsar-212647
15-02-2021||---||Mohali outplay Amritsar, lift AGA Gold Cup||Amritsar, February 14Mohali lifted the AGA Gold Cup under-19 cricket tournament by defeating Amritsar by six wickets. The ground covered under the thick fog in the morning compelled the organisers to reduce the 40-over match to 35.The hosts were all out for 124 runs in 34.3 overs. Earlier, they won the toss and elected to bat. However, their decision proved wrong as the fog-assisted pitch helped the pacers of Mohali. Their batsmen were no match in front of the pace attack mounted by the visitors.Chasing the target, the winning team scored 125 runs for four wickets in just 28 overs. The visitor team was handed over the prize money of Rs1.50 lakh and the host team Rs75,000 by the AGA. Mohali’s Jashanpreet Singh was adjudged man of the match as he scalped three wickets by giving 19 runs in six overs, which included one maiden over.In this Punjab Cricket Association-approved tournament, eight teams of the state — Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Malwa Heroes, Majha Heroes, Ludhiana and Doaba Heroes participated.Trident and Amandeep Group of Hospitals, which funded the tournament, gave gifts to the players to encourage them. Sukhchain Singh Gill, Commissioner of Police, who was the chief guest in the final said: “The quality of cricket being played across all formats and levels has increased drastically. With such tournaments becoming a regular feature, more talented players are bound to come forward who would shine in the future.”All Ranji Trophy players present on this occasion were awarded a memento by Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, Secretary, AGA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mohali-outplay-amritsar-lift-aga-gold-cup-212648
15-02-2021||---||Polling passes off peacefully||Amritsar, February 14The nagar panchayat and council polls remained peaceful by and large in Amritsar district on Sunday. Heavy police bandobast was at place to thwart any untoward incident in five nagar panchayat and municipal council polls at Jandiala, Rayya, Ajnala, Ramdas and Majitha and security of each was entrusted by an SP-rank official.SSP Dhruv Dahiya said polling in three nagar panchayats of Ajnala, Ramdas and Rayya and two municipal councils of Majitha and Jandiala remained peaceful with police officials remained on toes and personally looked after the arrangements at each and every polling booth.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh Gill said that polling in municipal corporation Ward No. 37 remained peaceful with no violent incident was reported at any polling booth.However, senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that the state government had failed to conduct free and fair poll. He said the Congress government had already made elctions one-sided by rejecting the papers of opposition candidates at about 40% seats.“At remaining seats, the government misused the police and the Excise and Taxation Department for intimidating and pressurise the opposition candidates,” he alleged. Nevertheless, he also appreciated the officials who worked honestly and did not bow under the government pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/polling-passes-off-peacefully-212651
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Tributes paid to Pulwama martyrs||Tarn Taran, February 14Activists of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday paid tributes tributes to the security personnel killed in the terrorist attack in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019. Farmers, mazdoors, employees and other trade unionists organized a candlelight march in the town. Pritihipal Singh Marimegha, Baldev Singh Pandori, Tara Singh Khehra and Gurpreet Gandiwind, representatives of mass organizations, condemned the government for allegedly using the martyrs name for political motives.  Meanwhile, workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrsh Committee,Punjab, also paid tributes to the martyrs at Manochahal Kalan village. Satnam Singh Manochahal said they paid the highest sacrifice to save the integrity of the country. He also condemned the Central Government for not redressing the grievances of the agitating farmers. He called upon the farmers to intensify their agitation till the Centre withdrew the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-pulwama-martyrs-212652
15-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Farmer activists ensure no BJP help desk set up outside polling stations||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 14In wake of the ongoing protest against the BJP-led Centre Government, activists of farmer unions ensured no BJP help desk was set up to assist voters outside the polling booths in ward number 37 during the by-election here today.BJP candidate Manohar Singh claimed that senior party leadership had already instructed him not to set up any help desk to avoid any conflict. So he didn’t make such arrangements.Despite this, a number of activists from Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha) checked all 12 polling booths of the Municipal Corporation’s Ward No. 37 to make sure that the BJP candidate had no help desk.More than 25 farmers from nearby villages, led by Sonu Mahal of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, visited the ward on motorcycles to check the movement of the BJP candidate around 11 am. They held a demonstration at Kot Atma Ram and also raised anti-BJP slogans.Jagtar Singh from Sultanwind village said: “We wanted to give feedback to the BJP’s high command for enacting the farm laws. It’s not only about this poll. We will fight till next Assembly elections if the government doesn’t repeal the new laws.”Manohar Singh said: “The party had already issued instructions to avoid such conflicts. We were aware that the action was planned by rival political parties. So we didn’t establish any help desk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-activists-ensure-no-bjp-help-desk-set-up-outside-polling-stations-212653
