16-02-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Never too old to run||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 15An Assistant Sub-Inspector with police, Surinderpal Singh, never fails to amaze with his grit, determination and stamina as he again won a gold medal in 5,000m event at the recently held Masters Athletics Championship in Chandigarh on February 13.At 57, when most people start complaining of knee joint pain, Singh is an inspiration not only for his peers but youth who often complain of lack of time for physical activities.“I wake up at four every morning and exercise for two hours daily. Then, I join my duty as traffic controller at Rattan Singh Chowk,” said Singh, a local resident. In his free time, he could be spotted at DAV Complex’s ground in Shastri Nagar.“It is like I am addicted to running. I could not even stop myself when the lockdown was imposed. I would run in the dark to satiate my urges,” he quipped. He is very particular about his diet and never noshes anything but home-cooked home.He turns monkish at marriages and parties, abstaining from the variety of delicacies which people can’t just resist the temptation for. “The body is like a temple. The body and mind respond to what you eat,” Singh, who’s a vegetarian and a teetotaler, stated.Moreover, he’s not new to winning gold and silver medals and setting records. His records in 5,000m and 10,000m races set during his police training days are still unbroken. He had joined Police Department after winning a bronze medal at the Indo-Silone Games 1980.The recipient of the ‘Pride of Punjab Police Lifetime Achievement Award’, the ASI said that veteran athlete Fauja Singh is an inspiration. “Whenever anyone asks me to stop running citing age issues, I bring up Fauja Singh. If he can run at his age, I am too young.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/never-too-old-to-run-213063
16-02-2021||PK Jaiswar||Watch out! Someone is duping people across country, 1 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 15Following a complaint by DGP Intelligence and preliminary probe by Economic Offence (EO) Wing here, the city police have booked an unidentified person for allegedly defrauding a number of persons across the country on the pretext of installing mobile phone towers or passing loans.Modus operandiAs per the modus operandi, when the victims deposited the amount in the bank account, the accused would withdraw the same through ATMs in the NCR region. Preliminary probe revealed that the unknown accused opened his bank account in the name of Sukhdev Singh in Putlighar branch of State Bank of India on the basis of a fake voter card prepared from a voter list.The police have now registered a case under Section 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act in this connection. Further investigations were underway to identify the suspect, said police authorities.DGP asked the Police Commissioner to get the investigation done by Economic Offence Wing under the supervision of Additional Deputy Commissioner of police and take appropriate action.As per the details, DGP Intelligence received a Suspicious Transaction Report from the Financial Intelligence Unit, India, which was further forwarded to local police for investigations. The report revealed that in March 2018, a bank account in the name of Sukhraj Singh, a resident of Gobindpura area here, showed a large number of deposits in cash and transfer with different methods, including National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Cash Deposit Machine (CDM) and Immediate Payment System (IMPS). However, these amounts were immediately withdrawn at various locations in Delhi without explanation. This created a suspicion of misusing of account for dubious activities.The investigations carried out by the police pointed out that the incog tricked innocent people in different parts of the country, including Chennai and Madurai by offering fictitious schemes. The police identified the victims and contacted them. They told the police that the accused ensnared them on the pretext of installing mobile towers and therefore they deposited the money in the account. Jugraj Singh, ADCP (investigations), said an investigation was underway by the EO wing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watch-out-someone-is-duping-people-across-country-1-booked-213064
16-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga---||Expansion of Bhandari ROB to help resolve traffic congestion||Tribune News Service Amritsar, February 15 The ongoing expansion of the Bhandari Railway Overbridge’s (ROB) is another attempt by the government to resolve its mammoth traffic trouble. There has been a phenomenal rise in the number of vehicles on roads, which in turn has led to a rise in traffic problems, over the last one decade in the city.  There are over one million registered vehicles. Even if one-third of them come out on roads every day, the level of chaos can easily be assessed. Besides, there is a huge number of vehicles of tourists, hence swelling the traffic on road.  In 2013, a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) was released wherein the government had envisaged the infrastructural needs of the city up to 2032. The study strongly suggested doubling the share of public transport modes from the present 30 to 60 per cent and increasing the share of Public Mass Transport System (PMTS) from four to 40 per cent to bring down congestion and pollution level in the environment.  Balram Kumar Sharma, president of the Punjab Sudhar Sabha, said the city received its local mass transport but it did not realise the desired result. “The elevated road was heralded as the solution for its traffic mess but that was not the case. It increased the traffic rush on the Bhandari ROB and the adjoining roads.” Dinesh Bassi, chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, which is executing and financing the project, says the expansion of the Bhandari ROB has been undertaken on a war footing. Once finished by April, it is likely to be operational in May. Two more lanes, 31-ft each, would be added to the existing roundabout of the ROB over the railway lines, shooting up its capacity.  Elaborating the proposed traffic flow, Bassi said the traffic coming from the railway link road via Queen’s Road would directly ascend the ramps, so they would not have to travel to the Crystal Chowk as they do now. The construction of new railway overbridge, parallel to the existing Bhandari ROB, is being keenly awaited by commuters for a trouble-free access across the railway lines. They are of the view that the traffic scenario is likely to worsen, once the schools and colleges become operational.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expansion-of-bhandari-rob-to-help-resolve-traffic-congestion-213065
16-02-2021||---||Central Sikh Museum to have portrait of Prof Avtar Singh Naaz||Amritsar, February 15A portrait of Ustad Prof Avtar Singh Naaz, who had imparted kirtan training to ragi jathas for nearly 40 years, would be displayed in the Central Sikh Museum.The announcement was made by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur at a meeting of ragi jathas of the Golden Temple here. Prof Naaz had imparted kirtan training to the ragi jathas at the Shaheed Sikh Missionary College at Amritsar under Dharam Prachar Committee of the SGPC.A large number of renowned kirtan jathas, including Bhai Harjinder Singh Srinagar, Bhai Ravinder Singh, Padam Sri Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa have received training from him.During the gathering, Bibi Jagir Kaur discussed the coming centenary events with the ragi jathas and also listened to their problems.Bibi Jagir Kaur said Gurmat Samagam would be held at various places by the SGPC on the occasion of the 400th birth anniversary of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur.“Apart from Amritsar, Gurmat Samagam would be held at various places in the country including Sri Anandpur Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, Baba Bakala Sahib, Dhamtaan Sahib,” she said.SGPC holds pre-Budget meetA special meeting was conducted at the office of the SGPC on Monday to discuss the modalities prior to presenting the annual Budget for the year 2021-22. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur held discussions with the managers of the gurdwaras on the financial matters in the presence of SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh, additional secretaries Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna and Sukhminder Singh, members Bibi Kiranjot Kaur and Bibi Paramjit Kaur Landran, OSD Satbir Singh and chief accountant Milkha Singh.Last year’s Budget (2020-2021) estimates fell short of revenue by 18.5 per cent due to reduction in income in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic crisis and the figure was fixed at Rs 981 crore. During 2019-2020, it was Rs 1,205 crore.Harjinder Singh said the purpose of pre-Budget discussions was to set better priorities, “With regard to the forthcoming Budget session of the SGPC, the expenditure and revenue of Gurdwaras were reviewed and information was collected from the managers of gurdwaras being run under SGPC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/central-sikh-museum-to-have-portrait-of-prof-avtar-singh-naaz-213066
16-02-2021||---||AAP condemns violence during elections, says Capt should resign||Amritsar, February 15The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) strongly condemned the violence in Punjab during the municipal bodies’ elections and the attack on the AAP workers. The AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur on her visit to meet the party leader Laljit Singh Bhullar at his residence, who was injured in the violence, said on the polling day on Sunday, Congress goons in Patti committed violence and vandalism, trying to sabotage the polling process. She said they entered the polling booths with weapons and tried to drive out the voters who came to cast their votes. When they were prevented from doing so, they opened fire, she added. Kaur said that in the shootout, AAP worker Manvir Singh sustained bullet injuries.She said at the same time, Bhullar was brutally assaulted and forcibly detained by the police. “He was not released until the end of voting. The police did this for the purpose of capturing polling booths by the Congress goons,” she said. On Monday, the AAP MLA reached Amritsar hospital to meet the Manvir and other injured.Lashing out at Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the AAP leader said, “Is this the democracy of Captain Amarinder? Is this the democracy you were tasked to protect by the people of Punjab? You had your goons attack the rights of those who trusted you and handed over the power. As the home minister of the state, it was the responsibility of the CM to stop the violence so that people could vote fearlessly. But he failed miserably to maintain the law and order of the state and failed to stop the incidents of hooliganism,” she added.Taking a dig, she said that he should resign taking the responsibility of the violence. The people of Punjab are now fed up with the hooliganism of this government,” she added. Kaur further said that in 2022, AAP is coming to power with an absolute majority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-condemns-violence-during-elections-says-capt-should-resign-213067
16-02-2021||---||Offline exams for colleges begin with high attendance||Amritsar, February 15The long-standing face-off between a segment of students from affiliated colleges of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on the issue of conducting on-campus exams was put to rest as affiliated colleges in the city and other regions on Monday held the exams in two shifts. The semester examinations of all undergraduate classes of city colleges began as per schedule given by the varsity. The SOPs issued by the UGC and state government have been duly implemented for the smooth conduct of exams.Examinations to continue till March 28Offline exams will be conducted for all undergraduate courses in 106 affiliated colleges of Guru Nanak Dev University from February 15 till March 28Only 20 students allowed in per classroom as per SOPs to ensure social distancing. Earlier, one classroom used to have 30 to 40 students per classroomThe varsity has allowed students, who will miss the exams in current schedule due to genuine reasons, to appear for the exam in April in offline modeThe university has postponed the exam scheduled for February 26 to March 31The Day 1 saw students coming in full attendance to appear for the exams. “We had full attendance in two shifts and the exams were held without any delay or hindrances. Only 20 students per classroom are being allowed as per the new sitting plan. We are taking extreme precautions to ensure no health risk to students,” shared Dr Rajesh Sharma, Principal, DAV College.Meanwhile, Khalsa College had 1,450 students taking the exam in offline mode on the first day. “Practical and theory examinations for post-graduate courses have been running smoothly since February 8 in offline mode in the college. In addition, all the college’s diploma courses examinations are also being conducted in a systematic manner. All the instructions of the government and the university are being followed as per their guidelines. The attendance of students in the examinations is high and the staff is discharging duties in an orderly manner,” informed Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/offline-exams-for-colleges-begin-with-high-attendance-213068
16-02-2021||---||Bike rally against arrest of farmers||Amritsar, February 15A motorcycle rally was organised by youth associated with different organisations to protest the arrest of activists and protesting farmers by the Delhi Police.Carrying pictures of the arrested persons amid sloganeering, the protesters called for the release of Nodeep Kaur, Ranjit Singh, Shiv Kumar and Deep Sidhu among others.They blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being "insincere and egoistic". They said the Central Government should accept the farmers' demand of repealing the three contentious farm laws.Dal Khalsa leader Kanwar Pal Singh, while addressing the rallyists at Hall Gate (Amritsar), said the government had "framed" hundreds of farmers and activists in false cases and detained them in Tihar jail. He said the government had not even spared women activists Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi. He took exception to the government linking the Toolkit episode with Khalistan struggle via Poetic Justic Foundation.He urged the farmer leaders to revive their postponed "Parliament chalo" programme and announce its next date amid the Budget Session.Contesting the Delhi Police claims, he said protesting farmers had not indulged in violence in Delhi as they had no enmity with anyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bike-rally-against-arrest-of-farmers-213069
16-02-2021||---||All hail the 'Love Guru'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 15SSAI Creations in association with ‘Theatrewallahs’ enthralled a packed audience with their latest joint production, ’Love Guru’ that was staged at the Art Gallery. The play directed by Gurinder Makna is an adaptation of Anton Chekhov’s story ‘The Seduction’. At the heart of the story is a romantic protagonist, who is a sweet talker, smooth with women and takes pride in his romantic endeavours and has his eyes on friends' wife as well.The play had all the essential ingredients required for an entertaining and engaging presentation, emotions, humour in the right places, love and being clever with its audience. It also plays out the subtle art of seduction without making it look vulgar or scandalous. The protagonist displays his fine skills as a womaniser without even glancing at the women he intends to woo, or even uttering a word to her. He uses his friend, the woman’s husband, as his messenger to carry out the intended strike. This part of play, where the husband, who ultimately becomes a tool in hand of the protagonist, provides of some harmless laughter. The one-act comedy play by Chekhov was modified to make it relevant for city audience.The lead actors Anmol, Geetanjali Kapoor, Arvinder Chamak played their part aptly, without being too loud or obvious. This was the second performance of the play as it was the first production to be launched after the reopening of Art Gallery was announced on November 7, last year post-lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-hail-the-love-guru-213070
16-02-2021||Our Correspondent ||Pen down strike at DC office enters Day 2||Tarn Taran, February 15The pen down strike of employees of the local DC office, who stood in support of Karwinder Singh Cheema, an employee of the Arms Branch in the DC office here, entered the second day today. Employees, under the banner of ‘The District Deputy Commissioner office Employees Association, Tarn Taran, observed a pen down strike today for the second day. The employees staged a dharna in front of the DC office in the District Administrative Complex (DAC). Shivkaran Singh Cheema, general secretary, was among others who addressed the employees on the occasion. The speakers sought withdrawal of the FIR registered by the Patti Sadar police against Karwinder Singh Cheema for allegedly issuing fake arms licenses to the innocent persons. The employees shouted slogans against the SSP for registering a case against the said clerk Karwinder Singh Cheema. The leaders warned that in case the FIR was not cancelled, employees would stage a dharna at the SSP office and he himself would be responsible for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pen-down-strike-at-dc-office-enters-day-2-213071
16-02-2021||---||Soni: Cancer institute to be ready by June||Amritsar, February 15A meeting to review the progress of ongoing developmental works at Government Medical College was conducted by medical education and research minister Om Parkash Soni here on Monday.Soni claimed that the work of state cancer institute being set up at the college is 80 per cent complete. He added that remaining work of the Rs120 crore project would be completed by June 30.“After the institute becomes operational, patients would not have to go to PGI Chandigarh,” he said.Soni also announced that a solar system would also be installed at the college on the pattern of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. He added that three new medical colleges were being set up at Mohali, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.Addressing the meeting, DK Tewari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said Rs60.35 crore was being spent for the upgradation of the college, including hostels for boys and girls, multi-level parking, trauma centre and repairs at Bebe Nanki block. He said 50 new quarters were also being constructed for Group C and Group D employees.Tewari said all these works would be completed within next 6 months and Amritsar Medical College would be made a better medical college. He said that besides this a new hostel for 215 boys was also being constructed at a cost of Rs 16.50 crore and Rs 2.29 crore earmarked for sports infrastructure development.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Director Medical Education and Research Dr Sujata Sharma, Principal Medical College Dr Rajiv Devgan and many others were present during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soni-cancer-institute-to-be-ready-by-june-213072
16-02-2021||Yoga||‘Staying away from kids was the hardest part’||"Mentally, I was prepared for the situation. I was worried that I would catch the infection and then spread it to my family."My husband developed some symptoms and tested positive. Two-three days later, I, too, started showing symptoms. As the test report came out positive, I also went into quarantine."Being a doctor, I could take care of the medication. It helped, but I think positive attitude is more important in such a situation. I used to do yoga every day to keep fit. I also tried tulsi tea and other things as suggested by doctors."To keep children safe, both of us sent them to their maternal grandparents' house. The children were worried too, as they could sense something very serious was going on. They wanted to come back to us. We would chat with them through video calls to show them that everything was fine. Staying away from children for so long was the hardest part of the Covid experience."People should stay positive if they test Covid positive. Do a little bit of reading, watch movies, listen to some good music to stay positive and above all avoid negative thoughts."(As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staying-away-from-kids-was-the-hardest-part-213073
16-02-2021||Amritsar||Online lecture on Mahatma Gandhi||Course on Indian HeritageA two-week online refresher course on A Indian Heritage and Human Values concluded at GNDU and included 39 participants from various parts of India. Prof Shweta Shenoy, Head, MYAS, GNDU department of sports sciences and medicine presided over the valedictory session and delved that human values needed to be nurtured among students and stressed that India’s rich cultural heritage need to be showcased to the youngsters to make them proud citizens of the country. The course coordinator Prof Kuldeep Kaur gave the summary of the course and Deputy Director UGC-HRDC Dr Rajbir Bhatti took the participants through the virtual tour of the university. TNSDAV student shines in tt C’shipAdvik Puri, a student of Class V of DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, brought laurels to the school by securing first position in District Table Tennis Championship and 61st Stag Punjab Open Table Tennis Championship organised by Punjab Table Tennis Association held at Jalandhar. He has also qualified for the National Table Tennis Tournament to be held in March. Anita Mehra, principal of the school, lauded the efforts of the student and encouraged him to give his best. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-lecture-on-mahatma-gandhi-213074
16-02-2021||---||Heavy security at strongrooms||Amritsar, February 15  With the results of nagar panchayat and municipal council polls to be declared on February 15, a double layer security has been put in place at the five strong rooms where EVM machines have been kept after the polls on Sunday. Five strong rooms were formed at Mai Bhago Polytechnic College on Majitha Road, Baring School in Jandiala, Mata Ganga Girls Senior Secondary School at Baba Bakala, Baba Buddha Senior School at Ramdas and Government Senior Secondary School at Ajnala. “An inspector rank official is deputed as in-charge of the security there. The security arrangements at the strong rooms are supervised by a DSP rank official,” said police authorities. Meanwhile, in order to maintain law and order situation, flag marches were carried out in Jandiala, Ramdas, Ajnala and Rayya. These passed through various bazaars of these nagar panchayats and municipal councils.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heavy-security-at-strongrooms-213076
16-02-2021||---||Khalsa College, ICAI sign MoU to promote research||Amritsar, February 15Khalsa College today signed an MoU with ICAI (Institute of Chartered Accountants of India), with an objective to encourage research and education. The sharing of educational programmes would extend academic cooperation in various courses under the faculty of Commerce and Management of the College.Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College, said, “The initiative will catalyze development of collaborative and mutually beneficial programmes to enhance the intellectual and professional development in both institutions.” The MoU was signed by him on the behalf of Khalsa College and Rakesh Sehgal, Acting Secretary of ICAI.Sehgal said ICAI would extend its support in framing syllabi of various courses under the faculty to the college while Khalsa College will give vital inputs of placements and field programmes for the national institute. Dr Mehal Singh added that the consultancy in various areas of latest technology, science, humanities and social sciences will also be shared through the programme.ICAI is a premier accounting body regulating profession of Chartered Accountants in the country which also caters to student support services, network for delivery of courses, programmes throughout the country and abroad. It is an apex body controlling the accounting and auditing standards in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-icai-sign-mou-to-promote-research-213079
16-02-2021||Amritsar||18 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Two booked for Rs4.5-lakh fraudAmritsar: The city police have booked two persons for allegedly cheating a local resident of Rs4.5 lakh for getting her daughter admitted to the Government Medical College, Baramati (Maharashtra ) under the EWS category. One of those booked is NK Joshi, reportedly an employee of Director-General Labour Welfare, Counselling Department, while the other has been identified as Kunal Mahesh Singh of Lakshmi Nagar, New Delhi. Ritu Bala of Chheharta filed a complaint with the police in October 2019. The police registered a case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC against the duo. TNSOne arrested for outraging modestyAmritsar: Gate Hakima police have arrested Rajbir Singh, alias Raju, of Satnam Nagar locality on Jhabal road for allegedly outraging the modesty of a married girl. His accomplice identified as Ranjit Singh alias Rana was yet to be nabbed. Three days ago her neighbour, Dilbagh Singh, had organised a function where the duo were also guests. Under the influence of liquor, both hurled abuses at her. Then, things went out of control when the accused forcibly entered her house and Rajbir caught hold of her daughter’s suit and tore it. The police have registered a case under Sections 354, 323, 453, 427, 506 and 34 of the IPC. TNSNCC annual training campAmritsar: A combined annual training camp by 24-Punjab Battalion, NCC, concluded at Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET). Cadets from various colleges and schools from the region took part in the camp and got training in weapon handling, map-reading and drill along with personality development. Dr Manju Bala, director, KCET, said the aim of the camp was to instill a sense of unity, patriotism, team work and discipline among the cadets. TNSTeen abducted, one bookedTarn Taran: Akashdeep Singh (26) of Manakpur village abducted a teenage girl on Saturday. The victim is a student of Class X. The mother of the victim, in her complaint to the Sarai Amanat Khan police, alleged that the accused abducted the girl on the pretext of marriage. The police have registered a case under Section 363 and 366-A of the IPC and the POCSO Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/18-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-213081
16-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Man shoots son at Tarn Taran village||A man allegedly shot his alcoholic son at Kirian village in the district last midnight.The deceased had been identified as Rajdeep Singh (30). The suspect, Subeg Singh, has been booked on the statement of Rajbir Kaur, wife of the deceased.Chohla Sahib police station SHO Yadwinder Singh said Rajbir, in her statement, claimed Rajdeep under the influence of liquor went to his elder brother’s under-construction house where his father was asleep but was shot with a licensed revolver.Rajbir claimed her father-in-law used to often ask her husband to give up alcohol. Soon after her husband left the house around midnight, she heard gunshots and rushed out, only to find her husband’s body in a pool of blood.The SHO said a case had been registered against Subeg, who is at large. The deceased had married Rajbir five years ago and the couple had a four-year-old daughter and one-and-a-half-year-old son. Suspect’s elder son Sukhraj Singh, an Army man, had taken leave to build the house, where Subeg used to sleep at night.The body was sent to local Civil Hospital for post-mortem in the morning. Rajdeep’s relatives, however, complained that the post-mortem could not be conducted in time on Monday. Also, Nirmaljit Singh, a resident of Doburji village, and his relatives lodged a protest over delay in conduct of post-mortem of younger brother Baljinder Singh, who died in a road accident on Sunday.Dr Swarajit Dhawan, SMO, said the post-mortem was delayed due to lapses on part of the police. — OC4-kg drugs seizedFerozepur: The BSF has seized 4-kg heroin worth Rs 20 crore in two different seizures in the sector. Ten packets of 2-kg heroin and two packets weighing 2.130 kg were seized. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shoots-son-at-tarn-taran-village-212878
