17-02-2021||Amritsar||Booked for theft in his own shop||Bibi Bhani’s birth anniv celebratedAmritsar: The SGPC marked the birth anniversary of Bibi Bhani, wife of fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das, at the Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in Golden Temple complex on Tuesday. On the occasion, after the bhog (conclusion) of Sri Akhand Path, Gurbani kirtan was performed by the shrine’s jatha of hazuri raagi Bhai Gurdev Singh and ardas (prayer) was offered by Bhai Prem Singh. Kathawachak Bhai Harmitar Singh informed the sangat about the life of Bibi Bhani and encouraged them to take guidance from her life. He said Bibi Bhani’s whole life was dedicated to the teachings of Guru Sahib and it was full of virtues like sewa (service), simran (remembrance of God), sanjam (temperance). Bhai Harmitar Singh appealed to the Sikh women to strive to connect their children with Gursikhi in accordance with the life teachings of Bibi Bhani. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/booked-for-theft-in-his-own-shop-213606
17-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Rape accused held in five hours||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rape-accused-held-in-five-hours-213605
17-02-2021||---||Respite in sight as open sewer drain to be finally covered||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 6The state government is set to cover the open sewer drain under a concrete road in the Lahori Gate area of the city. Once completed, one of the major demands of the residents of nearby localities would be met. They have been complaining of stench and harmful gases emanating out of it.Cabinet Minster OP Soni intimated this after visiting the proposed site which falls under Ward Number 58. “The road will be laid at a cost of Rs1.25 crore. Besides, a new sewerage line between Lahori Gate and Gate Khazana will also be laid with the investment of Rs7.5 lakh.”Accompanied by officials of the department concerned, he directed them to ensure that high quality material would be used in the project and it should be completed in time. He also handed over a grant of Rs7.50 lakh to office-bearers of Bhagwan Valmiki Dharam Palak Sabha for the beautification of Bhagwan Valmiki Dharamshala.Soni announced that 85 per cent of the basic infrastructure and development works in all the wards of the Central constituency had been finished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/respite-in-sight-as-open-sewer-drain-to-be-finally-covered-213604
17-02-2021|| Amritsar||Teachers’ associations demand new pay scales||An emergent meeting of office-bearers of Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association (GNDUTA) and Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) was held on Tuesday under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation (PFUCTO). The meeting was held to voice dissent against non-implementation of recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission, in regard to the pay scales of teachers. The joint committee stated that the UGC recommended pay scales has been implemented in almost every state of India but unfortunately teaching fraternity of Punjab has been deprived of its benefits since January 2016. The PFUCTO further stated that the Punjab Government was trying to delink the pay scales of teachers from UGC 7th CPC which will result in delinking of higher education system of the state from national higher education system.“It was decided in the meeting that all unit members of GNDU and its affiliated colleges will mobilise the cadre regarding their demands and a massive dharna-cum-rally will be organised in front of Guru Nanak Dev University soon,” said BB Yadav, area secretary, PCCTU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-associations-demand-new-pay-scales-213603
17-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Residents feel the heat as cooking gas gets costlier||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16The hike of Rs 50 per LPG cylinder has come as another shocker for the people, who were already battling with Covid-19 induced economic distress. A negligible subsidy amount being transferred to consumers also failed to provide them any respite.The ongoing economic recession caused by Covid-19 has already reduced wages, sales on non-essential commodities, besides changing lifestyles of different sections of the society. The families, especially, middle and low income groups, are finding it tough to manage spiraling inflation on essential items such as cereals, pulses, cooking oil and even fuel cost in their dwindling income.Manvi Mehta, a housewife, said there has been at least a 40 percent hike in the kitchen budget, following the unlocking of the lockdown. “Before lockdown, I used to manage the kitchen with a budget of Rs 6,000 for a month. Now, the same has been increased to Rs 10,000.”Karan Kumar, an employee at a shop, said the financial condition of those working at outlets has always remained critical. Inflation on essential items have turned their fiscal condition from bad to worse. “My family had to live on the paltry savings during the Covid-19 period. So this is another blow.” He added that the middle class never figures in the manifesto of political parties. Hence, they remain devoid of government devised policies.Sudesh Kumar, a cosmetic trader, said, the sale of non-essential commodities such as cosmetics have fallen manifolds. He added that there has been a 20 to 30 percent hike in cooking oils such as mustard, soya, rice bran, palm, cotton seed, cereals and pulses.He stated that a negligible subsidy amount was being transferred to banks these days which also does not offer any solace to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-feel-the-heat-as-cooking-gas-gets-costlier-213602
17-02-2021||---||BSF foils Pak smugglers’ bid to push in drugs, ammo into state||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16Unprecedented fog in spring season has increased the problem of the Border Security Force with anti-national elements and Pakistan-based smugglers making attempts for pushing in drugs into Punjab. This year, the BSF has already confiscated over 77kg of heroin on the Indo-Pak border in Punjab.On Sunday, the BSF seized 6kg of heroin, valued at Rs 30 crores in the international black market, from Kakkar border outpost falling in the Amritsar sector.A BSF official said jawans had noticed the movement of a Pakistani smuggler near the barbed fence who threw something on to the Indian side of the border. When the BSF jawans challenged him, he fled back. During search, the BSF jawan found two packets containing 2kg heroin.A search operation was conducted in the area on this morning also where the jawans recovered four more packets consisting of 4kg heroin. The contraband was handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau for further investigation.On the intervening night of February 12 and13, the BSF shot an intruder and confiscated 14.8kg of heroin valued at Rs 74 crores in the international market.Another seizure of 5kg was made in the Ferozepur sector on the intervening night of February 12 and13 while a PVC plastic pipe was found inserted in the barbed fence near the Bhindisaida border outpost which indicated that the smugglers had pushed in a drug consignment.A senior BSF official, wishing anonymity said this was perhaps the first time that the dense fog had engulfed the region in February. “For the past five days, the fog has been enveloping the border belt. This has provided favourable condition for the anti-national elements to slip in drugs and arms consignments on to the Indian side. The conditions become very challenging as visibility becomes zero due to the dense fog,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-foils-pak-smugglers-bid-to-push-in-drugs-ammo-into-state-213601
17-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Port of dump!||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 16Ever since International Dry Port (IDP) opened at Khasa railway station, its new platforms have become an eyesore.It seems that the platforms may soon seamlessly transform into a dump yard with the advancing days. Large sheets of plastic, plastic cups, bottles and plates, polythene bags and a lot more can be seen scattered. The scene doesn’t just end here as the same litter drifts to the nearby fields of agriculture, irking the farmers.Daily at least one goods train arrives and a large number of trucks to leave or collect the goods. The drivers of these trucks, along with railway officials, don’t have any scruples while littering the platforms, be it from the train or while having a meal.There is also no facility of waste disposal at the station, as pointed out by many truck drivers working at the platforms. “We agree once these platforms were very clean but where should the waste be dumped. There is no facility. Do you see any dustbins? Concerned station authorities should ensure a cleanliness drive. They can employ a team for cleanliness,” said Dharam Singh, one of the drivers.Another truck driver Amandeep Singh, added, “I have seen farmers from nearby fields also talking to the officials here regarding the waste which keeps heading to their fields but a collective effort by the authorities here can address the concern.”The cultivators lamented that ever since the station opened as IDP, it has been a nuisance, considering the authorities’ failure to manage the litter. “Plastic waste continuously flows towards our fields. It will eventually ruin our soil. This is a very serious concern,” Ranjeet Singh, a farmer.His counterpart Balraj Singh is fed up of picking the unwanted arrivals. “I keep sorting my field freeing it from plastic waste, like many other farmers around. It multiplies our work!”Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a writer and freelance journalist from the village, holds IDP and station authorities at fault. “It’s certainly mismanagement of IDP and station authorities. They should have planned everything in advance. Let’s not forget that civic sense rarely works in our country,” he said. The station was once an ideal place for photoshoots. Now, it is even dirtier than several city stations. “There was a time I would walk along the station route but not no more, like many others. We also miss the heritage building of the station which was brought down to pave way for IDP.”Other than the waste concern, stealing has also become commonplace at the station. Every now and then, large parts of the iron fence that border the platforms go missing. There is also no check on it.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), said the railway would provide all basic amenities like dustbins besides security. He added that the station was being used as goods terminal and no passenger train was introduced there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/port-of-dump-213600
17-02-2021||---||Events organised to celebrate birth anniv of Sir Chhotu Ram||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16As part of the ongoing agitation against the three controversial agriculture related laws, farmers held events at different towns and villages of the district to celebrate the birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram.The events were organised as part of the nationwide call given by the Samyukat Kisan Morcha. The farmers also organised an event at Bhandari bridge. Speaking on the occasion, Rattan Singh Randhawa, a prominent farmer leader, said: “Sir Chhotu Ram was a national-level farmer leader who dedicated his entire life for the welfare of the farmers.”Randhawa lamented that his contribution towards nation building were immense but not remembered by farmers and governments. He was instrumental in decisions as complete debt waiver, arrangement of mandis for sale of food grains and helping farmers get credit facilities from the government. Sir Chhotu Ram was the Minister of Agriculture in 1938-1939.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/events-organised-to-celebrate-birth-anniv-of-sir-chhotu-ram-213599
17-02-2021||---||Attempt to set mosque afire in Chheharta, case registered||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16Some unidentified persons attempted to set mosque afire in the Chheharta area last night. Panic gripped Muslim community after the incident. According to information, someone used petrol or kerosene filled bottle to burn the main entrance of Masjid Deen Mohammad. A small portion along with gate had caught fire. No loss of human life was reported.Mohammad Maqbool, a Namaji (devotee) at mosque, said, “I reached here around 5 am and found that someone tried to set afire main gate of the mosque. We informed the police. A police team reached the spot and assured to take appropriate action. There was no witness to the incident as the mosque was closed at night. The accused have used beer bottle to carry the fuel”.The Chheharta police have recovered some CCTV footage and are investigating the matter. Dev Dutt Sharma, Assistant Commissioner of Police, reached the spot and stated that scattered parts of beer bottle had been seized. The statements of locals have been recorded. The police would arrest the accused soon, he said. A case has been registered in this regard.Manik Ali, president, mosque committee, said, “All community members are in deep shock. We have visited the police station and demanded immediate arrest of accused responsible for the incident”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attempt-to-set-mosque-afire-in-chheharta-case-registered-213598
17-02-2021||---||Now, GNDU to recognise equivalent degrees, courses from other varsities||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16Approval to new courses in colleges, discontinuation of a few and changes in syllabi were the key decisions taken during academic council meeting held on Tuesday at Guru Nanak Dev University. Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, cleared the process of recognition of equivalent degrees and courses from the new session onwards.Key decisionsNow, the degree of BCom (business studies) done through distance education mode from Annamalai University to seek admission in LLB of GNDU has also been approvedThe nutrition-related subjects studied in Bachelor of Food Science & Tech (Hons) degree from GNDU will now be recognised as equivalent to the subject of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics (vocational) studied in BA/BScMaster of Computer Application degree passed under Distance Education Mode from Kurukshetra University will now be equivalent to Master of Computer Application degree of this university. Class XII examinations passed from various countries, which has been received through ICCR under scholarship scheme for admission to higher courses, have also been approved at the meeting.Degrees at undergraduate, postgraduate levels and postgraduate diplomas awarded through Open and Distance Learning mode (ODL) by the various statutory universities/institutions (within its territorial jurisdiction) in conformity with the UGC specification of degrees, 2014, and approval given by the UGC-DEB/erstwhile DEC for the particular session will be recognised as equivalent to the corresponding degrees and postgraduate diplomas offered through conventional mode of the varsity.The council also approved the degree of B Com (business studies) done through distance education mode from Annamalai University to seek admission in LLB of this university. The nutrition-related subjects studied in Bachelor of Food Science & Technology (hons) degree from GNDU will now be recognised as equivalent to the subject of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics (vocational) studied in BA/BSc degree. Similarly, B Lib and Information Science and M Lib and Information Science degrees passed under Distance Education Mode from Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar, will be recognised as equivalent to B Lib and Info Science and M Lib and Information Science degree of GNDU. The meeting also recommended the LLB (five-year integrated course) passed under regular mode from the varsity be recognised as equivalent to LLB (three-year course) of the university.The meet recommended that the candidate concerned is eligible to take admission in MBA on the basis of having passed B Com through Directorate of Distance Education mode (ODL) from University of Jammu, Jammu.BSc degree passed along with subjects of English, Punjabi, computer science, economics, mathematics/ quantitative techniquies or any other subjects as per combination prescribed by the university be recognised at par with BA of this university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-gndu-to-recognise-equivalent-degrees-courses-from-other-varsities-213597
17-02-2021||---||Patti & Bhikhiwind ready for vote count||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, February 16The district administration has made foolproof arrangements for counting of votes on Wednesday for the civic body poll held in Patti and Bhikhiwind on February 14.Patti witnessed 62.82 per cent polling in 19 wards and 63.42 per cent voting took place in Bhikhiwind.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer (DEO) Kulwant Singh said the counting will commence at 9 am today. He said counting will be held at Guru Nanak Dev University College, Patti, and at Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (Campus), Bhikhiwind.Sub-Divisonal Magistrate Rajesh Sharma and Tarn Taran SDM Rajnish Arora had been appointed Returning Officers for Patti and Bhikhiwind, respectively, said the Deputy Commissioner. He said supervisors and assistant counting supervisors have been appointed in both the civic bodies.Fate of 100 candidates from the Patti Municpal Council (54) and Bhikhwind nagar panchayat (46) will be decided today. Five nominees of Congress will be elected unopposed from Patti as nobody filed their nomination papers against them.The BJP contested on only three wards in Patti and failed to field even a single candidate in Bhikhiwind. Three Independents were also in the fray. The Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party leaders had levelled allegations of booth capturing and other irregularities in both the towns. A firing incident also took place in Patti and a case against the Congressmen was registered by the police on Monday.Amarjit Singh Dhillon, former chief of Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat, who contested as a SAD candidate from Ward No. 6 said though Congress had misused official machinery during the polls, but Akalis would win all the wards as voters were with them.Ranbir Singh, AAP candidate from Ward No. 1 of Bhikhiwind, said they would win a couple of wards despite pressure tactics applied by Congress. He said the police and the administration remained mute spectators when Congress workers captured booths in Bhikhiwind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-bhikhiwind-ready-for-vote-count-213591
17-02-2021||---||Tight security on day of decision||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16The rural police claimed to make foolproof arrangements for counting of votes scheduled for tomorrow.Dhruv Dahiya, Senior Superintendent of Police, Amritsar (Rural), stated that counting of votes would be been carried out in a peaceful manner. “Strict security arrangements have been made at the counting centres so the process can be carried out peacefully. The district administration has set five counting centres in Amritsar where counting of votes would take place. Five SP rank senior police officers have been deployed for the supervision. In addition, 11 DSP-rank officers and more than 1200 police personnel have been deployed at the counting centre for security.”Dahiya said reserve force has also been deployed in the sensitive areas of the constituencies to prevent any untoward incident. Apart from this, flag marches are being carried out by SSP Amritsar Rural in five constituencies keeping in view the counting of votes.The SSP has checked all the strongrooms. The force has been deployed in rural Amritsar district. Dahiya sternly warned that if any one tried to disrupt the law and order situation, strict legal action would be taken against the offender.Meanwhile, the district administration has issued orders to close schools and colleges where counting centres have been established.Additional District Election Officer-cum-ADC (Development) Ranbir Singh Mudhal said the counting centre for Ramdas has been set at Baba Buddha Singh Senior Secondary School, Ramdas. The votes at Jandiala Guru would be counted at Bearing School, Jandiala Guru. The centre for Ajnala has been established at Government Senior Secondary School (boys) Ajnala. The votes of Rayya would be counted at Sri Mata Ganga Senior Secondary School, Baba Bakala. The centre for Municipal Corporation Ward No. 37 bypoll has been established at Mai Bhago Polytechnic College Majitha Road. He added that in this regard the District Electoral Officer has ordered to close these schools on February 17 keeping in view the safety of the students in these schools and colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tight-security-on-day-of-decision-213589
17-02-2021||---||All arrangements in place for counting today||Amritsar, February 16Though results of the civic body poll and bypoll in Ward No. 37 of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation will not change scenario at the state-level, but political observers believe that the results will be an indication of which way the wind is blowing.Counting of votes will be held on Wednesday for the civic bodies of Majitha, Jandiala Guru, Ramdas, Ajnala, Rayya and Ward No. 37 (bypoll), which went to polls on February 14 .Counting of votes to begin at 9 amWard No. 37 bypollIn 85-member Amritsar Municipal Corporation, winning or losing Ward No.37 would not dent Congress’s fortunes as the party already has 64 councillors and enjoys the support of eight Independent councillors. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have seven and six coucillors, respectively. Defeat of Congress candidate would mean rejection of the state government’s policies by masses. However, chances of defeat of Congress nominee were negligible.Majitha, Jandiala GuruIn Majitha, which had emerged as a parallel-power centre during the 10-year tenure of SAD and BJP government, Akalis were likely to lose its majority. Earlier, SAD had a majority in the civic body comprising 13 wards.With Bikram Singh Majitha emerging as a powerful political figure, getting a majority would further strengthen his position. Moreover, it was already a moral victory for Akalis as their estranged partner, BJP, failed to even field a single candidate.Jandiala Guru, a historic town, 15 km away from here may have voted in favour of the Opposition, especially SAD, said political observers.SAD leader Malkiat Singh AR, who had been MLA from the Jandiala Guru segment from 2007 to 2012, said no development works were undertaken in the constituency since Congress formed the government in 2017.Ramdas, Ajnala, RayyaRamdas and Ajnala, which had witnessed 82 per cent and 79 per cent voting, respectively, has become a prestige issue for an incumbent Congress MLA Harpartap Singh Ajnala. Political pundits believe that the voting pattern in both the towns indicates that these were likely to go in the ruling party’s kitty. In Rayya, too, the results were expected to come in favour of Congress.Fate of 295 candidates to be decidedOf 68 wards, including Ward No. 37 in the city for which the elections were held, the Congress is the only party, which had fielded candidates from all wards. Akalis contested on 66 wards as it had not fielded any candidates from two wards of Jandiala Guru. AAP fielded candidates from 66 wards as it had no candidate for one seat each in Ajnala and Jandiala. However, BJP fielded its candidates on 22 seats only. With one BSP nominee, a total of 72 Independents were in the fray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-arrangements-in-place-for-counting-today-213384
