18-02-2021||Amritsar||Woman found dead in Gulmohar Avenue||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-found-dead-in-gulmohar-avenue-214147
18-02-2021||Panchayat of Jahangir village falling under Khadoor Sahib block in the district had been irrigating around 170 acres with waste water for the last five years. As a result||Waste water used  for irrigation||Scholarship for deserving student“All doors are open for Inderjit Singh, who is intelligent and expresses his views in a proper manner,” said Rakhi, incharge (Class IX), Government Senior Secondary School, Manochahal Kalan. Inderjit belongs to a marginal family and his father is a daily worker. His father works at a sweetshop during winter and sells goll gappas in summer season. Inderjit has two siblings, inlcluding a brother and a sister. His sister got admission at Akal Academy, Baru Sahib, for higher education, where education is provided for free to eligible girls. Inderjit is the only student in the school who not only got A+ grade in Class VIII annual exams, but also won National Merit-cum-Means Scholarship Scheme (NMMSS) conducted by the Centre recently. Principal Jaspreet Singh said Inderjit will get Rs 1,000 scholarship each month and all the required documents have been sent to the authorities concerned. For the last six months, Inderjit had been selling gol gappas to make both the ends meet as his father was unable to work. Inspite of his study getting affected, Inderjit has become mature, said Gurwaryam Singh, his Punjabi teacher. Rakhi said Inderjit can achieve success in any field as he has the confidence to progress. He has been honoured for all-round performance. Inderjit wants to join the Indian Army to serve the country.Grant for development of villages in districtThe state government has sanctioned around Rs 200 crore to develop villages under the “Smart Village” scheme. The grant will be used to renovate drainage systems, making streets, modernisation of ponds, installation of street lights, construction of school buildings, repair of of cremation grounds, among others. Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharamvir Agnihotri while inaugurating development works at Jauhal Raju Singh village said the state government out of the total amount of Rs 200.85 crore, grants worth Rs 22.56 crore had been released. Agnihotri said Rs 37 lakh will be spent at Jauhal Raju Singh village. He said 32 streets of the village will be constructed the said amount. Sarpanch Kanwaljit Kaur highlighted the progress made by the village during the last three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waste-water-used-for-irrigation-214146
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Protesting Tarn Taran DC office staff  postpone strike till March 5||Tarn Taran, February 17The agitating employees of the local Deputy Commissioner’s office who were observing a pen-down strike for an indefinite period have postponed their strike till March 5.The employees under the banner of the District DC Office Employees’ Association, Tarn Taran, were on the agitation path demanding the withdrawal of a criminal case registered against Karwinder Singh Cheema, the controversial clerk of the arms branch of the DC office, by the Patti Sadar police recently. The clerk, Karwinder Singh Cheema, too is president of the association. The clerk was booked for issuing fake arms licences to people by taking big amounts.Shivkaran Singh Cheema, general secretary of the association, who was leading the agitation, said the employees of the SDM and tehsil offices too joined the agitation from today. He claimed that Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh himself assured them that he would discuss the issue with the SSP to withdraw the case.Shivkaran Singh said keeping in view the Deputy Commissioner’s assurance, the association leaders decided to postpone the strike till March 5 and if the case was not withdrawn till march 5, they would restart its agitation from March 8 against the SSP and the administration would be responsible for all the consequences itself. Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, district president of the Punjab State Ministerial Services’ Union, Punjab, Sukhpreet Singh, district convener of the Sanjha Mulazam Manch, Punjab, Prithipal Singh, district president of the Kanungo Union, and Sarabjit Singh Sandhu, president, Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, were among others who addressed the protesting employees in the District Administrative Complex .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-tarn-taran-dc-office-staff-postpone-strike-till-march-5-214145
18-02-2021||---||Jagat Jyoti School and DAV Cricket Academy play out a draw||Tarn Taran, February 17The Richkook Junior League cricket match between Jagat Jyoti School and DAV Cricket Academy was declared a draw here on Wednesday.In the 25 overs match, both teams scored 116 runs in a pulsating encounter.Chasing the target, DAV Academy required a single at the last ball of their innings. Mannan with five and Saksham Chawla with 27 runs were at the crease. Instead, Mannan went for the boundary and was caught by Lakshay. Earlier, Jagat Jyoti School batted first and were bowled out at 116 for 25 overs. Danish was the major run-getter for his side as he hit 62 off 56 balls, while Mayank scalped three for 21 in six overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jagat-jyoti-school-and-dav-cricket-academy-play-out-a-draw-214144
18-02-2021||---||Farmers’ four-hour ‘rail roko’ protest today, Railways ready||Amritsar, February 17The local railway authorities and the Railway Protection Force have geared up to handle the movement of trains as per the four-hour ‘rail roko’ call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha for tomorrow between 12pm and 4pm.Ashok Salaria, Area Officer, Amritsar Railway Station, stated that all station masters and other staff, apart from the RPF, were on alert. He said since only four trains were being run daily, that too through a diverted route, the Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas, only one train will be affected due to the railway blockade tomorrow. This train is Shaheed Express (04674), which departs at 1.05 pm. Tomorrow, the train will depart after 4 pm.To ply five pairs of trainsThe Railways has announced to operate five pairs of trains, including 54613 Amritsar-Pathankot and 54616 Pathankot-Amritsar, from February 22. The fair will be charged of Mail Express. For instance, the fare for a passenger travelling from Amritsar to Pathankot will be Rs55. On the other hand, the bus fare for the same distance costs Rs140.Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), who have been blocking the Amritsar-Delhi railway at the Jandiala Guru railway station, about 10 km from Amritsar, for the past many months, announced that its members would block railway crossings at the Vallah sabji mandi, Beas station, Amritsar-Jammu railway line, Amritsar-Dera Baba Nanak and Amritsar-Tarn Taran routes.Sawinder Singh, senior vice-president of the KMSC, said their activists would block rail traffic at 31 places in 11 districts tomorrow. He informed that their demands included repeal of the three agriculture laws, reduction in fuel prices by 50 per cent, guarantee procurement of all crops and abrogation of cases registered during the farmers’ agitation. The agitating farmers blocking the railway line has always allowed goods trains to pass, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-four-hour-rail-roko-protest-today-railways-ready-214143
18-02-2021||---||GNDU students demand release of jailed activists Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi||Amritsar, February 17Students of different departments of GNDU on Wednesday raised their voice of dissent against the arrest of farmers and political activists during a march took out on the campus. Showing solidarity with the farmers and calling for justice and terming the arrests of activist Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi as an attempt to violate the fundamental right of the students gathered outside the gurdwara on the campus.Carrying placards reading “Political prisoners aren’t criminals”, they raised slogans and demanded the release of Disha Ravi, Nodeep Kaur and 122 farmers detained in Tihar jail. While addressing the protesters, former student of the university and Sikh Youth of Punjab president Paramjit Singh Mand said, “For the past few months, millions of peasants have been sleeping on different points of borders in Delhi in chilling cold and waging a battle against the policies that would put them in the bondage of contractors and big corporate houses. They are demanding a repeal of the agricultural laws, the scrapping of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, etc. Hence, it is necessary that students should stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers.”Jatinder Singh, a PhD scholar of the university, who is part of the students’ protests, said, “The Central Government has an obligation to protect and uphold the protesters’ human rights, not to demonise them. It is painful that the government has arbitrarily arrested a number of protesters and activists like Nodeep Kaur and many others, which is not justified.”Jujhar Singh of Sath, who collaborated with the Sikh Youth of Punjab, said the government should stop witch-hunting of the supporters of the farmers’ agitation, including climate activist Disha Ravi.While commenting on the arrest of 22-year-old Ravi, Mand said under the present dispensation it seemed to be a heinous crime to post a tweet for the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-demand-release-of-jailed-activists-nodeep-kaur-and-disha-ravi-214142
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong wins big in Patti, Bhikhiwind||Tarn Taran, February 17Congress has won the Patti municipal council and Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat election with an absolute majority. Votes for the civic body poll were counted today and results were declared by the Returning Officers concerned.Congress's 26 candidates were declared winner from Patti and Bhikhiwind. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) managed to win four wards and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won two wards. A total of 54 candidates were in the fray from Patti and five nominees of the Congress were elected unopposed.Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) three candidates got mere 81 votes polled in Patti, which was way less than NOTA (164 votes).Out of 19 wards in Patti, Congress won 15 wards, SAD and AAP two wards each. Winners in the Patti municipal council include, Karamjit Kaur (Congress), Ward No.1; Dhawinderjit Singh (SAD) Ward No.2; Amandeep Kaur (Congress) Ward No.3; Kulwinder Singh (Congress), Ward No. 4; Jasjit Kaur (Congress), Ward No. 5; Kulwant Singh Kalsi (AAP) Ward No. 6; Lakhbir Kaur, (AAP) Ward No. 7; Dalbir Singh (Congress), Ward No. 8; Rajwant Kaur (Congress), Ward No. 9; Komal Jain, (Congress), Ward No.10; Kavita Arora (Congress), Ward No. 11; Surjit Singh (Congress), Ward No. 12; Baljit Kaur (SAD), Ward No.13; Tirath Singh (Congress), Ward No.14; Raman (Congress) Ward No. 15; Jagmeet Singh (Congress), Ward No.16; Baljit Kaur (Congress) Ward No. 17; Rakesh Kumar (Congress), Ward No.18; and Balkar Singh (Congress), Ward No.19.Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill was left red-faced after AAP candidate Lakhbir Kaur won with a margin of 121 votes in Ward No.7 (Patti). On the day of voting, a firing incident took place in this ward and an AAP worker was injured in the melee.In Bhikhiwind, Congress won 11 of the 13 wards, while SAD's nominees won from two wards. Winners include Rajbir Kaur (Cong), Ward No.1; Manjit Singh (Congress) Ward No.2; Sukhpal Singh (Cong), Ward No.3; Rajinder Kumar (Cong), Ward No.4; Shama Rani (SAD), Ward No.5; Amarjit Singh Dhillon (SAD), Ward No.6; Manjit Kaur (Cong), Ward No.7; Harbhajan Singh (Cong), Ward No.8; Pushpa Rani (Cong), Ward No.9; Neeraj Dhawan, (Cong) Ward 10; Manjit Kaur (Congress), Ward No.11; Sakattar Singh (Cong), Ward No.12; and Rekha Rani (Cong) Ward No.13.Meanwhile, Congress candidate Manjit Kaur from Ward No.7 won by mere four votes. She polled 92 votes while her rival Harjinder Kaur of SAD bagged 88 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-wins-big-in-patti-bhikhiwind-214141
18-02-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Congress scores 29/29 in Gurdaspur municipal council poll||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, February 17The Congress annihilated all opposition as it virtually steamrolled its way past the mainline political outfits —the SAD, BJP and AAP — to win all 29 seats at stake in the polls to the Gurdaspur municipal council.All 29 candidates were handpicked by MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra. He had sought votes on the basis of developmental projects carried out in the past four years by his party.Two-time SAD MLA and president of the Gurdaspur district SAD unit Gurbachan Singh Babbehali finds himself in the doldrums as his party failed to win even a single seat. He had been carrying out extensive campaigns for his candidates in all wards.Cong MLA’s brother, Baljit Singh Pahra, who had contested from Ward No. 2, won unopposed. Sources say the decks have been cleared for him to become the MC president.The dice rolled favourably for the Congress and no opposition party candidate even came close to the Congress candidates as its nominees won ward after ward with ease. The Akalis were reduced to non-entities. In Ward No. 17, where the SAD (urban unit) has its party head office, the outfit could not even find a candidate to contest. If these results are any barometer, the writing is on the wall for the opposition parties. “They will have to pull up their socks if they have to put up a fight in the 2022 Assembly polls,” said a minister.The BJP was confident of winning at least half a dozen wards but as things stand this confidence turned out to be misplaced. The AAP, which ran largely its campaign on social media sites, too failed to open its account.In Dinanagar, the home borough of Cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhury, the Congress won 14 of the 15 seats. The Qadian municipal council saw a fight. Here, the Akalis won seven seats while the Congress bagged six.In Fatehgarh Churian, where Cabinet minister and sitting MLA Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s writ runs large, the Congress bagged 12 of the 13 seats. For long, the minister was focusing on both Batala (municipal corporation) and Fatehgarh Churian civic bodies. He has triumphed in both and is now all set to make his loyalist Sukhdeep Singh Teja as the first ever Mayor of Batala.Incidentally, Teja won by the largest margin of votes recorded by any candidate in the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency. He garnered 65 per cent of the total votes cast in Ward No. 30 and won by a whopping margin of 2,470 votes.In Dhariwal, buoyed by local MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa’s support, the Congress won nine of the 13 seats. The legislator had campaigned for nearly a fortnight here.Sri Hargobindpur turned out to be a revelation. Of the 11 wards, Independent candidates won in six. The Congress fared so poorly that it managed just three seats. This development does not augur well for sitting Congress MLA Balwinder Laddi in the run up to the 2022 Assembly poll.The BJP, facing the wrath of the voters post farm laws, won just four out of a total of 146 wards in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-scores-29-29-in-gurdaspur-municipal-council-poll-214140
18-02-2021||---||Akalis hold their forte in Majitha||Amritsar, February 17The Congress won three out of the five municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the district today, including Jandiala, Ramdas and Rayya.In Majitha, the SAD proved its dominance by grabbing 10 wards out of 13. Congress suffered an unexpected setback in Ajnala where Akalis won eight wards out of 15.With influence of SAD senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia in his constituency, Akalis managed victory in 10 wards. Congress got only two wards, while an Independent also won from Majitha. Majithia gave the entire credit to officials concerned for conducting fair elections and voters in Majitha. In Ajnala, SAD won eight wards out of 15 and Congress managed to win remaning seven wards.The Congress won 10 wards out of 15 in Jandiala. SAD bagged three wards and Independents won from two wards. The Congress swept 12 wards out of 13 in Rayya. Akalis could manage to win only one ward. Congress and SAD nominees bagged equal number of votes in Ward No 2. A draw of lots was held to pick the winner. The seat finally went to SAD candidate Harpreet Singh Happy.In Ramdas, Congress won eight wards while three went in the kitty of SAD. The BJP and the AAP failed to win a single ward in five civic bodies of the district.Amarpal Singh Bony, ex-SAD MLA, Ajnala, said it’s the victory against suppression of the Congress government. “People of Ajnala never supported lawlessness. Mood of voters can be adjudged ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll from these results,” said Bony.After tie, Lottery decides fate in RayyaThe administration held a draw of lots to announce a winner in Ward No. 2 in Rayya. Baba Bakala SDM Dr Sumit said lottery can be held in case candidates poll equal number of votes. Congress candidate KK Sharma and SAD nominee Harpreet Singh bagged 295 votes each. Names of both the candidates were written on two slips. Luck favoured SAD candidate Harpreet Singh Happy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akalis-hold-their-forte-in-majitha-214132
18-02-2021||---||Cong’s Gagandeep clinches the deal in Ward No.37 bypoll||Amritsar, February 17Congress candidate Gagandeep Singh Sehjra won the bypoll of the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar Ward No.37 by defeating its rival Shiromani Akali Dal candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori by a margin of only 135 votes here on Wednesday.Gagandeep, who contested for the first time, got 3,223 votes while SAD candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori, who was contesting for a second time from the same ward, got 3,088 votes.After winning the by-election, Gagandeep Singh said, “It’s like a wrestling match in which one has to win and the other has to suffer defeat. I am thankful to all those who supported me. Even those who didn’t support me, I would also serve them being a councillor. I would be available in the service of residents 24x7.”During the counting of votes, SAD candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori was leading in the first two rounds but in the last round Sehjra got the lead which erupted controversy.SAD candidate Inderjit Singh Pandori alleged that on the day of the by-election, the role of a senior police officer was biased. “A DSP-level officer did not allow me to visit the polling station at Holly Mother School. We suspect that they cast fake votes there,” said Pandori.Bikram Singh Majithia, Senior Akali leader and MLA from Majitha, also alleged misappropriation in the results of Ward No.37. On the other hand, Gagandeep Singh of the Congress refuted the allegations and claimed that the elections were held in an unbiased and fair manner.The candidates of three other parties were far behind in the competition. Despite an aggressive campaign, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Jaspal Singh Bhullar got only 1,213 votes. More voters of Ward No. 37 chose “None of the Above” (NOTA) than candidates of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and Bahujan Samaj Party. BJP candidate Manohar Singh bagged only 52 votes while BSP candidate Ranvir Singh Rana got 40 votes. As many as 60 voters rejected all the candidates by choosing the option of NOTA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congs-gagandeep-clinches-the-deal-in-ward-no-37-bypoll-214126
18-02-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar rejects BJP, AAP, stays with Cong||The Congress has reaffirmed its dominance in the high-octane civic body poll amid farmers’ agitation against the farm laws in the Majha region.The emerging scenario on the ground level electoral battle could be perceived as a setback for the BJP and AAP, which had failed to make its presence felt. Both parties were wiped out in Amritsar’s three nagar panchayats Rayya, Ramdas and Ajnala; two municipal councils Majitha and Jandiala and in ward No 37 bypoll.A similar scene was witnessed at the Patti Municipal Council and the Bhikhiwind Nagar Panchayat where the BJP could not open its account. In Amritsar, of the 68 seats, Congress won 40, followed by SAD with 25 and three Independents. The bypoll of the Amritsar MC ward No 37 was won by Congress’ Gagandeep Singh Sehjra with 130 votes.The SAD has re-established its grip in Ajnala that was being loosened after former MP Rattan Singh Ajnala camp joined the SAD (Taksali) group. Apparently, with the U-turn taken by his son Boney Ajnala and his supporters, SAD bounced back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rejects-bjp-aap-stays-with-cong-213848
18-02-2021||Amritsar||Jatha to Pak refused permission, SGPC fumes||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MEA) has denied permission to a Sikh jatha that was to leave for Pakistan on Thursday for the centennial of the Nankana Sahib massacre. As many as 730 visas were issued by the Pakistan Embassy for the February 21 event.Citing security concerns, the SGPC received a fax message from the MEA on Wednesday evening, stating that recent inputs indicated a threat to Indian citizens visiting Pakistan. It also pointed out that movement on the India-Pakistan border had been suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A furious SGPC president, Bibi Jagir Kaur, claimed that restrictions on the jatha at the eleventh hour when all preparations had been made and documents furnished revealed Centre’s “anti-Sikh” mindset. “The MEA stated that the jatha could not be allowed to proceed to Pakistan due to security reasons and the Covid -19 threat. If that is the case, why was a jatha allowed earlier in November for Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary celebrations,” she asked. “The SGPC had arranged 20 buses for the pilgrims from the international border to Sri Nankana Sahib and other gurdwaras. Langar and other arrangements too were in place. All this has been scrapped by the Centre at the last minute,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jatha-to-pak-refused-permission-sgpc-fumes-213940
