19-02-2021||---||Money exchanger robbed of Rs 90K at gunpoint by duo||Amritsar, February 18Prem Kumar, a money exchanger, was robbed by two- armed persons at gunpoint on Wednesday evening.The victim was heading towards Ajnala on his scooter when the incident took place. He had exchanged money from Liberty market and was carrying around Rs 90,000.The victim told the police that he runs a money exchange office near Bony Hospital in Ajnala. He said on Wednesday, he went to Singapore Money Exchanger in Liberty market near Amritsar railway station.He said he got dollars converted into Indian currency (Rs 48,000), and was already carrying Rs 42,000 with him.The victim said as on his way back to Ajnala, he stopped at Rokhe petrol pump. He said two youth who were in their mid-twenties came on a motorcycle, which had no registration plate.He said the duo started talking to him and later took out a pistol. He said the youth robbed him at gunpoint.Prem said as he resisted, the youth entered into a scuffle with him and fled away with Rs 90,000 towards Amritsar. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unknown persons.Tarsikka police arrest mobile snatcherThe Tarsikka police have arrested a snatcher while his two accomplices managed to give a slip. The accused were escaping after snatching a mobile phone from Gurjant Singh (30), a resident of Kapurthala.Gurjant told the police that he along with his father had come to attend a marriage ceremony in Amritsar. He said as they were heading back, they stopped near Tangra.He said three-bike borne men came from Jabbowal and snatched his mobile phone. He said he along with his friend, Jang Bahadur, chased the accused and arrested the motorcycle driver, Princepal Singh. His two accomplices have been identified as Joban and Kaka, both residents of Bhorsi Rajputa village. Princepal was handed over to the police, which booked the accused under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. Police officials said they were conducting raids to nab Joban and Kaka.Man looted at gunpointIn yet another incident near Amrit Anand Park, a local resident Nitish Ubhe was looted by unidentified armed robbers here on Tuesday late evening at gunpoint. A resident of the Beri Gate area, he had come to Amrit Anand Park for strolling. Ubhe said the accused snatched two gold rings, a kara, a gold chain with diamond locket, two silver rings and an expensive mobile phone, besides Rs 20,800.ASI Palwinder Singh said that the police had registered a case while there was no breakthrough in the case so far. He said due to dense fog, the police failed to find any clues in the CCTV grab captured near the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/money-exchanger-robbed-of-rs-90k-at-gunpoint-by-duo-214521
19-02-2021||---||Farmers squat on rail tracks||Amritsar, February 18On the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), kisan unions organised a massive four-hour long ‘rail roko’ protest at Amritsar railway station to make it successful on Thursday. Protesting farmers blocked railway tracks from 12 pm to 4 pm.A separate rail blockade was held by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) at Vallah railway crossing. The KMSCis not a part of the SKM and made the headlines after violence in Delhi on January 26.In November 2020, 32 farmers’ associations had lifted the rail blockade after an appeal from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure regular supply of goods.However, the KMSC had not agreed with the decision and continued with its blockade near Mannawala. As a result, most trains remained dysfunctional and only four trains were being run daily.While the Indian Railways plan to start a few more trains from February 22, officials said today’s blockade disturbed schedule of only one train. The train was scheduled to depart at 1 pm, but due to the protest, the departure was delayed till 4 pm.Addressing the gathering at Amritsar railway station, farmer leaders said the protest would continue as long as the three controversial agri laws were not repealed by the Centre.Protesters including men, women, young and elderly, raised slogans against the Central Government. They accused the Centre of selling agriculture sector to corporates. Rattan Singh Randhawa, Harjeet Singh Jhita, Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, Datar Singh, Dhanwant Singh Khtraekalan, Parkash Singh Thothia and Sucha Singh, among others, addressed the gathering.Tarn Taran: On the call given by the national leadership of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to block trains for four hours on Thursday got a good response in the district. Different farmer outfits staged dharnas on the railway lines and condemned the Central Government for its “indifferent attitude” towards the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws.The farmer organisations in spite of presenting a combined show, mostly preferred to present their organisational power. Activists of the All India Kisan Sabha, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Kot Budha), Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab, Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Kanwalpreet Pannu) and BKU (Rajewal) staged joint dharna on Jandiala Road railways lines. Daljit Singh Dialpura, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Darshan Singh Biharipur, Amarjit Singh Klahlwan, Rasal Singh Sandhu, Nirvail Singh Daleke , Yadwinder Singh Rureasaal and other addressing the farmers on the occasion demanded for the repealing of the three controversial farm laws .The workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, blocked trains and staged dharna at the local railways station in Gohalwar. Sukhwider Singh Sabhra, district president, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satnam Singh Manochahal other leaders condemned the Central Government for defaming the farmers’ agitation.Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked trains on Sarhali Road. Baljit Singh Gandiwind, district president and other leaders of the organisation addressed the protesting farmers and warned the Union Government that the farmers would return home from Delhi only after the three farm laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-squat-on-rail-tracks-214522
19-02-2021||---||Edu Dept expecting 15% increase in admissions at government schools||Amritsar, February 18Kicking off an enrollment drive in government primary and secondary schools across the district, DEO Satinderbir Singh (sec) said the Department of Education is expecting a rise of up to 15 percent in admissions for current session. Welcoming new students for admission to government schools, Satinderbir interacted with 14 students at Government Elementary School, Tungbala and gave them a set of notebooks.With the Education Department launching awareness and enrollment drives ahead of admissions to increase the number of students in the new session, DEO said, “We had been able to increase enrollment rate by 12.97 percent last year. And this year, we are expecting up to 15 percent increase, both in primary as well as secondary schools. The fact that the government schools have been able to upgrade their education and learning standards has been a big factor in getting more students.” He added that all the schools in Amritsar have been converted into smart schools and due to the departmental activities and consistent model adopted for online teaching and learning techniques, more and more students are moving away from private to government schools.“Of course, one of the factors that can be attributed for the shift towards government schools is the matter of fee that private schools are charging from the parents during the lockdown. The recent SC decision in this matter has further raised possibility that there will be a big shift of students from private to government schools,” he said.Kanwaljit Singh, District Education Officer (elementary), launched a separate drive to enroll students in primary schools. The admissions kicked off by registering the Class I students at the Government Elementary School, Circular Road. Kanwaljit said due to the facilities provided by the department in the government schools, there was a huge enthusiasm among the public to enroll their children in the government schools. With funds coming in for sports development and purchase of infrastructure and learning material for elementary schools, the enrollments are expected to increase in primary schools as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/edu-dept-expecting-15-increase-in-admissions-at-government-schools-214523
19-02-2021||---||Health, medical education staff oppose separate seniority list||Amritsar, February 18 Clerical and nursing staff, paramedics, laboratory staff, radiographers and operation theatre attendant unions organised a gathering to oppose the government’s decision to bifurcate seniority lists of the Health Department and Medical Education Department employees.  The employees also staged a protest outside the Principal’s office at the Government Medical College and demanded that the existing system of seniority in which a common list is prepared for the Health Department and medical education department be continued.  The association leaders stated that the Personnel Department on January 13 conducted a meeting in which senior officials of both the departments were present. They added that in the meeting, the decision was taken to prepare separate seniority lists.  “The decision is unjustified as doctors in both the departments have been left out from the framework. Moreover, none of the employees had raised the demand at any platform,” said Thakur, adding that the power struggle between the heads of the two departments was causing harm to the common employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-medical-education-staff-oppose-separate-seniority-list-214524
19-02-2021||Amritsar||Dr KD Singh is new GNDH Medical Supdt||The department of medical education and research has appointed Dr KD Singh as the new medical superintendent of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital associated with Government Medical College here. The development has come in the wake of Dr JP Attri relinquishing the post earlier this month. Dr Attri had relinquished the post on medical grounds. In his letter, Dr Attri, professor of anaesthesia at GMC, had cited his cardiac trouble as the reason for resigning from the post. Dr Attri had been appointed as the Medical Superintendent during the peak period of Covid-19 pandemic. “Though I am doing this duty with dedication and honestly, over the time it has increased my stress levels and causing trouble to me,” he wrote in the letter (submitted on February 11). He, however, would continue to serve as a professor of anaesthesia. Officials at the medical college stated that Dr KD Singh, professor of microbiology, has been given the additional charge of medical superintendent till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-kd-singh-is-new-gndh-medical-supdt-214525
19-02-2021||GS Paul||Denied nod, Pak-bound pilgrims a dejected lot||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 18Denial of the Ministry of Home Affairs to permit Pakistan-bound jatha to commemorate the centenary of the Nankana Sahib massacre has left the pilgrims dejected.Around 730 visas were issued by the Pakistan Embassy to visit Sri Nankana Sahib and other Sikh shrines in Pakistan. As many as 505 pilgrims sponsored by the SGPC were issued visas from February 18 to 25. Besides, over 230 devotees had directly procured visas.They were supposed to cross over the Attari-Wagah joint check post today, but the SGPC received a message via fax from the Home Ministry a day before, stating that the recent inputs indicated safety threat to Indian citizens visiting Pakistan. As the jatha comprising over 600 members was scheduled to visit five Sikh shrines across Pakistan for over a week, it was apprehended a considerable threat to them.The ministry pointed out that the movement on the India-Pakistan border remained suspended since March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. As the threat persisted and Pakistan has recorded over half a million of cases with over 10,000 deaths due to Covid, hence the permit was denied.Jagwinder Singh from Patiala who reached here in the morning, said it was an attack on Sikh religious sentiments by the BJP led Centre which is facing the heat from the farmers over the farm laws.Santosh Kumari from Ropar had arrived here yesterday but had to return with heavy heart after learning that the Centre has scrapped the programme. “The cancellation of the programme came as a rude shock,” she said.Harjagjeet Singh from Bathinda said he was overwhelmed to procure visa, but was shocked at the eleventh-hour cancellation of the programme. “I see no justification for denying the permission. Now that the Covid threat has minimised and all sectors are operational, it was a deliberate attempt by the Modi government to attack the Sikh pilgrimage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/denied-nod-pak-bound-pilgrims-a-dejected-lot-214527
19-02-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Winners celebrate their win after civic body poll results||Tarn Taran, February 18 The victorious candidates of nagar council Patti and nagar panchayat Bhikhiwind elections celebrated their win with pomp and show on Wednesday evening. The candidates remained under mental stress since the announcement of the civic body elections. There was a long queue for Congress ticket seekers comparison to SAD, AAP, BJP, BSP and the other parties’ candidates. This time it was looking easy for ruling party candidate to win the poll. It was the first time that votes were counted three days after the polling.   Former MLA the SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha said that he convened a meeting of all candidates from 13 wards of Bhikhiwind, including two winner candidates, after the results were declared.  The former MLA said that they had chalked out a plan for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. He said the irregularities committed by the ruling Congress were discussed in the meeting. Valtoha said the winners paid obeisance at gurdwaras. The SAD had won 2 wards in the 13 member Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat.   The AAP too could not open its account in this border township. A meeting was held under the chairmanship of Jasbir Singh Sursingh, a senior leader of the party. He called upon party workers to ready for forthcoming Vidha Sabha election.  Billa Chopra, husband of Rekha Rani, who won from the Ward No. 13 in Bhikhiwind, said that the victory was celebrated with pomp and show. He said sweets were distributed among supporters and workers, followed by dinner. Drink was also served to the people, said Billa. He said it was clear that his wife Rekha Rani would be the party candidate for the post of nagar panchayat president.  The winners of nagar council, Patti, held a meeting with party MLA Harminder Singh Gill after the results. The aspirants for the post of president shared their views with the MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/winners-celebrate-their-win-after-civic-body-poll-results-214528
19-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Police solve Feb 14 firing case, 2 held||The district police claimed to have solved the firing incident that took place on February 14 in Patti town at Ward No. 7 in which one AAP worker Manbir Singh was injured. The police on Thursday claimed that the incident had no concern with the polling but it was a case of  personal enmity between the victim, Manbir Singh, and the accused, Lakhbir Singh Kala of Kirtowal Kalan. The police said that the incident occurred at a distance of 300-400 meters from police station of Ward No. 7 of Patti.  The police had registered a case under Sections 307 of the IPC, 25, 27,54  and 59 of the Arms Act on February 15 against Lakhbir Singh Kala and some other unidentified persons.  The police said the two accused Darshan Singh of Kirtowal and Jangsher Singh of Boparai (Patti) had been arrested, while the main accused Lakhbir Singh Kala, Gurmel Singh of Tung, Rahul Vicki and Lal Das of Kirtowal were absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-solve-feb-14-firing-case-2-held-214529
19-02-2021||---||Civil Hospital technician  faces extortion threats||Amritsar, February 18Raising a question mark over the safety and security of doctors and other staff members working in the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital here after two unknown armed youth entered in the hospital premises and demanded extortion from lab technician Manjinder Singh on Wednesday.The accused threatened him to kill after pointing a pistol in case he failed to pay them. He later went away from the hospital. Alarmed over it, Manjinder immediately informed Senior Medical Officer Dr Chander Mohan and a complaint was filed with the Rambagh police in this regard. He said the accused knew about his family members.“Don’t mistake us as ordinary gangsters. If you did not pay, your postmortem would be held in this hospital,” the accused threatened while asking to meet two days after. Today, senior police officials reached the hospital and scrutinised the CCTV cameras to find the clues about the perpetrators.Dr Rakesh Sharma, chairman, Employees Welfare Association, condemned the incident and said that they had repeatedly asked the government for deputing permanent staff for the security besides setting up a police chowki here.He said that repeatedly unscrupulous elements were targeting staff members inside the hospital complex while theft incidents had been reported in the past at regular intervals. Dr Chander Mohan, SMO, Civil Hospital, said that matter had been taken up at appropriate levels. Harpal Singh, ADCP, said taking a serious view of the incident, investigations have been launched to identify the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-hospital-technician-faces-extortion-threats-214530
19-02-2021||---||Man booked for duping people||Amritsar, February 18An FIR has been registered against an unknown fraudster who duped gullible persons on the pretext of installing mobile towers at their places.Earlier, a case was registered on February 14 following a complaint by the DGP (Intelligence) and a preliminary probe by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW).A number of persons had fallen prey to the accused who opened a bank account at State Bank of India (SBI) branch in Putlighar. The victims deposited around Rs 30,000 each, which were withdrawn by the accused through ATMs in the national capital region (NCR).In a case registered with Cantonment police station, preliminary probe revealed that the accused opened his bank account in the name of Sukhdev Singh in Putlighar branch of the SBI on the basis of a fake voter card.A fresh case under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act has been registered.In another incident, Rajan Sharma, a resident of New Azad Nagar, lost Rs 98,000 to a phishing attack. A person posing as an employee of Paytm called the victim who had a dispute with the firm regarding refund of Rs 4,000. He said the accused offered to settle the issue.“The caller asked me to enter first-five digits of my mobile number on Paytm app. Later, Rs 98,151 got debited from my account,” said the vicitm. The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC against an unknown person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-duping-people-214532
