20-02-2021||Tarn Taran||‘Scarcity of micronutrients in soil a matter of concern’||Krishi Vigyan Kendra(KVK), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Booh, Tarn Taran, organised an awareness camp on ‘Micronutrient management in happy/super seeder sown wheat’ at Bhagupur Havelian village on Friday. Farmers of Bhagupur, Sangwan and Kirtowal villages attended the programme. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director, KVK, said that micronutrient deficiency in soil and crop produce had become a matter of serious concern.He alerted the farmers regarding zinc nutrition in crops, humans and livestock. Use of intensive cropping system, high analyzing fertilisers and imbalanced fertilization is causing micronutrient deficiencies in the soils and plants and stressed on the biofortification of grains and fodder crops.He said that area soil was deficient in zinc and sulpher which affected the productivity of grain and fodder crops. Experts from PAU, Ludhiana, Dr SS Dhaliwal and Dr Vivek Sharma, too addressed on the occasion. Farmers and experts visited happy seeder and super seeder sown wheat and compared two methods. Zinc sulphate was distributed to the farmers for biofortifying grain of wheat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scarcity-of-micronutrients-in-soil-a-matter-of-concern-214807
20-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Political scene hots up in Patti, Bhikhiwind||Tarn Taran, February 19After getting absolute majority by the ruling Congress candidates in the Patti Municipal Council and Bhikhiwind Nagar Panchayat election results, which were announced on February 17, the aspirants for the post of president have started approaching the ruling party bosses. It is also clear that local MLA of the ruling party will play an important role in formation of the chief of Patti and Bhikhiwind civic bodies.The Congress won 15 of the 19 wards in the Patti MC poll. Only two candidates were elected for the second term, while remaining 13 were the new faces. The old faces were Kulwinder Singh Babba (ward number 4) and Dalbir Singh Shekhon (ward number 8). Dalbir Singh Shekhon, who is loyal to sitting MLA Harminder Singh Gill, is front runner for the top post.In Bhikhiwind Nagar Panchayat poll, the Congress won 11 of the 13 wards. All 13 elected are new faces. The SAD nominees won from two wards. Congress MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar will play main role in selection of the candidate for the top post. The ruling party will select the candidate keeping in view 2022 Vidhan Sabha election. Hindus are majority in Bhikhiwind town. Political observers say Rajinder Kumar Sharma (ward number 4) is the first choice of MLA due to his proximity to the leader. Moreover, he is a local businessman and is available all the times in the town. However, Billa Chopra, husband of Rekha Chopra, who won from ward number 13, claimed that his wife is also in the race for the post of president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-scene-hots-up-in-patti-bhikhiwind-214809
20-02-2021||---||Race for heads of nagar councils, panchayats gains momentum||Amritsar, February 19The race for the posts of president of three nagar panchayats and two nagar councils have gained momentum pace with the nagar panchayat of Ajnala going to witness a close contest between the Congress and the SAD.Many claimants for the postSelecting a leader to head the Ajnala nagar panchayat will be the proverbial hot potato as the one ward lead of the SAD could be nullified with one vote from Ajnala constituency’s Congress MLA Harpratap Singh Ajnala. The SAD won eight out of 15 wards and the Congress managed to win the remaining seven wards. Despite repeated attempts to contact the MLA for his comments, he could not be reached.As the Congress received a clear majority in Jandiala, Ramdas and Rayya, leaders and party insiders said now the sitting MLAs’ say would be crucial in deciding heads of these civic bodies. After the swearing-in ceremony, the members could forward their consent to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take a final call on selecting the leader to head these civic bodies. Going by the precedent, he is likely to empower the MLA of these areas to decide on the candidates to head these bodies, a senior Congress leader said.In the Jandiala municipal council, where Congress won 10 out of 15 wards, there are many claimants for the post like Sanjiv Kumar Lovely and Nirmal Singh Loharia and in case the post of president is reserved then Dimple Kaur will be a strong claimant.Narinder Kalia, former head of the Rayya nagar panchayat where Congress swept 12 out of 13 wares, is a strong contestant for the post. Similarly, Aman Sharma, daughter-in-law of former head of the nagar panchayat KK Sharma, who is considered a close aide of Baba Bakala MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, as Rayya falls under Baba Bakala assembly constituency, is another strong contestant. The name of Amarjeet Kaur, wife of Gurkanwal Mann, PA of Bhalaipur, is also doing the rounds.Similarly, in the Ramdas nagar panchayat, some leaders are lobbying for the president’s post where the Congress won eight wards while three went to SAD.Though the names of Tarun Abrol, Salwant Seth and Narinder Nayyar are doing the rounds for the post of president of the Majitha municipal council, it is an open secret that there will be no questioning the name announced by senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who is a sitting MLA from Majitha, as SAD grabbed 10 out of 13 wards of the Mahitha municipal council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/race-for-heads-of-nagar-councils-panchayats-gains-momentum-214808
20-02-2021||Neha Saini||Pen & pandemic: Classroom stories that break the stereotypes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 19The pandemic last year gave birth to a new genre — lockdown literature. Many people turned to penning down stories on how the pandemic affected their lives. One such experience by the city-based author Nandini Malhotra, resulted in her second book, a series of short stories titled, ‘The Classroom Alchemist’.Released in December 2020, the book has 16 short stories about real-life incidents that Nandini, who has a teaching experience of 18 years, came across through her journey as a teacher. It broadly centers on the theme of student-teacher relationships and how both impact each others’ lives. Each story, says Nandini, would resonate with many. “In a way the book is born out of my own stressful period of quarantine that I went through when I was down with Covid-19 in August 2020. I had lost a dear friend to Covid-19. My husband and children are all doctors and remained at forefront during the pandemic. It was a deeply distressing time for me to remain locked up, isolated from others. That’s when my husband suggested me to write while I was spending time with myself,” she shares.So she spent 16 days of quarantine, diving deep into her memories and penning down stories of her students, colleagues and her own student life. “I kept recalling these stories that stand out for me as these were milestones in my journey as a teacher and an individual.”Calling her book a team work, she credits her success to students and her peers. “These stories tell so much about the evolving teacher-student relationship. What connects these stories is that they show how teachers can be compassionate rather than just a disciplinarian and how students can learn to trust their teachers.”Talking about her book, she says, “One of the stories in her book is about a former student of mine, who once stole a hard drive from the school computer to sell it for money. A colleague of mine took responsibility for the incident instead of reporting him for theft. This gesture altered his life’s direction. Today, he works as an ethical hacker for many reputed agencies. Similarly, one of the stories about a student opening about the sexual abuse she was facing at home, too resulted in other girls coming out of their trauma.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pen-pandemic-classroom-stories-that-break-the-stereotypes-214805
20-02-2021||---||Emotions, life experiences define poetry, says Dr Surjit Patar||Amritsar, February 19GNDU held Sardarni Balbir Kaur Brar Memorial Speech dedicated to International Tongue Day by the School of Punjabi Studies.Addressing the event, Padma Shri Dr Surjit Patar shared his views on ‘Me and My Creation.’Surjit Patar said the process of creating poetry required three important aspects — intensity, craft and understanding of the language and expressions,” he said in his address.‘Patar— the king of poetry’“Apart from this, emotions, life experiences such as wonder and sorrow can also be a great source of poetic expression,” he added.Several other speakers at the event included former Vice Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University Dr SP Singh, Harchand Singh Bedi from Department of Punjabi Studies and Dr Raminder Kaur, head, School of Punjabi Studies. Harchand Singh Bedi, while talking about Surjit Patar’s works, said his poetry had the potential to stay relevant across time and resonates with the common sentiment.Dr SP Singh, in his presidential address, called Patar the king of poetry and that his works were as mature as that of Mohan Singh and Shiv Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/emotions-life-experiences-define-poetry-says-dr-surjit-patar-214806
20-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Know the art of tapping the untapped||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 19The local tourism industry, which is still battling the effects of Covid-19-induced economic crisis and railway line blockade by farmers, feels a year isn’t enough to lift the sagging morale of those in the profession.From providing employment to those in luxury hotels to rickshaw pullers, those associated with it were cooped at homes for months and looking forward to a nice change. But then, their salaries and income got contracted.Piyush Kapoor, general manager of Ritz, said the peak winter season was about to end and room occupancy in most of the hotels remained below 40 per cent. Though the weather was pleasant, trains, barring an average of four daily trains, were off track and air travel was yet to pick-up. Most tourists coming by personal vehicles were from within the state, who do not stay in the city at night.For instance, he says, management of his hotel did not open the establishment as most of the hotels on the Mall were not drawing enough customers. “In such a scenario, operational cost is very high. A year is nothing and it will take at least two to three years to reach the level of business that used to be there before the pandemic,” he says. Citing the instance of Goa, he says, it was the most happening place as far as the tourism industry in the country was concerned with 1,500 hotels. Yet, half of the hotels have not opened there.‘Create international-level recreation parks’APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said: “High investment tourism-oriented projects such as international-level recreation parks are required to attract tourists, who now value their investment and weigh several options before going out.” He said fussy customers were out and a large section of families were yet to come to terms with the dwindling income and rising expenses. Scarcity of customers led to 50 per cent fall in room tariff in the local market. Hospitality players have spare time to devote in devising new projects.‘Promote rural tourism’Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a freelance travel writer, opines: “With lean tourism season under way, it is high time the government chalked out strategies to promote rich authentic Punjabi rural tourism. This will not require huge investment either.”So far, tourism remained city-centric as major tourist highlights including the Golden Temple, Jallianwala Bagh, Durgiana temple, Gobindgarh fort, Sadda Pind and war museum were located within the city. These sites hardly offer two-night stay, despite the city possessing an array of luxury and mid-segment properties in the hospitality sector.So, the youth from rural areas of this border district had not been able to get any benefit out of the booming tourism industry.Rural tourism has almost been ignored all these years. Though some attempts such as an amphibious bus in Hari Ke Pattan wetland were introduced, it could not be popularised among visitors.Considering stunning countryside, known for its natural beauty, sightseeing tours can be commenced, which will be an introduction to a free exhibition on nature, he said.“There are several villages that have rich history, memorials and monuments. Efforts must be made to promote these. Take Bhakna for instance, the village of famous freedom fighter Sohan Singh Bhakna — the founder of Ghadar Party. On the other hand, the age-old Sarai Amant Khan thankfully is well-preserved with its Mughal architecture. It was once a popular stop for rest, when the road it is located on was the main route to Lahore.”In addition, certain houses can also be chosen, which have still preserved their old-age charm, as it can be a delight for tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/know-the-art-of-tapping-the-untapped-214818
20-02-2021||---||Putlighar blast: Residents protest over compensation||Amritsar, February 19Angered over the failure of the Punjab Government and the district administration to provide justice to the family members of the Putlighar bomb blast victims, residents of the Luv Kush Nagar area, led by the Bhartiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha, the Democratic Party of India and the Manav Adhikar Sangharsh Committee, held a demonstration at Putlighar Chowk here on Friday.The residents alleged that even after a lapse of nearly one and a half years, the government failed to provide compensation or government job to kin of the victim.On September 23, 2019, a blast at the residence of a scrap dealer in the Luv Kush Nagar area had claimed the lives of two persons — Rattan Lal and Rajinder Singh — while around six persons were injured.They had blamed the police administration for the blast. They had claimed that the police had got the Cantonment police station cleaned and the scrap was sold to the scrap dealer by the police. The dealer brought the same to his residence in the congested Luv Kush colony. The residents said it was sheer negligence on the part of the police which failed to locate the hand grenades while cleaning the scrap that blasted leaving two persons, Rattan Lal and Rajinder Kumar, dead on the spot. A Punjab Home Guard jawan was also injured in the blast.Aman William and Nirmal Baksar of the Bhartiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha said following the blast, Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni had reached the spot and promised Rs 2 lakh compensation. “However, we have demanded higher compensation and a government job for kin of the deceased. They had promised the same. We had met the district administration several times in this regard and even handed over a memorandum to officials but in vain. Therefore, we decided to hold a protest for the same,” they said.The dharna was lifted when Raj Kumar Verka, MLA of the area, reached the spot and assured them of fulfilling the promises. “I was not aware of the current position. I think the administration failed to pursue the matter. I would ask the district administration to give me the files and I assured them of fulfilling their demands by March 10,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/putlighar-blast-residents-protest-over-compensation-214819
20-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Railways cleans port of dump||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 19After Amritsar Tribune highlighted the poor sanitary conditions at International Dry Port (IDP) at Khasa railway station in these columns, the railway authorities swung into action and cleaned the area.Ranjeet Singh, a farmer, who has his land near the railway station said, “It’s good that the officials concerned took note of the issue. Everyone residing in the close proximity, including farmers whose fields got filled with waste are satistfied with the outcome.”“The prompt action, on the part of the authorities, has earned goodwill of villagers. Usually, government departments do not address complaints, but the Indian Railways did a great job at Khasa railway station,” he said.Villagers have urged the authorities to ensure proper waste disposal facility at the station, besides having a team, which should ensure cleanliness. A goods train arrives at the station, which is unloaded and loaded by truckers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railways-cleans-port-of-dump-214810
20-02-2021||---||Parminder Singh Bhandal takes charge as Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order) of Amritsar||Amritsar, February 19Parminder Singh Bhandal on Friday joined as the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) of Amritsar (City) after his promotion. He was earlier posted as the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) here.He took over the charge after DCP Jagmohan Singh was transferred to Jalandhar. While taking over the charge, he said maintaining law and order would be his top priority.An Arjuna awardee, Bhandal was an international basket ball player and represented India. He was awarded with Maharaja Ranjit Singh award in 1987. He was conferred Arjuna award in 2001.He joined the Punjab Police as an Assistant Sub-Inspector in 1990. Earlier, he was deployed at Sports Centre Jalandhar from 1990 to 2005. He remained at different positions, including Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jalandhar, ADCP (Traffic) Jalandhar, Superintendent of Police Phagwara, Superintendent of Police (City) Mohali, Superintendent of Police Ropar, Superintendent of Police (D) Jalandhar, and ADCP (Traffic Amritsar. Bhandal’s father was an ex-serviceman while his two daughters were also national-level tennis players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parminder-singh-bhandal-takes-charge-as-deputy-commissioner-of-police-law-order-of-amritsar-214812
20-02-2021||Neha Saini||Now, grow your food the hydroponic way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 19While the state government has been encouraging the shift towards organic farming and research in agronomical sciences, city institutes of higher learning too are doing their bit to encourage agri-entreprenuers, introducing science-backed techniques of natural farming as part of the curriculum. Bringing in concepts of vertical farming, hydroponics/aquaponic farming and shifting to lesser water consuming crops, the focus seems to be on growing yield in a sustainable manner.Know the techniqueSharing more such concepts of natural farming at the Friday Organic Market, a team of agricultural experts and students interacted with the consumers to promote the practice of growing your own food. “Keeping an eye on the future of farming in India and at global scale, it becomes important to move beyond the gardening and understand the process behind growing food. We have been introducing weekly courses in creating kitchen gardens, rooftop gardens, hydroponics for general public apart from running specific workshops to encourage a community movement towards natural farming,” said Ragini Sharma, director (finance), Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology. Running multiple natural farming learning programme at its agro farms, the college has recently created a mini forest, with an aim to promote garden learning programme for school students.The recent additions to the organic farm is a hydroponic vertical and ayurvedic medicinal farm. “Hydroponics is a technique now used across the world to create compact, temperature controlled, terrace farms, that does not require soil to grow leafy crops. It includes growing potted plants arranged in stacks vertically, using drip irrigation system. One can grow leafy vegetables, cherry tomatoes, strawberries etc using this technique at home. Also, the concept of liquid manure is being promoted by us, where we use water from fish pond for irrigation. The water has high nitrogen content and other nutrients required for boosting soil fertility,” said SM Bhatt, Associate Professor, Department of Agriculture, ACET. The college has been getting a lot of foreign students for its organic farming course, especially from Nepal. “There is a great potential for employment in the field of natural and organic farming and this field also offers opportunity for self-employment. A lot of organisations worldwide have been promoting the shift toward sustainable food habits, including growing and consuming crops that do not exploit natural resources. We are promoting millets, and variety of black rice and wheat,” he informed.The team has already conducted workshops for local farmers, especially the ones with small land holding to encourage them to grow millets and reduce the paddy /wheat crop cycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-grow-your-food-the-hydroponic-way-214814
20-02-2021||Amritsar||Now, passport check made easy||Jail inmate held with intoxicantsAmritsar: Amritsar jail authorities on Thursday arrested a jail inmate who was found sneaking sedative pills inside the jail premises by hiding it in his private parts. He was identified as Mahal Singh, a resident of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here. He had gone for hearing in the court and on his return, the jail staff confiscated the contraband. Ravel Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said the staff recovered 75 intoxicating tablets from his possession. A case has been registered against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-passport-check-made-easy-214815
20-02-2021||PK Jaiswar||Eight years after murder of 9-year-old in Amritsar, police stay clueless||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 19Eight years after the brutal murder of a nine-year-old boy, Gurkirat Singh of Verka, the police have filed a closure report as it failed to crack the case despite formation of several Special Investigation Teams (SITs).The closure report was submitted in the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Meenakshi Mahajan a week ago. The court fixed February 22 as the next date for consideration of the closure report.Gurkirat’s family members expressed dissatisfaction over the investigation carried out by the police. They had been demanding a CBI probe for the last three years and had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court in this connection. Ironically, the police had prepared the closure report in 2016, but it filed the same in the court only a few days ago keeping the family in the dark.Angrej Singh, father of Gurkirat, said, “The police had been repeatedly telling us that that investigation was underway.” He said the state government should hand over the case to the CBI.Sarabjit Singh, principal investigator, Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), who had been closely monitoring the case, said though the police had been telling the aggrieved family that they were probing the case, but in the last four years, they had not made any proceedings in the case, which indicated non-seriousness on their part.The closure report submitted in the court was prepared in 2016. It’s also a matter of investigation that if the police had not made any proceedings in the case for four years, then why it had not submitted it earlier.Gurkirat went missing from outside his house in November 2012. Later, his body was found dumped in a secluded building, a few metres away from his residence. After the police failed to crack the case, the victim’s father approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for handing over the probe to the CBI in 2013.In January 2015, the then Commissioner of Police, Jatinder Singh Aulakh, filed an affidavit in the court stating that the SIT constituted to solve the case did not intend to hand over the case to the CBI. He had further claimed that the case would be solved.In December 2015, the police filed an affidavit in the High Court seeking six more months as officials claimed that they were on the verge of cracking the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-years-after-murder-of-9-year-old-in-amritsar-police-stay-clueless-214816
20-02-2021||---||Batala man, his mother-in-law attacked in Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 19Several armed persons attacked a man and his mother-in-law near a reputed hotel in the Ranjit Avenue area here on Friday.The victim was identified as Ravinderpal and his mother-in-law Vijaya, both residents of Dhupsadi village in Batala. They were rushed to a private hospital where they were under treatment. An old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the assault.Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said Ravinderpal had come to attend the ring ceremony of his brother-in-law in Best Western Marrian hotel in Ranjit Avenue. He was standing near the hotel when unknown persons led by Ajaypal Singh of Dhupsadi village came on the scene in a car and assaulted Ravinderpal with sharp weapons leaving him seriously injured. When his mother-in-law Vijaya tried to intervene, they also assaulted her. They were immediately rushed to a private hospital for treatment.He said investigations were under progress and a case would be registered against Ajaypal and his unknown accomplices after recording the statement of the victims. He said an old enmity was the cause behind the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-man-his-mother-in-law-attacked-in-ranjit-avenue-in-amritsar-214817
