21-02-2021||---||Dismissed policeman arrested for extorting money from truck drivers||Amritsar, February 20The Amritsar rural police have nabbed a dismissed cop, Surinderpal Singh, a resident of Barindpur village in Kapurthala for allegedly extorting and robbing commuters by posing as a cop in the Jandiala Guru area on Friday.The police got information that a policeman was intercepting truck drivers, especially from other states, while entering the holy city and extorting money from them while threatening to register an FIR and put them behind bars.In case someone refused to cough up the money, he used to thrash and harass them. The informer told that he was present near the Jandiala Guru grain market and had intercepted a truck. Immediately a raid was conducted and he was arrested from the spot.In a statement issued here, the police stated that Surinderpal Singh was dismissed from his service in 2005. He was active in rural areas of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Amritsar. He has around 20 criminal cases, including robbery, fraud and under the NDPS Act, registered against him.Had 20 criminal cases filed against himA fresh case under Sections 341, 384, 379-B, 170, 171 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against him at the Jandiala police station here. The police recovered the police uniform with a belt, an iron punch and a sharp-edged weapon from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dismissed-policeman-arrested-for-extorting-money-from-truck-drivers-215564
21-02-2021||---||Putlighar blast: Police still clueless about source of explosive material||Amritsar, February 20The probe into the Putlighar bomb blast that claimed the lives of two persons and left several persons injured on September 23, 2019, has failed to ascertain the source of explosive material that led to the blast in the scrap dealer’s house.Interestingly, residents of the area had blamed the police administration for the negligence that led to the blast. They had claimed that the police had got the Cantonment police station cleaned and the scrap was sold to the scrap dealer by the police.The dealer brought the same to his residence in the congested Luv Kush colony. They alleged some explosive material such as hand grenades were also given to the scrap dealer while cleaning the scrap. The blast took the lives of two persons, identified as Rattan Lal and Rajinder Kumar, while a Punjab Home Guard jawan was also injured in the blast.The kind of explosive material that led to the blast was never seized or used by the Punjab Police even during the period of terrorism in the state. The hand grenades confiscated by the Punjab Police in the past did not have such explosive material that led to blast in Luv Kush Nagar. —Jagmohan Singh, Former DCP, who heading the SITThere was no scrap dealer in the house where the explosion took place. The Cantonment police station had asked its Home Guard jawan Gurnam Singh to get the scrap removed from the police station after cleaning. Gurnam Singh took along his relatives, including Rajinder Singh, and brought scrap to his (Rajinder Singh's) residence. The police are yet to fix the responsibility of cops for this gross negligence. —Aman William, Area resident Former Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh, who heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill revealed that the explosive that led to the blast was never found in the custody of the Punjab Police.“The kind of explosive material that led to the blast was never seized or used by the Punjab Police even during the period of terrorism in the state. The hand grenades confiscated by the Punjab Police in the past did not have such explosive material that led to blast in Luv Kush Nagar,” he said.Only deceased Rajinder Singh could have told about the source from where he had brought the scrap. “As he had died, nobody knew about the source of the scrap,” he told.DCP Jagmohan was transferred to Jalandhar two days ago. Nevertheless, the residents did not buy the claims of the police. Aman William, a resident of the area and president of the Bhartiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha, said there was no scrap dealer in the house where the explosion took place. He said cantonment police station had asked its Home Guard jawan Gurnam Singh to get the scrap removed from the police station after cleaning.Gurnam Singh took along his relatives, including Rajinder Singh, and brought scrap to his (Rajinder Singh’s) residence. The police are yet to fix the responsibility of cops for this gross negligence, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/putlighar-blast-police-still-clueless-about-source-of-explosive-material-215566
21-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||MC property tax wing goes into overdrive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 20To achieve its recovery target, the property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) initiated a sealing drive recently. The wing sealed six commercial properties on Thursday to press the defaulters in North Zone to deposit tax, after which two of the sealed property owners deposited the money. The property tax wing officials claimed that the sealing drive would continue till March 31.The civic body has witnessed a shortfall of Rs9 crore in the recovery of property tax during 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20.During 2019-20, the MC had collected Rs26.34 crore till March 31, but this year, the department has collected only Rs17 crore so far, whereas they had set a target of Rs34 crore till the end of this fiscal (March 31).However, the Covid-19 outbreak was the major reason behind less recovery, but even after reopening of markets, the recovery rate of property tax could not be revived.The property tax wing officials have started sealing on the instructions of senior officials. Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer for property tax, said: “We have initiated the sealing and it will continue. The defaulters were asked to pay the tax on time. The Covid-19 outbreak is the major reason for less recovery.”On Friday, Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal held a meeting with the heads and deputy heads of all departments to achieve the budget targets set by various departments for the financial year 2020-21.As property tax is one of the major revenue sources of the MC, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu appealed to residents to deposit their dues before March 31 to avoid penalty.“Not only property tax, the pandemic also hit the recovery of bills and fee of other MC departments. The recovery targets should be achieved for the development of the city,” the Mayor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-property-tax-wing-goes-into-overdrive-215567
21-02-2021||---||Farmers to observe event at Fatehpur Rajputtan today||Amritsar, February 20Farmers are all set to organise an event to mark the centenary of Sri Nankana Sahib massacre, which is popularly known as Saka Nankana Sahib, on February 21 amid the ongoing farm protest against the three agriculture laws.An event on this occasion will be organised at Fatehpur Rajputtan village, near here. The event is being organised under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Lakhbir Singh Nizampura of the Vegetable Growers’ Association said 21 Sikhs from Nizampura village had sacrificed their lives in the movement to free Gurdwara Nankana Sahib from the control of Mahant Narain Das who enjoyed support of British.After coming into being in October 1920, the Gurdwara Reforms Movement was the first step taken by the SGPC. Hence, a jatha of 21 unarmed Sikhs from Nizampura village, with an aim to take control of the gurdwara at first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev's birthplace, had sacrificed their lives to free the gurdwara from the control of Mahant Narain Das, who enjoyed support of the British. However, the Mahant along with the help of local goons and in connivance with British officials closed all gates as Sikhs entered the premises and unleashed unfathomable violence on the peaceful jatha members and killed over 150 of them in cold blood. While many were killed in indiscriminate firing, the survivors and injured were burnt alive in boiling water during the attack. Only a 12-year-old survived by hiding under the palanquin on which Guru Granth Sahib was installed. Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer union leader, said, “While we would pay tributes to the martyrs, discussions on importance of peaceful protest during the current times would also be held. The Sikh history is filled with instances when Sikhs under the light of gurus met their fate at the hands of the oppressor while remaining in peace. Such was the impact that Mahatma Gandhi visited Nankana Sahib on March 3, 1921.”What happened whenAfter coming into being in October 1920, the gurdwara reforms movement was the first step taken by the SGPC. Hence, a jatha of 21 unarmed Sikhs from Nizampura village, with an aim to take control of the gurdwara at first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev’s birthplace, had sacrificed their lives to free the gurdwara from the control of Mahant Narain Das, who enjoyed support of the British. However, the Mahant along with the help of local goons and in connivance with British officials closed all gates as Sikhs entered the premises and unleashed unfathomable violence on the peaceful jatha members and killed over 150 of them in cold blood. While many were killed in indiscriminate firing, the survivors and injured were burnt alive in boiling water during the attack. Only a 12-year-old survived by hiding under the palanquin on which Guru Granth Sahib was installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-observe-event-at-fatehpur-rajputtan-today-215568
21-02-2021||Amritsar||MTP wing demolishes illegal colony||The Municipal Town Planning Wing (MTP) demolished an illegal colony at Fateh Singh Nagar in the Central constituency area on Friday evening. The coloniser had constructed the streets and walls on the two-and-a-half acre land and demarked the plots. A team of the MTP wing led by Municipal Town Planner Narinder Sharma, along with police team, reached the spot at afternoon. The walls and roads have been demolished and big potholes have been dug with the machine. Narinder Sharma, MTP said, “We will not tolerate any violation. The colony should be passed under the rules and regulations of the state government. We have initiated a drive to remove the illegal buildings. We urge residents to construct buildings only after due approval of building plan. Otherwise, MC will take action and demolish the illegal buildings.” The team of MTP wing comprised Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Varinder Mohan and building inspector Navdeep Kumar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mtp-wing-demolishes-illegal-colony-215569
21-02-2021||---||Foundation stone of interfaith studies centre to be laid in March||Amritsar, February 20 The foundation stone of the ambitious project of the Centre for Interfaith Studies at GNDU will be laid by Captain Amarinder Singh in the month of March. Sharing details on the project during the recently held academic council meeting, VC Jaspal Sandhu said this had been announced by the Government of India on the 550th Prakash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev.  Dean Academic Affairs, Prof SS Behl, while giving details about the centre said it would be the centre of research activities on all religions.  “In this project, a Symphony of Religious Music will be the main attraction for the tourists. Apart from dividing the Interfaith Centre into eight departments, a directorate office, a museum and a panorama, a library and a guest house would also be set up. The eight departments of the centre will comprise Division of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Languages; Division of Divine Music; Division of Comparative Religions; Division of Conflict Resolution; Center for Reconstruction of Ancient Musical Instruments; Division of Study on Travels of Guru Nanak Dev; Division of Archives and Division of Theology,” he said.  Apart from the Centre for Interfaith Studies, the university is also looking towards adopting sustainable practices and upgrading academic system in accordance with NEP-2020. VC Prof Sandhu also laid emphasis on introducing job-oriented courses in the university and upgrading the current courses accordingly.  He said to shorten the time of PhD from 4 to 3 years, a systemic overhaul is required. “One can also opt for monograph submission system for PhD. This is mostly followed by most of the universities at international level and in many IITs etc,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foundation-stone-of-interfaith-studies-centre-to-be-laid-in-march-215570
21-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Students attend NCC firing range camp||Tarn Taran, February 20Senior NCC cadets of the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School attended the NCC firing range camp of XI Punjab Battalion organised at Government Senior Secondary School, Talwandi Dasundha Singh (Amritsar) on Friday. The NCC cadets learnt many things about rifle range shooting and practised it under the guidance of Colonel Ratnakar Trivedi. Principal Ranjit Bhatia motivated NCC cadets to move ahead . Harjit Singh President Chief Khalsa Diwan local committee and Member- in-charge and Gurinder Singh Vice President CKD Local Committee and Member- in-charge appreciated NCC cadets of the school for performing well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-attend-ncc-firing-range-camp-215571
21-02-2021||---||Lawyers protest against cops over ‘weak’ FIR||Amritsar, February 20  Members of the Amritsar Bar Association on Saturday held a demonstration outside the Rambagh police station alleging that the police had registered a ‘weak’ FIR in connection with a murderous attack on a lawyer. They were led by former executive members of the association — Lovely Sharma and Raman Chowdhry. They raised slogans against the police authorities and threatened to stage a protest outside the Police Commissioner’s office on Monday in case the police failed to take appropriate action in this regard. They said on February 12, advocate Rahul Sethi, who is also an executive member of the association, was attacked by a group of persons with sharp-edged weapons. However, the police registered an FIR under weak sections of the Indian Penal Code and did not include sections of murder bid and no accused was arrested till now. They said if the police failed to make necessary amendments in the FIR they would hold a demonstration outside the Police Commissioner’s office. The police said the medical report of the victim was awaited and appropriate action would be taken after receiving it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lawyers-protest-against-cops-over-weak-fir-215572
21-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Education Secy visits different govt schools||Tarn Taran, February 20Education Secretary Krishan Kumar conducted a motivational visit to government schools in Musse, Khemkaran, Kakka Kandiala, Noordi and Chabal villages in the district today. During the visits, he interacted with school heads, teachers and students and took first hand feedback of the preparations for the ensuing examination being conducted by the Punjab School Education Board accomplishing ‘Mission Cent Percent’.The secretary also took stock of the progress of the utilisation of funds for the extension and augmentation of infrastructural facilities under the smart school drive. He lauded the dedicated efforts being put in by the school teachers to translate ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ into reality by taking extra classes. He also praised them for executing various projects such as ‘Buddy Groups,’ ‘Each One, Ask One’, ‘Punjab Educare App’, colourful furniture and community mobilisation for ‘Each One, Bring One’.‘Prepare students to realise Mission Shat Pratishat’Amritsar: Education Secretary Krishan Kumar presided over a virtual meeting of school heads, district mentors and block mentors, members of the Zila Sikhiya Sudhar team held at Government Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, on Saturday. Taking stock of the progress of efforts being put in to accomplish ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ in the ensuing board examinations, the participating school heads presented data regarding student analysis on the basis of the house examinations and the micro planning being executed for the weak, average and meritorious students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-secy-visits-different-govt-schools-215573
21-02-2021||Ahead of the civic poll||Don’t try to act smart||Marriage of convenience?Sri Hargobindpur Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi seems to have dialed the right number after breaking off with his long time ally and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa. At one time, this decade-old relationship seemed to have ‘permanence’ written all over it but then neither Bajwa nor Laddi knew that in politics nothing is permanent. Laddi has now hitchhiked himself on the bandwagon of Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.Observers say this is a marriage of convenience. Incidentally, Bajwa’s son, Ravi Nandan Singh Bajwa is the Chairman of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad. Both Laddi and Ravi Nandan are now working in tandem to ensure the former’s Assembly seat gets adequate funds from the coffers of the Punjab government and also the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad. Recently, Rs40 crore was disbursed among 193 villages of the Sri Hargobindpur seat. So far so good for Laddi; it is a case of neurons that wire together fire together.Playing the Blame gameIt was a classic case of the pot calling the kettle black. During Gurbachan Singh Babbehali’s decade-long tenure as Gurdaspur MLA, several instances of civic body polls being rigged by the SAD-BJP combine had surfaced. Now, when the Congress hit the bull’s eye by winning all the 29 seats at stake, Babbehali cried foul. In a hurriedly convened press conference, the SAD leader claimed that Congress had “hijacked” the polls. It was indeed a case of sour grapes for Babbehali and Co. Some SAD (the acronym, incidentally, suits the sulking Akalis!) satraps even went to the extent of claiming that Congress workers had knocked down the door guarding the EVMs in the Meritorious School to tamper with the machines. This is getting a bit too ludicrous for comfort. The SAD leader conveniently forgot that the cops were guarding the room like they guard the Picasso’s in London’s National Gallery. In any case, there is a school of thought that such elections should be done away with and that the ruling dispensation in Chandigarh should instead nominate their loyalists. When somebody pointed to an officer engaged on poll duty that the Congress was using all its power to get its candidates elected, he was given this reply, “power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.” And as for sitting MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra, he seems to be well-versed with Gersons law which states that “an advantage should be taken in any situation, regardless of ethics.” In this case the word political should be prefixed with ethics! (contributed by ravi dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-try-to-act-smart-215574
21-02-2021||---||Farmers allege police inaction||Amritsar, February 20Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Saturday held a dharna over police inaction outside the Jandiala Guru Police station here.Satnam Singh of Dhard village said on Friday night he had a narrow escape when several persons of the village fired at him. He said those attacked him were Jagroop Singh, Ajmer Singh and Gurbhej Singh. He said he used to work as a JCB machine operator.Satnam said he had a dispute with them over digging of earth, besides some monetary dispute. He said he had lodged a complaint with the police around a month ago in this regard.Dayal Singh Mianwind, a member of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said the police visited the spot but failed to take any action against the suspects which forced them to hold the agitation.Ajmer Singh and Jagroop Singh said they also ran a dairy in the village. They said on Friday Satnam’s son Taran along with his accomplices attacked them, besides ransacking the dairy and now he was making baseless allegations.Harchand Singh, Station House Officer, Jandiala police station, said investigation was under progress and appropriate action would be taken. He said the police found no truth in Satnam Singh’s statements but the probe was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-allege-police-inaction-215575
21-02-2021||---||Carjacking: Third accused arrested||Amritsar, February 20The police have arrested third person in connection with a carjacking case that occurred in posh Ranjit Avenue locality in December.He was identified as Sandeep Singh, alias Kaku, who is a goldsmith.Earlier, the police had nabbed Manpreet Singh of Patti Balol in Sultanwind village on December 31 and Ranjit Singh on January 10 in the case.Three unknown persons armed with fire weapons snatched the car of a Bathinda-based trader Satnam Singh Walia. Satnam, along with his general manager, had gone inside the hotel in the Ranjit Avenue locality on December 19 while his driver, identified as Vikas, was sitting in the car (PB-03-BB-0211) parked outside when the robbers took it away at gunpoint.The police recovered the car which the accused were running after fixing a fake number plate. The police had also recovered a mobile phone which they used to operate with the help of an internet dongle in order to operate his gang for snatching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-third-accused-arrested-215576
21-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Two bike lifters nabbed, 1 flees||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-bike-lifters-nabbed-1-flees-215578
