22-02-2021||Locals are of the view that staff needs to be more committed to its job and work out ways for a streamlined grievance cell||MC’s reputation needs a makeover, so does redressal system||Plaint should reach officials directlyDespite the huge pomp and show of government for centralised grievance redressal mechanism through mSeva, the taxpayers money seems to be going down the drain as to register a complaint on mSeva, a citizen needs to login through OTP and if one is lucky, OTP may arrive only after five-six attempts. I wanted to register a complaint for overflowing side chambers in the ward of the Mayor. After filling the details, the website couldn’t find a location due to which the complaint didn’t get register and there was also no manual field to type the address. The screen goes completely blank if you try to refresh website or app. Apparently, a complaint through WhatsApp chat bot got registered but don’t know when will it get addressed because the MC still follows the hierarchy to pass down the complaints to concerned officer which takes 10-15 days where as the Right To Transparency and Accountability in Services Act mandates to de-silt drainages/sewers within 24-48 hours of receiving complaint. The simplicity to register and redressal of complaint has become highly complicated. The PSPCL has much better complaint redressal system which is operating as per guidelines of regulatory commission. In 2017, I took up the matter of non-functional online complaint box with the MCA authorities and then online box was simplified and errors, too, were removed. The concerned officers were also given login credentials to redress the complaint but none checked and the objective of online complaint redressal collapsed. One thing remained common then and now ie issues which require immediate attention are passed down from to SE to XEN then to SDO and finally to JE rather than sending the complaints directly to the concerned officer, thus, failing the very objective of digital system. In order to effectively solve the grievances the online system should automatically assign complaint to concerned officer and he should be initiated through SMS to resolve the issue thus making him accountable also.Varun Khanna QUESTIONAs prices of LPG cylinder, petrol and diesel are sky-rocketing, how difficult it has become to sustain livelihood in such a situation for residents, especially during the pandemic?Helpline for each service need of hourAmritsar being a historic city and on world tourism map needs a good infrastructure which is badly lacking The local residents have no clue how to get their services entertained because of lack of helplines regarding the various issues. The administration introduces helplines with much fanfare but most of the time they lie unattended or defunct. Either the lines are faulty or officers concerned are not vigilant enough to attend to them. The administration needs to plan workshops and gear them up for better services to the people. Online payment of bills, death and birth certificates, issues regarding roads, garbage collection, water and electricity helplines are a must and should be well attended and this is what makes a smart city. Another serious issue is the stray cattle and stray dog menace increase heavily on roads and in parks…which are not looked into. Helpline for each service is need of the hour and numbers ought to be published in newspapers or flashed on local TV news channels. Last but not the least, it should be of assistance to the local residents and tourists as well.Indu AuroraWe always welcome feedback of residentsThere are multiple channels to file a complaint with the Municipal Corporation. We regularly review grievances through proper redressal systems. We receive maximum complaints manually. There is a strong network of MC councillors and most people complain through their public representatives. Moreover, all zonal offices have complaint desks. We also have toll-free numbers for sanitation and other services. We do receive online complaints through ‘mSeva’ app. We always welcome the feedback of residents to improve our services. Komal Mittal, MC CommissionerThe rub lies in accessing the systemA complaint redressal system is an integral part of the machinery of any administration. Without having an effective and efficient complaint redressal system no administration can claim to be accountable, responsive and user-friendly. In fact, it is a gauge to measure its effectiveness and efficiency as it provides important feedback on its functioning. It is being commonly used by the MC to take action on any complaint made by the residents to avail services provided by it more effectively. It has been designed with the sole purpose of receiving complaints and initiating corrective action. Its intentions are good but the difficulty lies in accessing its means to report grievances. More often than not, the laudable service remains unavailable. Web portal, a web-based platform, provides the residents with a single point to information but most of the citizens don’t know how to access it on desktop or mobile. A minuscule minority is conversant with it. So is the case with email as it doesn’t work well in their hands. Only a toll-free number remains handy to connect with the officials concerned but it mostly remains busy. It is the only stand alone medium but is the receiver of a vast number of unsolicited calls defeating its very purpose. Hence, the complaint redressal system is not as effective and helpful as it ought to be. It ought to be overhauled and made proactive to receive residents’ complaints for their prompt redressal . The system needs to be revamped to decentralise handling and redressal of public complaints by empowering the officials at primary level to recieve, dispose and monitor complaints. It should be made functional 24×7 with applicant OTP authentication, acknowledgement to applicant at each stage, feedback by the complainant, etc. Thus, it will surely win people’s confidence.Tarsem S BumrahA dedicated civic body staff requiredThe Punjab government deserves public appreciation for providing public redressal system relating to the MC Amritsar via their WhatsApp (mobile no. 8750975975). Toll free no. 18001802103 for the MC services is also available. To make this WhatsApp online system and toll free service serve effectively, a dedicated MC staff is required urgently.TS BhattiMC ought to have an assertive attitudeMostly the residents face a grievance regarding sewerage blockage, streetlights, water and electricity supply, parks beatification, etc, from their respective wards. To ensure the redressal, the MC must give proper time to residents to address and resolve their local issues and grievances. The MC must have an assertive attitude towards its residents and listen and resolve their problems. It must hold a series of meetings with the residents and ward councillors bi-weekly or once in a month and promptly discuss the issues with the officials of the government. It should have a close contact with the government contractors to address the grievances of their residents and also review the processes and their functions towards the residential work, which should be conducted well on time. The concerned officer should have leadership qualities as well as commanding authorities to raise the voice of his ward people during house meetings and address their grievances and get it resolved timely. He should also have a complainant box outside his office which should be opened on every week so to address the cries of residents in his absence from his office. He should try to educate the youngsters of his ward in such a manner that they should themselves know about the government policies. The MC should be well-aware about the different government schemes like widow pension, ration scheme, smartcard schemes for the people residing in their area and ensure proper execution for the right person and address problems. The MC must depute one person at the office who should work for 12 hours minimum to redress the problems in absence of the concerned officer. However, it is a rare case when the MC is using, reverting and resolving grievances through the said tools.Ankur GuptaDo we live in a law abiding society?That the municipal corporation runs a well-oiled complaint redressal system like landline or e-mail is news to most residents. It must be a carefully guarded secret for obvious reasons. Once upon a time, they circulated the phone numbers of important public dealing officials, but I remember that only about a quarter or so of the long list were actually valid or active numbers. As matters stand, even personal visits, and diary entries of public grievances remain unattended. For example, the so called ‘beautification project’ to spruce up the Circular Road from Khazana Gate to Sultanwind Gate has dug up road sections and the adjoining parks but the work was abandoned for no reason. Even written complaints to the commissioner fell on deaf ears. I think Amritsar Tribune is the only portal through which serious gaps in the MC services can be vented out but I wonder if they are attended. I, as an octogenarian, recall with nostalgia the British times when there was no technology, no mobiles, a modest budget but a serious administration. Thanks to the then nightly cleanings, the residents always woke up to a clean and well-sprinkled dust-free city. Animals like those before carts and tongas and municipal donkeys carried a compulsory canvas bag under the tail to prevent littering, and you rarely saw a stray cow. Dog population was systematically kept manageable. There were fewer streetlights; they were dim but power pilferage was unimaginable. The clusters of energy metres are an eyesore in the so-called smart city. I sometimes wonder whether we live in a law abiding society.Mohan SinghA mockery of plaint redressal systemThe complaint redressal system of the MC is not at all effective and helpful in addressing the grievances of residents. In the previous summer, I had sent e-mails to the MC on its contact e-mail id on web portal for water scarcity problem in our Ranjit Avenue area but till date they have not replied and did not even bother to call on my mobile number narrated by me in the e-mails shot off. The complaint redressal system is only false propaganda by them. In actual, the grievances of residents remain unresolved even after accessing the MC’s complaint redressal system. Due to this the residents have a sore attitude towards the MC as they repent that all their grievances have fallen on deaf ears.Sanjay ChawlaToday’s MC is rudderlessIt is not the toll-free number which is to solve the problems but the sympathetic ear attending the same, which is lacking. In our country limited number of people face problems relating to Custom, Excise, Income Tax Departments but everyone irrespective of the his/her financial status do come face to face with Local Bodies Department. That is why our great political leaders started their political journey with municipal committee/corporation. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr Rajendra Prasad and Sardar Vallabhai Patel started their political career by being Mayor of Allahabad, Patna and Ahmedabad, respectively. In good old days, our city’s municipal committee with limited resources in addition to its usual work used to provide total education and health services to the city residents with no private service providers in the field. The Princess of Wales Hospital at Dhab Khatikan, run by the MC was the only maternity hospital in the city. The MC used to run an exclusive infectious disease hospital near bus stand and also gave financial aid to local civil hospital out of its meagre resources. It used to run electricity power station at Taranwala Pul. Over and above, the MC’s contribution to art and cultural activities were unparallel. It was possible due to sincere and dedicated collective efforts of the staff headed by equally sincere political leadership. In December 1946, EO of MC Shri Padam Chand Bhandari himself mended the torn water hose pipe of the fire engine and a passerby friend asked him about it. Bhandari replied that “he could visualise riots and fire-related incidents in near future hence was preparing for it” and in March 1947, he was proved right. Today, we see Bhandari Bridge in his loving memory. After India-China war of 1962, the PM floated national defence fund and employees of the local MC donated more than Rs5 lakh in form of cash and gold for it. But with passage of time, things changed. Service providers have changed from selfless to selfish. Poor leadership is masked with loudest voice. With a councillor in each ward, there should not be any complaint cell for the public; the councillor should attend to it.Harsh N JoharTell residents details of grievance cellIf the MC is truly serious about resolving civic grievances of residents through dedicated contact lines like toll-free number, landline, email, and web portal, these complaint handles could prove to be an extremely effective toolkit. However, this is possible only if the MC actually ‘bombards’ the public with these contact details in the face, the ears, on the sensory intelligence of its residents! One may gawk and ask about the absurdity of such a solution. To justify this, first, look at the reality – we are a crazy mixed-generation of new-age youth, young adults, midlifers, midnighters, and the over-the-hill ones. In other words, we are the tech-savvy, the juggaado, the kaam chalau, the chalta hais’ and the lazy, in that order of age-factor and experience. Secondly, the MC reputation needs a 360-degree makeover for the public to trust that their efforts of lodging complaints could bear fruit. For this, the MC has to virtually attack and drill the distrusting, the disheartened, and the tech-challenged public with wake-up messages to push the aggrieved to promptly file a complaint to the civic body with a proud faith that it would be resolved. Then, these tools become effective. The idea would be to first make the task easy for the public and limit the contact details to one or two ways. The second is to tick off from the list to identify the department and type of complaint. Third, the public could audio record their complaint at a toll-free number. Fourth, they could lodge a written complaint on a widely used app like WhatsApp on the same number. This toll-free number could be widely broadcast through billboards, ticker-signs, local cable, welcome note on mobiles, to drill in the conscious memory, a simple three-digit toll-free number, to lodge a complaint to MC, similar to 100 for police, 108 for an ambulance. Importantly, the MC must put in place quick team mechanisms and make this helpline ultra-responsive. This could be done by creating inter-departmental teamwork to survey, play, display, and convey. Following the acknowledgment of the complaint, an MC team should first survey, then play or perform, then display the effective resolution of each complaint and lastly convey the feedback to the complainant and the public.Rashmi TalwarEffectiveness of redressal systemIt is always required to have an effective platform to hear the voice/communication of a common man. In today’s life, technology plays an imperative role for an effective complaint redressal system. Available Options: landline, Toll-Free Number, Email and Web Portal. Suggestion to Improve Effectiveness: Turn Around Time (TAT) should be fixed for each category of complaint. Complaint dashboard should be displayed on the website. Option to reopen complaint if response is not satisfactory. Escalation matrix should be available to users if complaint not resolved within TAT. Use of artificial intelligence to address the complaint. Common complaints should be displayed on website through FAQ. Feedback option should be taken from the users. Survey can be conducted of selected people about their experiences.Suneet KochharTry out Swachhata app, it worksI recently filed a complaint on the ‘Swachhata’ app and it was resolved by the concerned authorities within a week. I urge all the residents of the city to use this app if they have any type of complaint like garbage, sewage, sweeping, etc. Please tell your friends about this app so that we can make our city clean and green. I don’t know about other modes of contacting the MC. like web portal, landline number, etc as I have not used them. But I wish that all of these services be transparent where anyone can access them so that the concerned authorities are held accountable for their work.Jatinderpal Singh BatthBring redressal modes to people’s sensesIt is to my surprise that such e-mail, toll-free number, landline number, web portal are ever available! Why are these missing from the entrance gate or reception area of the MC is billion dollar question? To my opinion such an attitude of not displaying the redressal system is a bad behaviour by the MC. A civic body is the backbone of beauty of a town or city. District Relationship Officer should also take notice of this lacuna. Display of redressal system at entrance or in reception area of each and every government institution should be made mandatory by the government, and in case such a rule already exists the non-abiding government institutions should be served with disciplinary action. Apart from this The Tribune, through a regular special column, should make people aware of their rights and of various government mechanisms available to make this city a beautiful place to live in. To sum MC should take notice of my suggestion and immediately display such redressal modes.AhilyaThe system is down most of the timeResidents’ complaints lodged on the MC Amritsar official portal are rarely addressed and took long to respond. Either the redressal system is down due to technical problems or fails to log in complaints on e-mail are neither replied nor are ticket numbers generated to keep track of complaint. The MC should make a dedicated people-friendly portal for rederssal of residents’ complaints with a time tag. A level of resolution of concerned complaint must be followed till the needful is done. It is suggested that a WhatsApp chat enable number be made available for lodging complaints in addition to other formats. A separate complaint desk under supervision of officer is the need of hour.Anil VinayakTop brass way over in their headBeing the patron of Vikas Manch, Amritsar, my personal experience suggests that the officials and employees of the MC, when contacted respond positively to the complaints regarding sewage leakage, streetlight, major light regarding replacement of defunct transformer, sweeping problems, etc. But the top brass disappoints. The MC Commissioner and Mayor do not pay heed to the major demands of the city. The Commissioner has been requested to develop the roads leading to Sri Harmandir Sahib, especially to the Gurdwara Guru ke Mehal, the birth place of ninth Sikh master Sri Guru Teg Bahadur, must be developed under the Smart City project as that of the Hall Bazaar. The Commissioner has been requested, both in written and verbally, that the roads starting from Ram Talai Chowk on GT Road and leading to Sri Harmandir Sahib via Burj Akali Phula Singh and Gheo Mandi Chowk, road from Mahan Singh Gate to Town Hall, road from Sheran Wala Gate to Saragarhi parking, road from Ram Bagh Chowk to Gol Hatti Chowk be developed under the Smart City project keeping in view the 400th birth anniversary celebrations, which are to be celebrated in April this year. But, nothing has been promised and planned to implement the deserving and appropriate demand, although she is also the chairman and executive officer of the Àmritsar Smart City project. The MC Commissioner has also been requested to implement the agreement signed by the Municipal commissioner Amritsar (on behalf of the Governor of Punjab) and Superintending Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India (on behalf of The President of India) regarding relocation of the three clubs from the Ram Bagh, but to no avail.Kulwant Singh Ankhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mcs-reputation-needs-a-makeover-so-does-redressal-system-216005
22-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Five booked for abducting Teen||Sewa Kendra burgled in cityAmritsar: Unknown burglars targeted a Sewa Kendra located on Mehta Chowk area on Friday night and decamped with cash and other items. The incident came to light when senior computer operator Mohanjit Kaur reached the office the next day. She stated to the police that on Friday, at 5 in the evening, she, along with her staff shutdown the office and went to their homes. She said on Saturday morning, when they reached the Sewa Kendra, they found the locks of the outer gate broken. The unknown persons decamped with an air conditioner, web cam, NVR and Rs 4,930 from the draw. The police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC against unidentified persons. TNSMobile seized from gangsterAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail staff seized a mobile phone from the possession of notorious gangster Jasbir Singh, alias Jasbir Angarhiya, on Saturday. He was recently brought on a production warrant by the counter-intelligence in connection with alleged Khalistani module in which it had nabbed Jagdev Singh from Lucknow while his accomplice Jagroop Singh was nabbed from Rampur Jheete village. According to Balwinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, during patrolling, staff found him hiding something in the bathroom of cell No. 10. During checking, a smart phone was found without SIM from his possession. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act. TNS27-yr-old killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Harjit Singh (27), a resident of nearby Jhander village, died in a road accident when a bus hit their motorcycle on the National Highway 54 (Goindwal Sahib bypass) on Saturday. Harjit Singh along with his nephew Sona Singh was on the motorcycle when a bus of the Dashmesh Service hit their motorcycle. Harjit Singh received head injuries and died on the spot. The bus driver, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Dhadde village in Bathinda district, has been booked under Sections 302-A, 279, 427 and 337 of the IPC by the local Sadar police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-abducting-teen-216006
22-02-2021||---||‘Link employment with mother tongue to ensure its survival’||Amritsar, February 21A majority of Punjabi writers took part in the Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha and Amritsar Sahit Chintan Manch and organised ‘Maa Boli’ day on Sunday. They voiced a unanimous opinion that only those languages which remain in professional and daily usage tend to survive in the current times.They were speaking at a seminar held to mark the ‘Maa Boli’ day, which was dedicated to farmers’ agitation, seeking repeal of three farm laws, on Sunday.Deep Davinder Singh, general secretary of Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, stated that the subject of the seminar was mother tongue and employment avenues. He said the development of a given geographical area was associated with the native language.Gathered at comrade Sohan Singh Josh district library, Malwinder, Dr Prabhjot Kaur Sandhu, Harpal Singh Nagra, Sarbjit Sandhu, Dr Mohan and Dr Bhupinder Singh stated that there was need to associate the mother tongue with employment to ensure its survival. Books for medical, legal, technical and other subjects should be available in Punjabi.Permanent Punjabi teachers must be appointed in schools, colleges and other educational institutes in the state. It will ensure plenty of employment resources for those attaining higher qualification in the mother tongue. They stressed that the mother tongue must be given priority in homes and business establishments.On this occasion, Manmohan Singh Dhillon, Raj Pal Baath, Satinder, Surkhab, Baljinder Mangat, Chan Amrik, Jaswant, Rajwinder Raj and others read poems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/link-employment-with-mother-tongue-to-ensure-its-survival-215998
22-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Residents hold Parbhat Pheri against farm laws||Tarn Taran, February 21Residents of Jatti Umra village organised a ‘Parbhat Pheri’ in protest against the three farm laws here on Sunday.The village was of the special historic importance as it was the ancestral village of Pakistan’s former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.The protesters in large numbers, including men, women and youth, led by Dilbag Singh, sarpanch of the village, participated in the ‘Parbhat Pheri ’. The march after passing through various streets and bazars of village reached farm houses in the village where the participants were given warm welcome by the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-hold-parbhat-pheri-against-farm-laws-215999
22-02-2021||---||AAP protests fuel price hike||Amritsar, February 21AAP volunteers staged a protest against spiralling rise in prices of petrol, diesel, gas and other essential commodities on Sunday evening.Led by AAP district president Parminder Singh Sethi, they raised slogans against the government for completely ignoring the masses. They held a demonstration against the union and state governments for not reducing taxes on fossil fuels to provide respite to people from the middle and lower income group families. Sethi said prices of petrol and diesel have risen for at least 12 days this month only. He alleged that the state government was equally responsible as it had not attempted to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel in the state. The inflation in essential commodities is the most worrisome for those families who either lost their jobs or had their salaries cut following the Covid-19 lockdown and the resultant economic crises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-protests-fuel-price-hike-216001
22-02-2021||---||Saka Nankana Sahib centenary observed||Amritsar, February 21A function to mark the centenary of the Nankana Sahib massacre was organised at the government school in Fatehpur Rajputtan village near here on Sunday. The event was organised by the Vegetable Growers’ Association under the aegis of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.On the occasion, kavishars and dhadis sung ballads to pay tributes to the martyrs of Saka Nankana Sahib in which over 150 Sikhs were killed mercilessly by then Nankana Sahib Gurdwara mahant Narain Das and his goons.Speaking on the occasion, National Federation of Indian Women general secretary Annie Raja said the farmers’ agitation was also being held on the path shown by the great martyrs of the Nankana Sahib massacre.“A century ago too, the people of Punjab had shown a way to the country and fought against a tyrant government. At present also, Punjabis are the torch-bearers who have stood against injustice,” she said. While paying tributes to the martyrs, the speakers discussed the ongoing farmers’ protest and asked people to stand united. They said the protest would continue until the three agriculture laws were repealed.Amarjit Singh Bandala, a member of the management committee of gurdwara built in memory of the martyrs, also urged the people to fight against the draconian laws. Others who addressed the gathering included Lakhbir Singh Nizampur, Rattan Singh Randhawa, Harjit Singh Shahzada, Kashmir Singh Ferozepur, Mahavir Singh Patti, Bhupinder Singh Tirath Pura, Raj Bir Singh, Avtar Singh Fatehpur, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saka-nankana-sahib-centenary-observed-216002
22-02-2021||---||Couple lose Rs 80K to snatchers||Amritsar, February 21Two incidents of crime were reported in Amritsar rural area on Saturday. In the first incident, Sarkara Singh (76), a resident of Tong village, stated that at around 2.15 pm on Saturday, he, along with his wife, was returning home on his bike after withdrawing cash from a bank branch.He said they were going along the Rayya canal and when they reached near Nijjar village, two motorcycle-borne persons came from the rear and snatched the purse of his wife who was riding pillion. He said the purse contained Rs 80,000. Sarkara said the accused sped away after the incident as he and his wife fell off the bike. The Beas police have registered a case.The second incident took place near the Majitha railway crossing when local resident Tarsem Lal of Vadda Haripura in Islamabad locality was returning to Amritsar on Saturday.The victim told the police that he had gone to Majitha for some personal work. When he was returning on his scooter (PB-02-DL-4673), he was pushed off his scooter near the Majitha railway crossing by three bike-borne persons. As soon as he fell off the scooter, the miscreants fled away with his scooter. The Majitha police have registered a case.13-year-old killed in celebratory firingTarn Taran: A 13-year-old boy, identified as Jashandeep Singh, was killed during celebratory gunshots being fired during a marriage function in the border village of Dubli village here on Saturday night. Joginder Singh of the same village was seriously injured.The injured was admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar. During the function of Sukhwant Singh’s son, his family members were dancing and celebratory gunshots were being fired. Both Jashandeep Singh and Joginder Singh, who were not among the invitees, were standing there and received bullet injuries.Both were admitted to Amritsar hospital where Jashandeep Singh died this morning. The Patti Sadar police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of Arms Act against Gurlal Singh of Narli and Harwinder Singh of Dubli who are on the run. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-lose-rs-80k-to-snatchers-216004
22-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Struggling hoteliers fail to pay property tax, MC revenue hit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 21The Covid-19 induced lockdown has affected the city’s hotel industry, which further hit the tax recovery of Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA). The MC officials claimed that the hoteliers are reluctant to pay the tax due to slow revival of the industry.Tourism in the city is the backbone of several trades in the city but hotel industry is one of the major beneficiaries. Though other trades have been revived, the hotel industry has still not recovered properly. The influx of tourists has still not revived due to restriction on traveling. Moreover, a large number of hotels were closed for eight to nine months. The hoteliers were expecting a tax waiver for the current year.Pardeep Rajput, a nodal officer for the property tax at the Municipal Corporation, said: “A major amount of property tax comes from commercial establishments. Undoubtedly, all kinds of trades have been badly hit due to Covid-19 lockdown. We also witnessed a loss of Rs 9 crore of property tax. The hotel industry is one of the major revenue sources. The hotels remained closed since March and are still facing low occupancy, so it also affected the tax collection of the MC.Jatinder Singh Bhatia, president, Federation of Hotel and Guest House, said: “Hoteliers are paying tax but it is true that the lockdown hit the industry most. The occupancy is still 15 to 20 per cent in the hotels. The rail service and international flights have not revived. We are dependent on tourists from other states or international tourists. Local tourists not stay in the hotels. We have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to wave off the taxes but not get any response. Now, we will meet him and ask to wave off the taxes as it is difficult to pay power bills and taxes from pocket.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/struggling-hoteliers-fail-to-pay-property-tax-mc-revenue-hit-215995
22-02-2021||---||Civic body to put leash on stray dog menace in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 21After the failure of the several dog sterilisation attempts, the MC is all set to initiate the drive for 5,000 dogs. The MC General House had sanctioned Rs45 lakh at a meeting on December 31. Now, it is being expected that the Finance and Contract Committee meeting would give its nod on Monday.According to the official figure, the city has more than 30,000 stray dogs. In December 2018, the civic body had initiated a pilot project by spending Rs18 lakh on sterilisation of 2,000 stray dogs. Due to poor infrastructure, the MC sterilised only 1,451 dogs in two years. MC had hired a firm but the infrastructure was not available. The doctors were able to sterilise 80 dogs per week. The project of 2,000 dogs is still underway. Dog sterilisation centre under constructionMayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said new dog sterilisation centre is under construction at Naraingarh. It will have a capacity to sterilise 200 dogs weekly. Now, the MC has decided to go for the sterilisation of 5,000 dogs. The expected amount for sterilisation is Rs45 lakh. With the setting up of the new centre, the sterilisation process would speed up.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu claimed that the new dog sterilisation centre is under construction at Naraingarh, which will have a capacity to sterilise 200 dogs weekly. Now, the MC has decided to go for the sterilisation of 5,000 dogs. The expected amount for sterilisation is Rs45 lakh.Such drives have been started in the past, but couldn’t succeed due to inadequate infrastructure and shortage of funds. Earlier, the civic body had started such a drive in March 2017, but failed to achieve success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-put-leash-on-stray-dog-menace-in-amritsar-215996
22-02-2021||---||No salary, truck driver kills self||Amritsar, February 21  Gulzari Lal, a resident of Indira Colony, committed suicide by hanging with an iron rod in his truck here on Saturday. The police have booked the owner of the truck, Nirmal Kumar of Paris Town on Batala road, on the charge of abetting suicide following a complaint by deceased’s wife Kavita.  She stated to the Mohkampura police that her husband used to work as a driver at transport truck owned by Nirmal Kumar. She said her husband borrowed Rs50,000 in October 2019 from him for daughter’s marriage. She said the accused was not giving him salary for the past some time and he was perturbed over it. She said Gulzari Lal told her about this. She said when he demanded the same from his owner, he allegedly insulted him. On Saturday, his body was found hanging with an iron grill of the truck.  The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Nirmal Kumar in this regard. Further investigation was on, while the accused is  on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-salary-truck-driver-kills-self-215997
22-02-2021||---||Amritsar MLA, 20 of family test positive, quarantined||Amritsar, February 20Congress MLA from Amritsar Sunil Dutti along with 20 members of his family tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Dutti had organised his daughter’s marriage function in Delhi on February 15 and 16.Total 35 samples from the family and relatives were collected. The reports received on late Friday evening revealed that 20 of them had tested positive. The positive family members include Dutti’s sister-in-law Mamta Dutta, who is an MC councillor.The Health Department officials said all family members of the local MLA who tested positive have quarantined themselves. They said none of the family members have reported any severe symptoms so far.The health officials said contact tracing of patients has started. The department has also delivered the medical kits that help in monitoring the health and medicines to patients.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said people should follow all Covid-19 guidelines issued by the department. He said health teams keep a check on the health of all home-quarantined positive patients.Helpline numbers for Covid patientsToday’s Covid UpdateNew cases: 35Total cases: 15,359New deaths: 0Total deaths: 589New recovery: 15Total recovery 14,540Active 230||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mla-20-of-family-test-positive-quarantined-215565
