23-02-2021||---||30% surge in +ve cases in 72 hours in Amritsar district||Amritsar, February 22A sudden spurt has been witnessed in the Covid-19 positive cases in the district. The district health authorities reported a total of 117 fresh cases in the last three days, which is around 30 per cent of the 392 cases reported in February to date. Even the active case load, which hovered around 130 at the start of February, has now reached 276.The authorities reported a total of 392 positive cases and nine deaths due to the virus. On February 20, the health authorities reported 35 cases, including 20 members of a Congress MLA Sunil Dutti’s family who had come back from Delhi after attending a marriage.Forty cases surfaced on February 21 and on February 22, the health authorities reported a total of 37 cases, which include 26 influenza like illness cases and 11 contacts of positive patients.The district had witnessed a peak in September, when 5,939 cases and 203 deaths were witnessed. Since then, the authorities managed to bring down the mortality rate, as only nine deaths took place in February.With surge in cases across Punjab, the authorities warned residents against any laxity. Civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “This is not the time to be lax. The health authorities and the state government are taking a number of steps, but residents, too, are required to take precautions and act responsibly.”He said residents should practise social distancing, wear mask and wash hands regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-surge-in-ve-cases-in-72-hours-in-amritsar-district-216415
23-02-2021||---||Youth nabbed for kidnapping, rape||Amritsar, February 22  A land dispute in Jabbowal village falling under jurisdiction of Beas police station turned ugly after several armed persons fired and injured three brothers today. The injured have been identified as Satwant Singh, Balwant Singh and Manjit Singh. The trio was rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.  The victims alleged that instead of taking action against the accused, the police was harassing them. However, the police said investigation was under way. Malkiat Singh, brother of the victims, said in 2018 they had purchased land from Gurpreet Singh and his wife Rajinder Kaur. However, they were not handing over the possession of the said land. He said a few days ago, they started constructing a boundary wall and a shed on the property in question. Malkiat said Gurpreet along with around 20 armed persons came to the spot and started demolishing the wall. He said when they opposed, the accused started firing indiscriminately. Manjit, who suffered a bullet injury, was shifted to a private hospital and his condition was stated to be criticial. He alleged the accused also tried to attack them at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-nabbed-for-kidnapping-rape-216417
23-02-2021||---||GNDU nod to Rs 589-cr budget for next fiscal||Amritsar, February 22 The Senate and the Syndicate of Guru Nanak Dev University have approved the Budget estimates of around 589 crore for the year 2021-22. The university would spend 51.71 per cent of this amount on further improvement in teaching, allied teaching, research and education. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said during the previous financial year, the university had spent Rs 2.45 crore on helping economically backward and meritorious students in the form of fee concessions. The fee claims of up to Rs 7.70 cr of 1,040 SC candidates under post-matric scholarships for SC students has been sent to the state government and online claim for 78 students under the National Scholarhip scheme has also been sent to the state government. For 2021-22, the university would largely spend on upgrading the teaching and allied teaching tools, while 12.25 per cent has been earmarked for non-teaching departments, 10.57 per cent on general administration, 3.70 per cent on the conduct of examinations, 14.75 per cent on miscellaneous (teaching, non-teaching and others) and 7.02 per cent would be spent on construction purposes. The Punjab Government has increased maintenance grant for 13 constituent colleges of the university to Rs 74.73 crore. Similarly, the university is also expected to receive a grant of 41.45 lakh for establishment of Jallianwala Bagh Chair at university campus. GNDU has also set up International Students Cell at the campus to encourage foreign students and it would be upgraded in the current year. As many as 500 research scholars are conducting research in various subjects with the grant received from various funding agencies under different schemes. The university had been given a grant of Rs 49.10 crore to celebrate the 550th Prakash Purb of Sri Guru Nanak Dev University, out of which Rs 24.56 crore has been received. A grant of Rs 3.50 crore under RUSA 2.0 scheme and Rs 1 crore grant for School of Education has been received for the year 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-nod-to-rs-589-cr-budget-for-next-fiscal-216420
23-02-2021||PK Jaiswar---||Amarinder inaugurates first phase of canal-based water supply project||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, February 22  Seven months after the cabinet’s nod to canal-based water supply for Amritsar and Ludhiana cities, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday virtually inaugurated the first phase of the project worth Rs722 crore through video-conferencing. The entire project would cost around Rs2,200 crore and would help in providing clean and safe drinking water to the population of the holy city, while it would reduce dependence on underground water which has been leading to the environmental degradation in the state.  The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank Group, would finance 70 per cent of the cost and the rest would be borne by the Punjab government.  In order to strengthen urban and water supply service management and improving water supply infrastructure, the state government had urged the World Bank for support in implementing the round the clock canal-based water supply project in the city in June 2018. A pre-feasibility report was prepared by the World Bank in 2015 which was updated in 2019. It emphasised on the need to shift from rapidly depleting and contaminated decentralised groundwater supply source to a centralised and treated surface water source. The 40 acre land for the construction of water treatment plants, along with treated water collection tanks and pumping stations close to the canals, was acquired along the Upper Bari Doab Canal at Vallah village at a cost of Rs36.40 crore. Besides, the CM also inaugurated several other projects including upgradation of fire brigade and procuring machinery for solid waste management and beautification of parks in the city. Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said many developmental works are under Smart City and AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) project. He added the civic authorities were also constructing a smart road on the outside periphery of the city worth Rs118 crore. “Around 66,000 LED streetlights were already installed on city road while a multi-sports stadium is also being constructed at Gol Bagh here.” Among others who were present on the occasion included Deputy Commissioner Gupreet Khaira, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Rishi and Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amarinder-inaugurates-first-phase-of-canal-based-water-supply-project-216422
23-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers near Indo-Pak border highlight issues||Famers of the Kisan Union of the border area have written a letter written to the IG (Border) BSF regarding the problems faced by farmers having their land along the Indo-Pak border. Surjit Singh Bhura, vice-president of the union, said the organisation, in a letter to the IG, highlighted the issue of uncertainty regarding opening of gates installed at the entry points near the fencing. They said because of this, farmers had to take a long route to go to their fields. He said sometimes the gates were not opened in time due to which farmers had to face inconvenience while going to their fields for agriculture works.  He also said recently, a farmer Jaspal Singh of Kals village was injured seriously in the attack by a wild life pig when he had gone to his fields across the fencing. He said the damage of the crops by the stray animals had become a common thing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-near-indo-pak-border-highlight-issues-216423
23-02-2021||Our Correspodent---||Left parties criticise Centre over new agriculture laws||Tarn Taran, February 22 The Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) under the banner of ‘Anti-fascist attack front’ organised a conference today under the chairmenship of Rupinder Kaur Marimegha and Jasbir Kaur Tarn Taran. Mangat Ram Pasala, general secretary, RMPI, urged people from all the walks of life to come out in support of farmers against the contentious three agri laws. Harbhajan Singh, member, CPI, said farmers’ stir has become a mass movement across the country. The duo alleged that the Centre was ignoring sentiments of millions of farmers in order to fill coffers of a handful of their favorite corporate. They said laws were not only a means of subsistence for the vast majority of population of the country, but were equally against the interests of small and medium enterprises and retailers.  Implementation of these laws will result in unemployment, poverty and starvation, they said.  Pasala said communal tactics, misleading propaganda and oppressive measures taken by the Central Government to derail the peasant struggle could have dire consequences in near future. Prithipal Singh Marimegha, member, CPI, said labour laws were being flouted with impunity. Mukhtar Singh Malla of the RMPI said intellectuals, writers and journalists, who showed truth were being tried for treason. Arsal Singh Sandhu, Rajinder Pal Kaur, Davinder Sohal, Tara Singh Khaira, Narinder Kaur Patti, Kiranjit Kaur Valtoha, Daljit Singh Dayalpura and Rupinder Kaur, among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/left-parties-criticise-centre-over-new-agriculture-laws-216425
23-02-2021||---||Firaq Gorakhpuri, the iridescent poet||Amritsar, February 22Raghupati Sahay, who was famously known by his pen name Firaq Gorakhpuri, was counted among India’s most noted contemporary Urdu poets. Celebrating his memory and works, the Majha House held a virtual baithak (a term used for defining a formal setting for a musical or poetic dialogue) with eminent critics and writers, including Dr Bhupinder Aziz Parihar and Dr Gurupadesh Singh as speakers.Dr Aziz termed Firaq’s poetry as dense, “Just like a forest so dense that it is impossible to find only one particular thing, Firaq’s poetry too has layers of themes and sub-themes. Every time you read his poem, it reveals something new… new meaning and new context.”On being asked whether he would count Firaq in classical or modern poets, Aziz said that although his literary roots were classical, his expression and verse had modern influences. “Firaq was always looking for divinity in everything and he saw everything as a whole.” Aziz added that while the poets usually write in the same language, he would recite shayari both in Urdu and Hindi and his use of dialect in Hindi is also notably unique.Explaining Firaq’s writing style, Aziz said that Firaq’s habit of using humor and wit as tool for sharp social commentary was commendable. Keeping in mind the tradition of the baithak, two ghazals of Firaq were also sung by Jasmeet Nayyar and Suraksha Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firaq-gorakhpuri-the-iridescent-poet-216428
23-02-2021||Tarn Taran||SC commission team takes stock of community’s grievances in villages||A three-member team of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission in its visit to Tur village had formed a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the facts of the complaint of alleged non-cooperation by the Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) and the Panchayat Secretary with the sarpanch in carrying out development works in the village.  Raj Kumar Hans, Navpreet Singh and Deepak Kumar, members of the SC commission, were in the village to investigate the complaint lodged by the Dial Singh, village sarpanch who is the member of the community. The sarpanch had alleged that the BDPO Naushehra Pannuan and the Panchayat Secretary Gurmukh Singh were pressurising him and not cooperating. The commission formed three-member SIT comprising SDM Khadoor Sahib, DSP Goindwal Sahib and local DDPO to investigate the facts of the complaint registered by the sarpanch and submit the report on March 12 to the office of the SC commission at its Chandigarh office. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-commission-team-takes-stock-of-communitys-grievances-in-villages-216430
23-02-2021||AMRITSAR||Amritsar Academy registers easy win||Amritsar Cricket Academy outplayed Brightland Academy and Harbhajan Singh Cricket Academy defeated DAV Cricket Academy on the 31st day of the 44-day Richkook Junior League cricket tournament here on Monday.  Being played on Gandhi ground, Amritsar Academy won by 28 runs. Opening the innings, Amritsar players posted a target of 125 runs for three in 25 overs. Abhinav’s knock of 53 and Arshdeep’s 41 – he later scalped two as well – were instrumental in the win. Chasing the target, Brightland Academy were bowled out for 117 in as many overs.  In another match played at Khalsa College’s ground, Harbhajan Singh Academy were all out for a meagre 57 in 22 overs. RK Cricket Academy were flawless as they got the job done in only 10 overs without losing any wicket. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-academy-registers-easy-win-216433
23-02-2021||---||Property owner booked for theft||Amritsar, February 22 In order to get his tenant evicted from his property, an owner burgled valuables from the former’s shop by breaking the wall. The police have booked Harbhajan Singh of Chanan Singh colony and his four accomplices for criminal trespass and theft.Complainant Rajinder Singh, alias Raju, alleged that around 8 pm on February 20, he closed his shop and went home. He said around one-a-and-half-hour later, he received a call from Sajan that somebody was ransacking his shop.Raju said he immediately informed the police and reached at his shop. As I opened the shutter, I found the counter and CCTV cameras installed in the shop missing, he said.The complainant alleged that Harbhajan broke the wall and decamped with valuables and other goods from the shop. He said the owner also set his shop on fire to mislead the police.According to police, Harbhajan has shops in Tahli Wala chowk area and he was allegedly pressurising his tenants for vacating the same.  Rajinder had taken a shop on rent around 15 years ago. The court had granted a stay on vacating the shop, said the police. On the basis of CCTV footage, a case under Sections 380, 457, 447, 511, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-owner-booked-for-theft-216434
23-02-2021||---||3 hurt in attack over land dispute||Amritsar, February 22 A land dispute in Jabbowal village falling under jurisdiction of Beas police station turned ugly after several armed persons fired and injured three brothers today.The injured have been identified as Satwant Singh, Balwant Singh and Manjit Singh. The trio was rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The victims alleged that instead of taking action against the accused, the police was harassing them. However, the police said investigation was under way.Malkiat Singh, brother of the victims, said in 2018 they had procured land from Gurpreet Singh and his wife Rajinder Kaur. However, they were not handing over the possession of the said land. He said a few days ago, they started constructing a boundary wall and a shed on the property in question. Malkiat said Gurpreet along with around 20 armed persons came to the spot and started demolishing the wall. He said when they opposed, they started firing indiscriminately.Manjit, who suffered a bullet injury, was shifted to a private hospital and his condition was stated to be criticial. He alleged the accused also tried to attack them at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-hurt-in-attack-over-land-dispute-216437
23-02-2021||---||Post civic poll debacle, AAP prepares strategy for 2022||Amritsar, February 22Post civic poll and eyeing 2022 Assembly elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab's top leadership conducted meetings with all the stakeholders of the party in Amritsar to discuss the upcoming strategies.The purpose was to analyse the shortcomings and discuss a strategy to strengthen the party’s action plan ahead.In the recently held civic poll, AAP could not make its presence felt in Majha region. Except for a few wards in Gurdaspur district, it could not open its account anywhere in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts.In a statement issued by the party, it was stated that it was making all the efforts to build a stronger team for the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. "The people of Punjab seek change and see AAP as a credible alternative. To meet the aspirations of the people, AAP is making strategies to build an indispensable team for the upcoming Assembly elections."The meetings were convened under the leadership of AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann, senior leader of the party and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, party’s Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-in-charge Raghav Chadha.AAP, Punjab top leadership is on a two-day tour across the state to hold zone wise meetings. The meetings were held in Amritsar and Jalandhar on Monday, to be followed in Moga and Samrala on Tuesday. “The primary aim of the meetings was to meet all the stakeholders involved in the recent local bodies’ poll and motivate them to keep fighting for the people of Punjab and for a progressive change that the state deserves” said a spokesperson.In the meetings, the office-bearers, local leaders and MC candidates were also encouraged for the way they had fought despite the bullying by the ruling Congress party with the help of the government machinery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-civic-poll-debacle-aap-prepares-strategy-for-2022-216440
23-02-2021||Amritsar||Civic body nod to Rs 30 cr development works||Couple arrested with intoxicantsAmritsar: The Amritsar (rural) police have nabbed Jodh Singh, alias, Ballu, and his wife Heena, for allegedly possessing sedative pills. The police have confiscated around 13,000 intoxicant pills, 30-gm heroin and Rs 74, 300 of drug proceeds from their possession. Ajnala DSP Vipin Kumar said a case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the duo and further investigation was under progress. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-nod-to-rs-30-cr-development-works-216443
23-02-2021||---||5 schools closed for two days||Amritsar, February 22The district Education Department has ordered to close for 48 hours (as per SOPs) five schools that reported fresh cases of Covid-19 here on Sunday. The decision comes after several cases of Covid-19 were reported from a private school and four government schools.DEO Satinder Bir Singh said the department was following the required SOPs in the case. “We had received the detailed SOPs from the Civil Surgeon that states that in case of single Covid-19 positive case, individual quarantine and sampling of the contacts of the person, who tested positive, will be done.In case more than one case of Covid-19 is reported from a particular institution, then it must be closed for 48 hours. We will be observing the situation in the coming days and watching closely for any further cases,” he said. On Sunday, five teachers from Senior Study School and four teachers from government schools in Sultanwind, Chabba, Manawala and Jethuwal reportedly tested positive. The department has now begun the contact tracing and conducting tests on students and individuals who came in contact with positive cases.Meanwhile, Upasna Mehra, principal, Senior Secondary School, Putlighar, said the school had got tests done on teachers reported positive in the Civil Surgeon’s report. “As soon as we received the information, we got the tests done for Covid-19 on the mentioned teachers from a private lab as well, that came out negative. We do not know how they tested positive as all of them did not show any symptoms. But we will follow the instructions given by the District Education Department and follow the protocols. We have conveyed recent test reports of teachers to all parents and we are regularly carrying out sanitization on premises besides following other safety protocols.”With a surge in the number of fresh cases across the state, the recent development has further raised concerns among parents. Most schools have already announced the schedule for offline examinations for all classes and some are in the middle of conducting examinations for pre-board classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-schools-closed-for-two-days-216444
23-02-2021||Amritsar||Month-long events to mark Nankana Sahib carnage||To mark the centenary of the Nankana Sahib massacre, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday fixed the responsibility of the SGPC, DSGMC, CKD, Nihang organisations, Damdami Taksal, Sikh missionary colleges, sewa socieites, Singh sabhas, gurdwara committees across the globe and the jathedars of Takht Patna Sahib and Takht Hazur Sahib to organise month-long ‘gurmat’ programmes.He asked SGPC members to organise five events in their respective constituencies within a month while DSGMC members were told to hold two events in a month in their vicinity to mark the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/month-long-events-to-mark-nankana-sahib-carnage-216245
