24-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmer dies of heart attack||Robbery plaint false, say policeAmritsar: Within 24 hours of a burglary compliant filed by a tea trader of Shashtri Nagar area, the police termed it false after preliminary probe. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh said, “The investigation is under way and appropriate action will be taken against the complainant after completion of probe.” On Monday, Jyoti Parkash, a tea trader, told the police that thieves decamped with cash and jewellery worth Rs 60 lakh from his house, said the Assistant Commissioner of Police. The trader told that he had gone to his office, while his famil members had left for shopping around 1pm. When they returned an hour later, they found cash and jewellery missing as empty boxes found on beds. Sarabjit said when the police reached the spot, they found the matter suspicious, but continued investigation. “The preliminary investigation revealed that the complainant had financial liabilities. Therefore, Parkash enacted a drama,” he claimed. tnsCity boy bags 104th rank in JRFAmritsar: Abhishek Bedi, MSc physics student of DAV College, has cleared the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) examination. Abhishek has secured 104th position in this examination conducted at national level. Sharing details, Rajesh Sharma, Principal of DAV College, said that Abhishek would receive Rs 31,000 every month as scholarship to carry out research in his choice of field and this scholarship will continue throughout the tenure of his research. Anhishek has also been offered an opportunity to do PhD in Inter- university Consortium, Department of Atomic Energy, which will help him explore employment and research opportunities. TNSOne held with illegal weaponAmritsar: The rural police have arrested one Lovepreet Singh, alias Mangu, of Chung village, for allegedly possessing a country-made weapon on Tuesday. He was arrested at a special checkpoint in Mehta chowk area. During probe, he could not produce any document regarding the weapon and therefore a case under the Arms Act was registered against him. The police said the police was investigating into his links to ascertain the source of the weapon. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-dies-of-heart-attack-216865
24-02-2021||---||Survival of the fittest||Amritsar, February 23After remaining closed for nearly seven months due to the pandemic, the IELTS coaching centres, though were permitted by the government to open in the last week of October, the operators rue that students are not turning up.They said the student strength was down by almost 50 per cent. With a spurt in Covid cases in Punjab recently, the operators are worried that another lockdown would finish the industry.In 2021, the agenda for these centres is to stay afloat and survive till the countries as Australia and New Zealand start offering visas to students. Kanwar Bikram Chabal, president of the IELTS Centres Owners Association who runs KBC International Centre near Khalsa College said, “The students are not coming for coaching due to two reasons. Firstly as IELTS score is valid for two years only, they do not want it to get wasted. Secondly, due to the ongoing farmer protest most students from rural areas are busy filling in for the elders.”The students from rural areas who are comparatively less versed in English than their urban counterparts and need tuitions to clear the examination constitute a large proportion of the total students.A booming industry before the start of the pandemic, the owners stated that the biggest concern is the high rents that most of them are paying to the landlords.Sumit Sharma of Ixora Academy, said, “Staying in business is the biggest challenge for the IELTS institutions. People had hoped that number of students who eventually grow but as yet it has not happened. With the present student strength, most centres are not even managing to recover their running costs.” He has hinged hopes on the vaccination, now that the drive has begun for common people, the situation might just improve.Another operator, Danish of Prime Academy Batala, said, “In rural areas, students choose to study in a country in which they have close relative or family member. With many countries not allowing foreign students, the students also have postponed their plans.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/survival-of-the-fittest-216809
24-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong leader, aides booked||Tarn Taran, February 23The Sarai Amanat Khan police on Monday booked Avan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema, a senior Congress leader and sarpanch of Adda Chabal village, along with his 14 supporters, for allegedly attacking panchayat secretary of Block Development and Panchayat Office (BDPO), Gandiwind, 10 days ago.The allegationVictim, Panchayat Secretary Parmeet Singh, in his complaint to the police alleged that the accused attacked him when he was on duty in the office and tossed his turban.The accused Sonu Cheema along with his supporters staged a dharna in front of the BDPO Gandiwind on Monday. Cheema had condemned local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri on many occasions. His brother is a Congress Zila Parishad member from Gaggobua zone. Both brothers too had remained active in politics during the 10-year regime of SAD-BJP government. After seeing a decline in popularity of the ruling alliance, they joined the Congress and managed to hold key role in the local politics.According to sources, Sonu had a support of more than a dozen sarpanches in the border area. They developed differences with area MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri about one-and-a half-year ago.Inspector Harpreet Singh, SHO, Sarai Amanat Khan police station, said that Sonu Cheema and his aide had been booked under Sections 186, 295-A, 353 and 506 of the IPC, but no one has been arrested.The victim, Panchayat Secretary Parmeet Singh, in his complaint to the police alleged that the accused attacked him when he was on duty in the office and removed his turban.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-leader-aides-booked-216810
24-02-2021||---||CP: Police to act against violators||Amritsar, February 23Alarmed over the surge in the Covid-19 positive cases, the state government issued directions to the Police Department to act sternly against the ones who violate health guidelines.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill urged residents to wear mask and practise social distancing or be prepared to face the music.The Police Commissioner said there has been a sharp rise in positive cases in the city. It has been observed that people were not wearing mask or maintaining social distancing thereby not only increasing the risk of contracting the virus, but also putting lives of others in danger.“Unfortunately, people are not taking it seriously. Therefore, stern action will be taken against those who do not wear mask and practise social distancing,” he said and that instructions were passed on to police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cp-police-to-act-against-violators-216811
24-02-2021||---||FY nears end, MC’s collection — only ~11 cr||Amritsar, February 23Despite Rs35 crore set as a target to achieve as water and sewerage bills, the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) wing of the MC has collected only Rs11.53 crore so far. Only a few weeks are left for the fiscal year to end but it seems that the Operations and Maintenance wing would not be able to touch the previous year’s collection figure till March 31.Last year, the Operations and Maintenance wing had collected Rs14 crore as water and sewerage bills. The department witnessed a shortfall of Rs2.5 crore as compared to last year. Ironically, the department has Rs27 crore to collect as pending arrears of previous years.Officials of the department claimed that the recovery of revenue collection dipped during the Covid-19 pandemic. There are several other major flaws in the water sewerage bill recovery system as there were only 65,000 consumers in the record of the MC but the actual number of consumers was around four times higher. A large number of connection holders are using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions which are required for using the services. At present, the MC is sending water and sewerage bills to around 30,000 connection holders out of the total 2.30 lakh consumers.During the current financial year, the MC has set a target of collecting around Rs35 crore as dues from consumers. According to information, there is high potential in water and sewerage bills to enhance the revenue of MC but the mismanagement on the department level poses a major hurdle to bill recovery.Mahesh Khanna, Chairman, Committee on water and Sewerage of MC, said, “We are making efforts to collect at least Rs14 crore this year too. Hopefully, we will collect this amount till March 31. I have written to the Commissioner and the Mayor to investigate illegal water and sewerage connections and take measures to regularise illegal connections to enhance the revenue.”Property tax wing sealed propertiesA team of property tax wing, led by East Zone Superintendent Dharminder Jeet Singh and Inspector Chandar Mohan, sealed six commercial establishments on Sultanwind Road, Jahajgarh Market and Vallah Road to press the defaulters to pay property tax. Superintendent Dharminderjit Singh said despite sending notices, the property owners were not paying pending amount. The shops would be allowed to open only after the payment of tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fy-nears-end-mcs-collection-%E2%80%94-only-11-cr-216812
24-02-2021||Neha Saini||JEE (Main) begins amid precautions||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 23The JEE (Main) 2021 conducted by National Testing Agency began on Tuesday with a single session held in the evening.The JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held from February 23 to 26 across the country and the first day of exam saw students taking BArch, BPlanning, while exam for various undergraduate engineering courses will be held on February 24 and 25. The examination is held in two sessions in its usual format, but only one session was conducted in city on Tuesday. Out of 126 candidates, who were scheduled to take the exam today, only 98 were present and 28 remained absent.Regional Coordinator and City coordinator for JEE, Anjana Gupta, said that according to the SOPs by NTA, supervisors of exam centres had been asked to thoroughly sanitise the seating area before and after each shift. “The first day only had one evening shift while the consecutive days will see more students taking the exam. As far as conducting the exam keeping in mind Covid 19 health instructions go, there were no problems and things were conducted smoothly,” Anjana said. She said in city, the JEE Mains 2021 exam schedule will be held till February 25. Approximately 1,136 students are expected to take the JEE Mains for remaining days in Amritsar.Due to Covid 19 situation, JEE Main will be conducted four times this year, in the months of February, March, April and May.Meanwhile, for students, the four-times a year move has come as a respite in an otherwise stressful academic year. Tashvi, a Class XII student, who took the exam for BArch, said that the move is considerate. “The fact that those aspiring for JEE had a tough academic year due to online studies and pandemic has been considered by the NTA. The performance pressure is much less, given that paper was moderate.” Similarly, Pankaj Sharma, another Class XII student, who took the exam, said that apart from mathematics part, the paper was moderate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jee-main-begins-amid-precautions-216813
24-02-2021||Amritsar||Scanning of passengers begins at airport||In the wake of spurt in Covid-19 cases, the health teams were deputed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport to scan passengers.  Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “Separate teams have been deployed at the airport for scanning passengers. We will take samples for RT-PCR for international passengers. All other precautionary measures are being adopted as per the guidelines”. The standard measures and SoP has been resumed at the airport. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scanning-of-passengers-begins-at-airport-216814
24-02-2021||---||Passengers flay hike in train fare||Amritsar, February 23Rail fare of passenger trains has almost doubled after resumption of inter-district trains, which were appreciated for providing fast connectivity at economical charges.These rates were implemented in five pairs of trains, including 54613 Amritsar-Pathankot and 54616 Pathankot-Amritsar, which started plying from Monday.These trains remained off track for around 11 months due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown and farmers’ protest.Those travelling from Amritsar to Pathankot need to shell out Rs55 per person. Earlier, the ticket was available for Rs25. Travel on the same stretch by bus costs Rs140.Similarly, fare of passenger DMU train from Jalandhar city railway station to Ferozepur has been hiked from Rs30 to Rs60. Despite being an unreserved train, fair of express train will be levied.Mohan Lal, a passenger, said fare of mail express was being charged by offering them services of passenger train, besides facility of monthly pass for daily passengers has been withdrawn.For those whose salary was cut or who lost job in the wake of the pandemic, it’s a jolt from the blue, he said.The Indian Railways said fare was set after assessing all parameters by the officials concerned.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Manager, Indian Railway, said these eight pairs of trains were Special Mail Express, which allowed unreserved passengers to travel. He said fare was fixed by the Ministry of Railways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passengers-flay-hike-in-train-fare-216815
24-02-2021||---||Traders seek special package for revival of industry in state||Amritsar, February 23 Ahead of the state Budget, the local industries have sought a special package for revival of business as hike in fuel cost and raw material like all varieties of yarn has increased their investment after the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. Post-lockdown the price of basic material for the textile sector like polyster, viscose, woollen yarn and others have escalated 20 to 30 per cent. Thus, increasing the investment cost of the textile whose different varieties like warp knitting, shawl, tweed, blazer, suiting shirting and fabric for women apparels are manufactured here. The collective annual turnover of these textile merchandises here run in thousands of crores. For instance, warp knitting, which used to record an annual turnover of around Rs2,000 crore, has been waiting for the full scale resumption of the fashion industry to gain its previous sales.  Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said: “The government must allocate Rs2,500 crore for the industry in the budget, freeze electricity tariff at Rs5 per unit, expansion of already operational northern railway workshop here, endeavour to set up a mega industry and other to bolster economic activity. Besides, there is a need to upgrade courses and technology in textile-related ITIs. So a concerted approach is required to lift the Industry’s sagging morale.” Hospitality, which became the financial backbone of the holy city, is keenly awaiting that flow of customers which used to be visible before the Covid-19 lockdown to regain its foothold. Then, it will be in a position to re-employ those staff members, who had been retrenched after the Covid-19 lockdown, observes Satnam Singh, a hotelier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-seek-special-package-for-revival-of-industry-in-state-216816
24-02-2021||---||‘Donned white coat to play intrinsic role’||Amritsar, February 23 Seeing a doctor in white coat with a stethoscope dangling from his shoulder might be a common sight at hospitals. But how does it feel going back home knowing that they played an intrinsic role in someone’s life? “Life of a pediatrician is challenging, tiresome but satisfying,” says Dr Sandeep Aggarwal, an Assistant Professor at the Government Medical College. “For every parent, his/her child is the most precious thing in the entire world. So there is no scope for laxity. You might have to suffer the after effects of a minor mistake for many years or even decades,” he said.  “There are no Sundays or holidays for us. This Sunday, I had to make an emergency visit as a child was reported critical by junior residents. Sometimes I have to check in with my patients even in the middle of night.  Dr Aggarwal said taking care of children as a paediatrician, even if one is employed in the government sector, there are no fixed offs and breaks. “You are bound to answer all calls, no matter what time of the day. Sometimes I get frantic calls of parents at 2 in the morning,” he said, adding that a doctor needs to leave his comfort zone for the well-being of his patients, which only leaves him contented at the end of the day.  A hardworking and a humble person, Dr Aggarwal was instrumental in getting a Diplomate of National Board (DNB) course started at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital during his services there. A DNB course is equivalent to MD or an MS. Usually such courses are taught at medical colleges and universities and a district civil hospital getting to run such a course is a big achievement.  With five of his research journals published in internationally, Dr Sandeep said, “Working in paediatrics is itself a great learning experience. The field ranging from neo-natal care till a child reaches 18 years of age, is so vast that a pediatrician has to keep himself updated with all latest developments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/donned-white-coat-to-play-intrinsic-role-216817
24-02-2021||---||Three-day theatre fest from Feb 26||Amritsar, February 23 Dastak Theatre will host a three-day National Theatre Festival from February 26-28, featuring seminars, theatre productions and dialogue with eminent theatre personalities including Jatinder Kaur, Mahabir Bhullar and Kewal Dhaliwal. The festival will revive the season of cultural and live performances post pandemic, with an aim to bring in theatre audiences.  Curated by actor-director couple Rajinder Singh and Amita Sharma, the festival will also engage theatre students through direct interactions with the participating artistes. “The idea behind the National Theatre Festival is to educate and entertain while reviving the theatre discourse that suffered a long hiatus due to pandemic. All three days will have seminars and workshops in the morning session and live performances in the evening session,” said Rajinder. The inaugural play will be staged by Dastak Theatre’s team based on Sadat Hasan Manto. The festival will also be featuring live performances by Bhand-Marasis. Tueday sessions will be held at Khalsa College while the performances will be hosted at Virsa Vihar.  “Now that art and cultural activities suffered a year-long break due to Covid 19 situation, the road to revival must not only focus on commercial revival but also theatre education. As it is the latter that will eventually bring audience back to live performances and revive the folk artist community that has been further pushed to the margins due to lockdown,” said Rajinder. The festival will be dedicated to the memory of late theatre thespian and Padma Shri Bansi Kaul, who passed away on February 6 this year. Amita said, “We had the opportunity of working with Bansi Kaul when he was directing the light and sound show at Sultanpur Lodhi in 2019. It was a great experience to learn from the man who was called an institution in himself. The festival will celebrate his memory and amazing theatrical journey.”  The couple hopes that live performances gradually pick up and overcome the losses incurred during the last year. “Like any art, theatre too thrives on audience intimacy and connection. With new normal in place and restriction on number of people, the focus cannot be on quantity but quality and one has to make the most of it,” said Rajinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-day-theatre-fest-from-feb-26-216819
24-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Police crack murder case of  20-year-old||Tarn Taran, February 23 The police have claimed to crack the murder mystery of Amarajit Singh (20), a resident of Gharka village, falling under the jurisdiction of Chohla Sahib police station. Amarajit went missing on January 3. Superintendent of Police (Investigations) Dr Mehtab Singh informed that the deceased’s friend, Major Singh, a resident of the same village took him at his residence. He said from there, Amarajit went to Pakhopur village to visit his girlfriend where the latter’s father, Mangal Singh, saw Amarjit and killed him. The accused threw his body in Beas river, he said.  The police had registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC against Major and added Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC against Mangal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-crack-murder-case-of-20-year-old-216820
24-02-2021||---||GNDU to launch science expo bus on March 1||Amritsar, February 23 SciRox, Science Club of Guru Nanak Dev University, under its MoU with Society for Promotion of Science and Technology in India (SPSTI) is going to launch a science exhibition bus “Vigyan Safari” for the promotion of science among school students of Punjab. The initiative aims to intrigue young minds by performing live scientific experiments in government schools falling under the jurisdiction of Amritsar. It is an attempt to generate curiosity among school children and motivate them to build a successful career in science. The exhibition bus will visit different schools of Amritsar on a regular basis. Students of the science club have decided to perform a science magic show and display experiments related to physics, chemistry and biology.  The inauguration ceremony will be held on March 1 at Khalsa College Public School by Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, IPS Commissioner of Police, Amritsar. This will be followed by a science magic show at 11.30 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-launch-science-expo-bus-on-march-1-216821
24-02-2021||Amritsar||Transporters to go on strike on February 26||Transporters are up in arms against the Union Government for introducing e-way bill and increasing prices of petrol and diesel. On a call given by the All India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), local transporters have decided to observe strike on February 26. Anandjit Singh, a transporter, said, “The new system would take away the liberty of shifting the material in transit in case the vehicle breaks down or is delayed for some reason.” “At present, goods transport companies hold 65 per cent of the organised road transportation in the country.” He maintained that penalties for mistakes on tax paid material were increasing.  He said instead of increasing revenue from tax it would kill their business as the government was unable to prevent the rising prices of petrol and diesel which had further escalated daily operational costs.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transporters-to-go-on-strike-on-february-26-216822
24-02-2021||---||Amritsar beat Muktsar in cricket tourney||Amritsar, February 23 Riding on excellent bowling and batting performance, host Amritsar defeated Muktsar by 221 runs on the 32 day of the 44-day Richkook Junior League Cricket Tournament here on Tuesday. Opening the innings, the host posted a massive target of 311 runs in 50 overs. Sahil Sharma scored 76 runs for his team. Chasing the target, the visitors were no match as they were able to score 90 runs in 19.5 overs. For Amritsar, Anish Kohli, grabbed three wickets in four overs and Akshpreet Singh also scalped three wickets in four overs. Raman Bakshi, vice-president of the Amritsar Games Association, said the Punjab Cricket Association will select players for the state team from this tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-beat-muktsar-in-cricket-tourney-216823
