25-02-2021||---||47 positive cases, two deaths reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 24The district health authorities reported 47 positive cases and two deaths due to the virus in the last 24 hours. Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal said there was a need to elevate the alert level as the virus has raised its ugly head once again.“A week ago, 10 to 15 positive cases were reported daily. Now, this number has reached around 50 cases,” he said and added that one has to wear mask and practise social distancing, which had been done away with.He said congregation, whether religious, sports or social gathering needs to be restricted. For this, no indoor gathering can cross 100 people and 200 for outdoor events on March 1. The authorities declared two micro-containment zones (Batala road and Maqboolpura road). Residents of these localities have been asked to stay indoors and go out of only to avail essential items.The Additional Deputy Commissioner called upon people in rural areas to avail the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana also known as the Ayushman Bharat Scheme by listing themselves at Common Service Centres. This scheme will provide a health insurance cover of Rs5 lakh.Covid UpdateNew cases: 47Total cases: 15,539New deaths: 2Total deaths: 592New recovery: 12Total recovery 14,603Active 344Helpline numbers for Covid patientsCity Control Room Numbers0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598Health Department helpline:0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline104Contact a doctor1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/47-positive-cases-two-deaths-reported-in-amritsar-217238
25-02-2021||---||34 roads selected to chalk out Amritsar's model traffic plan||Amritsar, February 24To streamline city’s traffic, the district administration has chalked out a plan to bring some roads under a pilot project and directed the police personnel to tow away wrongly parked vehicles.This was decided in a meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. He directed that initially 34 busiest roads should be selected and be split in A and B categories depending upon the rush of vehicles. He said initially traffic plan for these roads have been handed over to the concerned SDM, Executive Engineer PWD and traffic police in-charge of the area. Now, they will prepare holistic plan keeping in view encroachments, traffic lights, haphazard parking, divider and other aspects followed by the submission of a report in this regard. Following practical evaluation of the plan, the rest of the major roads of the city would be brought under this plan.He directed Regional Transport Authority (RTA) Secretary Jyoti Bala and police officials to ensure that no auto-rickshaw with permit from other districts should ply the city roads. He said all the auto-rickshaws being run on locally issued permits should display the number for swift verification by police.Khaira also directed officials to carry out study of those spots where accidents had occurred repeatedly. So the faults, if any, should be rectified immediately.Among others Dr Himanshu Aggarwa, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Deepak Bhatia, Inayat Gupta, SDMs, Amanjot Kaur, Assistant Commissioner, Jugraj Singh, ADCP took part in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/34-roads-selected-to-chalk-out-amritsars-model-traffic-plan-217239
25-02-2021||---||Now, ragpickers to collect door-to-door garbage in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 24Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal handed over 56 new rickshaws to ragpickers, who willcollect garbage from the inner city of Amritsar under the Smart City project. Apart from this, five special rickshaws were flagged off to make the sanitation system more comfortable in the area around Darbar Sahib.These rickshaws have separate bins in which wet and dry waste will be kept separately. The rickshaws will be used to collect garbage from door-to-door in the narrow streets. The residents of six wards of the central assembly constituency and four wards of the south assembly constituency in the walled city would be benefited with this effort of the MC.On this occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh said that these rickshaws had been started to solve the problem of garbage collection in the narrow lanes and markets in the interiors of the city. Through which, the garbage will be picked up from door-to-door and every shop from the narrow streets and crowded markets of the city. The cleanliness of the inner city will be improved with this effort. “Amritsar city is a historical city, where lakhs of devotees come daily to visit religious places located in the inner city, so it is very important to keep the city clean. New machinery worth crores of rupees has been installed on the roads to streamline the sanitation system. In addition, road sweeping machines have also been introduced. Employees of the Municipal Corporation are also working day and night to maintain cleanliness”, said Rintu.The Mayor appealed to the residents of Amritsar not to throw their garbage out in the streets and markets and it should be dumped in the bins or when municipal vehicle arrives in their street.Councillor Mahesh Khanna, Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora, Raman Kumar JE and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-ragpickers-to-collect-door-to-door-garbage-in-amritsar-217240
25-02-2021||---||6th Amritsar Sahitya Utsav kicks off||Amritsar, February 24 The 6th edition of Amritsar Sahitya Utsav was inaugurated by Naad Pargas at Khalsa College. Dedicated to the promotion of Punjabi language and literature, educationists and writers put forth their thoughts. Prof Rajesh Sharma from Punjabi University, Patiala, was a keynote speaker and Dean Academic Affairs of Guru Nanak Dev University Prof Sarabjot Singh Behl was a chief guest on the occasion. Several books, including Dr Sarabjot Singh’s “Khalsa Panth: Post-Modern Perspective”; poetry composed by Kishan Singh titled “Karona Kal Handhaundian”; Sukhpal Singh’s collection of essays titled “From Sakhni Kharot to Vegas” and the latest issue of poetry by Naad Pargas were released. During the course of the events, a dialogue on ongoing farmers’ movement and its relevance was also initiated.  Speaking on the subject “Farmer in Punjabi Society: Relationships and Crisis”, Dr Paramjit Singh from Panjab University said problems of Punjabi farmers were being understood more from the emotional side than from the intellectual and ideological perspective.  He said real issues with farming community were related to small farmers and working class. “Punjab’s agriculture is on the path of capitalism, represented by rural elites, which derives its strength from rural working class and small farmers. Therefore, we have to abandon the traditional consciousness towards agriculture,” he said.  Dr Surjit Singh from Punjabi University said the relative issue in farmers’ stir was about Punjabi culture and social behaviour. “Victory of the peasant movement can only be accepted if it succeeds in redefining social status and mindsets as well,” he said. The inaugural day had speakers and participants from Delhi University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia University, Jammu University, Central University of Kashmir, Srinagar; Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; Guru Nanak Dev University and Khalsa College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6th-amritsar-sahitya-utsav-kicks-off-217241
25-02-2021||---||2 nabbed with illegal weapons||Amritsar, February 24The police nabbed two persons with illegal weapons here on Wednesday. In the first case, police station Majitha Road nabbed a youth with 315 bore pistol at Circular Road. The accused has been identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sonu alias Abhi Bhullar of Fatehgarh Churian Gurdaspur.The cops said the accused was standing opposite Hide Out Restaurant, Circular Road, with illegal weapon. The Mehta police also nabbed a person from Bhalaipur Purba Drain with 32 bore pistol and eight cartridges. The accused has been identified as Arashpreet Singh, alias Arsh of Bagga village. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-nabbed-with-illegal-weapons-217242
25-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Commemorating historic victory: Vijay mashaal reaches Tarn Taran village||The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ in the final phase of its journey through the battlefields in Golden Arrow Division reached Chhina Bidhi Chand village in Tarn Taran district on Wednesday. This village had witnessed a major action during Indo-Pak War of 1971.The Vajra Warriors for their brave and gallant act in this battle were awarded two Vir Charkas and two Sena Medals (posthumously). The historic victory was commemorated by the Indian Army by felicitating the War Veterans, Veer Naris and their families. The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’, on reaching Chhina Bidhi Chand battlefield, was carried for a symbolic last mile run by the senior most war veteran Hony Captain Tarlok Singh (Retired). Senior civil dignitaries were also present during the ceremony. A ceremonial guard of honour was accorded to honour the martyrs.The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ travelling through the epic battlefields in Golden Arrow Division and after paying reverence to all the war heroes was handed over to Panther Division for its onward journey to next destination of Khasa in Vajra Corps — The Defenders of Punjab area of responsibility. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commemorating-historic-victory-vijay-mashaal-reaches-tarn-taran-village-217243
25-02-2021||---||JEE Main 2021: 504 appear on Day 2, find paper relatively easy||Amritsar, February 24As many as 504 students took the exam for BE and B Tech courses on the second day of JEE Main 2021 today. Students found the paper relatively easy. A total of 532 students registered for the exam today that was held in two shifts – morning and afternoon. Students, who sat for the exam, found the paper relatively easier than the previous years.The safety measures were perked up at the venue as surge in Covid-19 cases was reported in the recent days. The students were asked to bring their own water bottles and only 12 students per classroom were allotted.The February session of the exam has so far seen a low turnout as most of them are hoping to register for later sessions to be held in March, April and May. The NTA has given relaxations in JEE Main this year with four sessions to be held for the prestigious exam. The last paper of the February session in the city would be conducted on February 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jee-main-2021-504-appear-on-day-2-find-paper-relatively-easy-217244
25-02-2021||---||AGC NEST 2021: Reaching out to meritorious students||Amritsar, February 24Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) launched its national entrance-cum-scholarship for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes of engineering, management, agriculture pharmacy and law. Through AGC National Entrance and Scholarship Test (NEST) eligible and interested students cannot just qualify to secure the admission but also avail scholarships up to Rs 1.5 lakh.Sharing details, Amit Sharma, chairman, Amritsar Group of Colleges, said the objective of this test was to establish the commitment of colleges to admit deserving students on a merit basis and reward them with scholarships through AGC NEST. It has been designed purely in an online manner and the AGC had offered scholarships worth Rs 4.68 cr, which has proved to be helpful for both parents and students in difficult times of the pandemic.The registrations for the test have started and the students, from today onwards, will be able to block their dates for the test. First date to take the test shall be available from March 10, 2021 onwards. AGC NEST is going to be an online objective type test of 45 minutes. For students seeking admissions in engineering and pharmacy courses, the questions will be based upon PCM/PCB, respectively. Similarly, for management and law courses also, students have to take the aptitude test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agc-nest-2021-reaching-out-to-meritorious-students-217245
25-02-2021||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee to Prez: Quash cases against protesting farmers||Amritsar, February 24Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner seeking quashing of cases and legal notices against protesting farmers.Activists of the KMSC raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the DC office. The communique addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind demanded quashing of all kinds of cases registered against the agitators during the course of farmers’ stir.Meanwhile, members of SAD (Democratic) submitted a memorandum against hike in fuel and cylinder prices. Activists raised slogans against the Centre for failing to control the price, which has hit the common man hard, especially during the pandemic.Meanwhile, youth urged kisan union leaders to give the call for Parliament gherao if they want to stop the witch-hunting of farmers and activists, besides pressing the Centre to repeal three agri laws. Participants in today’s march in Gurdaspur vowed to take the farmers’ movement to its logical conclusion. The march was organised by the Sikh Youth of Punjab. The demonstrators carried flags and placards to convey their message.Paramjit Singh Mand, chief, Sikh Youth of Punjab, sought release of protesters arrested after January 26 incident and supported farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who threatened the Centre to repeal the laws failing which they would gherao the Parliament.Sikh leader, Narain Singh Chaura, cautioned the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to intensify the protest, else the Centre would derail it by dividing the leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-to-prez-quash-cases-against-protesting-farmers-217246
25-02-2021||Amritsar||Surprise check at Amritsar's GTB nagar||4 held with pistol, Rs 29L drug moneyAmritsar: The Amritsar (rural) police have claimed to nab four smugglers with a pistol and Rs29.32 lakh drug money on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Gurjant Singh, a resident of Nathupur village; Sukhjinder Singh of Khiala Kalan; Mehal Singh and Tehal Singh of Lodhi Gujjar village. Lopoke police station SHO Harpal Singh said they got a tip-off and and arrested the accused. He said they recovered Rs29.32 lakh drug money, a Chinese pistol, two magazinea, 25 cartridges, 12 mobile phones and two international sim cards. A case under relevant Sections of the NDPS Act and the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surprise-check-at-amritsars-gtb-nagar-217247
25-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Watch out for the pool of troubles near Amritsar's Pingalwara!||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR FEBRUARY 24A pool of overflowing sewage is risking the chances of accidents for the commuters at the mouth of elevated road, near Pingalwara.The shopkeepers around the spot are daily witnessing mishaps due to it. Moreover, the accumulated dirty water further poses health risks as chances of dengue breeding mosquitoes increases.Arshpreet Singh, a transporter with his shop situated close by, stated that this unhygienic situation has been prevailing for over a week. “All these days, the complication has been growing. It had started with sewage overflowing. Initially, the murky water had occupied 100 sq ft area and now it has spread to almost 900 sq ft land.”Sushma Rani, who operates a tandoor shop at Ramtalai Chowk, said, “Vehicles have brought the water in front of their shops and the road remains soaked throughout the day.” She added that many a time vehicles also skid. There are around 10 tandoor shops, earning the cross a nickname ‘tandoor wala chowk’.All these days, the complication has been growing. It had started with sewage overflowing. Initially, the murky water had occupied 100 sq ft area and now it has spread to almost 900 sq ft land. —Arshpreet Singh, A transporter Narinder Singh, a resident of Tehsilpura, a colony situated on the left flank of the elevated road, stated that he daily commutes over the elevated road to reach his office in Ranjit Avenue. “Hence, I know the width and depth of the put covered underneath the dirty water but those unfamiliar with it are bound to damage their vehicles after hitting the spot,” he added. To no surprise, a large number of vehicles break down here and several riders fall off injuring themselves after losing control of their ride.Meanwhile, labourers working at the spot shared that they have been working to find the leak in the sewerage pipe for the last two days. But all efforts have gone down the drain as the volume of collected water makes it really hard to find the spot.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the matter was already in the notice and mending was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watch-out-for-the-pool-of-troubles-near-amritsars-pingalwara-217250
25-02-2021||Bhagtanwala dump||80K tonnes of waste biomined so far, says MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 24A solid waste management firm hired by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has cleared a large portion of Bhagtanwala dump yard through bioremediation process.According to the Municipal Corporation officials, around 80,000 metric tonnes of garbage has been composed in the last four months. A compost pad has also been prepared for decomposing green waste to produce manure.Following the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal, the MC constructed a boundary wall around the dump, but failed to plant saplings.Around six trimble machines were separating Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) from garbage and the RDF would be sent to cement factories.In next step, the company would install waste-to-energy plant after recycling 10 lakh metric tonnes of garbage. According to MC officials, the energy plant would convert garbage into green coal by pyrolysis process.Municipal Health Officer Dr Ajay Kawar said, “So far, 80,000 metric tonnes of waste has been biomined at Bhagtanwala dump. With this speed, the waste-to-energy plant will be installed within the proposed time and the entire garbage will be processed in two years.”***Residents not satisfiedMeanwhile, locals and office-bearers of the Sanji Sangharsh Committee, who had been protesting to shift the dump expressed dissatisfaction over bioremediation.Sanjay Sharma, general secretary, Sanji Sangharsh Committee, said, “The Congress leaders, including Capt Amarinder Singh, Manpreet Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Gurjit Singh Aujla and Inderbir Singh Bolaria had promised to shift the dump. The bioremediation is an eyewash and garbage is going nowhere. The firm will burn it instead of processing. Machines and compost pad are just for inspection teams. We urge the authorities concerned to shift the dump yard out from the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/80k-tonnes-of-waste-biomined-so-far-says-mc-217253
25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Goat farming a profitable venture for landless farmers||Tarn Taran, February 24Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, Ludhiana, stressed on scientific goat farming for the uplift of poor peasantry in the state. The VC was addressing the trainees enrolled under a week-long skill oriented vocational training course at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh in Tarn Taran on Wednesday.He also took stock of various extension activities such as development of demo units and strengthening of laboratory amenities at its campus. The VC said as the goat was considered as poor man's cow and walking refrigerator and there were many scopes of better income from this area. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director, KVK, Tarn Taran, discussed a diverse factors contributing towards good goat rearing practices which grazes in open farm in order to satiate the digestive system which in turn results into good quality milk production. He also motivated the resource poor farmers regarding popularisation of backyard poultry farming to ensure regular daily income.The Vice-Chancellor along with officials visited a high-tech dairy farm at Sohal village and disseminated awareness regarding escalating silage production as well as organic fodder production by utilising animal excreta produced at the dairy farm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goat-farming-a-profitable-venture-for-landless-farmers-217255
25-02-2021||Kot Muhammad Khan village residents have long been demanding the authorities to fill the vacant posts of teaching and other non-teaching staff of the village government high school and the government primary school. There are as many as 300 students in both the schools. The students here had been passing their exams on their own||A ‘smart’ school without teachers!||Used or misused?Youngsters of Gandiwind (Dhattal) village have expressed their concern over the 'misuse' of Rs 20 lakh grant which was announced by the then MP Ranjit Singh Brahampura from his MPLAD fund for the renovation of the village sports stadium in the memory of Sukhjinder Singh, a Pulwama martyr from the village. He sacrificed his life in the terror attack at Pulwama. The land for the stadium had already been given by the village panchayat. The work of the stadium was started after one year of the release of the grant. However, only a part of the stadium has been constructed and the authorities have claimed that the Rs 20 lakh has already been used. The youngsters of the village said they waited for more than a year for the stadium to be constructed. On contacting the officials, they were told that the grant of Rs 20 lakh has finished while the work of the stadium was still left. The perturbed youngsters expressed their anguish on the social media over the alleged misuse of the grant of Rs 20 L. They were made silent by the leaders of the ruling party who alleged that they were defaming the state government. They have demanded a high-level probe into the alleged embezzlement of Rs 20 lakh.Standing in solidarityNirmal Singh Sandhu (pic) of Jatti Umra village, the native village of ancestors of Pakistani former premier Nawaz Sharif, travelled by air to Delhi to join the farmers’ protest in Delhi. Sandhu, an employee of the state government, was eager to join the nationwide agitation. He also hailed the farming community for its efforts and clicked a selfie with the farmers’ slogans. He also exhorted the people of the area to take part in the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-smart-school-without-teachers-217258
