26-02-2021||---||GNDU former professor BL Chakoo passes away||Chandigarh, February 26BL Chakoo, former professor of English and Dean of Languages at Guru Nanak Dev University, passed away on February 24. He was 75.He was born and raised in a Kashmiri Pandit family in Srinagar.Chakoo, who wrote books, essays and research papers, was a Fulbright fellow at Yale University and British Council scholar at Warwick University. He taught for over 40 years at Guru Nanak Dev University.Later, as Chancellor’s nominee at Panjab University, Chandigarh, he worked with the university administration for close to a decade in selecting the academics as its faculty. He was a regular contributor to The Tribune for four decades.He did literary research in eastern philosophies and more recently on the neuroplasticity of the human mind.He is survived by wife and two sons. Many faculty and students from across the globe expressed their grievances at his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-former-professor-bl-chakoo-passes-away-217780
26-02-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Suvidha Centre at DC office is a real test of residents’ patience||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 25A 67-year-old retired teacher Baldev Raj visited the Suvidha Centre at the Deputy Commissioner’s office for the fourth time on February 22. Every time he’s been here it has been a long day, waiting till the sundown as the queue snakes, just to submit an application to get the death certificate of his mother. He alleged that employees at the Suvidha Centre do not follow the token system and are accepting files coming through ‘agents’ which leads to heavy inconvenience for a common man It’s not only him. The applicants of various government services have been losing patience over the functioning of this centre. Earlier, he was called to tell the status of first copy of death certificate, which he did not collect from zonal office. Then he was asked to reapply for certificate. “I reached at the Suvidha Centre around 9 am and initiated the process. I got a token and stood in the queue of 6 number windows. I am 67 and recently went under knife due to my knees,” he conveyed his plight. As he hanged in there somehow, requesting time and again to accept his file, some persons were entering in the cabin from backdoor and employee at the window was accommodating them. “I suspect they were agents and must have some connivance with the employees,” he said.Staff overburdened? Try other centresBut everyone’s not the same. One of the employees recognised his pain and took the file from him. “I have thanked the person, who was working on other window and got free around 3 pm. Then I decided to tell the senior officials about the goings-on. I met District Manager (DM) and narrated the entire story. He listened deadpan and left the cabin without responding.” Baldev added.When asked about the case, Sanjay, the District Manager at the centre, said, “A large number of visitors come to meet and I don’t remember the case of Baldev Raj in particular. But there is no such practice at the centre. We take files as per the token number. Every visitor is equal for us, we don’t discriminate with anyone. We are making efforts to reduce the long queues which often pose inconvenience to the visitors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suvidha-centre-at-dc-office-is-a-real-test-of-residents-patience-217603
26-02-2021||---||3 months on, friend booked for murder, destroying evidence||Amritsar, February 25Over three months after a youth, identified as Sharandeep Singh (30), was found killed in the Jandiala Guru area, the police have booked one person and his unknown accomplices on charges of murder and destruction of evidence.The suspect was identified as Gurjit Singh of Devidaspura village. The case was registered following a complaint lodged by Vatandeep Singh of Usma village in Tarn Taran in January this year.Vatandeep told the police that on October 28 last year, Sharandeep along with his friend Dilpreet Singh and other friends went to Chandigarh to meet a travel agent for going abroad in search of greener pastures. He also took along his clothes and a licensed revolver with him.He said since that day he had been missing though every effort to locate him proved futile. He said on November 6, the family filed a missing complaint with the Naushehra Pannua police chowki.Dilpreet Singh told them that on October 31, Sharandeep had left with Gurjit Singh of Devidaspura. He said when they contacted Gurjit on the phone, he told that Sharandeep stayed with him for two nights in Amritsar and later while returning to Tarn Taran, he (Gurjit) alighted in Manawala and therefore he did not know about the whereabouts of the deceased.He said on November 9, he along with his relatives tried to locate Sharandeep from Jandiala Guru canal near Dharad village towards Sheikhfatta link head. He said around 200 yards from the canal bridge, a badly decomposed body was found. He said they identified it to be that of Sharandeep with the help of the silver Karah on his arm and from his clothes.They suspected the Gurjit along with his unknown accomplices had killed Sharandeep for money. His licensed pistol, mobile phone and cash were also missing.Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said further investigation was under progress in the case while no arrest has been made till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-months-on-friend-booked-for-murder-destroying-evidence-217604
26-02-2021||---||Repeal farm laws, roll back fuel price hike: Left parties||Amritsar, February 25Members of Left parties staged a protest at the Bhandari bridge on Wednesday to support the farmers’ demand for repealing the three controversial farm laws.Leaders of the CPI and the CPM stated that the government was indifferent towards the plight of the farmers and had not shown any compassion even after the deaths of over 250 farmers during the ongoing protest.Leader Vijay Mishra said the government must introduce a law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural produce of the farmers. He said farmers all over the country were in a pitiable condition and efforts must be made to improve their economic condition. While speaking on the occasion, Amarjit Singh Asal condemned the Central Government and stated that the incidents of violence that happened in Delhi on January 26 in Delhi happened due to politics by the BJP. He stated that the farmers’ agitation was gaining momentum all across the country and the government should not ignore the sentiments of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repeal-farm-laws-roll-back-fuel-price-hike-left-parties-217605
26-02-2021||---||Paintings add flavour to sahitya utsav||Amritsar, February 25The aesthetics and the literature exhibition at the ongoing 6th Amritsar Literature Festival at Khalsa College added the much-needed fervour to the event. On display today were a collection of wood carvings, classical musical instruments and artwork by the students associated with Naad Pargas. The exhibition attracted youngsters, mostly students, who took time off their examination schedule to visit the exhibition.Aman Inder, organiser, and one of the members of Naad Pargas, said the art exhibition was one of the features of the annual literary festival. The display included musical instruments including drupad rabab, Afghani rabab, tanpura, taus, saranda, sarangi and pakawaj. With a history that sets back to the time of Bhai Mardana, who immortalised dhrupad rabab, it was invented by the sixth Sikh master, Guru Hargobind. Later, Guru Gobind Singh modified it into a lighter form — Dilruba. Even Saranda was invented by the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev. While many of these instruments are still being used for Gurbani and kirtan, the shift towards more modern instruments have cast a shadow on the intangible heritage items.“The purpose behind organising the exhibition is to educate the youth about lost tradition and aesthetics of the Punjabi culture. It includes art, literary material and musical instruments. We have displayed traditional Punjabi classical instruments that are used in folk and other Punjabi classical forms. Not many youngsters are aware of such traditions as instruments have now been overshadowed by digital synchronisers,” he said. The displayed instruments have been sourced from folk artists, who have had them in tehri family for generations. “Some of them have also been given by members of Naad Pargas,” said Aman.The wood works featured at exhibition included abstract sculptures and religious art work made by fine arts students from city. Despite the lure, the footfall this year remained low.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paintings-add-flavour-to-sahitya-utsav-217607
26-02-2021||---||Victory torch reaches city||Amritsar, February 25The Swarnim Vijay Mashaal, which marks the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war and being carried to various parts of the country, reached the Panther Division here on Thursday.The mashaal made its journey through Ferozepur and Hussainiwala sector too.Major-General Raju Baijal, General Officer Commanding, Panther Division, paid homage to the fallen soldiers of the 1971 war at Dograi War Memorial, Khasa Military Station.The programme was followed by a felicitation ceremony, which was attended by senior BJP leader and former health minister of Punjab Laxmi Kanta Chawla and other officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victory-torch-reaches-city-217608
26-02-2021||---||Heroin seizure: Police identify mastermind||Amritsar, February 25The 6-kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan near Kakkar border outpost 10 days ago, was sneaked in by four smugglers arrested by the Amritsar rural police here on Wednesday.The police had on Wednesday nabbed Gurjant Singh, a resident of Nathupur village; Sukhjinder Singh of Khiala Kalan; Mehal Singh and Tehal Singh of Lodhi Gujjar village and seized Rs 29 lakh drug money, a China-made pistol with two magazines and 12 mobile phones with two Pakistani SIM cards.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said their interrogation revealed that one of their accomplices, Jarnail Singh, got the consignment smuggled from his Pakistani accomplices on February 14 near Kakkar border outpost. However, before they could retrieve the same, the BSF confiscated the same and later handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau for further investigations.A BSF official said that alert jawans had noticed the movement of a Pakistani smuggler ahead of the barbed fence who threw something in the Indian side of the border. When the BSF jawans challenged, they fled back. During search the BSF jawans found two packets containing 2-kg heroin at that time.A search operation was carried in the area next morning also where the jawans recovered four more packets consisting of 4-kg heroin. Sahota said that raids were on to nab Jarnail Singh who had managed to slip away from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heroin-seizure-police-identify-mastermind-217609
26-02-2021||Amritsar||Bootlegger held in anngarh area||12,000 register to avail loan: MCAmritsar: Municipal Corporation officials claimed that the city registered 12,000 street vendors to avail loan under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme till date. Jaswinder Singh, nodal officer for the PM SVANidhi at the MC said more than 12,000 street vendors had been registered for the microcredit facility. Out of this, around 2,100 street vendors got the loan. “The amount has been disbursed to vendors and more loans would be disbursed in the coming days. The camps would be organised for disbursement of loan on February 27, March 6 and and 13under the PM SVANidhi Scheme.” The Deputy Commissioner and senior officials of government conducted a review meeting for swiftly disbursement of loans yesterday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bootlegger-held-in-anngarh-area-217610
26-02-2021||---||Three held with drugs, weapons||Amritsar, February 25Acting on a tip-off, the Special Task Force (STF) arrested three notorious criminals for drug peddling and confiscated 320-gm heroin and two weapons along with nine bullets from their possession on Amritsar-Attari bypass road on Wednesday late evening.They were identified as Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of Khehra Kalan village in Gurdaspur, Neeraj Kumar of the Gopal Nagar area here and Subeg Singh, alias Banty, of Sheikhupur Mohalla, Jandiala Guru.The accused were working at the behest of two drug peddlers lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail. Though, STF officials refrained from divulging their names as it could hamper the probe, they said they would be brought on production warrant for further interrogation.Nirmal Singh Sahota, AIG, STF, said that Shamsher had nine criminal cases of robberies, dacoity and under the NDPS Act, while Banty and Neeraj had three cases each. Neeraj had a murder case against him and he was declared a proclaimed offender in the case. Shera was also declared a PO by the court in a number of cases, he said.DSP Vavinder Mahajan said that STF got a tip-off that the accused were involved in the drug peddling in Amritsar and that they were coming to the city in a car (PB-02-EA-1983) from Majitha bypass. They were to deliver the drug consignment near Metro shopping mall. The STF laid a checkpoint near Metro shopping mall and intercepted the accused. They were going to fire the police party. But before that the accused were held. During search the police found two 7.65 bore country-made pistols and 320-gm heroin. A case under the NDPS and Arms Act was registered against them at Mohali.The three accused were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. The police said preliminary probe indicated that their accomplices lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail used to direct them over phone to collect and deliver heroin at designated points. He said source of the contraband was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-drugs-weapons-217615
26-02-2021||---||Cases head north, but no one is following Covid norms here||Amritsar, February 25Though the number of Covid-19 cases reported from the district has been on the rise for the past few days, a visit to the marketplaces revealed that people have not started to take the threat seriously.The district has reported 276 positive cases in the last six days; nearly 50% of the total 576 cases were reported in the month of February. The changed scenario has forced the health and civil administration to take a number of remedial steps such as notifying the infected areas as micro-containment zones, a practice which was abandoned in the past few months.While the administration is planning to enforce the use of masks at public places strictly, a large number of people can be seen roaming around at crowded places without even wearing a mask. The increase in the number of positive cases has also created a panic among a section of the small shopkeepers and traders who anticipate that the government could again restrict the working hours to check the rush in markets.Amanpreet Singh, a shopkeeper in Putlighar area, said, “Last year, we were forced to keep our shops closed first due to the lockdown and then due to further restrictions. It is just now that the situation has bounced back to normal.” He said another lockdown or even restrictions on working hours would prove detrimental to shopkeepers and traders.A health official stated that people have not been taking the disease seriously. “If not for your own sake, follow guidelines in view of the risk to the family members who might have weak immunity,” he said. Meanwhile, ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said people need to follow all guidelines strictly. “The administration is working to contain the spread of the disease,” he said, adding that people who have come in contact with the infected ones should voluntarily disclose it and get tested at the earliest.Covid UpdateNew cases: 61Total cases: 15,600New deaths: 0Total deaths: 592New recovery: 18Total recovery 14,621Active 387Helpline numbers for Covid patientsCity Control Room Numbers: 0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598\Health Department helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline:104Contact a doctor: 1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cases-head-north-but-no-one-is-following-covid-norms-here-217616
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Repressive tactics won’t work: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee||Tarn Taran, February 25The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, addressed a state-level ‘maha rally’ here today and said organisational skill, patience and revolutionary ideas were needed to make the farm agitation a success.The rally, dedicated to the martyrs of Nankana Sahib and those who died at the Delhi protest sites, was attended by a large number of people.Repeal of the three farm laws, MSP for all crops under government procurement system and release of arrested farmers were the main issues taken up by the leaders in the rally.Sarwan Singh Pandher, committee general secretary, condemned the Union Government for its repressive tactics, saying these would not demoralise the farmers. He said farmers would move en masse to Delhi on March 5 and 20 in their tractor-trailers from Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Families of Delhi martyrs were honoured by the organisers on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repressive-tactics-wont-work-kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-217561
26-02-2021||---||BJP leaders face protests in Amritsar, Jalandhar||Amritsar/ Jalandhar Feb 25A group of farmers raised anti-BJP slogans when Rajya Sabha MP and former BJP state president Shwait Malik visited the Regional Passport Office (RPO) here today.Protesters associated with left parties These protesters are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the central agricultural laws. — Shwait Malik, BJP MP As Malik came out of the office, a farmers’ group, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), blocked the exit gate and started raising slogans. A heavy contingent of the police, deployed there, facilitated the cavalcade of Malik to pass through and averted any untoward incident.Malik said the protesters were not “real” farmers, but a group of people with ulterior political motives. “They are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the farm laws that were enacted for the benefit of farmers,” he said.It is not the first time that Malik and other senior leaders had to confront agitating farmers of the same farm organisation. On December 7 too, Malik faced protest during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of BJP’s new office in New Amritsar.Meanwhile in Jalandhar, as BJP leader Vijay Sampla today returned to his hometown after taking charge as National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman, members of BKU (Rajewal) indulged in sloganeering against him and other leaders. BKU spokesperson Kashmir Singh and other union members were among protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leaders-face-protests-in-amritsar-jalandhar-217565
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar housewife bags Rs 1 crore from lottery ticket that cost Rs 100||A housewife from Amritsar has won the first prize in a lottery worth Rs 1 crore from a ticket that cost her Rs 100.As per a statement from the state government, the lucky winner, Renu Chauhan, on Thursday submitted the ticket and required documents to the State Lotteries Department for encashment of her prize.Expressing elation for the godsend amount, Chauhan said that the blessing has come as a huge relief to her middle-class family."My husband runs a cloth shop in Amritsar and this bumper prize money will be a great help so that our family can lead a smooth life," she said.The results of the Punjab State Dear 100 + monthly lottery were announced in a draw on February 11, an official spokesperson from the Punjab State Lotteries Department informed."Renu, the winner of Ticket D-12228, has submitted the documents today and the prize money will be credited to the winner's account soon," the official said. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-housewife-bags-rs-1-crore-from-lottery-ticket-that-cost-rs-100-217420
