27-02-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Mayor inspects Horticulture Department||Man killed over minor disputeTarn Taran: Manpreet Singh (27), a resident of Pakhoke village, was killed by Mandeep Singh, a resident of Rakh Shekh Fatta village, over a minor dispute on Friday. Complainant Satbir Singh, cousin of the deceased, told the police that Manpreet and Mandeep entered into a verbal spat and suddenly the latter attacked the former with a sharp-edged weapon. Satbir was taking Manpreet to a nearby hospital when the latter breathed his last. Inspector Prabhjit Singh said the accused had been booked under Section 302 of the IPC and was on the run. OC1 held for illegal sand miningTarn Taran: Harike police on Thursday arrested Amarjit Singh, a resident of Booh Havelian, with a tractor trolley filled with illegal sand near his village. Rohit Prabhakar, SDO (Mining), said the accused extracted sand from the Beas riverbed by violating mining norms. A case under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21(1) of the Mining Act has been registered against the accused. OCBody found from pakhoke villageTarn Taran: Sadar police found the body of an unidentified man from Pakhoke village on Friday. ASI Harwindrpal Singh, Investigating Officer, said the body bore no injury marks and had been kept at the Civil Hospital's mortuary for identification. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-inspects-horticulture-department-218208
27-02-2021||---||A quality mettle||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 26The Covid-induced economic slowdown holding back demand in the market has offered enough time for the industrialists to focus on technical upgrade.So believes Samir Goyal, a leading nut and bolt manufacturer in the city. He has set up an in-house research and development (R&D) facility in his factory to upgrade the quality of products to compete with the Chinese products. To utilise this lean patch, he decided to focus on improving the quality of these products. He recently imported cold heading machine, costing Rs17 lakh and threadrolling machine, touching Rs10 lakh from Taiwan to qualitatively face the challenge posed by China.“Though our product is cheaper yet the customers ignore it for its inferior finish,” he lamented. Being a mechanical engineer – he graduated from Pune University in 1992 – he would himself operate these machines to raise the standard of the products being manufactured in his unit. For this task, he would be assisted by his son Madhav, who is also a qualified mechanical engineer. Already 20 workers are employed.He feels that the import duty on machinery being raised from 7.50 per cent to 15 per cent in the recently passed budget would discourage the technical upgradation. “Those who wish to technically upgrade themselves are in for a shocker. It will dent ‘Make in India’ scheme. It is not possible for the MSME to upgrade themselves with the quality of domestically available machines. An easy way is to import these machines from China, which is the cheapest source of these machines. Otherwise, these are available at exorbitant prices in European countries.”He asserted that the Union government was unaware of the basics of MSMEs and their groundwork is zero. “It is developing its policies for the MSMEs while keeping in view the Maharashtra and Gujarat model where the technology level is already high in comparison to the rest of the country.”The fact that the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways allowed the MSMEs to supply construction material like torque steel after finding the attitude of the big firms non-cooperative is a beacon of hope for MSMEs. It might pave the way for renewed interest in them. On frequent price fluctuation of iron and steel, Goyal accused big companies of raising prices in sync with the international market and in absence of any compelling domestic reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-quality-mettle-218207
27-02-2021||Amritsar||GNDU nominated for ‘University of the Year Award’||Guru Nanak Dev University has been shortlisted for the University of the Year Award in the 16th FICCI Higher Education Summit 2021 organised by FICCI jointly with the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India.Out of 185 higher education institutions in India, Guru Nanak Dev University has been placed among the top-five universities nominated for the award in the category of ‘Universities in existence more than 30 years’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-nominated-for-university-of-the-year-award-218206
27-02-2021||---||Amritsar Academy topple Hat Trick Sports Academy||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, FEBRUARY 26Amritsar Cricket Academy defeated Hat Trick Sports Academy on the 35th day of the 44-day Richcook Junior League cricket tournament here on Friday.After winning the toss, Hat Trick elected to bat and posted a target of 198 runs. Jashan and Aishveer scored 42 and 46 runs, respectively.Amristar Academy, riding on the century by Arshdeep Singh (102 not out), won the match by nine wickets.In another match, DAV International School got the better of RK Cricket Academy. Batting first, the RK were bowled out at 122 in 32.4 overs. DAV International School successfully chased the target by scoring 123 runs for the loss of five.Meanwhile, Senior Deputy Mayor, Raman Bakshi, who is also vice-president of the Amritsar Games Association (AGA), announced that the Municipal Corporation Amritsar had sanctioned Rs1 crore for the historic Gandhi Ground. He added that Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had announced this amount during his visit at the stadia during the recently concluded AGA Gold Cup Tournament. The AGA will soon receive half of the amount to initiate reconstruction and further development of the stadium.Meanwhile, ADC Himanshu Aggarwal, who is also secretary of the AGA, stated that Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, president of the AGA, decided to give 13 employees of the AGA wages at the DC rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-academy-topple-hat-trick-sports-academy-218205
27-02-2021||---||Amritsar MC demolishes 12 under-construction shops in Bharariwal||Amritsar, February 26The Municipal Town Planning wing of the MC demolished 12 under-construction shops near the FCI godown in the Bharariwal area here on Friday. Land mafia has been attempting for long to grab the municipal corporation’s land by constructing shops there. Recently, some miscreants started the construction of around 25 shops and over 12 of them were raised above the DPC level.The MTP wing also got complaints in the regard recently. Municipal Town Planner (MTP) Narinder Sharma constituted a team comprising ATP Varinder Mohan, Building Inspectors Navdeep Kumar and Navtej Kaur to take action. The MTP wing team along with demolition staff and policemen reached the spot and demolished the walls of the under-construction shops.According to information, there were some politically influential persons who were patronising the land grabbers. MTP wing officials reportedly switched off their mobiles during action to avoid any interference. Narinder Sharma said, “We will not tolerate any encroachment on the government land. Legal action would be taken against the encroachers.”Besides, the MTP wing also demolished an illegal colony on Chabal Road. The demolition team razed the boundary wall of the colony with a ditch machine. The main road of the colony was also dug. The MTP wing officials stated that some local colonisers illegally planned a colony on two and a half acres and were selling plots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-demolishes-12-under-construction-shops-in-bharariwal-218204
27-02-2021||---||College teachers hold  protest outside GNDU, demand revised pay||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 26A joint rally was organised outside Guru Nanak Dev University by the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association and government teachers here on Friday. Hundreds of teachers from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala and Jalandhar came out in solidarity and in protest against the non-implementation of their long-standing demands regarding revised pay scales.Dr HS Kingra, head of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation, said recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission had been implemented in the entire country except Punjab and Himachal.Dr Lakhwinder Singh Kang, president, Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association, criticised the government for the issue of D Link, questioning the motive behind the move. He said in the country, colleges and universities were evaluated according to the UGC guidelines then what was the need for a separate process for teachers in Punjab.Dr Baljinder Singh Tohra, head of the Punjab Government Teachers’ Association, said vacant places in the government colleges of Punjab had not been filled for many years. “Posts of teachers have been lying vacant in government colleges for years, damaging the education process and affecting the lives of students as well as unemployed qualified teachers,” he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-teachers-hold-protest-outside-gndu-demand-revised-pay-218203
27-02-2021||Neha Saini||IIM Amritsar student gets National Youth Icon Award for project on Ponduru Khadi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 26Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar, student Jashvanth Naidu Pogiri is among the recipients of the National Youth Icon Award for 2020 given annually by the International Youth Committee (IYC), a United Nations accredited organisation, at the World Youth Summit. This award is given for excellence in development work and contribution towards developing a peaceful, fairer, prosperous and sustainable future that meets sustainable development goals by the United Nations.Jashvanth has been recognised for his project on sustainable market revival of Ponduru Khadi, a heritage handloom from Ponduru village in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. Hailing from Srikakulom, Jashvanth has developed an online marketing platform for the community of weavers and spinners from Ponduru to bring the loom into mainstream fashion circuit.What is Ponduru Khadi?A heritage handloom from Ponduru village in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. Despite Ponduru Fine Khadi popularity, its weavers have been struggling to make ends meet for their families.Despite Ponduru Fine Khadi popularity, its weavers have been struggling to make ends meet for their families. To ease their troubles and market their products better, Naidu and his friends decided to create an online platform for marketing their products, as a consequence of which the Ponduru Khadi has now gained fame globally. “It all began in 2017 when I and a group of my friends decided to make a documentary on Ponduru weaver community. We discovered that the average daily wage of Ponduru khadi weaver was below Rs200 despite their superior craft and weaving skills. Some of these families, who have been weaving khadi through generations, do not want their kids to take up the skill as there was no money in it. So, we created an online marketing platform ‘loom2home’ to act as facilitators between the khadi workers and customers. In the global market, middlemen make huge profits by marketing it but through our website the profits directly go to weavers,” shared Naidu about his project.Over the span of three years, the online platform has managed to raise the income of the weavers by 25-30 per cent. “We started with about 200 selected customers from across the country on the website. But now we get orders from the US, UK and other countries. Currently, over 50 weavers from the village sell their products through the website, earning Rs300-500 per day and we are motivating them to design clothes that meet the demands of youth.”He also made a documentary on the Uddanam Nephropathy, a mysterious kidney ailment that surfaced in Uddanam region of Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh that had baffled health experts across the world. “We made a documentary on water grid system of Uddanam region, where groundwater had high levels of silicon contamination,” he said. Jashvanth plans to work towards developing and building a network of social entrepreneurs, especially in rural belt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-student-gets-national-youth-icon-award-for-project-on-ponduru-khadi-218202
27-02-2021||---||Former deputy mayor of Amritsar joins AAP||Amritsar, February 26Amid controversy over associating the name of SS Kohli (a retired commander) and half brother of former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday claimed that prominent local leaders joined the outfit.Former deputy mayor Om Prakash Gabbar along with his associates joined the AAP during a district-level meeting convened by MLAs Kulwant Singh Pandori, Jai Kishan Singh Rodi and Manjit Singh Bilaspur.Gabbar, a well-known face among the Valmiki community, first become a councillor from Amritsar on a SAD ticket. In 2017, he shifted to the Congress and contested the local body polls.He was also a chairman of the Bhagwan Valmiki Dhuna Sahib Management Trust, which manages Ram Tirth Mandir in Amritsar.Meanwhile, others who joined the AAP include Sahib Singh, district chief, Labour Cell (Congress); JS Bindra; Tarsem Singh Ranike; Manjit Singh Wadali; Boota Singh Sangatpura; Nishan Singh Grinding; Mazar Singh; Mani; Raj Kumar, Kanhaiya and Dharam Pal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-deputy-mayor-of-amritsar-joins-aap-218201
27-02-2021||---||National Theatre Fest kicks off with live performances||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 26Returning back to stage and live performances, the artistes performing on the inaugural day of the three-day National Theatre Festival by Dastak theatre, gasped for relief on Friday. As most commercial art forms shifted to virtual mode in the new normal, folk art forms, especially folk theatre suffered untimely demise, chiefly due to the fact that already marginalised folk artistes were further pressed into looking for alternative livelihood. Just like Dharampal, 50, a bhand from Khandwala, had to resort to doing odd jobs to put food on table.“It’s a difficult time for folk artistes communities, including our marasi community as we have been out of work for last year. No weddings, no social events and no stage performances to earn from, we were left to fend for ourselves. Performing after such a long time in front of audience today felt good,” he said. His group performed at Virsa Vihar to kickstart the theatre festival that also saw a moving performance of play ‘Manto Ke Rang’. Directed by Rajender Singh, organiser of the festival, the play was presented by Dastak theatre group. Based on the life of Sadat Hasan Manto, who was accused for number of outspoken writings, the dramatic composition put Manto’s perspective through plays ‘Dooda Pehalwan’, ‘Shaheed-Saaj’, ‘License’, ‘Paanch Din’.The morning session hosted theatre workshop and seminar by eminent theatre personalities Gursharan Singh Channi, his son and theatre actor Gyan Dev and Harleen Kohli. The Chandigarh-based actor Channi is the recipient of Sangeet Natak Akademi award for his community theatre and has been working in films and TV as well. He talked about his community theatre initiative CEVA, engaging the common people through street theatre.Interacting with theatre students, Channi said theatre education has multiple aspects and needs to be seen as an organised, professional industry in order to encourage career for young aspiring theatre actors. Harleen Kohli, his wife and theatre actor herself, agreed that the social stigma attached to theatre being an alternate career needs to be overcome.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/national-theatre-fest-kicks-off-with-live-performances-218200
27-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Time to play the game||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR FEBRUARY 26To make up for the loss of practice and competitive sporting events during the pandemic-hit last year, players from all sports disciplines have started preparing themselves for the upcoming events.The entire sports calendar had been wiped off last year.The next sports calendar for 2021-22 is set to begin on April 1 wherein all competitive sporting events like inter-district, inter-college, inter-university and pan-India will take place. The educational institutions are anticipating a big rise in sports quota admissions this year as many did not enroll themselves in games last year.The next important competition lined up is Inter-District Athletics Championships at Punjabi University, Patiala, from February 28 to March 1. On the basis of performance in this event, state teams will be selected to take part in the national tournaments.However, the Federation Cup is the most important of all as it will decide the fate of players who will represent the country in the Olympics. Tokyo is to host the Games on July 23.Rankirat Singh Sandhu, athletics coach at the Khalsa Educational Institutes, says, “Barring school-going players, whose final examinations are scheduled for March, rest have hit the ground running.” Two sessions of three-hour training in the morning and in evening are carried out. He has got 100 players from different disciplines like athletes, javelin throwers, shot putters, discus throwers, including Harnoor Singh Sandhu, who clinched silver in the discus throw event at the Junior Nationals held in Guwahati earlier this month, and so on under his wings.While many games have resumed, swimming is the odd one out as it is still reeling. Vinod Sangwan, a swimming coach, observes, “Since we do not have an indoor swimming pool in the entire district we had lost touch with the game when the winter had set in October of 2019.” And then the pandemic struck down training of his 26 swimming players, including eight girls, in the district. Of these, 12 have participated in national competitions. With the day temperature rising, he says, summer seems to be arriving earlier than expected. He hopes to re-open the swimming pool for training from next month.Feel of the fieldFrom training through video-conferencing and online sessions to resume training on the ground under watchful gaze of coaches has come as big relief for sportspersons. Some of the players had to arrange equipment at home for maintaining fitness levels and even resort to drills on rooftop. All along those locked-in months, technical training had become a thing of the past – but not anymore.Prabhjit, an athlete, says, “In track and field games players heavily depend upon nutritious diet to improve their performance in the competitions. They had a hard time getting their hands on neither rich nutritious diet as they could neither stock nor buy due to the closure of shops and markets. Now, all kinds of eatables are easily available in the market.”Players have been thronging the sports facilities available in the city like the Gandhi Ground, Guru Nanak stadium, wrestling arenas, gymnasiums in Gol Bagh, badminton halls and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Lawn Tennis complex, archery compounds, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-to-play-the-game-218199
27-02-2021||---||Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria among 48 test +ve; 1 death in Amritsar district||Amritsar, February 26Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria among 48 persons tested positive for Covid-19, pushing the tally to 15,648 in the district on Friday. Sarkaria, MLA from the Rajasansi Assembly constituency in which falls Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport, is said to have isolated himself at his residence in Chandigarh.Nearly a week ago, Congress MLA from Amritsar Sunil Dutti along with 20 members of his family had tested positive for the contagion. Dutti had organised his daughter’s marriage function in Delhi on February 15 and 16. The family members who tested positive included his sister-in-law Mamta Dutta, who is an MC councillor.A resident of the Batala Road, Jeevan Mahajan, 63, succumbed to the virus. As many as 17 patients recovered. Now, the number of active cases stands at 417 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-among-48-test-ve-1-death-in-amritsar-district-218198
27-02-2021||---||CAIT strike call gets lukewarm response in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 26The strike call given by the Confederation of All-India Traders (CAIT), supported by the All-India Motor Transport Congress, drew poor response from local traders.The call was given to protest against the Centre for arbitrary regulations and changes in introducing e-way bills, complex GST system, violations by e-commerce giants and hike in fuel prices.Almost all markets stayed open throughout the day. Even wholesale hubs, including Katra Sher Singh (medicine), Shastri market (textile), Majith Mandi and adjoining areas remained operational.Anantdeep Singh, spokesperson, All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “As, no local trader organisation complied with the strike, no transporter stopped its operations.”He said it was a failure on the part of leaders to educate traders about the importance of strike to convey their reservations on business law and pricing of fossil fuels in the country. Meanwhile, a delegation of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal l handed over a memorandum to ADC Himanshu Aggarwal and held a symbolic protest at the District Court. He also handed over a copy of the memorandum to Rajwinder Kaur, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner.Similarly, a delegation of the SAD’s Trade and Industry Wing, led by Rajinder Singh Marwaha, gave a memorandum against the complex format of the GST to the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner. Marwaha said the assurance of a simplified tax format after introduction of the GST proved hollow as after 937 amendments it continues to be a set of complex law governing trade and industry. He flayed the e-way bill and stated that the new system would take away the liberty of shifting material in transit in case the vehicle breaks down or is delayed for some reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cait-strike-call-gets-lukewarm-response-in-amritsar-218197
27-02-2021||---||Grills worth Rs 30 lakh missing on Amritsar's BRTS route: Social activist||Amritsar, February 26The Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) a dream project of former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal has been facing serious challenges since its inauguration on December 16, 2016.Iron grills (weighing around 5 tonnes) installed alongside the BRTS’s tracks had been stolen, claimed Suresh Sharma, a social activist. He alleged the project worth Rs 600 crore has been ignored by the Congress government.“Around 800 grill frames are missing from Chheharta to India Gate. A total of 2,900 frames are missing on the entire BRTS route. One frame weighs around 20 kg, thus grills weighing 5,000 kg are missing. Due to the negligence of the government, iron grills worth Rs 30 lakh have been stolen in the last four years,” said Sharma.He urged the Municipal Corporation and the Punjab Metro Bus Society to take stern action in this regard.In February 2018 the Municipal Corporation Commissioner had written to Public Works Department (PWD) to take action against those who are removing the grills of the BRTS corridor. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner had also issued instructions to register police cases against people responsible for breaking the grills. However, no case has been registered till date. The grills can be seen missing from several locations.A few months ago, the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board handed over the BRTS to the Municipal Corporation. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that they would streamline the bus metro soon.The social activist also demanded to install display boards, which were non-operational.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grills-worth-rs-30-lakh-missing-on-amritsars-brts-route-social-activist-218160
