28-02-2021||Amritsar||Three held with intoxicants||Rape attempt: Sewadar heldAmritsar: The city police have arrested Jasmehar Singh, a sewadar at gurdwara in the Green Field, for allegedly attempting to rape a mentally unstable woman in the shrine complex here on Friday. The incident came to light when neighbour of the victim reached shrine for paying obeisance and caught him red-handed. Jasmehar Singh, who originally hails from Sarhali in Tarn Taran, was booked by the Sadar police under Sections 376, 511, 354, 354-A, 509 and 506 of the IPC. The victim’s father told the police that his 32-year-old daughter was bachelor, mentally unstable and living with him. He said on Friday she had gone to pay obeisance at the shrine. When she entered the ‘Sukh Asan’ room for paying obeisance, the accused sewadar caught hold of her and tried to rape her. However, his neighbour Inderpreet Singh who also reached the gurdwara for paying obeisance heard the cries of his daughter who was trying to get herself freed from his clutches. Inderpreet raised the alarm and the accused was caught by the people when he tried to run away. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-intoxicants-218601
28-02-2021||Amritsar||Chandra Shekhar Azad remembered||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chandra-shekhar-azad-remembered-218600
28-02-2021||A centurion blood donor and a recipient of the state award for his contributions toward this cause||‘Bhajans helped me stay calm’||“I have donated blood more than 100 times. I have donated platelets many times. So when I tested positive, I thought that maybe it is the Lord’s plan to help me donate plasma to save lives,” said Sidana, who is a manager with Dr Naresh Grover Paediatric Hospital on Majitha Road.Sidana donated plasma to two Covid patients on completion of 28 days of recovery. “Unfortunately, an elderly woman from Pathankot who received the plasma died a few days later after showing signs of recovery initially. The second patient recovered completely,” he said.In November again, Sidana donated plasma to a Covid-infected family. “I was never worried about myself. I had quarantined myself on the first floor of my residence on August 27 when I developed the initial symptoms,” said Sidana who lives in the Gate Hakeema area.“I started washing my clothes so that other family members are not exposed to the virus. My wife and my daughter who is pursuing a paramedic course took care of me. They would talk to me on video call repeatedly during the day,” he said.Sidana said yoga and kaadha (concoction) also helped him recover speedily. “I would listen to bhajans in the morning and watch a spiritual or religious movie or show in the evening. It helps you stay calm,” he said.Sidana said his colleagues at work and employees from the Health Department called to know the health status and family members and friends continued with their support and never let him feel low. (As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bhajans-helped-me-stay-calm-218599
28-02-2021||Sport is all about passion and people. Take out the passion||Passion and people||When it comes to safety of citizensGurdaspur Additional Deputy Commissioner Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu was given a tribute on Friday, the day he retired after putting in 33 years of service. The entire district administration, including Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, accompanied him to his residence after he superannuated. At night, he was given a farewell party by residents and officials at a hotel. Sandhu had joined the state government in 1988 as a Block Development and Panchayat Officer before being inducted into the Punjab Civil Services (PCS) in 2005. He refused to speak about politicians, but nevertheless had a word of praise for all his colleagues with whom he worked. “PCS is one big family. And in this family, nobody fights alone. We are all together come rain, sunshine or sleet. Safety and honour of countrymen comes first; honour, welfare and comfort of men under your command comes second; and the officer’s own ease, comfort and safety comes last,” said Sandhu.‘Science behind selfie during vaccination’Yet another bureaucrat to have been bitten by the Covid-19 bug is soft spoken, affable Pathankot Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal. He is using this time to catch up on some reading which, in any case, was his favourite pastime before he was inducted into the civil services. These days he is reading an all time classic- Ayn Rand’s “The Fountainhead”. He is enchanted by the novel’s protagonist Howard Roark, an individualist young architect who designs modernistic buildings and refuses to compromise with a government unwilling to accept innovation. Aggarwal also recounts how Roark would blast those very buildings created by him if somebody plagiarised the original designs. As for the virus, the DC said, “Without doubt, maintaining a distance from people is the only way to maintaining your equanimity and of course, to avoid catching Covid.” Meanwhile, while still on Covid, a wag commented, “In India, scientists have confirmed that if you do not take a selfie while getting injected, the vaccine will not work.” Reason enough why phone calls go out to the media whenever an officer has to get the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passion-and-people-218598
28-02-2021||---||SAD leader murder case:
Prime suspect arrested||Amritsar, February 27Days after the murder of SAD leader Jagdish Singh of New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, the police have arrested one of the prime suspects in the case, Mandeep Singh Lada. He was produced in the court and brought on police remand for further investigation.This was the third arrest in the case while many of their accomplices were still out of the reach of the police.The caseBhupinder Singh, father of the deceased, said the accused were playing DJ on their rooftop while flying kites on Lohri. They had called their friends also. They were using abusive language and Jagdish Singh had asked them not to do so. They got enraged and Billa challenged Jagdish and other accused attacked him. They shot at him and critically injured him. He was rushed to a hospital where he died.Lohri festivities had turned tragic after a dispute over playing of DJ at high volume on the occasion of Lohri festival when several persons gunned down Jagdish Singh (30), a SAD leader in the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here.The police had arrested Balwinder Singh, alias Billa, on January 14, while another suspect Dilbagh Singh, alias Bagha, was held on January 29.Besides Billa and Dilbagh, the police have booked Billa’s three sons Mandeep Singh, Sukhchain Singh and Amanchain Singh Laddi and around 12 unknown persons in the case. The accused also associated with the SAD, said the police.Bhupinder Singh, father of the deceased, stated to the police that the accused were playing DJ at their rooftop while flying kites during Lohri festival. They had called their friends also. He said they were also using abusive language during this and Jagdish Singh had asked them not to do so. He said they got enraged and Billa challenged Jagdish and other accused attacked him. They shot and critically injured him. He was rushed to hospital where he died.Due to the death of municipal councillor Harpreet Singh Goldy of ward number 37 in which the area falls, the byelection in the ward was announced to be held on February 14. Jagdish Singh, however, supported an Independent candidate after he failed to get the ticket from the party. According to the police this became a bone of contention between the accused and the victim which had led to the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-leader-murder-caseprime-suspect-arrested-218579
28-02-2021||---||Fake travel agent booked for 
fleecing local resident of Rs 14.3 lakh||Amritsar, February 27The district administration has failed to nail fake travel agents who had opened their offices in order to fleece innocent people looking for greener pastures.Lalit Kishore, a resident of the Guru Nanak Nagar area, Batala Road, here was duped of Rs14.3 lakh by a ‘fake’ travel agent Punit Dhahotra, having an office in Ranjit Avenue.Duping innocentIt took over two years of struggle for registering the FIR, while the victim made rounds of Economic Offence Wing and CIA staff to which the Police Commissioner had earlier forwarded the complaint for investigations.Upset of the inaction by the officials of two wings, the victim again approached Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill demanding justice in October last year. This time the police marked a probe to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Punjab Bureau of Investigations) Kirpal Singh who recommended registration of an FIR against the alleged fraudster in his report.The probe pointed out that the accused, who runs a travel agency in the name of Green Planet in the Ranjit Avenue area, was not an authorised travel agent. He used to fleece the innocent people in the name of sending them abroad in search of greener pastures.The investigations confirmed swindling of Rs 21.30 lakh from the victim out of which the accused had returned Rs 7 lakh.After taking the legal opinion, the police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals Act against him while further investigations are under progress. No arrest has been made till now.Concerned over the repeated instances of fraud by fake travel agents, the Punjab government has made it mandatory for the travel agents to get them registered with the respective district administrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-travel-agent-booked-for-fleecing-local-resident-of-rs-14-3-lakh-218580
28-02-2021||---||Admn discusses accessible infra support for people with disabilities||Amritsar, February 27A special meeting was held by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira to address the problems of people with disabilities (PwD) and discuss accessible infrastructure support for them.District Social Security Officer Asisinder Singh and Member Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Jyoti Bala along with Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh attended the meeting along with other representatives of civil society.Addressing the meeting, the DC said, PwDs are an integral part of our society and they must be given a chance to move beyond their limitations. He directed the Acting Engineer PWD to construct ramps for the disabled persons in all government buildings for better accessibility. He asked the Civil Surgeon to conduct a survey of the disabled persons in the district so that the types of disability and the affected population could be ascertained and every possible effort could be made by the district administration to help them in future.He also directed the District Red Cross Society to activate the District Disability and Rehabilitation Centre so that PwD could seek advice from various experts present in the centre and avail the facilities. In order to reach out to PwD and ensure right to education for children with disabilities, the District Education Department will issue appropriate orders to every school — public and private — to have special teachers under the Right to Education Act and a team constituted by the district administration would keep a check in this regard. The DC said strict action would be taken in case of violation.The Transport Department will mobilize an awareness campaign on various schemes for the PwD such as concession on bus rides, registration of new vehicles, etc. The District Sports Officer said sports competitions for the PwD would be organised at regular intervals.The road ahead||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-discusses-accessible-infra-support-for-people-with-disabilities-218581
28-02-2021||---||Mayor initiates maintenance of Golden Gate ‘unofficially’||Amritsar, February 27 Upset over the poor condition of the city’s grand entry gate, commonly known as “Golden Gate”, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has taken it upon himself to carry out its maintenance unofficially.  The SAD government had built the grand entry gate for the holy city in 2016 by spending Rs 9 crore. In the absence of any maintenance during the last four years, the gate was losing its sheen with time. Ironically, the lights were lying defunct for several months. It is under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has claimed that he had asked PWD officials to replace the defunct lights but to no avail. Finally, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu took the maintenance work in his hand “unofficially”.        The municipal corporation on Saturday cleaned the golden top and walls of the gate. However, it was day off for the MC employees, but on the call of Rintu, MC employees worked on day off. A clean-up operation was initiated at Golden Gate this morning. During the operation, Fire Brigade vehicles were used to clean the grand gate. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal along with several officials and employees were present on the occasion Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said Amritsar was a world renowned city for its religious importance. While cleaning the gate, the Mayor and MC officials found that the golden plates had rusted. “We will officially take over the maintenance of the iconic gate,” added the Mayor. The Mayor appealed to residents of the city to cooperate with the MC in keeping the surroundings clean so that the city has a distinct identity for cleanliness. Councillor Jasbir Singh Nizapurian, Baldev Singh Sandhu, Health Officer Ajay Kanwar, employees’ union leader Ashu Nahar, Chairman Raj Kumar Raju, secretary Raj Kalyan, Savinder Tona and Deepak Sabharwal were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-initiates-maintenance-of-golden-gate-unofficially-218582
28-02-2021||---||MC officials come forward to clear residents’ confusion||Amritsar, February 27Confusion prevails among applicants for death and birth certification falling under late entries. Reason: They don’t approach the zonal offices of the Municipal Corporation and directly visit the Suvidha Centre.The officials of death and birth wing of the Municipal Corporation claimed that the residents who alleged delay or suffering at Suvidha Centres didn’t follow the right path to register death and birth. The applicants for late entry often complain about delay in their registration process.Dharminder Jeet Singh, Nodal Officer for Death and Birth Certification at the MC said, “Most of the times residents often visit the Suvidha Centre to get register their death or birth. In current cases, hospitals where birth or death occurs or cremation grounds sent their report to the MC. The Suvidha Centres ask MC to provide first copy of certificate, which we prepare manually by verifying the record. Then the Suvidha Centre issues the hologram copies to the applicants”.But in the late entry cases, the applicants have to get the first copy from zonal office of the MC.“Though the system is online and residents observe that there is no need to visit the MC office but we have to verify the record before issuing the first copy. So applicants have to get first copy from zonal office of the MC. We prepare it within 7 days after getting application. So to avoid delay and suffering, the applicants have to choose right path”, said Nodal Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-officials-come-forward-to-clear-residents-confusion-218583
28-02-2021||Amritsar||Play highlights struggle of women against social biases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/play-highlights-struggle-of-women-against-social-biases-218584
28-02-2021||---||Poet Manjit Indra gets ‘Naad Pargas Shabad Samman’||Amritsar, February 27The 6th Amritsar Literature Festival concluded today. Manjit Indra was conferred ‘Naad Pargas Shabad Samman’ in the field of literature by Naad Pargas. Indra is a leading Punjabi poet and has inspired wave of feminist literature in Punjabi along with her contemporaries.Her first book “Antahkaran” was published in 1967. Indra said poetry has to transform mind of listener and poet plays a role of medium in it.The day also witnessed poetic court ‘Chadhya Basant’, hosted by Punjabi poet Vijay Vivek, in which 19 Punjabi poets presented their compositions, including Prakash Prabhakar, Swami Antar Nirav, Renu Nair, Ajitpal Jatana, Surinder Singh, Rajesh Mohan, Karanjit, Jaswinder Singh and Gurpreet Bodawal.Live painting demonstration and performances of stringed instruments were held for visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poet-manjit-indra-gets-naad-pargas-shabad-samman-218585
28-02-2021||Amritsar||Recycling champions honoured||The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) organised a competition (February 1-10) to encourage residents for recycling plastic bottles and cans. Komal Mittal, CEO Smart City-cum- Municipal Commissioner awarded eco-friendly T-shirts to those residents who used reverse vending machines installed in the city for recycling plastic bottles and cold drink cans under the Smart City mission. Reverse vending machines have been installed at multiple locations, including Municipal Corporation’s office, Vishal Mega Mart A-Block, B and C-Block Market Ranjit Avenue, Amrit Anand Park, Rose Garden Ranjit Avenue, Company Bagh, Novelty Chowk, Court Complex, Kabir Park, Amrit Talkie Chowk, DAV College, Hathi Gate, Model Town Temple, Kairon Market, Hall Bazaar, Durgiana Temple, Bus Stand, Shivala Bhaiya Wala Temple and Gurdwara Shaheed Sahib. Mittal said most plastic bottles were recycled by Sudhir Mehra, Rakesh, Gollu Kumar, Duleep Kumar, Ravi and Dhamendra Kumar.  Gollu Kumar, who sets up a food stall outside Vishal Mega Mart in Ranjit Avenue, recycles plastic bottles in the reverse vending machine. Dharmendra Kumar, who runs a shop near RS Tower in Hall Bazaar, said he puts used plastic bottles in the reverse vending machine to ensure that they get recycled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recycling-champions-honoured-218586
28-02-2021||---||‘Change in diet, exercise can minimise lifestyle diseases’||Amritsar, February 27 To create awareness about the causes of non-communicable diseases, the Health Department organised a cycle rally here on Saturday. While flagging off the rally from Khalsa College of Education, Ranjit Avenue, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “ A  large percentage of the non-communicable diseases are lifestyle diseases and a little change in diet, daily routine and exercise can help in avoiding these problems”.  Dr Singh said that majority of the Covid patients who died had diseases as high blood pressure and diabetes. “We can easily avoid such physical problems by being a little more vigilant about what we eat and how we live our lives,” he said adding that lack of physical activities due to present day job profiles was one of the biggest causes of hypertension, diabetes and obesity.  He said that one should exercise/cycle daily apart from eating low salt and low fat food. People should also avoid drinking and smoking, he said.  District Family Welfare Officer Dr Jaspreet Sharma said that high blood pressure could prove to be very dangerous if not detected and treated in time. He added that similarly detection of cancer at an early stage helped in its treatment. “People should be aware of the symptoms, causes and treatment of common diseases,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/change-in-diet-exercise-can-minimise-lifestyle-diseases-218587
28-02-2021||Amritsar||Guru Ravidas remembered on his birth anniv||The SGPC organised an event to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas by paying devotion at Gurdwara Shri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on Saturday. After the bhog of Sri Akhand Path Sahib, Hazuri Ragi Bhai Jagdeep Singh and his companions recited kirtan.  Preacher Bhai Sukhwinder Singh shared life, teachings and ideology of Guru Ravidas with the devotees. Advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami, Chief Secretary of the SGPC, who was present on the occasion, said that the SGPC, a representative religious body of the Sikh community, celebrates Gurpurab and other historical days at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib.  He said the holy words of Guru Ravidas were enshrined in Guru Granth Sahib. He encouraged the Sangat to follow the valuable teachings of Gurbani. In the decorated Diwan, Dhadi Bhai Gurbhej Singh Chawinda and preacher Bhai Tarsem Singh introduced the history of Sikh Gurus and bhagats with the audience.  Meanwhile, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur congratulated the community on the birth anniversary of Bhagat Ravidas . In his congratulatory message, she said that the bani of Bhagat Ravidas Ji inspires devotion to Akal Purakh as well as universal communion. By following the path shown by Bhagat Ravidas for the prosperity of the society, we can make our life enjoyable, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-ravidas-remembered-on-his-birth-anniv-218588
28-02-2021||Amritsar||HS Cricket Academy thrashes RK Academy||Harbhajan Singh Cricket Academy thrashed RK Cricket Academy on the 36th day of the 44-day Richcook Junior League Cricket Tournament on Saturday. It won the match by five wickets. Opening the innings at Gandhi Ground, RK Cricket Academy posted a target of 141 runs for 10 wickets in 40 overs. Anurag scored 68 runs. Harbhajan Singh Cricket Academy scored 142 runs for the loss of five wickets in 32 overs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hs-cricket-academy-thrashes-rk-academy-218589
28-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Women cops get health tips||SSP Dhruman H Nimbale’s wife Sweta Nimbale called the women officials of the Police Department to be more aware of their own health problems in order to give better services to the women victims. She was addressing a seminar organised by the department on the topic ‘Physical and Mental problems facing by working women’ here on Saturday. She said, many times, women police officials overlook their own mental and physical troubles which further causes problems to them.  Nimbale said while performing their duty honestly, the women officials must give proper care to their family life too. She gave a comprehensive information regarding the possible diseases of the women and the way these can be avoided. She called upon the women officials to take proper care of their own health by doing regular exercise and Yoga. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-cops-get-health-tips-218590
28-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Youth pray for success of farmers||A jatha of youngsters from Nathupur (Harike) village moved on foot to Harimamandir Sahib to pray for the success of the farmers’ agitation and the well-being of the farmers participating in the agitation. The jatha moved for the village at about 4 in the morning and reached Sri Harimandir Sahib at 4 in the evening after covering a distance of 55 km. Gursahib Singh, Dilbag Singh and Lovepreet Singh leading the jatha said the participants of the jatha before moving to Harimandir Sahib sought the blessings of elders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-pray-for-success-of-farmers-218591
