01-06-2021||Today's||Lakshadweep cannot be Maldives. Respect its uniqueness||Lakshadweep is in the news for all the wrong reasons. The first few months in any public office, involving welfare of people, is spent in self-education. This is even more so if it involves people living in 10 tiny stand-alone ecologically sensitive islands separated from each other and from the mainland by hundreds of kilometres of deep sea. But not so for the new administrator of Lakshadweep, Praful Khoda Patel.In his first five months, the administrator took a number of drastic steps which have disturbed the normally placid waters of the territory. The government has closed anganwadis, sacked dozens of employees who worked for many years, banned meat from schools, demolished dozens of sheds of fishermen which were built as per integrated scientific plan prepared by a Supreme Court appointed committee, brought in a goonda act in a territory which has strong family bonds and has barely had any crime for at least the past century, closed dairy farms, amended panchayati rules, and tinkered with public works department contracts. The most disturbing of all decisions are the provisions of the draft Lakshadweep Development Regulations 2021.Also Read | Lakshadweep administration extends complete shutdown by a weekParts of the draft seem to be just a cut and paste job, certainly not one prepared for this territory. For instance, it talks of “orderly and progressive development of urban and rural areas” and “development of the towns and country side” (all islands are really rural areas); it refers to “additional powers for acquisition of land” (almost all the 10 islands are actually abadi areas where land cannot be acquired); it mentions shifting of populations (Where? In the sea?). And these are just a few examples of a poorly thought through proposal.The Lakshadweep islands have an interesting historical and legendary perspective. Early explorers talk of “female islands”. If you visit any of the habited islands, especially Minicoy, you will see only women. During the day, men are out fishing or are sailing in international waters. There are compelling reasons why, in Lakshadweep, there is restriction on outsiders coming to the islands and why unrestricted tourism cannot be allowed.It is often argued that if Maldives can attract tourists, why not Lakshadweep? Maldives has 1,200 islands, of which 1,000 have no population while Lakshadweep has only 26; except a couple, which are already tourist resorts, the others are too small or very difficult to approach.Lakshadweep is also the most thickly populated area of the country with 2,000 people per square km. Moreover, it is not one geographical entity but consists of 10 populated islands and many more uninhabited islands. While in respect of land area, it is by far the tiniest administrative unit of the country, in terms of economic potential, its contribution is immense.Also Read | Kerala assembly passes resolution seeking recall of Lakshadweep administratorLakshadweep adds about 50,000 square kms of economic zone to the country in the Arabian Sea. Its potential, except for small scale fishing, is largely unexploited. We all know that the seas are the future; if at all a development authority is to be set up, it should be the Lakshadweep Sea Development Authority. This will be welcomed by the islanders as it will provide huge employment opportunities to them.It is clear Lakshadweep has no tourism potential beyond what it has already developed. The comparison with Maldives is superficial. Maldives as a separate country has no choice. But the economy of Lakshadweep is intimately linked to the mainland. For instance, hundreds of islanders from Minicoy, Agatti and other islands are sailors and they are employed as shipping crew from Kolkata. Students go for engineering, medical and other higher studies to the mainland; serious patients are shifted to mainland hospitals. They are entitled to central government jobs. These ties need to be strengthened and not weakened. For instance, work from home is now becoming a norm with most important companies; If IT is strengthened in the islands, large number of young men and women can get gainful employment sitting at home.The new administrator must get his priorities right, in accordance with the uniqueness of the islands.Omesh Saigal is a former chief secretary, Delhi government and a former administrator of LakshadweepThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lakshadweep-cannot-be-maldives-respect-its-uniqueness-101622547353915.html
01-06-2021||Today's||Strengthening India’s district hospitals||The Covid-19 pandemic, especially the vicious second wave, has created an unprecedented burden on an already creaky health system. India needs a responsive and resilient health infrastructure to cope with the challenges posed by the virus.At present, India has a three-level framework of healthcare. This comprises the village-or community-level primary healthcare centres (PHCs/CHCs), district-level secondary healthcare facilities in the form of district hospitals, and tertiary care premier institutes and centres of excellence with state-of-the-art facilities for specialised treatment.The pandemic has revealed one of the weakest links in the health system — the poor infrastructure in district hospitals and their institutional neglect. The pressure on these hospitals has thrown up many worrying facts. Just take one example. Many district hospitals did not have ventilators. It was also found that hundreds of ventilators distributed through the PM Cares Fund to several district hospitals across the country were either unused or could not be operated as the facilities lacked trained critical care specialists and technicians.Also Read | Sustaining and scaling up the response to Covid is key to saving livesBut things were not always so dire. In 1970s and 1980s, many district hospitals in the country were considered centres of excellence in various surgical and medical specialties. But predictably, many deteriorated over the years as they were unable to keep pace with the advancement in technologies and owing to lapses in timely upgradation of infrastructure.Since the mid-1990s, the focus in healthcare shifted to the private sector and a slew of profit-generating corporate hospitals were set up largely in big cities. This had a deleterious effect on the public health system and many government and charitable hospitals became unviable and had to shut down.Many of those who seek treatment at these high-end, tertiary medical facilities do not need to do so at all, as their ailments can easily be tackled at primary and secondary healthcare centres. In a cross-sectional study conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences in 2018 and published in Seizure, it was found that many epilepsy patients seeking tertiary care could actually have been provided the care they needed at district hospitals if a robust need-based referral system had been in place.Most of these hospitals are centrally located in each district and could be hubs for referral treatment, training of health workers, supervision of peripheral facilities, as well as public health surveillance. Most of them have 100 to 500 beds that cater to anywhere between 100,000 to a million citizens a lakh in each district.Indian Public Health Standard (IPHS) guidelines for district hospitals, first issued in 2007 by the directorate of general health services and revised in 2012, focused not only on physical infrastructure, manpower requirements, equipment norms and laboratory services at district hospitals but also emphasised capacity-building, quality assurance, quality control of processes, service delivery and compliance.The ministry of health and family welfare followed this up in 2017 with technical and operational guidelines for strengthening district hospitals for multi-specialty care and as sites for training. These also mandated that each district hospital should also have a public health unit, an epidemiologist, an entomologist, a microbiologist, a communications officer, a district public health nursing officer and a demographer for handling health emergencies and active disease surveillance.This provides the framework for the improvement and strengthening of district hospitals. What is now required are five crucial interventions to shore up this system.First, the buildings of existing hospitals should be upgraded, focusing on proper design, improved infrastructure and long- lasting and replenishable supply-chain logistics without which dispensing quality care is impossible.Second, efforts must be made to attract well-trained and dedicated staff to district hospitals by offering them opportunities for quality clinical work with assured career growth prospects. They should also be provided with proper housing and educational facilities for their children, among other incentives.Third, technological support must be provided in the form of cloud computing, artificial intelligence for hospital information systems and disease surveillance. These will contribute to efficient management and ongoing medical education and training.Fourth, laboratory services need to be upgraded with the provision of the latest equipment including molecular diagnostics and pathological services and periodic quality improvement audits.Finally, it is essential to gain and sustain public confidence in district hospitals. This can be accomplished by engaging professionals with passion and empathy for their jobs, incentivising them with appropriate rewards and utilising emerging technologies.We are, hopefully, witnessing a declining trend in the second wave of the pandemic in many states. This is the appropriate time to identify and plug existing gaps in our health system. The focal point for this should be strengthening district hospitals as they can form the foundation for a functioning and effective health system. We must act now to shore up our defences in healthcare, if we are to save people today and protect them in health crises in the future.Rajinder K Dhamija is the head of neurology department, Lady Hardinge Medical College and SSK Hospital, New Delhi. He was, formerly, a WHO Fellow at National Institute of EpidemiologyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/strengthening-india-s-district-hospitals-101622544233537.html
01-06-2021||Today's||Assessing the quality of Indian democracy||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi completes his seventh year in office, India’s perceived democratic backsliding has invariably formed the underlying context of political assessments of his tenure. The government’s handling of Covid-19’s second wave has added to anxieties related to the suppression of democratic norms.These concerns were validated by a host of annual democracy rankings earlier this year, which downgraded India’s status to a “flawed democracy” or “electoral autocracy”. Irrespective of one’s view on the conclusions, these reports have thrown up a set of larger questions — over methods to assess democratic robustness, the internal and external variables that shape democratic health, and the roots of the crisis of liberal democracy.Is India’s democratic backsliding an outlier or part of a historical pattern? In the early 1990s, political scientist Samuel Huntington described the pattern of global democratisation as a series of three waves and reverse waves. The first long wave lasted for almost a century until the end of World War I; the second short wave was in the aftermath of World War II; and the third medium wave began in the late 1970s, lasting till the dawn of the new century.Since then, the world has been under the grip of a democratic recession. The rising concern among scholars and commentators on how democracies die— to borrow the title of a book on this trend — is neither surprising nor unwarranted.Also Read | Pakistan’s balancing act between the US and the Taliban will affect IndiaAt the outset, the sharp disagreement over democracy ratings, as witnessed in India, is inevitable, since democracy itself, in academic literature, is an “essentially contested concept”. There are endless debates among scholars on how best to measure democracy. In fact, dissatisfaction among academics with Freedom House and Polity scores led to the establishment of V-Dem that employs more comprehensive indicators and statistically robust techniques. Much like any complex social phenomenon, a snapshot picture of democracy (in terms of headline numbers) will have inherent limitations of subjectivity.As each of these reports privileges some components of the definition of democracy and relies heavily on expert-based judgments, they capture certain parts of reality and filter some parts out.This lack of a singular framework of measurement of democracy does not, however, mean that we must not take them seriously. Notwithstanding political rhetoric, these institutes follow a very methodologically rigorous protocol on how to define democracy, best practices to measure the concept, and aggregation of various components into single indices. Further, all these reports share a very high degree of correlation and their datasets (along with methodological details) are publicly available. Their data is regularly employed in the statistical analysis of economic, political, and social policy.At the heart of criticism are the ideological biases of the experts. We can’t be sure about the ideological preferences of these experts as the institutes refrain from sharing the identity of individual country experts, for understandable reasons. Even as these reports document rising populism, they are subject to the same populism-driven distrust of experts. These institutes must therefore assuage these rising concerns by greater transparency.But we must recognise that there is a certain consensus — democracy in every region of the world is under attack by populist leaders and their supporters who are exploiting nationalistic appeals to concentrate power. As a result, dissenting voices (including all sorts of minorities) are facing the heat of this anti-pluralist backlash.The big decline in India’s ratings hinges on a decline in civil liberties and deterioration in political tolerance. And not surprisingly, the actions and inactions of the Modi government have been highlighted as the driving factor in India’s democratic backsliding.While India must focus on the home front to regain its political legitimacy, global trends cannot be discounted in this decade of democratic recession. For example, in the previous two reversal waves, shocks to geopolitical order (such as wars), new States with weak institutions (which could not keep up with increasing pressures on the system), and neighbourhood effects were important drivers.We must also not discount the shifting geopolitical order with the rise of China and increasing economic inequalities across the globe in understanding democratic recession. States in the developing world are unable to keep up with governance demands in face of an economic slowdown. And, most countries are facing renewed challenges with new types of non-State actors (including Big Tech) trying to influence domestic politics.In many parts, where the rate of backsliding has been steep, especially in consolidated democracies such as India, there is also a simultaneous collapse of the ancien regimes under the weight of their inefficiencies. The liberal model of democracy is struggling as its promise of fostering equality and giving a voice to all citizens in politics has remained, to a great extent, unfulfilled. As BR Ambedkar warned, political democracy can only be sustained with the foundation of social and economic democracy.The global surge of nationalist-populist leaders did not happen in a vacuum. Nor can their continued popularity be easily wished away. Many of these leaders have cemented a solid support base, and the political opposition in many of these countries still remains largely discredited. While these leaders remake politics in their country that is more amenable to their ideological worldview, the line between disagreements and dissent will continue to remain thin. This means that the expansive notions of democracy that were envisioned during the rapid march of global democratisation of the 1980s and 90s will continue to remain under stress in the near future.This is not to say that the supporters of democracy must learn to live with truncated notions for the foreseeable future. It is to suggest that they must participate in a more clear-eyed appraisal of the backsliding and chart out the path of recovery. Democracy is strengthened through dialogue on divergent issues. On the home front, this would require both resolve to engage with the current churning, and more inclusive intention to re-envision the idea of India.Rahul Verma is a fellow, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/assessing-the-quality-of-indian-democracy-101622544113699.html
