04-06-2021||Today's||An ode to the Megapode sanctuary||In January 2021, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) took a series of decisions — one of them was to denotify a wildlife sanctuary in the Nicobar Islands. The standing committee of the board noted that since the Megapode Island had gone underwater post the catastrophic tsunami of 2004, the island had ceased to exist. The wildlife sanctuary was henceforth, with just one stroke, removed from the list of protected areas of India.Does a sanctuary cease to serve its biological function once it has gone underwater? Manish Chandi, a social ecologist, who has lived and worked extensively on the islands, says an emphatic no. Even after submergence, the island is vital as a site for mangroves to recolonise it and as a site for fish breeding. This could potentially have been used by the Nicobarese inhabitants, argues Chandi. The idea of declaring an area as a sanctuary or a national park is to preserve it for posterity for future generations. Even if it has gone underwater, the island’s legal status as a protected area should have been maintained. The reason for denotification can perhaps be related to Niti Aayog’s vision to develop “world class infrastructure” that includes hotels, resorts and water-villas along with a multi-crore shipment terminal. It also highlights the terrestrial bias we hold for marine biodiversity — once it ceased to exist as a piece of land, it had no value. If a national park on mainland India were to get burnt from forest fires, would we restore and rewild it or would the NBWL then proceed to denotify it?There is also the question of legality. NBWL is a statutory body created under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Its mandate is to “promote the conservation and development of wildlife and forests by such measures as it thinks fit”. By what measure is the removal of sanctuaries under its primary mandate is not clear. Also Read | Developing the sister islands of Indian OceanIn fact, even a cursory glance at the activities of the NBWL in 2020 reveals mind-boggling data. In just three meetings held last year, approximately 82 proposals were considered, of which 25 were for diversion of forestland inside national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, according to data analysed by according to data analysed by the Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment. In total, 1800 hectares of forestland were “diverted”, of which 160 hectares lay within national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. The minutes of these meetings do not show any decisions on the need to conserve species; instead, there seems to be an obsession with clearances.Interestingly, at the same meeting when Megapode wildlife sanctuary was denotified, another one was also denotified — the Galathea bay sanctuary, currently a crucial nesting site for the rare leatherback turtles. The objective was to make way for the development of an international shipment project. While, on the one hand, Niti Aayog claims it is looking at “holistic and sustainable development” for the island, it is not clear how destroying vital turtle nesting sites comes under this definition. Its plans have already drawn criticism for being oblivious to the geographical fragility of the ecosystem or its people.With the threat of the climate crisis, storm surges and extreme weather conditions are likely to be more frequent. Does it really make sense to be investing in such heavy infrastructure, slated to be worth more than ₹75,000 crore? So what are the possible solutions? Chandi proposes initiating a dialogue with the people who live on these islands as opposed to following experts sitting in Delhi. Take them in confidence, get ground realities crystal clear, help them get their house in order, before bringing in any changes, he suggests.There are other examples to learn from. Vaan island in the Gulf of Mannar was also facing submergence. Scientists undertook a massive restoration effort and today its land cover has increased by 55%.As we mark the World Environment Day, lets spare a thought for the wildlife sanctuaries that have silently been wiped off India’s island maps. Yes there is much to celebrate, also much to ponder.Bahar Dutt is an environment journalist and Associate Professor, Shiv Nadar University. The views expressed here are her own||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/an-ode-to-the-megapode-sanctuary-101622812037157.html
04-06-2021||Today's||On Covid, how Delhi turned the wheels in DC||India is expected to land the largest chunk of the vaccines donated by the United States (US), according to the allocation plan announced by President Joe Biden. It has already received upwards of $500 million in supplies and relief from the US government and the private sector, and also won the crucial backing of the Biden administration for its joint proposal with South Africa for a temporary waiver of patents to Covid-19 vaccines.Some of this has to do with the hydroxychloroquine consignment Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi cleared for release last summer in response to a personal appeal from then president, Donald Trump. Biden has credited this gesture for the help the US has extended to India in to deal with the devastating second wave of the pandemic.Also at work was pressure on Biden internally, from his own party, and from across the entire ideological spectrum — from the ultra-liberal progressives to establishment moderates. Leading progressives such as Senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders and Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Pramila Jayapal rallied around India. They pushed the Biden administration to abandon its predecessor’s opposition to the patent waiver, which, to be noted, was in alignment with long-running bipartisan US commitment to these issues.Also Read | Increase in vaccine production in India to be ‘game changer’ beyond borders: USEstablishment moderates such as Chuck Schumer, who leads the Democrat-dominated Senate as Majority Leader, called for sending India a “robust allotment” from the 80 million vaccines doses that Biden had committed to sending abroad. Other Democrats have called for it as well, as did some Republicans, though a majority of them have been relatively quiet, or just plain hostile.There is no one explanation of how the wheels of power turn in Washington DC, but suffice it know that House and Senate lawmakers, who are the most powerful politicians in the world with millions of dollars riding on every letter in their signatures, do not write tweets and letters for the same reasons as you and me.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who knows and understands Washington DC better than most Indian politicians, was effusive in his praise of the Indian mission during his recent visit, singling out the ambassador, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, for all that they have done to bolster India’s efforts to combat the second wave of Covid-19. “I must really commend the embassy and the ambassador for the enormous effort that they have put in,” said the minister, who is himself a former ambassador to the US.Sandhu is a familiar figure on the timelines of those who follow the India-US relationship on social media platforms, hunched before a TV screen populated with smaller rectangular boxes containing some of the world’s most powerful CEOs, American lawmakers, officials, members of the diaspora, and representatives of Friends-of-India bodies. In other posts, he can be seen masked up and socially distanced in those few and far between in-person interactions. But, know this, he is just the public face of the women and men who make the mission, and they have done an outstanding job of changing the mood in the world’s most powerful capital.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-covid-how-delhi-turned-the-wheels-in-dc-101622809997049.html
04-06-2021||Today's||The pension amendment rules are flawed||The amendment to the pension rules for officials who are working or have worked in intelligence organisations — which entails them getting prior clearance from the current heads of their former organisations before publishing any material that falls within the domain of the organisation — is flawed.It is flawed because in one significant area, the publication of material, it obliterates the distinction between serving and retired officials in perpetuity. At the same time, it provides no rationale for extending in-service restriction on “publication of material” while ignoring other restrictions. The amendment is also flawed because it makes no distinction between “expertise and knowledge” acquired about the “domain” of work during the period of service and later. Importantly, it also does not distinguish between producers of intelligence and its consumers, who include both bureaucrats and political office-holders.All intelligence agencies put onerous restrictions on their officials. These restraints are always more than those applicable to officials working in other civilian departments and organisations. They include not making disclosures about their workplace, its working methods and personnel. In some cases, they may include even not acknowledging the agency where they are employed.Also Read | Not to restrict: Govt clarifies new rules for retired intel, security officersIn addition, there are prohibitions on meeting foreign nationals, taking prior permission before making visits abroad and expressing views on official matters in the mainstream and social media. And, of course, all officials working in these organisations are required to not give even a hint of the information gathered by their organisations or the assessments they have conveyed to policymakers.These requirements are valid and justified. The production of intelligence is, in many cases, a risky venture; in some cases, it puts lives in danger. Hence, special care has to be taken to ring intelligence outfits with protective layers. It is also perfectly legitimate to expect that those who have worked in these organisations will maintain complete confidentiality even after their retirement about aspects of the work they performed, and of the information they picked up during the course of their official duties. This would particularly pertain to matters relating to the manner in which the organisation conducts its work and its personnel and agents. This should be never be disclosed by retired officials, irrespective of when they retired.There is, however, a fundamental difference between serving and retired officials.After retirement, including from an intelligence agency, a person becomes an ordinary citizen of India and is subject to the same laws, rules and regulations as anyone else. These naturally include the Officials Secrets Act (OSA). The restrictions that were in place during the period of service cannot apply, except for what is generally referred to as a cooling-off period when specific classes of officers, for instance, are prohibited from taking up commercial employment. Even the cooling-off period is known to have been waived in some instances, including some notable ones. In the case of intelligence officials, more stringent restrictions covering a range of matters over a longer but finite period would also be in order. But this cannot be for all time to come.Some officials who have worked in intelligence agencies, and in other parts of government, have published books over the past few years containing material which revealed how decisions were taken on sensitive foreign and domestic policy issues. In some cases, graphic descriptions were given and the names of those who attended meetings and the stand they took were disclosed. Many felt that these revelations were improper, even if they did not directly disclose any classified documents or records. Certainly, they were not tested on the anvil of OSA. It is not known if internal exercises took place within government to ascertain if they had infringed the Act. In any event, it would be proper for the government, in the light of the technological developments that are taking place, to examine the Act and bring in such modifications as needed.But the derelictions of a few should not lead to questionable restrictions on all, and in only one respect, as the new pension rules have done. What is the logic of demanding that material for publication be cleared in advance but that retired officials be free to meet foreigners, attend Track 2 events, travel abroad, give lectures, and convey their views on the basis of their domain knowledge and expertise in events organised by think-tanks or academic institutions?Surely, if the intention is that what they publicly reveal needs prior vetting, then what about the revelations they may make in these settings? If the answer is that these engagements would be covered by OSA, then that equally applies to publications.The acquisition of domain knowledge and expertise is a continuous process. It would be legitimate to demand that information gained during the period of work requires to be vetted before publication, but logically then that should extend to any non-official forum. However, this restriction can hardly apply to post-retirement matters. Thus, if an intelligence officer writes on developments in India’s neighbourhood or even in India that have or are taking place after the official retired, how can that be considered domain knowledge and expertise requiring prior clearance?Intelligence agencies produce information and give assessments. These are used by official advisers and political decision-makers. This information is sensitive, and all concerned affirm to keep it secret. Even if narrowly construed as not qualifying as domain knowledge, it is vital to keep this as secret, sometimes forever. If other bureaucrats, politicians and advisers are trusted and not subjected to prior clearance, should that trust not extend to retired intelligence officers?The amended pension rules are illogical and, at a minimum, need to be drastically amended. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right and a public good. Restrictions must necessarily be reasonable and limited.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-pension-amendment-rules-are-flawed-101622809457061.html
04-06-2021||Today's||India can lead the world in sustainable growth||A quarter-century of growth has transformed the lives of millions of Indians and offered India its rightful place on the global stage. India, now the sixth-largest economy, is predicted to move up three places by 2030.This rapid growth trajectory also places India at the heart of the most critical question of the environmental movement — can developing nations, which collectively generate the majority of global growth in the coming decade, reduce their carbon footprint while realising their economic potential?India is currently among the top three nations in energy use, though way down the list on per capita basis. Its energy demand will grow the most on the planet over the next 20 years. Interestingly, it is not just economic growth driving this demand. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the population of India is anticipated to grow by 270 million over the next two decades — resulting in an increased demand for carbon-intensive industries such as cement and steel to house the population. India is also vulnerable to the climate crisis, notably due to the melting of the Himalayan glaciers and changes in the monsoon pattern. For a country aiming to become a $5 trillion economy and beyond, it is imperative to move towards a low-carbon and regenerative economy.Also Read | Here’s how black carbon deposits causing glaciers, snow melt in Himalayan rangesIn 2019, India ranked fourth globally in installed renewable power capacity, with solar and wind power leading the way. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has set a goal to generate 450 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030 — this will represent five times the current capacity and amount to 60% of its total electricity generation from non-fossil fuel sources as against its Paris pledge to reach 40% by 2030.Solar energy could be India’s salvation. With about 300 sunny days a year, India has the potential to lead the world in solar electricity, which will be less expensive than existing coal-fired power by 2030, even when paired with battery storage.This will require the development of utility-scale renewable energy projects with innovative regulatory approaches that encourage pairing solar with other renewable technologies and storage to offer “round-the-clock” supply. The other would be attracting foreign investments in renewables.PM Modi’s call for “high speed, large scale, concrete action” to combat the climate crisis at the recent summit, hosted by United States President Joe Biden, and his open invitation to global partners for building sustainable solutions reaffirm India’s interest in nurturing cross-border collaboration and innovation to accelerate climate action.The choices made now and in the coming years by the Indian government and the people will affect the world. But the sustainable route won’t be easy or economical. The IEA report says transforming from today’s policy choices to a sustainable development scenario would require a transition on a scale no country has achieved in history. It would also require considerable innovation, strong partnerships, and vast amounts of capital.Also Watch | PM Modi praises India’s scientists; reiterates ‘Atmanirbhar’ pitchIndia should be up to the challenge. The IEA report states that the nation’s fuel import bills are likely to triple in the next two decades under current policies. At the same time, India is seen emerging as the renewables and storage powerhouse and is one of the few countries on track to meet most of its Paris targets. If the country follows a more sustainable path of reducing emissions and increasing its share in non-fossil-based fuel for electricity generation, its import bills can be reduced substantially, offsetting the investments in renewables.Of the world’s 2,000 largest public companies, at least one-fifth (21%) now have net-zero commitments, representing annual sales of nearly $14 trillion. Even in India, companies have stepped up their climate initiatives. According to the Standard Chartered SDG Investment Map, India alone offers a private investment opportunity of over $700 billion in clean energy. The private sector has a significant role in transforming the core of their business and delivery models and building collaborative partnerships that will support them in achieving sustainability goals and ensuring inclusive growth for all.It’s becoming increasingly clear that we are in a period of transformation. It takes bold and decisive leadership to unlock the potential, widen the perspective, tune in to broader systemic needs, and ultimately build partnerships that help deliver for the greater good. India is blessed to have an extraordinary reservoir of business and public leadership talent committed to a cleaner and brighter future. The 2030 milestone offers a crucial plot of the sustainable development goals opportunities for private sector investors looking to invest for impact and improve the lives of millions of Indians in the coming decade.India has shown the world how to lift millions of people out of poverty and provide a better quality of life. With its transition to clean energy, India can become the model for nations around the globe by creating a pathway to sustainable growth, rising prosperity, environmental justice and a clean energy future. Osvald Bjelland is founder and president, Xynteo, a leadership advisory company. Sanjiv Mehta is chairman and managing director, Hindustan Unilever Limited The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-can-lead-the-world-in-sustainable-growth-101622807297197.html
04-06-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | How large animals beat cancer||Cancer is a collection of over 100 diseases that result from mutations in our DNA. Most of the mutations that cause cancer arise from mistakes made when DNA is copied during cell division. A few mutations are inherited from parents.Cancer is mainly a disease of the elderly because mutations accumulate over time. More cell divisions means more chances of mistakes during the copying process. The DNA of an adult has been copied a whopping 30 trillion times and with each division comes an increased risk of cancer.There is a remarkable correlation between body size and lifespan among most vertebrate animals. A small fish such as the pygmy goby lives for only 59 days. A large animal such as the bowhead whale lives for 211 years. Long-lived animals often run into the mechanical barriers of how long their organs can function. After a certain number of beats, hearts tend to give out. Long-lived animals also have to deal with cancer.One animal that beats the odds is the naked mole rat. Mice, which are roughly the same size as naked mole rats, live for around four years; on the other hand, naked mole rats can live for more than 35 years. Researchers who study these long-lived animals have found that they have developed ways to prevent cancer.What about large animals? Cells vary in size, but larger animals have more cells. Long-lived animals also have more cells that have undergone divisions. If the rate of mutations across cells is roughly similar for different animals, we can expect small and short-lived animals to have a lower risk of cancer than large long-lived animals. But this isn’t always the case.To put it another way, if large animals such as whales and elephants had the same risk of getting cancer as humans, then young animals of those species would never survive into adulthood. But these animals do exist and they get quite large: in fact an adult blue can weighs 136,000 kilograms!Also Read | The untapped green potential of agroforestryThis contradiction between observed body size in some animals and expected cancer risk is known as Peto’s Paradox. What this tells us is that large animals have found ways to beat cancer. By gleaning the biological details of how they do it, the hope is that we will find treatments for people too. Some studies have already started to show the way.In 2015, researchers found that elephants have a much lower risk of cancer than people do, and they have 20 copies of an anti-cancer gene called TP53. This gene gives rise to a tumour suppressor protein, which causes damaged cells to destroy themselves by a process known as programmed cell death. In humans, the TP53 gene prevents cancer. Conversely, mutations that damage TP53 are some of the most common causes of cancer.A newer study found that elephants aren’t the only large animals with many copies of the TP53 anti-cancer gene. Other large relatives such as mastodons and woolly mammoths had this gene too. Just this year, in an article in eLife, researchers looked at the entire elephant genome and found that they had many copies of other anti-cancer genes, apart from TP53. And not all large animals have many copies of TP53. Whales, for example, have other means of keeping their cancer risk low.Taken together, we now know that large animals have evolved many different mechanisms to reduce the risk of cancer, which has helped them to increase in size.To be sure, even though their cancer risk is reduced, large animals still succumb to other diseases. Take for example, elephants, which have six sets of teeth. If elephants live longer than the sixth, they have a hard time chewing food and are prone to starvation. In fact, loss of teeth is the leading cause of death in mature elephants.While it might seem farfetched right now, the different biological mechanisms that animals use to reduce cancer risk might someday help in increasing lifespan and in improving human health too.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-how-large-animals-beat-cancer-101622791515866.html
04-06-2021||Today's||As Bengal battle persists, lessons from Vajpayee-era on Centre-state tensions||Politicians in power often tend not to learn from the experience of their rivals, peers or predecessor regimes. The realisation that they could have done it better dawns when the clock can’t be reversed.The Centre’s face-off with Bengal over Alpan Bandopadhyay isn’t the first of its kind. The man in the eye of the storm retired as the state chief secretary on May 31 — giving up a three-month extension that was available to him — and has since assumed duties as chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee’s chief advisor.New Delhi is cross with him for turning up late for a cyclone review meeting with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. The department of personnel and training (DoPT) under the PM’s charge has slapped on him a notice under the Disaster Management Act. But in reality it has been stung by the official choosing to superannuate rather than get deputed to the Centre and be at its mercy.A substantial segment of older civil servants — both serving and retired — are flabbergasted by the Centre’s approach which, they insist, should have taken note of Bandopadhyay’s immediate brief. As an official of the state government, he had no option but to follow the instructions (under the same DMA) of his immediate boss — the CM. He reportedly was travelling with Banerjee and had on that account got delayed in showing up for the May 28 meeting with the PM. “Required as much to be available to the visiting PM, his was a classic case of being caught in a cleft,” remarked a former state chief secretary who didn’t want to be named. “He had to be a phantom to be present with both....”Caught in the middle Officials do get caught in political fights that aren’t of their making. It’s a hazard of their duties. Two past incidents stand out as parallels to events unfolding in New Delhi and Kolkata. What saved the day was the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s sagacity to pull back from the brink.“Good sense prevail when leaders are receptive and their advisors evocative,” remarked another veteran civil servant. “In our polity, that’s as rare as blood moon...”Also Read | Row over ex-Bengal chief secy’s transfer, Centre’s notice: All you need to knowOne such sighting, so to speak, was in 1998-99. Banerjee then was on the BJP’s side at the Centre and fighting the communists in Bengal. The other came in the wake of the sensational 2001 arrest, on J Jayalalithaa’s watch, of her bête noire M Karunanidhi along with ministers of the union, Murasoli Maran and TR Balu.Like Banerjee now, Jayalalithaa was high on her assembly poll win a little over a month before she went for the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham chief’s jugular on freshly minted graft allegations.The Chennai imbroglio The Tamil Nadu incident compares better with the battle of egos over Bandhopadhyay. The then secretary in the union home ministry, former Delhi police commissioner MB Kaushal, has detailed it in his upcoming memoirs, which this writer has reviewed.Dispatched to Chennai on Vajpayee’s “direct orders”, he was tasked to submit his report for the union cabinet’s consideration this next day. The urgency of the matter needed no emphasis. The PM couldn’t have been a mute spectator to the public humiliation of a key partner in his National Democratic Alliance (NDA).On his return, Kaushal reported that the Chennai police acted against the former CM (Karunanidhi) on a duly registered FIR and arrested the two union ministers “correctly” for obstructing public servants in performance of their duties. There was nothing legally remiss with the action that “smacked of vengeance” on two counts—the 78-year-old DMK leader’s midnight arrest within hours of the FIR and the rough treatment meted out to him and Maran. In jail, Karunanidhi was kept in the same cell in which the incumbent CM, Ms Jayalalithaa was earlier lodged — but on the face of it, there was nothing illegal.The report wasn’t taken kindly by George Fernandes and Nitish Kumar, Vajpayee’s cabinet colleagues and leaders of another NDA ally. They pitched for a stronger riposte to Jayalalithaa’s audacity. Amendments were suggested to Kaushal’s report in discussions at the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and minister, Arun Jaitley.Also Read | Bengal ex-chief secy responds to Centre noticeBut Kaushal stood his ground. He said he received no specific brief from the PM who asked him to see things for self and make a report. That was what he did on the basis of his interactions with the Governor, Fatima Beevi, (Union minister) Maran and officials of the state government, including the police top brass. As both sides had video recordings of the incident, he “walked the razor’s edge” while putting together the report.At one stage, Kaushal told those present at the meeting that his report be ignored if it wasn’t acceptable and the one authored by Fernandes (who too had visited Chennai) be adopted. The matter was resolved when the BJP minister disclosed that the PM was appreciative of the report. Even the then additional solicitor general, Kirit Rawal, who was part of the parleys, found it in order.The haggle over Kaushal’s findings showed the lead stakeholder in the government, the BJP, was under pressure from its allies to act tough with Jayalalithaa. That became more evident when the anti-Jayalalithaa lobby prevailed on home minister LK Advani to order the recall of the Tamil Nadu DGP and the Chennai police commissioner on deputation to the Centre. The objective, a la Bandopadhyay, was to initiate departmental proceedings against them.An official note prepared to that effect by the then home secretary was put up for onward transmission to Kaushal, who unequivocally opposed the move. “I was not consulted and was shocked to see this attitude. Since nothing could be done against Jayalalithaa, it was decided to punish the officers who acted on her orders,” reads the manuscript of his book.Of enduring relevance to all administrations is his recording on the file: “the central government is the country’s highest executive authority….and (it) should not be seen as acting in vengeance.”But the deputation orders were issued, with the Centre deciding not to respond to the state’s request to retain their services. In the meanwhile, a notice was received in the home ministry from the Tamil Nadu high court seeking reasons for the officers’ deputation. The judicial intervention had everybody in a tizzy with Advani hurriedly convening a meeting to find a way out.On being asked at that late stage to suggest a solution, Kaushal advised reversal of the deputation notice: “I said if the case was allowed to proceed, it might result in an embarrassment to the central government as the court could ask for the MHA file with all the notes (including his objections) recorded on it.” In a belated acceptance of the state’s request, the officers were thus allowed to continue in Tamil Nadu. The same was conveyed to the high court — the response rendering the case infructuous and saving the Centre from cutting a sorry figure !How Vajpayee averted a showdown with Jyoti Basu A quintessential conciliator, Vajpayee had the knack of choosing the right emissaries for difficult tasks. In 1998-99, that helped him avert a major confrontation with Jyoti Basu. The dispute arose from a petition Banerjee made to the PM alleging violent tactics by the Left Front she was battling in Bengal. Fernandes again was in the thick of it, playing a pivotal role in the decision to rush a central team to probe the charges against the state government.A full blown crisis erupted when Advani, on emerging from a meeting he and Fernandes had with the PM, let the decision be known to TV channels. That caused a domino effect. In response to newsperson’s questions, Basu declared that he won’t allow the central team into Bengal. To the plausibility of him having a word with Advani, he uncharitably called the home minister an “uncivilised person” to whom he wasn’t interested in talking.Also Read | SDG India Index 2020-21 released. Know top-performing states, UTsAs that wordy duel played out on TV screens, Fernandes landed up in the office of the then home secretary, BP Singh, who till then was oblivious of the meeting at the PM’s residence. An official who then held a key position in the ministry and wished to remain anonymous disclosed that Singh, a seasoned bureaucrat who later served as Governor, was curtly informed by the Samata party (later Janata Dal-United) leader that his advice on the matter wasn’t solicited as the decision was already taken.The official remembered the top echelons frantically working the phones on hearing of Basu’s threat. In no time, Vajpayee was on the line with the home secretary, asking him to constitute the central team and ensuring its visit to Bengal. On the strength of the PM’s carte blanche, Singh reached out to the state chief secretary, and through him the CM who knew him for his scholarly work on the Northeast. He implored the veteran Marxist that his stature and seniority enjoined upon him to make the constitution work: “Agar apke aur Vajpayeeji ke rehte samvidhan nahi chalega to kab chalega? (If the constitution does not work with you and Vajpayee, then when will it work?)”The result: Bengal received the central team headed by an additional secretary, PD Shenoy, provided them an official vehicle and a place to stay. Their enquiry was facilitated, not obstructed.The Nehru-Annadurai episode For his part, Singh refused to discuss the incident with this writer. But his colleagues at the time remembered digging into the home ministry’s institutional memory before reaching out to Basu. The impasse at hand had to it a familiar ring dating back to the time of Jawaharlal Nehru.The PM was resolute about visiting Tamil Nadu (Madras state) in the middle of an anti-Hindi agitation of the 1960s but the then chief minister, CN Annadurai, would have none of it. Advised to call off the visit, Nehru rebuffed the idea, insisting that India was one and he could go anywhere as its PM.The middle ground worked out by the Centre through intermediary officials entailed the CM observing protocol without abandoning his political stance. In the end, Annadurai received Nehru at the airport and accompanied him to the Raj Bhawan, from where he quickly departed without engaging with the PM.The fine balance was in the Centre having its way — but not its say.Sarkaria Commission and Centre-state relations Was it for the lack of numbers of it its own in Parliament that Vajpayee’s BJP was more accommodative than Modi’s? There isn’t to it an easy answer. Maybe yes, perhaps not.The truth is that Vajpayee’s career straddled three eras, starting from Nehru through Indira Gandhi to Morarji Desai and Rajiv Gandhi. Before become the PM, he had seen it all from the Opposition’s perspective. If he witnessed Indira Gandhi commit the blunder of jailing her rivals (during the emergency), he also watched her retributive imprisonment by Charan Singh, the Janata Party regime’s home minister. The ill-advised action paved the way to her return to power.Vajpayee also lived through the phase when the report of Justice RS Sarkaria on Centre-state relations was, for the non-Congress parties, the guide to greater autonomy for states within the union. At the heart of that campaign which peaked in the 1980s was the creeping influence of the PM’s office (PMO) over the institutions of the State — towards the creation of a “committed” judiciary and civil service.Very much part of that hangover was the highly disagreeable spectacle of Rajiv Gandhi announcing his foreign secretary AP Venkateshwaran’s removal in response to a Pakistani journalist’s question at a press conference. The foreign service officer sat in the front row as the PM spoke. “Come, walk past me...I’m lying in state,” he later told journalists seeking a meeting to know his side of the story.Governmental quests for a pliant judiciary and bureaucracy have since continued unabated. Some have done it with finesse, some rather crudely. It has been years since one heard the BJP quote Sarkaria.Vajpayee to be sure was an early votary of the balance of power between the Centre and the states in a seemingly unitary arrangement. That’s so because the Constitution describes India as a Union of States. The plank of cooperative federalism Modi raised but didn’t apparently carry forward isn’t a new construct. Successive Supreme Court rulings have explained it variously.For instance, in its 1977 State of Rajasthan versus the Union of India, the court quoted Granville Austin, an American historian of the Indian Constitution, to aver that our Constitution was among the first to embrace what British scholar AH Birch and others called cooperative federalism. Former chief justice of India MH Beg was closer perhaps to reality when he called the constitution “amphibian” for creating a central government that “was amphibian in the sense that it could move either on the federal or on the unitary plane, according to the needs of a situation and the circumstances of a case.”Also Read | Delhi govt,students move to HC against order allowing pvt schools fee collectionAnother CJI, AM Ahmadi, made the same point but phrased it differently in the SR Bommai case: “It would thus seem that the Indian constitution has in it not only the features of a pragmatic federalism which, while distributing legislative powers and indicating the spheres of governmental powers of the state and central governments, is overlaid by strong unitary features.”The rising tensions The Congress hasn’t been in control of the Centre since 2014. But the focus on the unitary that one associates with the Indira raj, sustains; the full-majority BJP being less reassuring on its promise of cooperative federalism or promoting the spirit of Team-India. The twin-slogan with which it took office seven years ago have frequently rung hollow amid mounting Centre-state attrition.New Delhi’s relations are testy or less than cordial with the states led by non-BJP formations — West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand. Other non-BJP CMs seem to have bought peace for fear of ongoing anti-corruption probes under hyper-active federal investigating agencies. The actions of these arms of the State frequently come across as being clocked by the party in power at the Centre. The copyright in use is, of course of Indira Gandhi who had no qualms deploying sleuths of the central bureau of investigation (CBI) not as much to fight malfeasance as to stifle intra-Congress dissent or fix political rivals.Even on broader issues of national import, the Centre has fallen short of the Team-India spirit. Bar the GST Council where collective decision-making is institutionalised by law, there hasn’t been any full meeting on the Covid-19 vaccination crisis, of either the governing council of the Niti Aayog or the Inter-State Council (ISC) set up for such discussions in 1990 on the recommendation of the Sarkaria panel.The last meeting of the ISC that has all CMs as members was held five years ago, on July 16, 2016. The forum has mostly been in disuse. It did not take up the contentious citizenship amendment act (CAA) or the three agriculture laws against which farmers from across states have been protesting for six months. Likewise, the Niti Aayog’s governing council last met in February 2021 to celebrate the country’s success in controlling the first Covid wave.Isn’t it time then for the Aayog which fancies itself as the national institution for transforming India (NITI) to deliberate the procurement, delivery and administration of vaccines for over 1.3 billion citizens? Shouldn’t Team-India cooperate federally instead of getting goaded collectively or severally by the apex court?vinodsharma@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-bengal-battle-persists-lessons-from-vajpayee-era-on-centre-state-tensions-101622789775991.html
