08-06-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Not just an acute infection||The world is facing the biggest pandemic of the 21st century as the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to infect almost 170 million people across the globe, with numbers still counting. As the second wave of the deadly virus is beginning to recede, new post Covid-19 sequelae are coming into play.The post-Covid complications are proving as detrimental to the population as the acute Covid-19 illness does. The post-Covid sequelae may occur as a result of the side effect of the medications used during Covid-19 infection or due to severe immunity compromise and lung damage occurring as a result of the infection. Even the patients with asymptomatic acute Covid-19 illness can have highly complicated post-Covid repercussions. However, no strict risk factors have been defined for post covid sequelae so far as this condition is still very new and under investigation.In the previous wave of Covid-19, children presented with a Kawasaki-like illness (high-grade fever, rash, conjunctivitis, swelling, lymph node enlargement) within four weeks of Covid-19 infection with multi-systemic complications, that came to be known as post-Covid multi systemic inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C). A similar presentation is seen in adults during the second wave with varied presentations still under research.Even after 14 days of illness, many patients are experiencing severe lethargy, joint pains, chest heaviness, breathing difficulty. These are caused by serious damage to the immunity and lungs during the acute illness and need good nutrition, breathing exercises, chest physiotherapy etc., for relief and recovery. These symptoms are very common and can take upto three months for complete remission.Post-Covid illness needing medical attention presents itself as generalised fatigue not improving with rest, continuous cough, dyspnea, palpitations, maculopapularrashes, arthralgia, high grade fever upto 4-12 weeks post acute Covid-19 illness. The condition can also present as a highly fatal illness causing pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction,viral myocarditis, acute respiratory distress syndrome, deep vein thrombosis, stroke, pancreatitis, hepatitis,etc. Such patients need to see a doctor immediately if they are experiencing any of the above symptoms. Any delay in treatment can cause severe complications and even death.Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus, is one of the recent complications encountered in the patients recovering or recovered from Covid-19. It is a non-communicable fungal infection seen predominantly in patients taking high dose ill regulated steroids, using industrial oxygen for inhalation and having poorly controlled diabetes. Other risk factors are still under research as we are encountering almost 100 patients of mucormycosis everyday at AIIMS, New Delhi. Early signs of the infection include facial swelling, dental pain, blurring of vision/ double vision,discoloration of nose. Early identification of symptoms is very crucial for early diagnosis and initiation of treatment. If left untreated it can spread to vital organs like lungs and brain leading to increased complications that are very difficult to treat.Apart from all these varied symptoms, patients are also presenting side effects of high dose corticosteroids like hyperglycemia, severe bradycardia, gastritis and superadded bacterial infections. These signs need corticosteroid tapering and can not be regarded as post covid sequelae.Henceforth, early recognition of the signs and symptoms is extremely important to unfold this mysterious illness that is still under investigation.(Dr. Anupam Kumar Ranjan is a senior resident, emergency medicine at AIIMS New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-not-just-an-acute-infection-101623169602745.html
08-06-2021||Today's||On Israel-Palestine, resist the temptation to mediate||The recent 11-day Israel-Hamas conflict has encouraged some journalists, foreign policy elites, academics and retired diplomats to flag India’s candidacy as a possible mediator. They suggest that as a staunch supporter of the Palestinian cause for nearly a century, India has impeccable credentials, and its close relations with Israel and the Palestinians since the 1990s give it both an opportunity and leverage. It is also claimed that the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not only essential for peace in West Asia but would also serve India’s interests.Though interesting, closer scrutiny would expose India’s feet of clay. For one, while in the past, India played an important role in mitigating various conflicting situations such as the Korean war or during the Suez Canal crisis, both in the 1950s, one cannot ignore two notable flipsides. New Delhi’s response to the crises in Hungary (1956) and Czechoslovakia (1966) was a betrayal of the people of these countries and considerably dented India’s non-aligned credentials. Moreover, its diplomatic influences were buried in the Himalayas in 1962. Three decades of hard work and economic ascendance were necessary to hear Indian voices again. When it comes to mediating international crises, India’s track record is a mixed bag.Also Read | India defends decision to abstain during UNHRC vote on Israel-Hamas conflictTwo, in recent decades, India has been unwilling or unable to be effective in resolving some of the conflicts in its immediate neighbourhood. It was not a visible and effective player during the crises in Sri Lanka (especially in the post-conflict stage) and Afghanistan (where its ability to shape developments is limited). It is struggling with the military-democratic resistance conflict in Myanmar, and is seen as a less-than-credible mediator in Bangladesh or Nepal, If this is the extent of India’s diplomatic leverage in South Asia, what will its influence in the ever-turbulent West Asia be?Three, any Indian peacemaking efforts in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will be an open invitation for third-party involvement in the Kashmir issue. For long, Pakistan has been clamouring for external mediation, and at different times, several countries and regional organisations have expressed a desire to mediate between India and Pakistan. If India were to involve itself in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, countries such as Turkey will make similar moves on Kashmir. Unless it is ready to open a Pandora’s box on Kashmir, India should not consider offering its good offices to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Four, one has to recognise the harsh reality. Every teacher is not a Confucius and every adviser is not Chanakya. Peacemaking needs abiding interest, nuanced skills and above all, domain expertise. These credentials are not easily found in the current structure of the Indian civil service. Since Independence, the bureaucracy is meant to create and promote the generalists, and an average Indian diplomat holds a dozen positions during his/her career and becomes an “expert” on all these issues and regions. There are exceptions, and some develop domain expertise, especially on the Arab-Israeli conflict, as a post-retirement passion, but their number is minuscule.Indeed, in 2005, former Indian diplomat Chinmaya Gharekhan was named a special envoy for the Middle East. For long, the United States (US) had such a position, and gradually Russia, the European Union and China followed this practice. India sought to imitate this but without any clear mandate, agenda or even designation. Initially, Gharekhan was Special Envoy for West Asia and the Middle East Peace Process, and his designation changed to Prime Minister (PM)’s Special Envoy for the region. The non-seriousness of this move became clear when the position was allowed to lapse in 2009 as Manmohan Singh formed his second government. No one ever talked of a special envoy for the region since then.Five, claims that India has good relations with both parties are true but misleading. From the information currently available in the public domain, India does not engage with, let alone recognise, Hamas, the militant Palestinian group which controls the Gaza Strip. The recent conflict highlighted the growing influence of Hamas, and no effective peacemaking effort will be possible without India establishing a modus vivendi with Hamas. In recent years, both Russia and China have engaged with Hamas and even hosted its leaders. There are no indications that the ministry of external affairs is considering this option and engaging with Hamas without alienating Israel and Palestinian National Authority (PNA) will not be easy either.Six, the continuing gap between Israel and the Palestinians is not due to the want of efforts by various players, especially the US. For various reasons, both sides believe that time is on their side and are not ready to make the necessary changes to reach an agreement. Conflict resolution does not appear to be their priority, and no external pressures or inducement will make them reach an agreement. In short, while others can facilitate, only the parties concerned can reach an agreement, and today there are no signs of this. If the failures of so many proposals are an indication, third-party involvement mostly complicates the problem.Seven, while having relations with both parties is critical, there are scores of countries that maintain formal ties with Israel and the Palestinian Authority. For example, if the Emirates has relations with Israel, Saudi Arabia is inclined towards normalisation. Both these countries have greater political and economic clout than India and are better placed to financially support any Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement. Talking to both sides is not a sufficient condition for an active Indian engagement in conflict resolution.Above all, active Indian involvement in mediation or facilitation efforts will have to be led by the prime minister (PM) himself and cannot be done by lesser figures in the government or bureaucrats. Though he has met the Israeli and Palestinian leaders, and PM Narendra Modi’s chemistry might help entangle some bilateral knots, he still lacks the leverage to influence the domestic policies of his interlocutors towards peace. With the pandemic response shaping his political future, mediating the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should be the last thing PM Modi should be concerned with.PR Kumaraswamy teaches contemporary Middle East at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-israel-palestine-resist-the-temptation-to-mediate-101623064773907.html
08-06-2021||Today's||Address questions on Covid-19 vaccine policy||A useful trick for handling questions you can’t or don’t want to answer is to pretend you have been asked something else and respond to that. It will take a while before the anchor realises you have deflected the discussion, and if you are lucky, you might get away with it. Although many of our politicians seem unaware of this ploy, some ministers are using it to tackle concerns raised earlier about the vaccines used in India.The intention is to suggest critics of the vaccine are contradicting themselves. So finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman questions their right to criticise the Modi government for failing to ensure a sufficient quantity of vaccines because, earlier, they had raised questions about safety. I’m sorry she’s wrong, but I give her credit for trying.What was questioned was the efficacy of Covaxin. No one said anything about its safety. And no one had doubts about Covishield. But the reservations about Covaxin’s efficacy were well-founded.Briefly, let me explain. Covaxin was given emergency-use clearance without awaiting its full trial 3 results. This means its efficacy had not been established. In fact, those trial 3 results are still not available. All we’ve been given is two sets of interim results. No doubt they’re promising, but what about the full results?Now, Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, claimed efficacy could be gleaned from animal trials and phase 1 and phase 2 trials. Gagandeep Kang, our foremost vaccine scientist and a member of Britain’s prestigious royal society, disagreed. Animal trials, she said, may be used in America to clear drugs but only when you can properly mimic the human disease in animals. That hasn’t happened for Covid-19. As regards Covaxin’s phase 1 and 2 trials, they only involved 800 participants, which is far too small for reliable efficacy data.It’s possible that Sitharaman is unaware of this but by converting concerns about efficacy into questions of safety, she’s not only distorted what critics said but tried to make them appear contradictory. This might work with laypeople, who no longer remember the original concerns and after 29 million Covaxin jabs have accepted its efficacy. But by raising an issue that was best left forgotten, she’s aroused fresh concerns that cannot do the government’s cause any good. Several top scientists and doctors that I regularly speak to have mentioned them. I can’t name the people but I can repeat what they have said. (Incidentally, Prof Kang is not one).First, what’s happened to Covaxin’s full trial 3 results? The vaccine was initially permitted for use in clinical trial mode but after the first interim efficacy results, that condition was dropped. But where are its full trial 3 results? And what about Covishield’s bridging trials? Like Covaxin, it was permitted for emergency-use whilst awaiting the results. Five months have passed but neither has been published in peer-reviewed journals.Second, why haven’t we been given information about breakthrough infections connected with both vaccines? One explanation, revealed by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairperson, NK Arora, is we only started collecting details on April 8, almost three months after the first jab. That was a terrible error but I doubt we’ll ever be given an explanation, leave aside an apology. That apart, even two months later, why are we still in the dark?Third, are we doing phase 4 trials to check on the real-world effectiveness of the vaccines we’re using? This is particularly necessary because the vaccines are only cleared for emergency-use and Covaxin, initially, only in clinical trial mode. Given jabs began in mid-January and, nearly 25 million have been given, we must have credible and sizeable data. So why hasn’t it been made public?Not that she intended it but I want to thank Sitharaman for provoking our experts to privately share these questions. Sadly, they can’t publicly voice them for fear of reprisal. But that’s also why they’ve given me a useful tip. So, today, I’d like to thank them — and, of course, the finance minister too!Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/address-questions-on-covid-19-vaccine-policy-101622898265469.html
08-06-2021||Today's||When the Indian judiciary stands up||The Supreme Court (SC) seems to be losing its patience with the government. Two recent occasions illustrate the point.In one case, Justice DY Chandrachud was so annoyed that he told the government to “please wake up, smell the coffee, and see what’s happening across the country”. He was part of a three-judge bench enquiring into the supply of essential medicines, vaccines, and medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients. The court had felt so strongly about this issue that it had raised the matter suo moto.The judges have described the government’s policy for vaccine purchase and distribution as “arbitrary and irrational”, and asked the Centre to undertake a fresh review of policy covering all the issues raised in court. These include the purchase and distribution of vaccines, the percentage of rural and urban populations vaccinated, the system of registration for vaccinations, and the different prices for them.India vaccinated 28.7% fewer people last month than it did in April. Vaccinations are expected to speed up a bit this month. But there is still a long way to go to fulfil solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s commitment to the apex court that every eligible Indian would be vaccinated by the end of the year. As this newspaper reported, this would require 238 million doses every month.The other issue which SC has acted on is the protection of journalists from being charged under the draconian sedition act. Last week, it restrained the Andhra Pradesh police from taking coercive action against two television channels and a Member of Parliament (MP) charged with sedition. The MP, K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, was alleged to have made a speech “promoting disaffection against the government”. The channels reported the speech.The case led SC to say that “the sedition act needs to be interpreted in the context of the print and media’s right to publish news”.The court also threw out the sedition charge against journalist and broadcaster Vinod Dua. It said every journalist will be entitled to protection under an earlier judgment of the court, which said, “mere strong words used to express disapprobation of the measures of the government with a view to their improvement or alteration by lawful means is not sedition”.The SC’s newfound impatience could have a significant impact on the way the government goes about its business. The court’s dismissive description of the vaccine policy, or its order to submit the basis and contours of the policy framework, must not have pleased the government. It may lead the government to be more careful before announcing ambitious grandiose policy decisions, and claiming unsubstantiated achievements.The verdicts in the sedition cases may make the government more cautious about using the police to control the press. Maybe, there will even be an attempt to improve the government’s relations with the media. The problem here is that this government has no media-friendly ministers in the mould of Arun Jaitley. Judging by the home ministry’s track record, the government may well fall back on laws that it still has in its armoury or deploy agencies to send a message to the media.The judiciary’s willingness to stand up to the executive has already been welcomed widely. Now the court will be asked when it is going to examine other long-standing examples of the government’s questionable use of power. Especially urgent are the cases of habeas corpus, denying people their right to life and liberty.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/when-the-indian-judiciary-stands-up-101622898264434.html
08-06-2021||Today's||On the eastern and western frontiers||For the first time since the late 1980s, India is facing acute, simultaneous, instability on both its eastern and western fronts.In Myanmar, the February 1 coup structurally dislocated nascent constitutional reforms and electoral politics. The move has intensified fighting by ethnic armed organisations (EAOs), and sparked decentralised urban warfare against the military.In Afghanistan, the beginning of the departure of the United States (US) in May has emboldened the Taliban. Intent on creating an Islamic Emirate, the Taliban is seeking to exploit fissures within the Kabul government, intensify military pressure against Afghan security forces, and create panic among the civil elite through targeted assassinations.Caught off-guard with a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, weak economic performance, domestic political polarisation, and China’s territorial ingress in Ladakh, India faces intense stress. In this context, Myanmar and Afghanistan are neither dominating headlines nor, perhaps, featuring prominently on New Delhi’s foreign policy agenda. But India risks losing strategic space to China and Pakistan in these countries while facing a real prospect of spillover of violence into its own territory.How should India respond?As a neighbour that doesn’t have an exit timeline, India must diversify relationships within Afghanistan and Myanmar. Instead of becoming caught up in their internal battles, it must support the long-term development of inclusive polities in these countries. Though tenuous, demanding, and fraught with the risk of failure, this is perhaps the only way New Delhi may, with support from Quad allies, redefine regional geopolitics in its favour. To counter Pakistan and China’s strategic thrust that privileges partisan politics in Kabul and Naypyidaw, India needs to offer a viable inclusive alternative.Afghanistan is critical from a security-strategic perspective. Despite visible strains in India’s existing policy of supporting Kabul, a stable republican set-up would reduce the potential for malign external interference. It may also reduce the allure of religious extremism, help prevent the use of Afghan territory as a staging ground by terrorists fixated on Kashmir or other parts of the world, and push Pakistan into finding ways to deal with India’s inevitable presence in Kabul (and vice-versa).Myanmar is an immediate neighbour. Instability there undermines India’s development plans and counterinsurgency strategies in the Northeast. It equally complicates the Act East policy as the completion of the Kaladan Road project comes under question. Despite India’s measured critique of the junta, Naypyidaw has left New Delhi dealing with mass migrant flows, increasing activity of narco-criminals connected to the Golden Triangle, and unrest along the entire India-Myanmar border.Simply put, India cannot afford to overlook the situation in these countries for too long. But what would it take for New Delhi to advance a politically inclusive agenda?India is facing its own majoritarian moment with a preference for authoritarian politics among sections of the ruling dispensation. If one is to assess this in the regional context, certain aspects offer clues. In Myanmar, retired officials close to the ruling dispensation have often belittled the killing of over 800 protesters and viewed criticism of the junta as western-style hypocrisy. Others have gone as far as to claim that democracy in Myanmar is about “dharmic obligation and sense of duty towards the state”. Ethnic pushback is seen as a West-initiated Christian-Muslim conspiracy against Buddhists and Hindus.Such ideological tendencies receive a fillip from outdated-but-dominant analysis in policy circles that believes support for the people of Myanmar is bound to fail, just because it did in 1988-90. The fact remains that India’s support for the EAOs at that point was tactical in nature and meant to quell insurgent violence in Assam and Nagaland. That New Delhi underestimated the Tatmadaw’s staying power and put all its eggs in the basket of the resistance —instead of diversifying relations aimed at talks — was a result of an equally misguided ideological position within Rajiv Gandhi’s inner circle that viewed support for the democracy movement as an end in itself.The irony of India’s relative inaction vis-à-vis Myanmar is that the junta has nonetheless tilted towards Beijing. This was witnessed in senior-general Min Aung Hlaing’s recent interview in Chinese State-controlled media where he berated Aung San Suu Kyi. It was a breathtaking display of the general’s renewed strategic embrace of Beijing, despite his latent mistrust of China’s intentions. The Tatmadaw, never a committed counterinsurgency ally of India, has also begun paying India-centric rebels who operate from Myanmar’s territory to kill protesters on its behalf.In this situation, the millions of people whose lives are torn asunder and who are angry with China for enabling the coup-makers, should logically be India’s allies-in-waiting. Constituting multiple (not all) EAOs and the National Unity Government, the anti-junta resistance could, with adequate international support from Quad countries, offer an organised challenge to Chinese-abetted authoritarianism in Myanmar. But, instead, they find themselves internationally isolated and internally divided.As pushback against the junta continues to spread across the country, New Delhi must realise that the situation is qualitatively different from 1988, and even 2007 when Buddhist monks rose in protests, only to be crushed by the junta. India supported the Tatmadaw and its plans for reforms leading to the creation of the 2008 constitution. The February coup effectively put an end to a process that had India’s support from the outset.Unlike Myanmar, though, there are signs of a tectonic shift in India’s Afghanistan policy.In a demonstration of its capacities, commitment, and operational creativity, Indian intelligence officials and diplomats have, in recent weeks, picked up a long-lost thread of direct, but covert, conversation with powerful factions of the Taliban. The details of this outreach will emerge slowly, if at all. But, according to those familiar with the development, who request anonymity, it is becoming increasingly clear that the Taliban — despite dependence on Pakistan and trust deficit with India — would not want to see a massive reduction in India’s presence in Afghanistan.To be sure, core differences between the two sides on the republic versus emirate question, and the Taliban’s dependence on Pakistan’s security agencies remain. But in a departure from its former policy of not engaging with the Taliban at all, India is demonstrating an increased appetite for testing the waters among sections of the Taliban, without compromising on its relationship with cross-ethnic allies in the government. This is a welcome step, which will help India position itself as a credible stakeholder in Kabul as the contours of a post-US Afghan battlefield clarify in the coming months.Kabul may not crumble easily — at least not for the next nine to 12 months — especially if regional allies increase financial support and help fill military logistical gaps created by the US withdrawal. On this count, increased coordination between India and Iran, both of whom find the Taliban’s uncompromising political positions and continuing relationship with the al-Qaeda and other Sunni Islamists alarming, could prove consequential. Iran’s outreach to the Taliban, now supplemented by India’s, may offer the group alternatives that it has not explored in the past and may temper its behaviour.The central challenge for Indian leaders, then, is to rise above their ideological preferences and policy conservatism to adopt strategies that advance politically inclusive politics in Afghanistan and Myanmar. That’s the only credible, and sustainable, answer to the rising assertiveness of China and Pakistan, both of whom have fuelled discord in whichever country they have sought influence in.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US WithdrawalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-the-eastern-and-western-frontiers-101622892684075.html
