09-06-2021||Today's||For the diaspora, ties that bind — and divide||One of the most heartening aspects of India’s heartbreaking struggle with the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the outpouring of support from the Indian diaspora.In the United Kingdom (UK), an independent Gofundme campaign organised by British Indians exceeded its initial goal of raising £160,000 to purchase 200 oxygen concentrators in just one day. The India Philanthropy Alliance — comprising 14 diaspora groups in the United States (US) working toward humanitarian and development goals in India — has raised millions of dollars in Covid relief. Such stories, from a range of countries where Indian immigrants have settled in large numbers, are legion.Our research on Indian-Americans, now the second largest immigrant group in the US, suggests that the ties that bind the diaspora to their homeland are resilient, even among members of the second generation who may lack the direct connection of their parents to their ancestral homeland. But these feelings of solidarity simultaneously coexist with forces that can increase estrangement — including some that originate from within India itself.In a previous column in these pages (On India, a fracture in the diaspora; February 10), we warned that the Indian-American community is increasingly divided on political, religious, and generational lines. Political polarisation in India had not stopped at the water’s edge; it has been exported to the US.In our most recent study — drawing on the findings of the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS), a nationally representative survey of Indian-Americans we conducted in September 2020 — we dig deeper into the social realities of Indian-American diaspora. Once more, the warning signs of polarisation are evident. Fortunately, at an individual level, religious polarisation among diaspora members of different faiths is less pronounced than one might fear. But partisan polarisation linked to political preferences both in India and the US is rife.Individuals associated with opposing political camps are much less comfortable fraternising with one another than with members of their own “tribe”. Interestingly, this polarisation is asymmetric: Indian- Americans who identify as Democrats are much less comfortable having close friends who are Republicans than the converse. The same is true of Congress supporters vis-à-vis supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). How much of this has to do with structural factors as opposed to transient forces such as the leadership of Donald Trump and Narendra Modi remains an open question.While nearly 30% of Indian-Americans indicate that domestic politics in India is exacerbating divisions within the Indian-American community, this remains a minority view. A plurality (40%) of Indian-Americans does not believe that domestic politics is dividing the Indian diaspora in the US, and one-third does not have an opinion.For those who perceive that polarisation in India is negatively impacting the diaspora, religion, political leadership, and political parties are identified as the primary culprits (figure 1). Many of these factors are inextricably linked. For Indian-Americans who view the rise of Hindu majoritarianism in India sceptically, for example, it is unclear how they might apportion blame given that religion, leadership, and political parties are all deeply intertwined.Where does this leave the Indian-American community and its role in promoting US-India relations? Divisions in the community are manifest and are often linked to political disputes in India, potentially weakening the diaspora’s cohesion. However, recent events suggest that while we should be clear-eyed about the fissures within the Indian diaspora and the manner in which India’s raucous politics may be fuelling them, we should not overstate the nature of the threat.Large majorities of both foreign and US-born Indian-Americans say being Indian is important to them. For more than two decades, the Indian diaspora in the US has been a critical bridge-builder between the two countries. Indeed, the community remains bullish about the future: 70% state that they think that the Indian-American community has a positive impact on US-India relations.In fact, it is worth noting that many of the same diaspora leaders in America, including progressive Members of Congress such as Pramila Jayapal and Ro Khanna, once vilified by some in the Indian government for their criticism of the Modi regime, have been among the most forceful in urging the Joe Biden administration to come to India’s aid.Diaspora leaders who oppose many of the present Indian government’s policies have picked up the phones, badgered their elected representatives, and catalysed tweetstorms urging the US government to act. Many Indian-Americans are nervous about India’s political trajectory — slightly more Indian-Americans believe the country is on the wrong track than those who believe it is headed in the right direction — but their anxieties are not reflective of a broader anti-India sentiment. The vast majority of IAAS respondents state they are both pro-India and critical of the government’s policies. To quote Abraham Lincoln, “he has a right to criticize, who has a heart to help.”Therein lies an important lesson, for home and abroad. Treating disputes based on policy or politics as indicative of animosity toward India is not only inaccurate, it is unwise — continuing down this path risks creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. Sumitra Badrinathan (University of Oxford), Devesh Kapur (Johns Hopkins-SAIS), Jonathan Kay and Milan Vaishnav (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) are the authors of a new report, Social Realities of Indian Americans: Results From the 2020 Indian American Attitudes SurveyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-the-diaspora-ties-that-bind-and-divide-101623247391230.html
09-06-2021||Today's||Laws and criminal justice: Where the Indian elite can’t secede||It is extremely important that the Supreme Court is re-examining colonial era sedition laws, which were repealed in the United Kingdom (UK) itself, but which no government in India has revoked, and in fact, each has used to stifle dissent. Sedition laws, however, are at the apex of a mountain of laws that need to be examined with fresh societal eyes.Most of us believe we are good, law-abiding citizens. We have faith that laws are made with the highest public and private good in mind. We try to obey all the laws that we know of. By doing so, we participate in a society that is justly governed by the rule of law. We don’t worry much about going to jail or about the state of our prisons. We cannot imagine anything we do that could land us behind bars. And if we got caught by mistake, surely there would be a way around the problem? Jail is for others.Is it time to revisit all these assumptions?Many of our laws, when examined even cursorily, do not appear to propose punishments or jail sentences proportionate to the crime. Many also shift the burden of public order from the State and its apparatus to the individual citizen and his actions. These kind of laws can turn ordinary citizens into criminals with one deadly strike. Sadly, many have been passed without any legislative debate. Nor has there been widespread public discourse on things that should keep us all awake at night.Also Read | Before PM Modi changed Covid vaccine policy, a nudge from the Supreme CourtFor example, did you even know that you could get arrested if you did not properly walk your dog? The maximum sentence is three months. Did you realise that flying a kite with banned thread can lock you up for two years? That driving an uninsured vehicle could get you three months in jail?These are just a few examples. Yet, most citizens have found it difficult to apply themselves to issues of law-making or criminal justice.Apart from all the harsh, even draconian, laws that have been around for decades and even centuries, there have been new laws and rules that give sweeping powers to the State. Mercifully, there has been a lively public debate on recent laws around free speech and privacy. In one such victory, Section 66A of the IT Act was struck down as unconstitutional. Other regressive speech laws still exist, but partly because of the ubiquitous use of social media, more citizens are realising the chilling effect on their lives.Let’s take another recent example. The government invoked the Disaster Management Act of 2005, for the proper management of the pandemic. But some of the rules pertaining to Covid-19 could potentially make millions of citizens susceptible to sentencing, if they were to be strictly implemented. The spreading of fake news about Covid -19, including forwarding WhatsApp messages which are later found false, could attract up to a year in prison. Technically, not wearing compulsory face masks, without reasonable cause, could also put you in jail for up to one year.Some of these laws are simply unimplementable or may not be on the radar of the officers of the State, who have the powers to make arrests under them.But the point is that they are still on the books. And circumstances could turn in a way that someone could get into more trouble than is warranted by an unintentional infringement. All the laws I mention above have actually resulted in arrests.Also Read | Doctors move SC seeking postponement of AIIMS INI-CET examShould such laws with such disproportionate punishment even exist? Should they be better understood before they are passed? Do they even serve the purpose and intent with which they are framed – usually public order and safety?There is not enough evidence to show that severe punishment acts as the deterrent it is meant to be. Research shows that imprisonment under harsh conditions often results in a greater rate of more violent recidivism. On the other hand, there is encouraging data emerging from restorative justice systems, including the open jails in India. Can we use such evidence to re-imagine our retributive justice system to be more just, more humane and more effective at reducing crime?So far, we, the elite, have not participated in serious public discourse on law-making and prison reform. The series of lockdowns caused many of us to experience a pale yet frightening imitation of what an actual incarceration might feel like.Is this an opportunity for society, samaaj, to participate more vigorously in debating laws that criminalise too easily? And from there, to become more involved in the broader issues of criminal justice, including the human rights infringements in our overcrowded prisons, with 70% of inmates being potentially innocent undertrials?The Supreme Court has now turned the spotlight on sedition. The pandemic has thrown light on the Disaster Management Act. It’s time for deeper conversations with parliamentarians and state legislators — our law makers, on how better laws can lead to a better society. In the case of Section 66A of the IT Act, such a dialogue led to its annulment.India’s elite has managed to secede from every common public service — be it education, healthcare, transport, or energy. Pollution and the pandemic awakened us to the rude reality that we cannot secede from bad air and bad germs. Well, we cannot secede from bad laws either.Rohini Nilekani is chairperson, ArghyamThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/laws-and-criminal-justice-where-the-indian-elite-can-t-secede-101623237487107.html
09-06-2021||Today's||The four dimensions that will shape Quad||Three months after its virtual summit on March 12, the Quad — composed of the United States, India, Japan and Australia — is attaining greater consolidation, even as its challenges acquire a sharper edge. The coalescing of four maritime democracies in the Indo-Pacific to address the China challenge compels global attention.Quad has begun planning for its first in-person summit, to be held in Washington. The goal is to strengthen “The Spirit of the Quad” (the title of the summit’s joint statement) through expansion of partnership in vaccines, climate and critical technologies. Cooperation for infrastructure development, supply chain resilience and maritime security are also emerging as priorities.In this context, Quad’s four dimensions merit a close look.First, India-US ties received a boost during external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s substantive discussions in Washington in late May. His interactions with key figures of the administration, Congress and corporate America focused attention on advancing cooperation in the fight against Covid, fine-tuning the strategy to deal with China, and deepening of bilateral security, defence, and economic relations.His informal meeting with Director of National Intelligence, Avril Haines, underlined the vital significance of intelligence-related cooperation in countering terrorism, the dynamic in Afghanistan after US troop withdrawal, and China’s aggressive postures in eastern Ladakh and the Indian Ocean. These consultations have resulted in a closer convergence, which is good news for Quad.Also Read | US has to revitalise alliances and partnerships, outcompete China: BlinkenSecond, the European dimension in the geopolitical matrix has assumed special significance. Leading European countries — France, Germany, United Kingdom and the Netherlands — have been working on their Indo-Pacific policies. This was followed by the European Union (EU) announcing its Indo-Pacific strategy in April. EU is set to “reinforce its strategic focus, presence and action” in the region, based on the promotion of democracy, rule of law, human rights and freedom of navigation.However, EU made it clear that its Indo-Pacific strategy was “not anti-China.” India helped its own case with the historic India-EU Summit (on May 8), aiming to expand its relationship with an important global player.Third, the ASEAN dimension represents the Quad’s vulnerability. ASEAN nations have been largely silent on the Quad’s assertiveness. While China’s continuing aggression is ignored, Quad’s will to constrain it is seen as a new cold war.Despite daily provocations ranging from harassment of Philippine fishermen to Malaysian air space violations, Chinese measures are underplayed, partly out of fear and partly economic temptations.A major ASEAN grievance is the Biden administration’s delay in connecting with ASEAN capitals at the highest political levels. Another is the Quad’s relative silence and inaction on Myanmar, even as ASEAN’s mediation initiative has received public support from China.Four, the Pacific dimension goes beyond the US working closely with Japan, South Korea and the Philippines to enhance maritime security coordination concerning China. It relates to a promising turn for the Quad in the South Pacific.Also Read | India throws weight behind Quad groupAgainst the recent background of public differences on China between Australia and New Zealand, Prime Ministers Scott Morrison and Jacinda Ardern held cordial discussions in Queenstown on May 31. A common way forward to address the China challenge was crafted. In their joint statement, they expressed “serious concern” over developments in the South China Sea as well as human rights violations in Hong Kong and Xinjiang. Beijing reacted adversely by expressing its “firm opposition” to the joint statement.Two additional policy suggestions may help. First, as unlikely as it is at the moment, despite a deep-seated hostility towards Russia, the US administration needs to initiate a rapprochement with Moscow. The Joe Biden-Vladimir Putin Summit in Geneva on 16 June offers an opening. Will American policymakers remember how the Richard Nixon-Henry Kissinger team executed a strategic breakthrough in 1971, by weakening China’s alliance with Soviet Union? Today, Russia needs to be weaned off China.Second, Quad’s conflict with China is not only about maritime security and rule of law, but also about economy and new technology. A comprehensive plan is necessary for both facets.Rajiv Bhatia is distinguished fellow, Gateway House and a former ambassador to MyanmarThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-four-dimensions-that-will-shape-quad-101623237190236.html
09-06-2021||Today's||Reflecting sunlight with pollutants will not save the planet||In the midst of rising annual temperatures, it is difficult to imagine freezing weather in Chennai. Incredibly, there are reports that the mercury plummeted across much of the Indian subcontinent (including Chennai) in 1815 (though to what extent is debatable). The cause of that dip over two centuries ago is now being investigated as a solution to the climate crisis.In 1815, Mount Tambora erupted in Indonesia. This was the largest volcanic eruption in human history. Around 100,000 died in the immediate aftermath. Global weather patterns were disrupted. The following year was known as “The Year Without a Summer” because of the drop in temperatures globally.Incidentally, Mary Godwin conceived of Frankenstein that year while she was stuck near Lake Geneva due to bad weather (as part of a ghost-story writing game with Lord Byron and Percy Shelley).Also Read | India may have lost 3% of its GDP due to global warmingMore recently, in 1991, Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines gave scientists a chance to examine the fallout on weather. Scientists who measured the effects of the eruption calculated that the Earth was half a degree Centigrade cooler for the next 15 months.These volcanic eruptions have given credence one of the main ideas behind “solar geoengineering”. Solar geoengineering is a broad term used to refer to emergency measures to lower temperatures on earth by reflecting sunlight back into space. It sounds like science fiction, except it is very real and it and it could have major consequences.Solar geoengineering measures that have been floated include launching gigantic mirrors into space. A more realistic measure is marine cloud brightening which involves injecting chemicals from ships to low-lying clouds to enhance their sunlight reflecting ability. The effects of these measures are, however, regional and temporary.Scientists have been debating another method as well. Injection of large amounts of sulphate aerosols into a part of the atmosphere known as the stratosphere has been proposed. We know this might lower temperatures from studying volcanic eruptions. Up in the stratosphere, sulphate aerosols reflect sunlight causing cooling below. Scientists have calculated that a 1-degree drop in temperature might be possible by releasing aerosols from airplanes for as little as a few hundred million dollars annually. This is much cheaper than decarbonising the economy.Solar geoengineering by releasing reflective sulphate aerosols offers the promise of a cheap, and effective solution to the climate crisis, but beneath the surface it is not a true solution. The effects of solar geoengineering are temporary.Aerosolised sulphates fall out of the stratosphere over a few years and they leave greenhouse gases in the air.Solar geoengineering does not solve the problem created by emissions or ocean acidification. Since the measures are temporary and the underlying causes remain, ceasing to pump sulphate aerosols might have even more pronounced climate effects. No one knows how long we would have to pump pollutants into the stratosphere, and breaks due to global war or disagreements could be catastrophic.In addition, we simply do not know what global or local effects might result from solar geoengineering using sulphate aerosols. Small-scale experiments and computer modelling have been proposed but they may not capture the full range of effects — from drought to catastrophic monsoon failure to ozone-layer damage. The tint of the sky might change from blue to white. Blocking out sunlight might also reduce photosynthesis everywhere, disrupting agriculture and ecosystems.Modern history is replete with examples of how meddling with the environment has led to unpredictable outcomes. Chlorofluorocarbons were considered harmless but their use led to the hole in the ozone layer above Antarctica. Timely detection and a ban on the use of these chemicals averted a bigger catastrophe.Finally, there are moral and behavioural concerns with releasing sulphate aerosols from airplanes. Who decides when to use it? Some parts of the world might end up with more favourable temperatures than others. In such a scenario, it is easy to imagine a dystopian climate arms race with one country trying to cool the environment with sulphate aerosols and another trying to increase temperature by increasing their greenhouse gas emissions.The only true solution to the climate crisis is to decarbonise the global economy. If we put off addressing the problem because we think we have other options, we raise a moral hazard. We may feel we have insurance to push the problem into the future, but the truth is we are at a tipping point now. The irony of trying to change the climate by releasing large volumes of pollutants into the atmosphere is that we would be doing what precipitated the climate crisis in the first place.The longer we wait, the more the Earth will warm. And as this happens, the scenarios that are forecast are bleak — rising sea levels, severe weather, prolonged droughts, and famines. But as we head towards the doomsday scenario, countries may also be willing to gamble on untested ideas.Research on solar geoengineering might be necessary in the future, but it should be considered only after other options have been exhausted. Ultimately, I agree with Erle Ellis in Anthropocene that “solar geoengineering using stratospheric sulphates is a shining example of solving one problem by creating an even bigger one.”Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction These are his personal views||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reflecting-sunlight-with-pollutants-will-not-save-the-planet-101623225291252.html
09-06-2021||Today's||In the digital era, the rise of techno-feudalism||Technological disruptions are causing far-reaching upheavals in the economy, society and polity. The latest standoff between India and foreign companies over IT regulations is part of a worldwide trend. It is indicative of the growing power of tech companies to defy and undermine State power.Technological revolutions are the only true revolutions in history that transform a society’s economic, social and political organisation. Over the past few centuries, technological progress enabled the decline of feudalism due to industrialisation, the rise of industrial cities, induced labour mobility, and the transfer of economic power from the landed elites to the industrial- and middle-class. It culminated in the rise of the nation and nation-State and a central government strong enough to curb the arbitrary powers of feudal and aristocratic elements.Also Read | After the pandemic, the centrality of the Blue Economy in recoveryBut the same technological progress is now giving rise to a new tech-aristocracy while the State’s power slowly withers away.This phenomenon can be called techno-feudalism, which rests on three pillars: Sheer computing power, the unprecedented concentration of economic power in a few private hands, and the ability of tech-aristocracy to shape society. Old feudalism rested on control of land, while techno-feudalism rests on control over digital real estate. The old feudal class enjoyed exemptions designed to facilitate the accumulation of arbitrary powers. Techno-feudalism has exemptions such as intermediary rules, loopholes to bypass data localisation and tax compliance.Old feudalism preached a doctrine of birth-based inequality. Techno-feudalism fetishises meritocracy to justify its breaks on social mobility, except at the very top of the tech-aristocracy. Old feudal fiefdoms were small and deliberately fragmented to control the concentration of too much power by making economies of scale impossible. Such restrictions are gone under techno-feudalism, as is evident by the rise of the Big Tech, which dwarfs the industrial and financial elites. Big tech are not monopolist but they own the market itself.The old feudal class presented itself as the champion of liberty against the tyranny of the king and spoke a language of rights and duties while suppressing those at its mercy. Techno-feudalism positions itself as upholding liberty against the State and speaks a language of rights and civic duty while amassing arbitrary power.Like old feudalism, techno-feudalism corrupts and subverts the law and all branches of government to such an extent that governments find it impossible to take any action that could control their rapacious behaviour. And just like the old feudal class, the new tech-aristocracy is constantly engaged in a turf war to capture more digital real estate and augment its control over data and emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI). Many Big Tech companies resemble the East India Company. They exercise monopoly power, are rich, indulge in corrupt practices and subversion of the system while refusing to pay legitimate taxes or follow sovereign laws.The new tech-aristocracy can reshape society. Never in history have so few people had the power to decide the public consensus while remaining detached from the masses. It is this ability that has made them too powerful for any country to handle. It was visible during the Australia-Google standoff or in Twitter’s shenanigans in India and across the world. And the less we talk about behemoths such as Amazon, the better.Tech-aristocracy has the power to intervene in local politics and unseat governments via subtle manipulation of political discourse by leveraging their control over data and means of communication. This new aristocracy has spawned its own brand of ideological constructs and foot soldiers to take on the power of the State.It has acquired stakes in newspapers, magazines, and new means of entertainments such as over-the-top (OTT) platforms. It is moving fast to control the future of education by setting up edutech companies. We already think about fintech when talking money, and not banks.The anarchist and woke ideas empowered and favoured by techno-feudalism serve the function of weakening the existing political order and legitimacy of the State, while deflecting attention from the concentration of power by the new tech-aristocracy.The rise of social media and extreme socio-political polarisation has gone together. The political intermediation process is breaking down, and the democratic consensus is ever more difficult to achieve. It is making societies increasingly ungovernable, thus weakening the State and sapping it of its legitimacy.Tech-aristocracy enjoys arbitrary powers in matters of free speech. It seeks to impose its narrow homogeneous worldview over the rest of the world. Defiance can invite censorship, defamation, de-platforming, even purge from the internet, which in today’s world is as good as an exile in the wilderness. The ideas of due process, the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and the right to appeal and seek judicial redress are being rendered meaningless, with the new tech-aristocracy imposing its private laws and acting as judge, jury and executioner and recreating a world eerily similar to medieval feudalism.This is accompanied by a stagnation in the socioeconomic mobility of the masses due to restructuring of the economy caused by the same tech disruption that has created the conditions for techno-feudalism. Jobs are disappearing. The middle-class is being squeezed. And more people are trying to eke out a living from the gig economy, which effectively reduces them to a new serfdom.It is difficult to predict the future as technological transformations cannot be stopped.But starting a discussion outside the academic and intellectual orthodoxy and narrow political contestations may be a step forward.Abhinav Prakash Singh is an assistant professor, economics, Sri Ram College of Commerce The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-digital-era-the-rise-of-technofeudalism-101623153524535.html
09-06-2021||Today's||As India flies, it will be environmentally responsible||Around the globe, civil aviation has been a sector that has propelled economic growth, promoted social development and created access. On the other hand, it has also had a limited detrimental impact on our environment, especially on the local environment, as aircraft and airport operations contribute to air, water, soil and noise pollution.In October 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) decided to launch an initiative to limit emissions from international aviation. Global consciousness around this has driven numerous policy-driven solutions to be implemented in the sector regarding the efficient operation of aircraft and airports.Also Read | Covid-19: Airlines urge G7 to adopt data-driven approach to reopening travelAs we marked the World Environment Day on June 5 — as a part of the United Nations Decade of Ecosystem Restoration — it is fitting to look at the Indian civil aviation sector and the efforts taken to step into the next era of aviation, with environmental and ecosystem preservation as a core tenet.Pre-Covid, India was the third-largest domestic aviation market globally, with approximately 140 million passengers travelling annually. The country is poised to become the third-largest overall market in three years. With just 7.3% of the population using aviation as a mode of transportation, the growth potential in the sector is immense.While Covid-19 has undoubtedly disrupted the sector, we are making a resilient and robust comeback as we revitalise our economy. Push for initiatives such as the Airport Council International – Airport Carbon Accreditation Programme, which independently assesses and recognises the efforts of airports to manage and reduce their carbon emissions through six levels of certification, is a timely intervention to combat climate change.India has been following the programme since 2014. Recognising that the Indian aviation sector will undergo exponential growth in the coming years, addressing the environment and sustainability concerns is a top priority for us.Delhi Airport is the first airport in the Asia Pacific region to have achieved “Level 3+, Neutrality” accreditation in 2016 and “Level 4+, Transition”, the highest accreditation in 2020. Other airports such as Mumbai, Hyderabad & Bangalore International Airports have achieved Level 3+ Airport Carbon accreditation.Airports Authority of India has been taking the lead in implementing technical fixes for route optimisation such as shortening and straightening major air routes, Reduced Horizontal Separation and Performance-based Navigation (PBN). In consultation with Indian Air Force, AAI has optimised airspace utilisation under Flexible Use of Airspace (FUA) initiative. Estimated annual CO2 emissions reduction by establishing the 32 conditional routes come to about two lakh metric tonnes.Initiatives to promote the adoption and promotion of renewable energy use at Indian airports have also been initiated. Since 2014, the installed solar capacity has increased by 44 MWp at 44 airports, helping us achieve a carbon emission reduction of approximately 57,600 tonnes of CO2 per annum at AAI Airports.Today, Delhi Airport sources 100% of their energy demand through renewable energy sources. Similarly, with an installed solar power capacity of 40 MWp, Cochin International Airport has become the first fully solar-powered airport in India.In tandem, initiatives to promote energy conservation and monitoring have also been brought into the fold through regular energy audits. Since 2014, review audits to assess the effectiveness of implementation measures of previous audits have already been completed for 50 airports.Also, under the National LED program (UJALA- Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for all), AAI has aimed to replace conventional light fixtures with LED fittings at 85 airports. The work has been completed at 81 airports, and at four airports, work is in progress.Infrastructure building, which is another essential aspect of an expanding civil aviation industry in the country, has been brought under a green and sustainability focus. Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru International Airports have already received a “Gold rating” by the International Green Building Organisation, LEED. Jammu, Chandigarh, and Tirupati airports have received a “4-star rating” by Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA), which is India’s very own green building rating system.AAI has also taken the initiative on waste and water management by minimising the wastage of potable water by processing wastewater and reusing treated water. The Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) and Rainwater harvesting are provided/planned with every existing/new project.Through the UDAN initiative (Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik) scheme, 100 new airports are being built to increase access to civil aviation in the country. This development will benefit from the decisions made in hindsight, as green infrastructure, energy efficiency, waste management, and efficient transportation have become vital aspects of India’s expanding civil aviation sector.Over the next decade, finding the appropriate balance between ecology, economy, and society will be crucial. Civil aviation progress that is synchronous with preserving and restoring our environment and ecosystems is the key to unlocking a safe, healthy and prosperous future for our citizens and remains a cornerstone philosophy of the Narendra Modi government.Hardeep S Puri is union minister for civil aviation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-india-flies-it-will-be-environmentally-responsible-101623151424538.html
09-06-2021||Today's||UK must pay India reparations for its colonial plunder. Germany offers lessons||In May 2021, the German government announced, in an unprecedented move, that it had agreed to pay €1.1 billion over 39 years to the Herero and Nama people of present-day Namibia as reparations for the genocide it perpetrated there between 1904 and 1908. As the colonial administrators of what was then called South West Africa, the German military caused the death of nearly 80% of the Herero population and 50% of the Nama population at the time.Calling it “the darkest period in our shared history”, German foreign minister Heiko Maas stated that Germany has a historical and moral responsibility to pay reparations to and seek forgiveness from Namibia and the victims’ descendants for its horrific past crimes. Maas stated that the amount would be channelled towards “reconstruction and development”, with the local community playing a critical role in determining how these resources will be deployed.Also Read | From the 19th century, the story of a dissenting judge and colonialismIn apologising unambiguously and agreeing to pay such a high sum as reparations, Germany’s actions stand in stark contrast to the approach adopted by its European neighbours, many of whom maintained vast colonial empires in the 19th, 20th and early 21st centuries and have staunchly refused to even apologise for their past actions as colonisers.Thus, while the issue of seeking a formal apology and reparations from India’s past colonisers, the United Kingdom (UK), has received widespread attention in India over the past several years, Germany’s renewed approach to the issue should trigger a re-evaluation of India’s position on this.The case for reparations Briefly, the case for the payment of reparations by the UK to India rests on three planks.One, the British engaged in the deliberate, systematic de-industrialisation of India, destroying Indian cloth, steel and shipbuilding industries, among others. They did this for their own benefit, building administrative, agricultural and infrastructural mechanisms designed instead to extract Indian natural resources to the maximum possible extent. They then used these resources to fuel the rapid industrial growth in Britain and treated India as a captive market for British-made goods.This was coupled with high tariffs and barriers to trade that resulted in the sustained draining of capital from India, leaving a country that contributed to more than 20% of global trade before British colonial rule in a crippled economic state when it achieved independence in 1945. As William Dalrymple explains in his recent book, The Anarchy, this was part of a deliberate plan to drain India’s wealth for British profit – India’s initial coloniser, after all, was a for-profit corporation (the East India Company) and not the Crown.Two, the British visited extreme violence, famine and suffering on the Indian people to achieve this goal of draining India’s wealth. Unfortunately, there are innumerable instances of such cruelty. Some prominent examples include the ghastly Bengal Famine of 1943, in which more than 2.5 million Indians were killed due to artificial food shortages created to meet growing British demand during the Second World War and the Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre of 1919, in which hundreds of people peacefully celebrating the festival of Vaisakhi were murdered in cold blood by British General Dyer, who faced little to no repercussions for his actions.Across the 200+ years of Company and Crown rule over India, there are many such examples of deliberate actions taken to sacrifice Indian lives to serve British economic, political and strategic interests.Third, the British sowed the seeds of communal tension and division in India, culminating in the bloody partition of 1945. This was achieved through what were called “Divide and Rule” policies, strategically allying with some caste and religious groups, and pitting such groups against each other, to consolidate their power. Indeed, through actions such as the creation of separate Hindu, Muslim and Christian personal laws and separate Hindu and Muslim electorates from 1909 onwards, the British played a central role in the creation of the distinct “Hindu” and “Muslim” identities that continue to be at severe loggerheads in India today.The case for reparations argues that the cumulative impact of these three planks was the economic devastation and social fragmentation of India, coupled with the concurrent enrichment of Britain. This has led to the vast disparities between India and the UK seen today. These actions always have been and always will be morally reprehensible – indeed, it is said that as far back as 1788, graphic descriptions of the Company’s treatment of Indians in Warren Hastings’ impeachment trial in Westminster Hall caused many in the audience to “swoon and faint”, prompting backlash against the Company’s cruel actions in India.The continued perpetration of these moral wrongs over hundreds of years, therefore, warrants an expression of guilt and remorse by the UK through the payment of reparations.The renewed caseThe most prominent proponent of this current case for British reparations to India is Congress parliamentarian and former minister of state for external affairs, Shashi Tharoor. His viral speech at the Oxford Union in 2015 arguing for such reparations even triggered a rare instance of cross-party political agreement, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi endorsing his view that the British owed reparations to India.In his speech, however, Tharoor concluded that since the damage sustained by India was so vast and unquantifiable, the amount of reparations paid by the UK to India did not matter. In his view, even an annual payment of £1 by the UK government to India would be enough, as it is the sentiment of taking responsibility for past crimes committed by the British in India and the expression of true guilt and remorse by the British that would go a long way in healing the persistent wounds of colonialism. This is the view Tharoor has since maintained, including in his book on the subject, Inglorious Empire.Germany’s approach to Namibian reparations, however, should trigger a re-appreciation of this view. Notably, Germany did not simply express remorse and apologise – it acknowledged the economic and social impact of its colonial rule, particularly its heinous genocide of the Herero and Nama people, and committed to paying a sizeable sum towards the “development and reconstruction” of its former colony.The principle underlying Germany’s actions, therefore, goes a step further in establishing that a former coloniser owes a unique and significantly heightened obligation to materially contribute to the economic, social and cultural development of its former colony. This does not warrant fresh interference in the former colony’s affairs – Germany has, importantly, left decisions on how to use the money it will pay to Namibia to the Namibian people.Applied to the UK-India context, this principle means that India must not stop at just demanding a formal apology and tokenistic reparations from the UK. Instead, it must remind the UK of the significantly heightened obligation it has to contribute to India’s economic, social and cultural growth compared to any other member of the international community.Set against the recent decision of the UK government to slash its foreign aid budget, the importance of this new principle becomes clear. Foreign aid given by the UK to its former colonies is not a benevolent handout. Instead, it must be viewed as part of the ongoing discharge of Britain’s obligation to materially contribute, in a unique and significantly heightened fashion, to India’s economic, social and cultural growth.Of course, Tharoor is right in saying that the actual economic impact of British colonialism in India is unquantifiable, and any reasonable estimate of this impact would be far too large an amount for Britain to pay to India in today’s terms. However, this unlikelihood of full compensation does not mean that India should abandon its rightful claim to a significant material contribution to its growth and development from the UK. The actual amount so paid will likely be the subject of much debate and discussion, but these difficulties in arriving at a reasonable sum do not nullify India’s principled entitlement in this regard.The lesson from GermanyFrom the then-German Chancellor Willy Brandt sinking to his knees at a memorial to the thousands of Jews who lost their lives in the Warsaw Ghetto as a sign of German atonement for its role in the Holocaust to the payment of record reparations to Namibia, Germany has set a remarkable benchmark for how other former colonisers and nations that have perpetrated ghastly crimes should apologise and atone for these crimes.Germany’s approach, including its continued payment of Holocaust reparations, represents the best-possible way of achieving true reconciliation between the present-day descendants of former perpetrators and victims of mass crimes and systems of inequality, like colonial rule.And so, while a formal apology from a senior member of the British government or even a member of the British Royal Family would go a long way in repairing India’s lingering wounds from colonialism, India must not stop there. The precedent of Germany’s approach to Namibian reparations tells us that India must continue to rightfully demand what is materially owed to it by its former coloniser and ensure that Britain plays a role in remedying the devastating impact of its avarice in India.Siddharth S Aatreya is a lawyer based in London and BengaluruThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/uk-must-pay-india-reparations-for-its-colonial-plunder-germany-offers-lessons-101623137442698.html
