10-06-2021||Today's||At G7, an agenda for the future||Nothing could provide more compelling or tragic proof of the necessity of global cooperation than the pandemic which has swept the world and claimed over 3.7 million lives.For the first time since the onset of this catastrophe, leaders of the G7 will meet in person on June 11 for a summit that I will chair in Cornwall in the United Kingdom (UK). I have also invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the leaders of Australia, South Korea and South Africa, allowing a broader gathering of fellow democracies and free societies.Our shared task is to overcome the pandemic, minimise the risk of any recurrence and build back better after this tragedy.Around the table in Cornwall, in-person and virtually, will be the world’s biggest and most advanced economies, ready to deploy our capabilities and expertise against a common enemy.Also Read | Johnson, Biden to hold first in-person meeting ahead of G7 Leaders’ SummitThe genius and perseverance of our scientists have given us safe and effective vaccines against Covid-19. Now our most pressing task is to use them to protect humanity as swiftly as possible.The UK helped to establish Covax, the global alliance that has so far supplied 80 million doses to developing countries. Almost all have been the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, developed with British government support — using expertise from every part of the UK — precisely so that it would be cheap to administer and easy to store, capable of protecting the maximum number of people worldwide.Britain has contributed £548 million to Covax and we will also donate the vast majority of any surplus doses from our domestic vaccination programme.But in the heat of emergency, we must all strive even harder. So I want the G7 to adopt an exacting yet profoundly necessary target— to provide one billion doses to developing countries in order to vaccinate everyone in the world by the end of next year.Nothing like this has ever been tried before and if you doubt whether it can be done, I would urge you to take heart from the unprecedented feats already achieved in the adversity of this pandemic. Our scientists devised vaccines against Covid-19 faster than any disease had ever been overcome before. Britain and many other countries are inoculating their populations more swiftly than anyone thought possible.Now we must bring the same spirit of urgency and ingenuity to a global endeavour to protect humanity everywhere. It can be done, it must be done — and this G7 summit should resolve that it will be done.But the reality is that even if we succeed, our efforts would count for little if another lethal virus were to emerge and inflict disaster all over again.So we need to strengthen our collective ability to prevent another pandemic and provide early warning of future threats, including by creating a network of surveillance centres — a Global Pandemic Radar.Our scientists took just 300 days to crack Covid and produce the vaccines, many manufactured in India, but we need to be able to respond even more rapidly. This G7 summit will begin a new effort to accelerate the development of vaccines, treatments and tests for any new virus from 300 to 100 days.Even as we minimise the risk of another catastrophe, we have an obligation to ensure that something good might come from today’s ordeal. We must build back better with a global economic recovery based on greener and fairer foundations.It remains a moral outrage — and a grave impediment to economic growth — that millions of girls around the world are denied an education, holding back the development of entire societies. Our shared goal must be to get another 40 million girls into school by 2025. I will ask the G7 and our guests to contribute more towards the Global Partnership for Education’s target of raising $5 billion for schools in the developing world.As more children enter classrooms, we must create jobs to match their talent and safeguard the environment they will inherit. The G7 can take forward both aims by supporting a green industrial revolution and promising to halve our carbon emissions by 2030, in order to limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 degrees.We will bring the world together to strive towards this essential goal when the UK hosts the COP26 conference in Glasgow in November. In the meantime, I want the G7 to safeguard biodiversity for future generations by pledging to protect at least 30% of our land and oceans by 2030. We’re already partnering closely with India on this crucial issue.And we should offer developing countries the high quality and transparent investment they need to build clean and green national infrastructure, turbocharging their economies.This is a compelling agenda for global recovery, ambitious yet achievable, provided we summon the will and the ingenuity. Britain is privileged to chair the G7 and to play our part, alongside our kindred democracies, in setting this immense effort in train. The scale of the challenge demands no less.Boris Johnson is Prime Minister of the United KingdomThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/at-g7-an-agenda-for-the-future-101623331157147.html
10-06-2021||Today's||Is the global pharma industry unhappy with India’s policies?||The Drugs Controller General of India, on January 3, granted restricted emergency use authorisation (EUA) for two Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. Covaxin, developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology in collaboration with Bharat Biotech, is India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. Covaxin has now received EUA from a range of countries and is in the process of obtaining it in 60 other countries. This is an important step by the scientific community to fulfill our dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat .But the real battle on vaccines had begun earlier, when the original proposal submitted by India and South Africa to the TRIPS Council on October 2 emphasised the need for World Trade Organization (WTO) members to work together to ensure that intellectual property rights (IPR) “such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information” do not create barriers to timely access to affordable medical products. A patent waiver would allow any company with the required capacity to start manufacturing the shot, even without an agreement with the original developer. However, international developers of Covid-19 vaccines such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson opposed any waiver for their doses, claiming they were capable of producing adequate jabs to meet global demand. Pharmaceutical companies have reported sharp profit gains during the crisis. The industry’s biggest lobby group warned that this unprecedented step would undermine the response of companies and compromise safety. India then revised its proposal, to state that patent protections for vaccines be waived for a limited timeframe to address the concerns of the United States, European Union and others that opposed the original proposal. The Narendra Modi government made this proposal even before India had developed its indigenous vaccine, which it could manufacture and supply globally at a low cost. With India developing its indigenous vaccine, having the largest vaccine manufacturing capacity in the world, along with its stated intention to waive IPR, the threat to the global pharma industry, particularly to the limited number of companies with vaccine patents, became real. This was aggravated with India’s Vaccine Maitri initiative.India has been one of the pioneers for supply of cheap life-saving drugs under the compulsory licensing (CL) and process patent regime. Under CL, for the purpose of combating a health emergency, a WTO member is allowed to override a patent and “license” a domestic manufacturer to produce a global vaccine. But many experts pointed out that since Covid-19 is a global pandemic, the Indian government may not want to exercise its power under Section 92 and 100 of the Patent Act for manufacturing through CL.The government, in its affidavit to the Supreme Court, said, “It is earnestly urged that any discussion or a mention of exercise of statutory powers either for essential drugs or vaccines having patent issues would have serious, and unintended adverse consequences in the countries efforts on global platform.” Currently, the Centre is involved in finding a diplomatic solution, but it had not ruled out invoking the law at a future date.The best option is domestic manufacturing using an open licensing policy. The government has given permission to several domestic vaccine manufacturers to manufacture Covaxin. With an indigenously researched and produced vaccine catering to domestic and global demand, our pharma industry will come of age. This will also end the pharma industry’s dependence on manufacture and export of generic medicines alone.The world-class Indian vaccine, with several vaccine manufacturers and an open licence, is attractive for several countries, particularly in the developing world. Indian pharma industry will gain immensely and our country will stand out as a nation helping at the time of need. But dominant global pharma companies stand to lose billions of dollars in profits due to the policies followed and stand taken by the Modi government and this is a strong enough reason for them to be unhappy.Gopal Krishna Agarwal is national spokesperson of the BJPThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/is-the-global-pharma-industry-unhappy-with-india-s-policies-101623330498111.html
10-06-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The Politician as Careerist||Can you think of a time when Indian politics has been more polarised than it is today? I certainly can’t. Yes, there have been times when political parties have vigorously opposed each other but it has mostly been in the spirit of domestic competition.But today, the battle is more fundamental. The problem with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress tells us, is that it is opposed to the very idea of India. According to it, to allow the BJP to continue in power would be to give up on the idea of a diverse, pluralistic nation committed to liberal values.For its part, the BJP is as extreme in its characterisation of its political opponent. The Congress is no longer a political party, it says. It is a family business run by a greedy and corrupt dynasty that has robbed India through the ages while consistently betraying our national interest. The only way for India to become a great nation, the BJP tells us, is to work towards a Congress-mukt Bharat.You would think that with this level of hostility and such a clear divide between the two sides, members of either party would stay far away from each other, that the differences would be sharp and all-pervasive.You would be wrong.In reality, there has never been a time when there is so much mobility between parties. The Congressmen who accuse the BJP of destroying the secular fabric of the nation are quietly negotiating to join the very same BJP. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders who abandoned their party before the Bengal election, heeding Amit Shah’s call that Mamata Banerjee was destroying the state are now negotiating the terms of their exits from the BJP and their re-admittance into the TMC. And even as the BJP condemns opposition politicians as being part of the dynastic Lutyens’ cabal that destroyed India, it is simultaneously offering them plum posts if they are willing to change sides.It has now got to the stage where it is regarded as vital for all political parties to squirrel away their legislators to expensive resort hotels to ensure that they cannot negotiate defections to other parties. Nobody regards this as odd. In fact, it is now perfectly normal.An ordinary voter may well wonder: What in God’s name is going on? I have often asked myself the same question. This week, when Jitin Prasada, who I know and like, crossed over to join the BJP, a party that he (and his family) had opposed for years on familiar grounds (communalist, deceitful), I began to look for answers again.The most reasoned and convincing explanation I found was in an article by Shashi Tharoor. The Congress leader made a basic point that we often lose sight of. Yes, politics can become a career. But it is fundamentally different from becoming, say, a banker or a salesman because you don’t choose your party as you would choose your employer.If you are a banker, you might start out at say, the State Bank of India (SBI) and then, if you feel your prospects are better at HDFC, you might abandon the SBI and join HDFC. That’s fine. It is how career professionals are expected to behave. (The idea is Shashi’s but the examples are my own).When you enter politics, however, you join a political party based not on your career prospects but on your values and beliefs. If you agree with Karl Marx, you join the Communists. If you believe in Hindutva, then the BJP is the party for you. If you are committed to a liberal, secular idea of India, you join the Congress. And so on.If, after that, your career stalls or your party falters, then you try and change things from within. If that is not possible, you can sit out the bad period or you can perhaps join a breakaway faction of your party.That is how it has been in Indian politics for decades. If you don’t like the BJP’s current leadership, you don’t suddenly turn your back on Hindutva and decide that your prospects are better in say, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or the Congress. You stick by your core beliefs, no matter how badly your career is going.Indian politics is full of examples where a disgruntled faction within a party has broken away. The CPM emerged out of the CPI. The Trinamool Congress is a breakaway faction of the Congress. The Janata Dal has splintered into many parties.In none of these cases did any of the breakaway factions consider merging with an ideological enemy. The CPM did not approach the Congress. When Sharad Pawar, P Sangma and other Congressmen had problems with Sonia Gandhi, they formed the Nationalist Congress Party. They did not go and join the Shiv Sena.This is not a peculiarly Indian way of doing things. This is how the democratic system works the world over. People do sometimes change parties but it is rare and usually provokes great consternation. Hardly ever does a senior politician jump from one party to its ideological opposite.In India, there are occasions when differences between the ideologies of parties are minor and the parties are defined by their leaders. In such cases, you can perhaps understand how a politician can change parties. But that is certainly not true of major parties today. As we have seen, never before has the gulf been so wide.So why do people switch sides so easily? How do they so quickly abandon the beliefs they have sworn by for decades?The only answer possible is the one that Tharoor suggests. Things have reached such a pass in India that even among our brightest politicians, politics is no longer about values or beliefs. It is now no more than a career. Like the chap who is not getting very far at SBI and decides to join HDFC, our politicians treat personal advancement as the ultimate goal. Ideology is only for sloganeering and rhetoric – which they can promptly disown later.You don’t have to be a genius to see that a country whose political system is staffed by people who regard their own career prospects as more important than values or any beliefs is in a bad way.Yes, there will be fewer defections from cadre-based parties like the BJP and the CPM. But how ideologically solid can the cadre of any party be if it is repeatedly infiltrated by newcomers who don’t care about ideology and are only focused on their own advancement?I don’t expect India’s politicians to worry too much about what their desire for career advancement is doing to the country. But what about the rest of us? What about the media in particular?We have effortlessly sunk to a level where even the media regards defections as no more than a game. Each change of party is reported with the breathless excitement normally reserved for an IPL match. Nobody even talks about the betrayal of values, of ideology that each defection represents. At a time when Indian politics is most polarised, we treat it as entirely normal that people should be able to walk across to the other side only because they are getting a better deal.They say that a country gets the politicians it deserves. That’s too harsh. But yes, when we expect no ideological integrity from our politicians and accept that their only purpose in life is to get the best deal for themselves, then our country is in very deep trouble indeed.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-politician-as-careerist-101623320614002.html
10-06-2021||Today's||India’s PACK challenge requires a political response||Call it PACK — a strategic spread of interlinked geographies, comprising Pakistan, Afghanistan, China and Kashmir. With territorial disputes, political instability, religious radicalism, popular aspirations and great power dynamics as key issues, PACK is forcing a long game on India. Playing it well requires both resources as well as a concerted political approach at the top level. The latter is key. How is New Delhi faring?Pakistan is speaking a new language of geoeconomics and a trade-fronted regional policy. This merits cautious interest from New Delhi, indications of which are evident. The aggressive rhetoric that preceded and followed the August 5, 2019, decisions died down as the ceasefire announcement neared. Oddly, the military-logistical joint statement, released on February 25, also referred to the two director general of military operations (DGMOs) agreeing to “address each other’s core issues and concerns which have propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence”. This was a political element, and it is not clear why it was inserted there.Also Read | US mulls authorising airstrikes in Afghanistan if country falls into crisisNevertheless, optics and remarks suggest something is in the works. On his visit to the United States (US) last month, external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar mentioned the “bigger issues” with Pakistan that need addressing, noting that “everybody hopes for the best”.So is a fresh Pakistan policy in the offing? With stray unofficial remarks and no political statement, we know very little while the Indo-Pak bazaar of speculation flourishes. Compare this with Pakistan, where Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan has clearly laid out the conditions for engagement with India. Why the opacity at the top level in New Delhi? Is there a concern about a backlash from domestic actors? Or is it because there is no desire to risk the embarrassment that followed the Lahore touchdown of December 2015?In Afghanistan, the Taliban consider themselves victorious. The graph of their recent gains suggests that they will likely shape the nature of the Kabul regime within the coming year. To India, Afghanistan is a stellar example of its commitment to political and societal modernisation of a country carried out with voluntary participation of its citizens. Given this, India’s stake in the nature of the coming Afghan regime is robustly legitimate. New Delhi has fittingly spelt out its preference — a constitutional and democratic regime that protects the rights of women and minorities. Jaishankar has articulated this position, saying that the gains of two decades must not be lost to political expediency.The position is politically bold and desirable. And to say that it befitted a stronger articulation or reiteration from the PM in no way minimises the status and standing of EAM. But the informed Indian citizen must wonder why it hasn’t been coming. Is it because this endorsement of a liberal democracy abroad — with an unequivocal commitment to minority rights — sits oddly with the project at home? Isn’t it more urgent given reports that India has begun engaging with the Taliban? New Delhi may also want to consider that its stated concern for the rights of South Asian minorities — a central tenet of liberalism — when contrasted with what is widely perceived to be the a systematic marginalisation of its own minorities, erodes its standing.On Kashmir, the decisions of August 2019 were about securing an ideological goal. Their impact on the security of national interest will become clear in the coming years, even as Kashmir moves from lockdown to lockdown. Generic terms such as development, peace and integration with the rest of the country are understandable, but it is not clear what New Delhi considers a new and sustainable Kashmiri equilibrium, one where all Kashmiris feel included, within the larger PACK matrix.However, it is on China that the trajectory of the political approach and leadership has been most telling. Assurance has been given that no territory would be lost on the government’s watch. Bravery of soldiers has been rightly praised in addresses to citizens. Regime partisans speak of India having stared China down. All this against the backdrop of the fact that we don’t even have a complete official account of what has transpired on the ground.On the China policy, the core problem remains unaddressed — the collapse of bilateral political understanding forged at the highest level in Ahmedabad, Wuhan and Mamallapuram. Instead, we have seen a tactical approach focused on the eastern Ladakh situation articulated and/or executed by the national security, military, and diplomatic establishments. In the seeming absence of a political approach and leadership, bilateral relations drift while new facts advantageous to the Chinese are reportedly getting entrenched on the ground.Aversion to political risk and hedging in the face of flux are common to leaderships. But the opportunities and challenges presented by PACK demand a concerted approach and visible leadership at the top political level. With over a year gone, it is time for PM Narendra Modi to set out his government’s efforts at securing India’s national interest vis-à-vis China. The Afghan position, if articulated by him, would relieve many at home and abroad. Risks with Pakistan won’t be new, but they shouldn’t cost him much given the popular support. And everyone needs an inclusive and representative Kashmir vision.Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University. His book, The Sovereign Lives of India and Pakistan, will be out in AugustThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-pack-challenge-requires-a-political-response-101623320356358.html
10-06-2021||Today's||Decoding the BJP’s meltdown in Bengal and the way forward||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is going through a meltdown in West Bengal. This unravelling is as baffling as was its relatively poor showing in the polls. On the latter, one may argue that the party was a victim of its own hype. Otherwise, increasing its tally from three to 77 sears was impressive by any standard. But subsequent events have exposed the hollow foundations on which the party had built its castle of sand.Neither BJP supporters nor political commentators had anticipated such a debacle. The high-voltage campaign, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, had swept everyone off their feet. But even fewer people had expected the collapse of the BJP West Bengal state unit post the elections. Nor could they imagine the reverse exodus to Trinamool Congress that followed.The leadership vacuumToday, the BJP is almost faceless in Bengal. Paratroopers who came from the BJP headquarters in Delhi took the first flight out. BJP’s state president, Dilip Ghosh, who was sulking even before the elections, has gone out of sight. Other stalwarts such as Mukul Roy are maintaining an enigmatic silence. Rajib Banerjee, another big-ticket acquisition, is raising eyebrows with cryptic social media posts. Swapan Dasgupta, seen as a probable chief ministerial candidate, was quick to reclaim his seat in the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Adhikari meets Shah, Nadda over Bengal violence; TMC turncoats trouble state BJPPost-poll revenge violence has sent old BJP-Sangh ground workers and grassroots leaders underground. Sidelined before the elections, they are now feeling orphaned.And so the only leader who is displaying some energy is Suvendu Adhikari, who earned his spurs as the “Giant killer of Nandigram” and has been anointed as leader of opposition.In such a scenario, cynics quip, the governor is now the most visible face of the Opposition in the state. The descent of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) has raised questions. Reopening old cases against Trinamool Congress leaders smack of proxy action by the Centre.Be that as it may, the void in BJP’s state leadership is obvious to all. BJP’s reaction in West Bengal is comparable to that of Congress after its rout in 2014 and 2019.Explaining the BJP’s drift and responseBut remember, West Bengal is not the only loss BJP has suffered under the leadership of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Delhi in 2015 and 2020, Bihar in 2015 and Rajasthan 2018 are cases in point. So, why is it that BJP is finding it so hard to digest the Bengal verdict? A few theories are doing the rounds in political circles. But none of the arguments are compelling.One view is that, in her third term, Mamata Banerjee may become the pivot of opposition unity. That would make her a credible challenger to Narendra Modi in 2024.The second explanation is that the debacle has upset Modi-Shah’s calculations for 2024. They were counting on improving upon the 2019 tally of Lok Sabha seats from Bengal. That would have helped them to offset possible losses in other states. Now, it looks like a tall task.The third explanation is that the timing of the Bengal setback could not have been worse for Narendra Modi. It coincided with the surge of the Covid-19 second wave and the devastating oxygen crisis. The economy, which was on a slow recovery path, suffered a fresh jolt. The farmer agitation is still simmering. All this, one reckoned, put Modi-Shah on the defensive within the BJP-RSS ecosystem. Some are quick to read manifestations of it in the reported rumbles in Uttar Pradesh.The fourth conjecture is about Mamata Banerjee’s constant confrontation with the Centre. Emboldened by the massive victory, she would only step-up the ante. Her frequent fulminations, bordering on intransigence, are bound to bother the PM and settle established federal equations.But none of these arguments can explain the existential crisis BJP is facing in West Bengal nor its subsequent actions. The party’s current course of action will neither weaken Banerjee nor equip the BJP to get battle ready for 2024. The state leadership is missing in action. The central leadership appears to be taking a hands-off approach. Most worrying is the lack of a discernible way forward strategy. This has left the old BJP cadres in the dark to fend for themselves.For the BJP, a choiceThe party is at crossroads. To salvage lost ground it has two options. First, go back to the drawing board and rebuild the organisation from scratch, the RSS way. The second, give Suvendu Adhikari a free-reign and support him for a quick ramp-up.The BJP of yore would have opted for the former option (a return to the roots), even if it is a slow and long haul. But the current leadership does not have either the patience or luxury of time. Taking the second approach (backing Adhikari fully) would have a high risk quotient — of alienating older cadres and making the party seem Trinamool’s B team.So, it is Hobson’s choice. But the BJP is not a party to sit idle. Victory or defeat, its wheels never stop. But it needs to settle the leadership equations in the state, evolve a calibrated but robust strategy to take on the state government, and make some hard choices, soon.Sandip Ghose is a political observer and commentator on current affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-the-bjp-s-meltdown-in-bengal-and-the-way-forward-101623319455296.html
