01-07-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER docs implant non-surgical heart valve in 25-year-old with heart disease||Doctors at PGIMER have successfully implanted a pulmonary valve in a 25-year-old congenital heart patient through a non-surgical procedure.The new technique eliminated the need for an open-heart surgery in the patient who had already had two such procedures.The transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (TPVR) was the first such procedure carried by the institute in a patient with a known case of Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF), for which he was first operated on at an age of 11 months, a PGIMER press release said.TOF patients have had prior surgery but can have a leaky or narrowed pulmonary valve, especially if they have undergone a prior surgical replacement.The technically challenging procedure to implant the pulmonary valve was performed recently by Dr Manoj Kumar Rohit, Professor of Cardiology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.“We have many postoperative patients of TOF who develop right heart failure on long-term follow-up due to pulmonary regurgitation,” Rohit said.He said that TPVR in such patients decreases morbidity and mortality risk, and the long-term results remain comparable to surgically implanted valves.Due to severe pulmonary regurgitation and right heart enlargement, the male patient underwent another open-heart surgery in 2009 when a pulmonary valve was implanted.Pulmonary regurgitation is a condition where the pulmonary valve, which regulates blood flow from the right side of the heart to the lungs, doesn’t close properly and a portion of it leaks back to the right side of the heart.Around 11 years after the second surgery, the implanted valve got dysfunctional.Open-heart surgery for the third time would have been a technically challenging procedure, hence the patient was taken up for a percutaneous procedure, the release said.The procedure was successful and the patient has been discharged home and is doing well.TPVR is used to replace the pulmonary valve non-surgically, decreasing the number of heart surgeries a patient will need over their lifetime.In the procedure, a catheter is placed through a small incision into the femoral vein (in the groin) or the jugular vein in the neck.A compressed tissue heart valve is placed on a balloon catheter, advanced through the vein to the heart and is positioned directly inside the diseased pulmonary valve.Once in position, the balloon is inflated expanding the stent and the valve is secured in place. The new valve immediately begins to work. The catheter is then removed.A second TPVR procedure was done in a 56-year-old female, also a known case of TOF who underwent intracardiac repair at an age of 35 years.PGIMER doctors noted that the transcutaneously implanted pulmonary valve, besides being less traumatic, has a life similar to surgically placed valve.The short and long-term outcomes of the valve are similar to ones placed surgically, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-docs-implant-non-surgical-heart-valve-in-25-year-old-with-heart-disease-276790
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||10 new cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh; active cases come down to 149||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 10 new cases of Covid-19 to take the total number of cases to 61,687.No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours as the death toll remains 808.The number of active cases in the city has come down to 149 as 22 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.  As many as 60,730 patients have been cured till date in the city.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 1,682.The number of people who have got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is 4,43,730 while 89,930 have received both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-active-cases-come-down-to-149-276789
01-07-2021||New Delhi||'Severe heat wave' warning for Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh for a week||'Severe heat wave' condition will continue in the national capital, Haryana and west Rajasthan for the next six-seven days with possibility of the mercury breaching 40 degrees Celsius everyday.Lack of rainfall and hot winds blowing from Rajasthan was behind the severe weather condition, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On Thursday, the maximum temperature will hover around 42 degrees Celsius in Delhi, the IMD said.A day after the 'severe heat wave' gripped the city with mercury rising to 43.5 degrees Celsius, seven notches above the normal and the highest this year, the IMD said the minimum temperature registered on Thursday morning at 31.7 degrees was also four notches above normal.The weather office also predicted partly cloudy sky with possibility of thunder development and heat wave conditions at isolated places in the city."Heat wave condition at few places with severe heat wave condition at isolated places in Delhi, Haryana and West Rajasthan," the IMD forecast.Similar weather condition was reported on Tuesday too.It is expected that there will be some respite on Friday in the form of dust storm or thunderstorm, the IMD said.Prevailing meteorological conditions, large-scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Delhi, Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab during the next one week, said the National Weather Forecasting Centre of IMD.Subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over Northwest, Central and Western parts of Peninsular India during next 6-7 days."Isolated or scattered thunderstorm activity accompanied with lightning and rainfall is also likely over these regions during this period."Under the influence of strong moist southwesterly winds at lower tropospheric levels from Bay of Bengal to northeast and adjoining east India, there is possibility of fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall over Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim and Northeastern states during next 6-7 days.Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during next three days.Due to strengthening of moist easterly winds along the northern Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from Thursday, there is possibility of enhanced rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls over East Uttar Pradesh during next five days.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/severe-heat-wave-warning-for-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-for-a-week-276744
01-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula civic body okays Rs 3L monthly aid for Sukhdarshanpur gaushala||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 30The BJP-JJP-led General House of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation today passed 22 agenda items in its third meeting that took place at Kisan Bhawan in Sector 14 under the leadership of Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal.It has been decided to give a financial assistance of Rs3 lakh per month to Madhav Gaushala Charitable Trust, which runs a cowshed in Sukhdarshanpur village.Justifying the move, the Mayor said it was just a nominal cost incurred by the trust while actual expenditure could be three times higher. “Once more stray cows are shifted to Sukhdarshanpur, the cost will go up. At present, the gaushala has 600 cows. There is a target to raise their count to 1,200. The cost could go up to Rs18 lakh once it reaches its maximum capacity,” Goyal said.It has been decided that the services of 11 employees above 62 years of age will be discontinued with immediate effect. In future too, MC employees aged above 62 will not be granted extension. This will help create jobs for young people.Key agenda approvedThe House also decided to increase the rates for park development societies constituted for maintenance of small and big parks. While the rates for parks up to one acre has been enhanced from Rs3 to Rs 5 per square metre, for parks measuring over one acre, it has been increased from Rs3 to Rs4 per square metre. In view of the Covid-19 situation, the agreement of these societies has been extended by three months. It was decided that from now onwards, the agreement with new societies will be for two years instead of one year.In the meeting, a decision was taken to constitute a finance and contract committee for finalisation of contracts and agreements of various development works.On the suggestion of Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, it has been decided that the committee will consist of one member each from the ruling party and the Opposition to ensure transparency.The rates of community centres falling under the MC have also been reduced. While Rs5,000 has been fixed for community centres in villages, Rs11,000 and Rs21,000 have been fixed for medium and big community centres, respectively.Tough action against property tax defaultersTaking cognisance of pending property tax of Shalimar Mall in Sector 5, it has been decided to form a committee for revaluation of the dues of the mall. According to civic body officials, the mall owes Rs4.63 crore to the corporation.“As property tax is one of the major sources of revenue for a civic body, we need to take stern action in this regard. Against our expectation of Rs25-30 crore per year, the MC gets only Rs11-12 crore,” the Mayor said.The property of those who owe more than Rs1 lakh as tax will be sealed after serving notice on them.Other agendas included recovery of dues from telecom companies for installation of mobile towers and laying telephone lines, formation of a new vending zone committee, construction of a multi-level parking in Sector 11, installation of decorative lights at roundabouts, development of an education and recreation city on the MC land in Chandimandir and maintenance of public toilets by the MC instead of Sulabh International.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-body-okays-rs-3l-monthly-aid-for-sukhdarshanpur-gaushala-276357
01-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Covid cases dip 90% in June, deaths 80%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30June came as a breather for the city as it witnessed over a 90 per cent decline in Covid-19 cases. The monthly positivity rate stood at 2.7 per cent, which was 16 per cent last month.In the past one week, 0.98 per cent of the samples tested came back positive. For every 100 confirmed cases, only 0.3 are currently infected and 98.4 per cent have already recovered from the infection.May remained the worst affected with over 17,399 Covid-19 cases and 275 deaths. The UT Health Department had conducted over one lakh tests, of which 17 per cent of the samples tested positive for the virus.The deaths due to Covid-19 also declined by 80 per cent this month with the city reporting 55 fatalities. The number of Covid tests saw a reduction of 43 per cent this month. However, the number of tests conducted this month was similar to those conducted in March and also more than the tests conducted during the first wave.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The number of tests has gone down due to a decrease in cases and contact tracing. We are still trying to test as many as possible with mobile testing teams. The daily cases have also hit a new low of a single digit as we have ramped up vaccination. We aim to vaccinate a majority of our population in July.”71% hospital beds vacantOf the 916 oxygen beds in Chandigarh hospitals, 71.5 per cent were lying vacant on Wednesday, while 71 per cent ventilator beds (86 of the 121 beds) were also available.In May, the healthcare infrastructure was overwhelmed as ICU beds with ventilators remained occupied, leaving patients scrambling for critical care beds. On May 6, there was no ventilator bed vacant in city government hospitals.61% have got first doseChandigarh now aims at vaccinating the eligible population by July-end. The UT has claimed to have vaccinated 61 per cent of the eligible population above 18 years with the first dose, while 12 per cent has been vaccinated with the second dose. The total target is over seven lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-cases-dip-90-in-june-deaths-80-276358
01-07-2021||---||3 Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraud||Chandigarh, June 30Three persons fell prey to online fraud and lost their money. In one of the incidents, complainant Varinder Uppal, a resident of Sector 41, reported that he had booked a train ticket to visit Maharashtra through a website and a payment of Rs 656 was made. However, he did not receive a confirmation message.The complainant searched for the customer care number and called on it. He was asked to download an application for the refund and while using the application, Rs7 lakh was deducted from his bank accounts. Another incident was reported by a woman, a resident of Sector 44, who was duped on the pretext of a job. The complainant stated that she got herself registered on a job site after paying Rs12,019 as registration fee. However, neither was she provided a job nor was her money returned. In another case, Pawan Kumar, a resident of Sector 38, reported that an unknown person fraudulently deducted Rs19,188 from his bank account on the pretext of activating a service on his bank account. The police have registered cheating case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-online-fraud-276359
01-07-2021||---||Panchkula gets digital water bill payment system||Chandigarh, June 30Taking another step towards e-governance, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched ‘paperless billing through SMS’ for Panchkula district.The system was launched for water bill generation in Panchkula after the 54th meeting of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board held under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister here today. Within a month, the system will be started across the state.With the new system, about 33,000 consumers can pay their water bills digitally.Besides, the CM asked the officials concerned to conduct a survey of villages and identify areas where water pipelines are to be laid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-gets-digital-water-bill-payment-system-276360
01-07-2021||---||Technician booked on charge of molesting GMCH student in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 30A technician working at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has been booked for allegedly molesting a college student.The complainant, a third-year student, was on duty on June 27 when she went to get some medicines from the store where an OT technician, identified as Kamleshwar, allegedly molested her.A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 34 police station.The suspect is yet to be arrested. A few students today went to the Sector 34 police station demanding his arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/technician-booked-on-charge-of-molesting-gmch-student-in-chandigarh-276361
01-07-2021||---||Chandigarh sizzles at 40.6°C, rain likely tomorrow||Chandigarh, June 30The city was in the grip of a heat wave today with the maximum temperature crossing the 40°C mark.It was 40.6°C, five degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was 28.8°C, four degrees above normal. The heat wave is expected to continue tomorrow. Relief is likely after July 2 when light rain is expected during the weekend.“Heat wave to severe heat wave was observed on Wednesday at many places over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Heatwave conditions are likely to persist for another 24 hours, with a likely abatement after July 2,” said a senior scientist at the Chandigarh Meteorological Department.The weatherman has predicted light rain in the city on Friday and Saturday. Gusty winds at a speed of around 40kmph are expected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sizzles-at-40-6%C2%B0c-rain-likely-tomorrow-276362
01-07-2021||Amit Bathla||6 months on, Panchkula yet to get rid of stray animals||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 30Nearly six months after the Municipal Corporation passed a resolution to make Panchkula free of stray animals, the move remains a distant dream.Led by the BJP-JJP coalition, the MC General House in its first meeting in January had resolved to make Panchkula free of stray cattle by March 2021 and stray dogs by June 2021.Claiming that there had been some issues in meeting the deadline, Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said, “We will do it in two months.”Of the 22 agendas passed by the House today, two supported the objective of making the city streets stray-free.While the agenda item No. 6 called for expediting registration of pet dogs and adaptation of state byelaws on the issue, item No. 7 called for Rs 3 lakh per month financial assistance to Sukhdarshanpur cowshed, which falls in the jurisdiction of the civic body.Earlier this year, the MC within a span of one month had inaugurated the cow shelter and dog pound in Sukhdarshanpur village. Even though the civic body claims to have shifted a major chunk of stray cows to different cattle pounds, one can still witness them in large numbers on city roads, markets and residential areas.As per MC officials, over 800 stray cows were shifted to Sukhdarshanpur cowshed and Mata Mansa Devi Gaushala in the first five months of the year.Recently, the MC had decided to shift all the dairies to Sukhdarshapur to reduce mishaps caused by abandoned cows.In many cases, cattle owners after milking their cows let them loiter on roads even as there is a provision to penalise such offenders with a fine of up to Rs 5,000.With respect to stray dogs, the MC received a setback in February this year when it realised that it cannot permanently move and confine stray dogs picked up from streets at Sukhdarshanpur as it was against the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001 and the Supreme Court guidelines.It was subsequently decided that captured stray dogs would be brought to Sukhdarshanpur only for treatment, vaccination and sterilisation and taken back to their original locations. The locals termed the dog pound, constructed at a cost of over Rs 4 crore, “a waste of taxpayers’ money”.SK Nayar, president of the Citizens Welfare Association, said the authorities had failed to get the city rid of stray cattle and dogs. “The issue persists for the last two-three decades, but nothing concrete has been done yet,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-months-on-panchkula-yet-to-get-rid-of-stray-animals-276363
01-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||250 Chandigarh Municipal Corporation employees lose part of their salary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30About 250 Municipal Corporation employees did not get their full salary for the month of May as they were found to be “irregular” on their duties.Their location was tracked through the GPS-enabled wrist watches given to them. Many of the violators are sanitation workers.Meanwhile, a sanitation committee of the MC said a chance should be given to the workers and demanded that their pending salaries be released at the earliest.The panel also said workers should be heard and they all should be taught proper use of the watches.“They should be given one chance. Some of the workers find issues with watch’s location and charging,” said councillor Bharat Kumar, chairman of the committee.Dr Amrit Warring, MC’s Medical Officer of Health, however, said, “We will strictly abide by what was passed by the House earlier and salaries will be given on the basis of watches. However, if any employee comes up with a genuine reason, we will exempt him/her.”Of the 250 employees, who had to lose a part of their salaries, 82 are sanitation workers. These employees include regular, contractual and outsourced staff.Over a year after introducing the watches to track 4,000 MC employees, MC Commissioner KK Yadav had in the April House meeting declared that salaries for May would be disbursed on the basis of “live location of the wrist watches”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/250-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-employees-lose-part-of-their-salary-276364
01-07-2021||---||Army Havildar hits on-duty cop in Ambala Cantt, booked||Ambala, June 30The police have booked an Army Havildar after he allegedly hit an on-duty police head constable at the Capitol Chowk in Ambala Cantonment.The suspect has been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Himachal Pradesh. At present, he is posted with 24 Grenadiers in Ambala Cantonment.As per information, the incident took place on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday when the suspect had a scuffle with head constables Krishan Kumar and Kuldeep Singh of the Regiment Bazaar police post in Ambala Cantonment.In his complaint, Krishan Kumar stated that they were at the Capitol Chowk when they observed that an uncontrolled car was coming from the Military Hospital side. The suspect, who was drunk, stopped his car and started abusing them. He hit the head constable on his face and neck, after which he started bleeding.A case has been registered against Anil Kumar under Sections 186, 332, 353, 427 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at the Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-havildar-hits-on-duty-cop-in-ambala-cantt-booked-276365
01-07-2021||Panchkula||Gym inaugurated at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Panchkula||In a major boost to infrastructure ahead of hosting Khelo India Games, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) inaugurated a gym on the first floor of the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 here today.Ashok Kumar Sharma, Managing Director, HSWC, inaugurated the gym. It has been introduced for the benefit of trainees and its employees.“Trainees and employees can use the facility at a nominal fee of Rs100 per month, outsourcing employees for Rs200 per month, family members of HSWC employees, outsourcing employees for Rs300 per month and casual visitors for Rs200 per hour,” said Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gym-inaugurated-at-tau-devi-lal-stadium-panchkula-276366
01-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||9 POs, one hardcore criminal in police net in Bassi Pathana||Bassi Pathana police today claimed to have arrested nine proclaimed offenders (POs), two of them from Madhya Pradesh after seven years.The police also said it had arrested a hardcore criminal and recovered a 32 bore revolver and live cartridges from his possession. The Bassi Pathana police under the command of DSP Sukhminder Singh Chauhan and SHO Manpreet Singh Deol have succeeded in arresting nine POs, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal told mediapersons.Two of the arrested POs have been identified as Rajinder Singh, alias Bunty, and Varinder Kumar, both residents of Murena in Madhya Pradesh, the SSP said, adding that the two were arrested from MP after a gap of seven years.The SSP also informed that the CIA staff, Sirhind, on specific information arrested a “hardcore” criminal, who was already facing various criminal cases, from a naka at Dufehra Sahib Chowk.The police recovered a 32 bore pistol and two live cartridges from the possession of Jagjit Singh, alias Gagg, a resident of Bhadson. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-pos-one-hardcore-criminal-in-police-net-in-bassi-pathana-276367
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Accused nabbed with vials to treat black fungus denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of an accused, Arun, who was allegedly arrested with 20 injections of liposomal amphotericin, which is used to treat black fungus.The accused was arrested from Sector 18 here on June 4. An FIR was registered against him under Section 420 of the IPC, Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act at the Sector 19 police station.In the FIR, the police said they received information that the accused, a resident of Ludhiana, was planning to meet some customers to sell the injections at higher prices without any licence.The counsel for the accused claimed that Arun had been falsely implicated in the case. He had valid slips for the procurement of medicines issued by the Punjab health authorities. However, the public prosecutor opposed the bail. After hearing the arguments, the Court dismissed the bail plea of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-accused-nabbed-with-vials-to-treat-black-fungus-denied-bail-276368
01-07-2021||---||Lalru suicide victim cremated after 8 days||Lalru, June 30Eight days after 32-year-old Kuldeep Kaur, a clerk in the Technical Education Department, Sector 36, Chandigarh, committed suicide due to alleged sexual harassment by Superintendent Bhupinder Singh and Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh, her body was cremated here today.The body was kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, as the victim’s family members and residents refused to cremate it until the suspects were arrested.Arvinder was arrested from Zirakpur yesterday. He was produced in a court today, which remanded him in two-day police custody. The Railway Police are conducting raids to nab another suspect.On a statement of the victim’s mother, rape charge (Section 376) was added to the FIR registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code.After the arrest of one of the suspects, the victim’s family members and residents ended their protest at the ITI Chowk. Later, they cremated the body at the Lalru Mandi crematorium this afternoon. A large number of people attended the funeral.Kuldeep Kaur, who was working as a clerk in the Technical Education Department, had committed suicide by jumping before the Shatabdi on the Ambala-Chandigarh railway track in Lalru on June 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-suicide-victim-cremated-after-8-days-276369
01-07-2021||---||Book on drug addiction released||Chandigarh, June 30Tobacco, alcohol and drug abuse are responsible for more than 11 million deaths every year globally, Dr Rajinder Singh said on the release of his book “Drug Addiction”.The book was released by Baba Iqbal Singh, president, The Kalgidhar Trust, Baru Sahib. The trust runs two drug de-addiction centres – one in Punjab and another in Himachal Pradesh.A former adviser (psychiatry) Armed Forces, Dr Singh highlighted the popular misconceptions about mental disorders and stressed the need to incorporate spirituality into the treatment plan to fill the voids that addicts might be trying to fill with drugs or alcohol.“This book is not just about overcoming addiction, it’s about overcoming your fears, taking ownership of your flaws and making efforts to make better choices,” said the 87-year-old Chandigarh-based psychiatrist, who has treated 10,000 drug addicts.Dr Debasish Basu, Head of the PGI’s Psychiatry Department, was the chief guest for the event.“This book contains proven steps and strategies on how to successfully combat the challenging problem of drug addiction,” said Dr Basu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-drug-addiction-released-276370
01-07-2021||---||Chandigarh bus service to Himachal restarts today||Chandigarh, June 30With a sharp decline in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has decided to restart its bus service on all routes to Himachal Pradesh from tomorrow. Similarly, the buses will now run as usual for the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.An official of the department said they had decided to restart inter-statebus services on long routes as most of the states had given major relaxation in the restrictions imposed after a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases.However, the bus service to Uttarakhand could not be started right now as the Uttarakhand government was yet to give approval to ply the buses, he said, adding that they would start the bus service only after getting approval from the state government.He said most of the routes in Punjab and Haryana were started earlier. Initially, the buses would ply to Himachal Pradesh during the day time. After getting response from passengers, they would start night service, he said, added that 11 buses would go to Himachal Pradesh from Thursday. The bus service to Himachal Pradesh was shut since May 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bus-service-to-himachal-restarts-today-276371
01-07-2021||Mohali||Mullanpur farmers fume over erratic power supply, protest||Hundreds of farmers, including village sarpanches, from the Mullanpur area staged a protest demonstration against the PSPCL officials at the Majra power grid here today for the erratic power supply in the paddy sowing season.Villagers said the grid was set up on the village land but electricity was not being provided to them. The Mullanpur police were stationed near the grid to prevent any vandalism.In Singha Devi village, residents came out on roads to protest against the state government, the PSPCL and the water department for frequent outages.The resident said they were facing acute shortage of electricity for the last two weeks.Residents, especially women, said due to power outages, water supply was also disrupted.The water tanker operators are overcharging people and supplying water arbitrarily, they added.Residents said the transformers and wires installed in the area were unable to take the increasing load.Long cuts in ZirakpurIn Zirakpur, Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla and Baltana residents are facing close to 10-12 hours of power cuts daily.Residents in Mohali, meanwhile, complained that there had been six or seven hour cuts for the last two days in the area. In some parts of Kharar, residents claimed that there had been no electricity since last night. Similarly, Dera Bassi, Mubarikpur and Daffarpur residents also complained of long power cuts.In Zirakpur, Baltana and VIP Road area, power supply was restored around 10 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mullanpur-farmers-fume-over-erratic-power-supply-protest-276372
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Commercial water connection for shops run from houses in Chandigarh||Now, domestic consumers living within the lal dora limits, EWS and rehabilitation colonies and Mani Majra will get separate commercial water connections for their shops being run from houses.The UT Administration has approved a Municipal Corporation draft notification that proposed amendments to the Chandigarh Water Supply Bye-Laws.According to the notification issued by the Local Government Department, a separate commercial water connection will be allowed to the domestic consumers of lal dora of erstwhile villages, EWS colonies, rehabilitation colonies and Mani Majra, who have undertaken small permissible commercial activities within their residences in the shape of shops.The commercial water connections will be charged as per actual consumption or minimum of 25 kl per month per connection (excluding sewerage cess) where water metre is not installed or not working. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commercial-water-connection-for-shops-run-from-houses-in-chandigarh-276373
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Seven pairs of trains plying over Chandigarh station to be back on track||The Ambala Division of Northern Railway has decided to run 12 pairs of trains from July 5, read a notification issued by the Railways.These trains are being reintroduced after a hiatus of 15 months, ever since their lockdown-induced termination in March 2020. Of these, seven pair of trains will ply over Chandigarh station.Bi-weekly Kerala Sampark Kranti Express Special (train No. 04560/04559) will resume tracks on July 7 from the city, and from Kerala on July 10.Chandigarh-Amritsar Intercity Express Special (train No. 04561/04562) will resume operations from July 5.The weekly Chandigarh-Madgaon Sampark Kranti Express Special (train No. 04564/04563) will restart service from the city on July 5 at 2:15am.Amritsar-Lal Kuan Express Special will chug off on July 10. It will stop in Chandigarh at 11 am for five minutes.Daily running Dehradun-Amritsar Express Special (train No. 04663/04664) will start from Dehradun on July 5. It will stop at the city station on July 6 at 2:30 am.Kalka-Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express Special (train No. 04535/04536) will start from Kalka station on July 6. The bi-weekly train will stop in the city for half an hour from 7:31 pm. Bi-weekly Kalka-Sainagar Shirdi Superfast Express Special (train No. 04566/04565) will leave from Kalka on July 8 and reach Chandigarh at 5:50 pm. It has a 10-minute stopover in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, Chandigarh-Lucknow Jn Special (train No. 05011/05012), leaving from Lucknow on July 19 and reaching Chandigarh on July 20, will short terminate at Saharanpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-pairs-of-trains-plying-over-chandigarh-station-to-be-back-on-track-276374
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||PULEET entrance test on Aug 1||PUTHAT entrance test on July 30Chandigarh: Panjab University will conduct PUTHAT entrance test - 2021 on July 30. The prospectus, including application form, for the entrance test and detailed schedule is available on the website https://puthat.puchd.ac.in. TNSPanjab varsity declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared the results of Master of Arts (Punjabi) third semester. It is available at the respective departments/colleges or on the Panjab University website. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puleet-entrance-test-on-aug-1-276375
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fellowship for GMCH-32's Prof Subina Narang||53K take online exam on Day 3Chandigarh: As many as 53,400 students appeared on the third day of the ongoing Panjab University online semester examinations. A total of 32 question papers were uploaded in the morning slot wherein approximately 11,500 students appeared. As many as 17 question papers were uploaded in the evening slot wherein 41,900 students appeared. TNSDates for BEd form submission outChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the last dates for the submission of examination forms for BEd (second semester only). The forms can be submitted without late fee before July 20, with late fee of Rs2,075 till July 27, with late fee of Rs6,075 till August 11, with late fee of Rs11,075 till August 26 and with late fee of Rs22,075 till September 6. Students can also visit the university website www.puchd.ac.in for more information. TNSMC panel okays renovation worksChandigarh: The Road Committee of the Municipal Corporation on Wednesday approved a rough cost estimate for repair and renovation of the Bahai Cemetery in Sector 25. The projected cost for the work is Rs 9.59 lakh. The panel also approved special repair of civil dispensary, Sector 49, at an estimated cost of Rs7.09 lakh. TNSMinor girl dies of snakebiteMohali: An eight-year-old girl died of snakebite at Kambali village on June 27. The girl, identified as Gurseerat Kaur, was rushed to the hospital where she breathed her last. The incident took place around 7 pm when the victim, a student of Class III, went to switch on the light in the verandah of her house. When she tried to switch on the light, her foot touched the table. The snake present under the table bit her. TNS2 bikers snatch mobile phoneChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone in the city. Complainant Rai Singh of Mohali reported that the suspects snatched his mobile phone near the Sector 41 bus stop. A case has been registered. TNSKharar cricket academy winMohali: Champion’s Cricket Academy, Kharar, defeated Sunrise Cricket Academy, Zirakpur, by six wickets in the ongoing 1st Dinesh Verma Memorial U-19 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Sunrise Cricket Academy scored 172 runs before getting all out in 37.4 overs. In reply, the Kharar outfit posted 174/4 in 37.1 overs. TNSWoman attacked with toy pistolChandigarh: A woman of Sector 42 was injured after she was hit with a toy gun on her head by a neighbour. The victim has been identified as Rita. She stays on the ground floor, while the suspect, Vinit Narayan, resides on the second floor. The police said both had an argument over a money issue after which the suspect attacked her with the butt of a toy pistol. The victim was injured after which the suspect, along with his wife, escaped from the spot. The police said the newlywed couple had shifted to this house around two months ago. The police were informed and the victim rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16. The police are looking into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fellowship-for-gmch-32s-prof-subina-narang-276377
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees nine cases, no fatality||The city on Wednesday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 and no death. The number of active cases has come down to 154 as 23 patients were cured of the disease. — TNSOne death, 13 cases in Mohali Mohali: The district saw one Covid death and 13 positive cases on Wednesday. A total of 29 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, one was reported from Mohali, two from Dhakoli, five from Kharar, three from Dera Bassi and one each from Boothgarh and Kurali. Of the 68,247 positive cases reported so far, 66,950 patients have been cured. There are now 248 active cases in the district. — TNS5 cases, no death in Panchkulapanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported five fresh Covid cases, taking the overall tally to 30,586. With no new death, the toll remained at 374. While 30,156 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 56 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.59 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-nine-cases-no-fatality-276378
