02-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||12 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Friday reported 12 new cases of Covid-19 and no deaths as the total number of cases reached 61,700.The number of active cases has come down to 147 as 15 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll in the city remains 808.As many as 1,683 samples were tested in the last 24 hours while 60,745 people have been cured till date.The number of people who have got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the city is 4,48,479 while 92,279 people have received both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-277242
02-07-2021||---||Delhi reels under heat wave at 43.1 degrees C; dust storm, light rain likely in Chandigarh||New Delhi, July 2Heatwave conditions will persist in the national capital on Friday with the weather office forecasting that the maximum temperature will hover around 41 degrees Celsius.Partly cloudy sky with along with heatwave conditions are forecast at isolated places. There is a possibility of dust storm or thunderstorm accompanied with very light rain and gusty winds towards the evening or night.The minimum temperature on Friday morning was recorded at 27.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average.The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 25 per cent.The national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in July since 2012, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying there is "no chance" of monsoon reaching the city till July 7.The minimum temperature had settled at 31.7 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The last time monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was in 2012.The weather department said the delay in the arrival of the wind system is likely to impact agricultural operations such as sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling and power requirements in the region, including Punjab and Haryana – the food bowl of the country."The monsoon has covered most of the country except parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Since June 19, no progress has been observed. Mid-latitude westerly winds, unfavourable Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) and absence of a low-pressure system over North Bay of Bengal are some of the reasons," the IMD said.According to the IMD, northwest India has received 14 per cent excess rainfall -- 85.7 mm rainfall against the normal of 75.3 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.Chandigarh to get rain Chandigarh residents can expect some respite from the hot weather for three days as the monsoon is likely to become active again. Partly cloudy conditions with light rain are expected for three days — July 2 to 4. There is a prediction of a dust storm, accompanied by gusty winds blowing at a speed of about 40 kmph.The maximum temperature recorded in the city today was 40.8°C, five degrees above normal, while the minimum was 28.4°C, four degrees above normal. with PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-reels-under-heat-wave-at-43-1-degrees-c-dust-storm-light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-277187
02-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||MP seeks Rs 100-cr grant to develop Fatehgarh Sahib as pilgrimage centre||To develop Fatehgarh Sahib as a religious tourism-cum-international pilgrimage centre, local Member Parliament (MP) Dr Amar Singh called upon Union Tourism Secretary Arvind Singh and submitted a memorandum demanding a special grant of Rs100 crore for the purpose.In memorandum the MP mentioned that two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh Ji were bricked alive by Mughals as they refused to embrace Islam. They got martyred for the protection of religion and community and set a unique example, the MP added.“Roza Sharif” of Muslims considered next to Mecca and the only temple of Jain Goddess Mata Chakreshwari Devi Ji was also situated here, the MP said. “The secretary assured us to initiate the proposal,” the MP added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-seeks-rs-100-cr-grant-to-develop-fatehgarh-sahib-as-pilgrimage-centre-277177
02-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Doctors hold gate rally at Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 1On the eve of Doctor’s Day doctors under the banner of the Joint Government Doctors Coordinating Committee held a gate rally at the Civil Hospital to protest against the Sixth Pay Commission report here today. They also observed silence to pay tributes to doctors, who lost their lives during the pandemic.Dr Satnam Banga and Dr TS Randhawa said, “Doctors have been performing their duties as frontline workers during the Covid pandemic and lost many colleagues. It is unfortunate that the Sixth Pay Commission has not only reduced their non-practice allowance (NPA) from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, but also de-linked it from the basic pay.”They demanded that the NPA be increased to 33 per cent and linked with the basic pay and pension should be fixed on these criteria. They also demanded that doctors, who worked as frontline warriors be given special allowance.Doctors warned that if their demands were not met they would be forced to suspend emergency services at the hospital. Representatives of the Rural Medical Doctors Association, Ayurvedic Doctors Association and other unions also participated in the rally against pay panel report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-hold-gate-rally-at-fatehgarh-sahib-civil-hospital-277176
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||17-year-old girl falls to death||32K take online exams by PUChandigarh: As many as 32,740 students appeared for ongoing PU online examinations on Day 4 on Thursday. A total of 24 question papers were uploaded in the morning slot and approximately 14,359 students took exams, while 18 question papers were uploaded in the evening slot for 18,381 students. TNSFree Urdu classesChandigarh: Free Urdu classes began at Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, here on Thursday. The course duration will be six months and the class timings will be from 5.15 pm to 6.15 pm at the college. Students from Chandigarh and Panchkula will be eligible to take admission. The interested candidates can contact the assistant director, Hindi/Punjabi Cell, Civil Secretariat-2, Sector 9, on any working day or the Urdu language teacher at the college during the class hours. TNSRotary Club donates phonesChandigarh: The Rotary Club handed over 125 smartphones to students of five local government schools. In a meeting, the club members handed over the devices to school principals. The meeting was also attended by Rupinder Singh Brar, Director, Public Instructions, Education. TNSConversation with legendsChandigarh: The Prabha Khaitan Foundation hosted ‘Ek Mulakat’ with Manish Tewari, MP from Anandpur Sahib. Archana Dalmia, a politician and columnist, was the key speaker. Ek Mulakat is an initiative which allows patrons to a conversation with legends and stalwarts from walks of life. TNSNavjot Kaur is SGGS PrincipalChandigarh: Dr Navjot Kaur took charge as the Principal of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, on Thursday. She was appointed by Gurdev Singh Brar, president, Sikh Educational Society. Navjot has an illustrious academic career spanning 25 years. She has many distinctions to her credit and has authored books with international publications. TNSDebate on women safetyChandigarh: Faculty of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Women Redressal Cell organised a debate on “women safety” at Desh Bhagat University. The objective of the activity was to create awareness on women's safety. Students from the engineering department took part. University Chancellor Dr Zora Singh congratulated the department for successfully conducting the debate. tnsBLOOD DONATION CAMP BY SBIChandigarh: The State Bank of India celebrated its 66th Bank Day on Thursday. On the occasion, a blood donation camp was organised at the SBI local head office in association with the PGI. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-year-old-girl-falls-to-death-277170
02-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC gets Rs 5 crore as first instalment from PSPCL||The cash-starved Mohali Municipal Corporation got the first instalment of Rs5 crore from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) out of the total arrears of Rs30 crore excise duty collected by the Power Department.After handing over the cheque to the civic body, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Mohali Municipal Corporation owes arrears of excise duty to the Power Department for several years amounting to over Rs30 crore.He said no effort was made to get the money released from the Power Department. The remaining amount would continue to reach the corporation in monthly instalments, which would be used for the development of the city.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi and MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg were also present.Balbir Singh Sidhu also released two fogging machines on the occasion.In another important announcement, Sidhu said GMADA would reimburse 25 per cent of the expenditure incurred by the Mohali Municipal Corporation on development works every year and a decision in this regard had been taken in the meeting with the Chief Minister.He said some villages, including Balongi, Barmajra and Balyali, had been included in the Municipal Corporation limits. Some major sectors of the city had also been taken under the purview of the Municipal Corporation.Describing Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of providing 300 units of electricity free in Punjab as an election stunt, he said it was wrong to compare the state with Delhi. Punjab was an agriculture-oriented state, while there was no agriculture in Delhi. No agricultural subsidies were given there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-gets-rs-5-crore-as-first-instalment-from-pspcl-277041
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Adviser for improving condition of Chandigarh roads||To provide a smooth ride to residents of the city, UT Adviser Dharam Pal has planned to improve the condition of roads. Residents have been complaining about the poor upkeep of roads in several parts of the city for the past several years. Repair and re-carpeting work of the roads would be taken up on a priority after the rainy season, said the Adviser. Better road condition would further improve the image of the City Beautiful, he said, adding that he had already issued directions to the UT Engineering Department and the Municipal Corporation to improve the condition of roads. For repair work, the city roads are divided between the Engineering Department and the Municipal Corporation. The Engineering Department looks after the maintenance work of major roads such as Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, while the MC maintains nearly 1,400 km of roads in sectors and other areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adviser-for-improving-condition-of-chandigarh-roads-277042
02-07-2021||---||Man nabbed for sending obscene content to girls||Mohali, July 1 The Handesra police have arrested a man for allegedly sending obscene photos and threatening messages to underage girls.  The accused has been identified as Sukhbir Singh, alias Sukhi, a resident of Jeoli. The man was arrested after a Jeoli woman complained to the police alleging that an unknown person was sending obscene photos and threatening messages on her daughter’s WhatsApp number. She also informed the police that the messages were received from numbers with different ISD codes — (620) 7266445, (251) 3506660 and (620) 2508582. During the interrogation, the accused revealed that he used to get foreign numbers by loading various applications from the Internet and blackmailed minor girls by sending obscene photos on their WhatsApp numbers, said Inspector Rajneesh Chaudhary, SHO, Handesra police station. A case under different Sections of the IPC, IT Act and the POCSO Act was registered against the accused at the Handesra police station, said the SHO. He was arrested and produced in court which remanded him to one-day police custody, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nabbed-for-sending-obscene-content-to-girls-277043
02-07-2021||---||Telco firm pays Rs 1.95-crore pending dues to Panchkula MC||Panchkula, July 1A day after the General House of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation passed a resolution to act against telecom companies for non-payment of prescribed fee for installation of towers and laying telephone lines, Reliance Jio reportedly paid pending dues of Rs1.95 crore to the civic body for financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21.According to MC officials, they had served notices upon telecom companies, including Jio, to clear the pending dues or face action.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal termed the development a result of his persistent efforts to improve the financial health of the Municipal Corporation.“Other companies are expected to follow the suit as civic body officials are receiving inquiries from the firms on their pending dues,” Goyal said.Goyal said he had directed senior officials to recover the outstanding dues from the telecom companies at the earliest and ordered the discontinuation of connection with immediate effect if any company fails to do so.Around 290 towers have been installed by various telecom companies in the city.In the General House meeting held yesterday, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had ordered the registration of FIR against telecom companies laying underground lines without prior permission.The Municipal Corporation also took a tough stand against property tax defaulters.According to officials, the civic body expects property tax collection of Rs25 crore to Rs30 crore every year, but it only receives Rs11 crore to -Rs12 crore.The property of those who owe over Rs1 lakh as tax will be sealed after serving a notice on them.The civic body has also constituted a panel for revaluation of property tax owned by Shalimar Mall – the biggest tax defaulter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telco-firm-pays-rs-1-95-crore-pending-dues-to-panchkula-mc-277038
02-07-2021||Naina Mishra||2nd wave of Covid: 75+ age group sees 7% increase in deaths in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1A seven per cent increase was noted in the deaths in the above 75 year age group during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city.In the first wave, the group had accounted for 17 per cent of the total deaths in the UT. However, in the second wave its proportion rose to 24 per cent.At 8.80 per cent, the case fatality rate also continues to remain higher in the above 75 year age group.The case fatality rate (CFR) refers to the proportion of Covid cases to deaths.Though the case fatality decreased in all the age groups during the second wave, it increased 400 times in the above 75 year age group as compared to the 0.02 per cent in the 0-18 age group.In the first wave, 0.5 per cent patients in the 0-18 year age group died of Covid. The maximum case fatality rate of 9.2 per cent was seen in the 75 plus age group.Epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said, “Though the case fatality rate decreased in all age groups in the second wave, it was still higher in the above 75 years age group.”“The government needs better reforms and healthcare practices for patients in this age group to save deaths. Due to better clinical experience and facilities in hospitals, the CFR in all age groups has reduced as compared to the first wave.”There was a decrease of four per cent in the proportion of deaths in the 45-60 years age group during the second wave. The group accounted for 36 per cent of the total deaths during the first wave. However, in the second it accounted for 32 per cent deaths.The proportion of deaths in the 19-45 years age group increased by 1.5 per cent during the second wave.“Statistically, there is not much difference in deaths from the first to second wave in any age group. It rules out the perception that a lot of younger people died during the second wave,” said Dr Lahariya.The first wave corresponds to the August-September period last year, whereas the second wave ran from April to May this year. As many as 374 Covid deaths took place in the city during the second wave. The city had reported 147 deaths in the first wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2nd-wave-of-covid-75-age-group-sees-7-increase-in-deaths-in-chandigarh-277039
02-07-2021||---||As mercury rises, Mohali dist reels under long power cuts||Mohali, July 1Despite the tall claims made by the state government about surplus power, the residents here are facing long cuts amid hot and humid conditions.Various subdivisions of the district were left without electricity for nearly 10 hours on Wednesday, forcing the residents to come out on to streets.Power PangsAccompanied by senior leader and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers along with residents today gheraod the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office in Zirakpur and gave officials concerned a day’s time to rectify the system.“In the past three days, there are unscheduled cuts in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi, and officials are not even taking up the calls from residents,” said Sharma.“Due to power failure, people are also not getting proper water supply,” he said.“We have given them (PSPCL officials) a day’s ultimatum, failing which we will intensify our protest and block the highway,” Sharma added.Meanwhile, people blocked the Kurali bypass by placing a tractor on the road to protest the erratic power supply.The commuters had to face inconvenience due to the blockage and the police were seen diverting the traffic on other routes.Kurali resident Santokh Singh said: “There was no power in our area for the whole night, but the officials are not even responding to the calls.”People also protested against the erratic supply in Dera Bassi, Majri and Siswan. They blocked the roads and raised slogans against the authorities concerned.“Due to increase in temperature and humid conditions, the demand for power has increased manifold. The situation will improve as we have imposed a cut on industries,” said Ravinder Singh Saini, PSPCL Chief Engineer (South Zone).Meanwhile, the residents said it was difficult to do their day-to-day works without electricity in this hot and humid weather. Inverters have also conked out, they said.The worst-affected are the children who have their online classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-mercury-rises-mohali-dist-reels-under-long-power-cuts-277040
02-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CITCO again asks Chandigarh admn to reimburse over Rs 10 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1Facing financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) has again sought reimbursement of nearly Rs10.79 crore from the UT Administration on account of expenses incurred for running a UT Guest House in New Delhi and a canteen at the UT Secretariat in the city.The corporation has been running and managing the UT Secretariat canteen since April 1983 and the New Delhi guest house since November 1984.In a letter to the Director, Hospitality, the corporation has again sought reimbursement of Rs8.85 crore on account of expenses incurred on running the canteen and Rs1.94 crore on account of running the guest house.The CITCO authorities stated that on February 24, 1995, the UT Administration had sanctioned subsidy of Rs50,000 per month. However, it was not disbursed to CITCO till date. Letter to Director, HospitalityIn a letter to the Director, Hospitality, the corporation has sought reimbursement of Rs8.85 crore on account of expenses incurred on running the canteen and Rs1.94 crore on account of running the guest house.It was further submitted that the subsidy was not increased on an annual basis in view of the increase in vis-a-vis consumer price index. The authorities stated that from financial year 2009-10 to 2017-18, CITCO had incurred average loss of Rs75 lakh per annum on yearly basis, whereas the subsidy of Rs50,000 per month is negligible as compared to the losses. In view of the facts mentioned, the authorities again requested for the reimbursement of expenses incurred by CITCO on actual basis for running and managing the canteen from 1994-95.Similarly, the authorities stated that a letter was sent to the Secretary, Hospitality, on February 7, 2020, with a request to reimburse the expenses of Rs1.94 crore incurred for running the UT Guest House in New Delhi from 2011-12 to 2018-19. It was, therefore, again requested to reimburse the expenses at the earliest.A senior official said several reminders had already been sent for the reimbursement of expenses for running the canteen and the guest house, but the Administration did not release any payment till date.Kashmir Chand, chairman, CITCO Progressive Workers’ Union, stated that the UT Administration should reimburse the expenses at the earliest to support the corporation, which was facing financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-again-asks-chandigarh-admn-to-reimburse-over-rs-10-crore-277036
02-07-2021||---||Ensure liquor vends adhere to timings, Chandigarh DC asks excise officials||Chandigarh, July 1 Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT, has asked officials of the Excise and Taxation Department to ensure that all liquor vends adhere to the prescribed timings. The Deputy Commissioner gave the directions while presiding over a review meeting of the excise branch of the department. Recently, a liquor vend was reportedly found flouting the timings fixed by the UT Administration. During the meeting, RK Popli, Collector, Excise and Taxation Department, shared that 93 liquor vends were allotted during the current policy year i.e. 2021-22 and the city had 12 bottling plants. He also briefed Mandip Singh Brar regarding the steps being followed by the bottling plants for producing liquor and the checks that were in place for enforcement activities. The Deputy Commissioner directed the officers to ensure that all mandatory enforcement measures as per the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, and the corresponding Rules should be strictly enforced by the ETOs/ETIs. He also directed that each consignment should be against only valid permit/pass. The officials were further directed to ensure that all issues pertaining to inter-state smuggling be enquired in a time-bound manner and penal action, if necessary, be taken as per the Act. Any negligence in this regard would not be tolerated and strict disciplinary action would be taken against the officials concerned. The meeting was attended by senior officers, including Sorabh Kumar Arora, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, and all Excise & Taxation inspectors. Demolition drive held Chandigarh: On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, a demolition drive was carried out outside the periphery of Daria village on Thursday. It was held under the supervision of SDM (East) Ruchi Singh Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-liquor-vends-adhere-to-timings-chandigarh-dc-asks-excise-officials-277037
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees no new death, 10 Covid cases||One death, 32 fresh cases in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,050. Meanwhile, 32 fresh cases surfaced in the district. Among the new cases, eight came from Mohali (urban). TNSNo fatality, three test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported three fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall case tally to 30,589. With no new death, the toll remained at 374. As many as 30,161 patients have recovered. The recovery rate stands at 98.60 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-no-new-death-10-covid-cases-277153
02-07-2021||Panchkula||Dharamvir Singh new Panchkula MC chief||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dharamvir-singh-new-panchkula-mc-chief-277152
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Met predicts light rain in Chandigarh for 3 days||City residents can expect some respite from the hot weather for three days as the monsoon is likely to become active again. Partly cloudy conditions with light rain are expected for three days — July 2 to 4. There is a prediction of a dust storm, accompanied by gusty winds blowing at a speed of about 40 kmph.The maximum temperature recorded in the city today was 40.8°C, five degrees above normal, while the minimum was 28.4°C, four degrees above normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/met-predicts-light-rain-in-chandigarh-for-3-days-277151
02-07-2021||Mohali||Shops, eateries in Mohali dist to open on Sunday too||With a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has now permitted certain additional activities. Girish Dayalan, District Magistrate, has permitted all non-essential shops and restaurants to open on Sunday as well from 5 am to 7 pm. IELTS coaching institutes have been allowed to open subject to obeying the curfew timings, provided their teachers, staff and students have had at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. It shall be the personal responsibility of the owner to ensure strict adherence to these norms.Dayalan said skill development centres and universities would be allowed to open on the condition that the staff and students should have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. He said bars, pubs and taverns would be allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity. However, the social distancing protocol must be maintained and waiters and other employees should have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. He said any violation of the orders shall invite action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-eateries-in-mohali-dist-to-open-on-sunday-too-277150
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||1 killed as car jumps red light, hits auto at Transport light point in Chandigarh||One person was killed and another injured after the auto they were travelling in was hit by a car that reportedly jumped the red light at the Transport light point in the wee hours of today.According to the police, the auto, carrying fruits, was heading from Tribune Chowk towards the vegetable market in Sector 26 when a speeding Hyundai Xcent, heading towards the Kala Gram light point, jumped the red light and hit the auto from the left side. Auto driver Harish and Anish, who was in the auto, were seriously injured. They were taken to the GMSH-16 where Anish was declared brought dead. The car driver, Raj Kumar of Paonta Sahib, HP, was arrested. He was later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-killed-as-car-jumps-red-light-hits-auto-at-transport-light-point-in-chandigarh-277148
02-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Work on care centre for dogs, cattle in Chandigarh delayed further||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1While city residents have been complaining of stray dog bite cases and cattle menace, the already-delayed animal birth control (ABC) centre, which will house a cattle pound and a dog care shelter in Raipur Kalan, has been delayed further.The facility, which had to come up last year, has again been delayed and the MC now claims the facility work will take three more months to complete.Meanwhile, city ‘gaushalas’ and cattle pounds are forced to operate at the full capacity.“Everybody knows the cattle enter from border areas such as Jagatpura, Mohali, Rajiv Colony and Faida. Why can’t the MC stop it? In city, rearing a cow is banned, then why the MC is releasing the confiscated cattle of the owners with city addresses,” questioned councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said: “After our cattle pound in Raipur is ready, we will be able to do more. In three months’ time, the facility will be ready.” Officials blame Covid as well as funds shortage for the delay in the construction.Even the dog sterilisation drive would have gained pace had this facility started. At present, the civic body carries out the sterilisation at its Sector 38 centre, but Raipur Kalan one has a space for sterilising 1,000 dogs.About 40 dog bite cases on an average are daily reported at the city medical facilities, though some of these are from the neighbouring towns.The upcoming facility, which is built on 2 to 2.50 acres, will have hospital, laboratory, kitchen, parking lot and a dormitory for workers.Former UT Adviser Manoj Parida had laid the foundation stone for the project in October 2019. It was supposed to be built in a year. However, it’s been almost two years and project is still incomplete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-care-centre-for-dogs-cattle-in-chandigarh-delayed-further-277025
02-07-2021||---||Little cheer for Chandigarh Housing Board in property auction||Chandigarh, July 1The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) received a poor response to the auction held for commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis today.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 11 built-up dwelling units and 156 commercial units on a leasehold basis. The last date for the submission of e-bids was June 30 and the bids were opened today.A total of six e-bids were received against 11 dwelling units and the CHB could sell only two units to the highest bidders. Similarly, 16 e-bids were received against 156 commercial units and only 12 units could be sold to the highest bidders.The total reserve price of the two dwelling units was Rs1.70 crore while the total highest bids received against these units was Rs1.75 crore.For the 12 commercial units, the total reserve price was Rs5.65 crore while the total highest bids received against these units was Rs6.55 crore.One HIG flat in Sector 39 was sold to the highest bidder for Rs1.06 crore while the highest bid for a commercial unit in Mani Majra was Rs81.51 lakh.The CHB has received about 13 per cent above the reserve price of these units.In a previous auction of commercial properties on a leasehold basis held in 2019, not a single property could be sold. Similarly, there were no takers for nine residential properties on a leasehold basis.“Considering that there was total secrecy about the number of bids and the bid amount, the CHB could better competitive prices. Though single bids were received for many dwelling units, it was considerably higher than the reserve price. Hence e-tender resulted in better revenue for the CHB,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.He said a different e-tender for 55 dwelling units on a freehold basis is going on and the last date for submission of e-bids is July 5 by 6 pm.The remaining unsold units would be included in the fresh e-tender in the next few days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/little-cheer-for-chandigarh-housing-board-in-property-auction-277026
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Honour for kin of doctors who lost lives to Covid-19||The Rotary Club Chandigarh Central, in association with the IMA, today organised an event to felicitate doctors, who had put their lives at a risk during the pandemic, at the IMA House to mark National Doctor’s Day today.The families of four doctors of the tricity, who lost their lives during the pandemic, were honored, along with 18 doctors of the Chandigarh Administration and five doctors from private hospitals.“The Rotary Club decided to honour the doctors to encourage them during these challenging times. The club also thanked the families of doctors for supporting them on this journey,” stated a press release.“Services rendered by nurses and other healthcare workers were also appreciated. Certificates of recognition were issued to 52 healthcare workers, though they were not present due to Covid regulations,” the release added.Those honored included Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services (UT). — TNSCyclists visit PGI Chandigarh: The BYCS Chandigarh Cycling celebrated National Doctor’s Day by organising a cycle ride in the city. More than 60 cyclists visited the PGI to honour doctors and physicians. They also paid homage to doctors who sacrificed their lives to save people. Later, the cyclists went on a ride till Sukhna Lake and created awareness on the occasion. TNS Sood honours DocsChandigarh: City BJP president Arun Sood today went to various hospitals of Chandigarh and congratulated and honored them with bouquets. Sood said doctors served patients day and night and did not care for their lives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/honour-for-kin-of-doctors-who-lost-lives-to-covid-19-277027
02-07-2021||---||Medical team  of the Army felicitated||Chandigarh, July 1 The faculty and staff of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, today extended their felicitations to the medical team from Western Command that had set up facilities at the institute to deal with cases of black fungus among civilians. The team, comprising about 25 battlefield nursing assistants (BFNAs), had been deployed at the institute for the past 35 days. With the decrease in the number of cases and relative lessening of the burden on the healthcare system, BFNAs will now resume their duties at their respective Army establishments. Dr Bhavneet Bharti, Director-Principal of the institute, lauded the role of the BFNAs and thanked the Western Command for extending its support in dealing with the turbulent situation. Col JS Sandhu, Director, Civil Military Affairs, Western Command, said the Army would provide all possible assistance to civilian hospitals if the need arose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medical-team-of-the-army-felicitated-277030
02-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||‘Served’ non-veg food, Punjab man seeks Rs 9 lakh compensation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1Himanshu Rai, a resident of Jalandhar, has sought a compensation of Rs9 lakh from a city restaurant for allegedly serving him with non-vegetarian food instead of the vegetarian food that he had ordered.Rai had approached the Consumer Commission through advocate Vikas Khatkar. The commission has issued a notice to the restaurant to file a reply by September 22.In the petition, Rai claimed that the alleged mistake of the restaurant has caused immense shock and mental trauma to him. Rai demanded from the commission that a direction should be issued to the restaurant to tender an apology in writing and refund the bill amount of Rs210, along with interest @ 18 per cent per annum. He also demanded that the restaurant may also be directed to pay Rs9 lakh towards damages and compensation for harassment and mental agony, along with Rs15,000 litigation expenses.He alleged that he came to Chandigarh for a personal work on February 12 and went to M/S Tikka Freaks in Sector 8-B. He ordered ‘veg paneer tikka masala’. He said he was shocked to see a large piece of chicken in the curry in the food items served to him. He is a pure vegetarian and highly religious person. The incident came as a blow and hurt his religious sentiments. He said he was suffering from huge mental depression and anxiety.He is unable to forgive the damage done to him. Rai said the gravity of the mistake increased with the fact that the incident happened on the day of “Makar Sakranti”, an auspicious Hindu festival. He said a legal notice was also served upon the respondent. However, the respondent neither apologised to the complainant nor replied to the legal notice till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/served-non-veg-food-punjab-man-seeks-rs-9-lakh-compensation-277031
02-07-2021||Mohali||Balongi youth booked on charge of rape||The police have booked a youth for allegedly raping a 28-year-old girl on pretext of marriage and forcing her to undergo abortion. The accused has been identified as Gurinder Singh, a resident of Balongi village. The victim, a native of Haryana, told the police that she was working for a private firm in Sector 17, Chandigarh.  The girl said she became friends with Gurinder and they used to go to office together.  She said they had met with an accident and after she recovered, Gurinder took her to his house in Balongi where she stayed for two days.  At that time, Gurinder proposed me for marriage but sought some time, she said. On December 14 last year, the accused visited the girl at her rented accommodation and forcibly made physical relations with her, said the police.  Later, Gurinder continued to have physical relations with the girl on pretext of marriage, they added.  The victim said when she became pregnant, she asked Gurinder to marry her, but he forced her to undergo an abortion. She further said on January 14, Gurinder fraudulently took her to Shimla and made physical relations with her at a hotel room without her consent. Now he is refusing to marry me, claimed the girl. After investigation, the police have registered a case under Section 313 and 376(2) of the IPC against Gurinder. Sub Inspector Uma Devi, investigating officer, said the accused was absconding and raids were being conducted to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balongi-youth-booked-on-charge-of-rape-277032
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||UK graduate route opens||A new graduate immigration route has been opened by the UK Home Secretary, Priti Patel, to allow Indian students an opportunity to stay longer in the UK after they have finished their studies. The graduate route will provide an opportunity to international students, who have been awarded their degree to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, at any skill level for at least two years. Applicants to the route will be able to apply in a fully digital way, using the UK immigration’s ID check smartphone app. Successful applicants will be issued an eVisa.  “Under the UK Government’s points-based immigration system, students from India and across the globe now have the opportunity to kick start their careers in the UK at the highest levels of business, science, technology and the arts,” said Priti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uk-graduate-route-opens-277033
02-07-2021|| Panchkula||1.5-kg hair mass removed from kid’s stomach||Doctors at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here today removed a ball of hair weighing 1.5 kg from the stomach of a five-year-old girl.  Dr Vivek Bhadoo, who led a five-member team that conducted the hour-long surgery, said the girl was stable. “After getting the girl’s medical examination conducted, it came to light that she was suffering from a rare disease called trichobezoar,” he said.  “Under this medical condition, patients tear their own hair and eat them. After a certain period, the hair forms a hard lump inside the stomach. It leads to symptoms like loss of appetite and weight and abdominal distension,” Dr Bhadoo informed. “If not treated on time, it could lead to malnourishment and other complications,” he said. Dr Bhadoo revealed that the girl couldn’t eat properly for the past 3-4 months. The girl from Mauli Jagran was taken to hospital after she complained of abdominal pain for many days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-5-kg-hair-mass-removed-from-kids-stomach-277035
02-07-2021||On December 9||What led to the crime||He was allegedly eliminated by his three accomplices after an unsuccessful loot attempt at Shri Gold Testing Lab in Sector 23, Chandigarh. The suspects have been identified as Pargat Singh (29), a resident of Dhilwal village, Patiala, Navdeep Singh of Shadipur village in Patiala and Lovepreet Singh, alias love, of Nagoke village in Tarn Taran. All accused were residing at a flat in Ivory Tower, Sector 70, Mohali. While Pargat has been arrested, the other two are at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/what-led-to-the-crime-277121
02-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Seven months on, Mohali cops crack murder case||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 1Nearly seven months on, the Mohali police have cracked a blind murder case with the arrest of three members of a carjackers’ gang. Nine expensive vehicles, including an SUV, have been recovered from their possession.What led to the crimeThe suspects have been identified as Pargat Singh (29), a resident of Dhilwal village, Patiala, at present residing at Ivory Tower in Sector 70, Karamjit Singh (29), alias Lucky, a resident of Jalalpur village, Patiala, and Satwant Singh (33), alias Bittu, a resident of Lalodi village, Patiala. They were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody.On December 9, the Mohali police had recovered the body of a youth from a Tata Tigor car in Nanu Majra village, Sector 82. The victim was identified as Jaspreet Singh, alias Billa, a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, Chandigarh. On a statement of the victim’s brother, a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered against unknown persons at the Sohana police station.Before committing the murder, the suspects, along with the victim, had allegedly tried to loot gold and cash at gunpoint at Shri Gold Testing Lab in Sector 23-C, Chandigarh, and in the scuffle, two men fired shots injuring the owner, Sanjay Kumar, before fleeing the spot.A case under Section 307, 392 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered in this regard at the Sector 17 police station, Chandigarh.SSP Satinder Singh said the Mohali CIA staff identified the three suspects involved in the murder of Jaspreet Singh. They were identified as Pargat Singh of Dhilwal village, Navdeep Singh of Shadipur village in Patiala and Lovepreet Singh, alias love, of Nagoke village in Tarn Taran. All of them were residing at a flat in Ivory Tower. The SSP said on November 12 last year, the suspects had also robbed a Ford Endeavour at gunpoint from Sector 82 and fled from the spot. A case under Section 379-B, 411, 365, 467, 468, 471, 473 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Sohana police station.The SSP said on June 21, Pargat Singh was arrested by the CIA team from Sector 40, Gurugram, in the murder case. He said during interrogation, the suspect revealed that he, along with his accomplices, had robbed vehicles at gunpoint, tampered with their chassis numbers and made forged number plates and RCs before selling them off.He said the police were able to recover the robbed Endeavour. Apart from this, eight cars and a Bullet motorcycle were recovered.He said during investigation, it came to the fore that the gang used high-tech instruments. They could easily open a vehicle fitted with an anti-burglary system and de-assemble a vehicle in less than two hours after stealing it.He said various teams had been formed and raids were being conducted to nab the other two suspects in the murder case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-months-on-mohali-cops-crack-murder-case-277120
