03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 18 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 18 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the administration showed on Saturday.Chandigarh now has 149 cases. The average positivity rate over the last week stands at 0.71 per cent.The UT reported no new deaths. Its fatality count still stands at 808.Sixteen people recovered in hospitals and home isolation across the union territory, the bulletin shows.The bulletin showed 4,55,623 people have been given at least one dose of the Covid-19, and 95,470 are fully vaccinated in the union territory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-18-new-covid-19-cases-277753
03-07-2021||---||CWG body pulls plug on 2022 shooting, archery meet in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 2The Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) has cancelled the 2022 Commonwealth Archery and Shooting Championships citing “uncertainty created by the ongoing global pandemic”. The statement by the CGF has caught Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra and National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) chief Raninder Singh on a sticky wicket as the duo led the calls to boycott the 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games after shooting was dropped from the Games programme.“We are disappointed that the 2022 Commonwealth Archery and Shooting Championships will no longer take place however, this is the right decision to take in the current climate,” CGF president Dame Louise Martin said in a statement.The shooting and archery championships were a contentious issue within the IOA ever since the announcement of the standalone events in India by the CGF. Despite Batra stating that the medals won at the Indian events will be part of the medals tally of the 2022 Games, a top source had clarified to The Tribune last year that the medals won in Chandigarh would not be added to the main tally of the Birmingham Games.Even last month, Batra had to face the ire of the IOA executive when the CGF informed that the medals won at the standalone events will not be part of the main tally.IOA secretary general Rajeev Mehta had then sought the opinion of the executive members whether to go ahead with the meets.The latest development has once again opened a new front within the IOA, with vice-president Sudhanshu Mittal targeting Batra for failing to deliver on his promise.“We don’t actually know what transpired between the CGF and Mr Batra. I can only assume that today’s development is a direct reaction of him falling out with the CGF top officials,” Mittal said.“CGF’s statement about cancelling the meet is also surprising but to be honest this is a sad day for Indian sports,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cwg-body-pulls-plug-on-2022-shooting-archery-meet-in-chandigarh-277614
03-07-2021||---||Power pangs raise heat in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 2Residents of Zirakpur have run out of patience. They are out on roads to protest frequent power outages in this hot, humid weather. For the past three-four days, the power situation here has become acute with 12-15-hour power cuts being imposed on a daily basis even though the situation was slightly better today.Baltana residents hold protestLed by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, hundreds of Baltana residents on Friday raised slogans against the Punjab Government and PSPCL officials. They demanded immediate restoration of 24-hour power supply. “What is the fault of residents? They pay the highest rate per unit. Why are basic facilities being denied to us,” said Baldev Kumar, a Baltana resident.PSPCL Executive Engineer Khushwinder Singh claimed, “The situation has improved considerably. Officials of the department are trying their best to provide uninterrupted supply.”Residents said due to long power outages, even inverters became useless. Some said charging mobile phones too had become a big task. “There is a lot of voltage fluctuation. All electrical appliances run the risk of damage. The voltage is so low during the three-four hours when power is there that ACs do not work and fans move at a snail’s pace,” said Alok Mishra, a Guru Nanak Enclave resident.A senior citizen from Dhakoli, K Kapoor, said, “There is a loss of Rs500 to Rs1000 every day in the form of food items, milk, curd, ice cream, vegetables and fruits kept in the refrigerator. PSPCL officials are highly irresponsible. At first, they do not pick up the phone despite repeated calls. If they take the call, they misbehave with the caller.”The power cut scenario may be a recent development but electric power supply has been hit in Zirakpur for decades. There is a weekly scheduled power cut of five to six hours. With increasing power demand every year, the infrastructure cannot match the pace of population growth. There is an urgent need to upgrade old transformers and wires in the area.Officials said power distribution was a major bane of this region. Unauthorised power connections and power theft too take away a big share.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-pangs-raise-heat-in-zirakpur-277437
03-07-2021||---||SAD workers protest erratic power supply in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 2Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Urban) today staged a protest in front of the office of the XEN at the 66 kV sub-station in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, Mohali, against the erratic power supply.The protesters, led by SAD (Urban) district president Kanwaljit Singh Ruby, raised slogans against the Punjab Government and the Power Department.“Due to the poor performance of the Punjab Government and daily power cuts, the public is facing a lot of difficulty in the prevailing hot and humid conditions,” said Ruby.He said dharnas were staged outside the power grids across the state to “wake up” the state government.SAD (Urban) district secretary general Sarabjit Singh Paras said: “Not only in villages, people living in cities are also facing problems due to unscheduled power cuts.”“The power board is selling electricity to various states at higher rates, while people in the state are without power,” claimed Paras.“Punjab residents still remember the 10 years of the Akali government when there was no power cut and people had forgotten to install inverter batteries,” he said.Paras said keeping in view the difficulties faced by people, Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal had called for holding dharnas across the state.“We are being forced to protest and wake up this dormant government. If the government fails to resolve the issue, we will intensify the protest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-workers-protest-erratic-power-supply-in-mohali-277451
03-07-2021||---||Southern sectors of Chandigarh reel under power outages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Amid intense heat, residents of southern sectors bore the brunt of long power cuts on Thursday night as the demand reached a high of 405 MW. Many areas faced electricity outages for up to four hours.‘Tough for elderly’Ajay Pal, a resident of Sector 63, said there was no electricity in the area from 10.45 pm to 2.30 am, making it difficult for elders and children to bear the heat.Ajay Pal, a resident of Sector 63, said there was no electricity in the area from 10.45 pm to 2.30 am, making it difficult for elders and children to bear the heat.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Associations’ Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said he received complaints of long power cuts from RWAs of Sector 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 45, 45, 47, 50, etc. In Sector 43, there was no electricity from 11 pm to 1.30 am on Thursday night. The situation was no different in other areas of southern sectors. Students and people working from home were the worst sufferers during the long power cuts, he added.Baljinder Singh Bittu, president, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh, said the supply was near normal today but it was marred by voltage fluctuation.Anil Dhamija, Superintending Engineer (Electricity), said the peak hour consumption had reached 405 MW on Thursday. Due to a breakdown in a circuit in Mohali, various areas in southern sectors faced electricity outage, he said and added that the fault was rectified and normal power supply was restored last night only. He, however, said the power supply during the day was normal and the consumption also came down due to change in weather today.While monsoon is yet to arrive, the temperature has been on the rise in the city. The UT Meteorology Department has predicted cloudy conditions with a possibility of light rain tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/southern-sectors-of-chandigarh-reel-under-power-outages-277462
03-07-2021||Amit Bathla||‘Inverter-free’ Panchkula far-off dream, power cuts continue||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 2Even though the Haryana Government has promised to make Panchkula an ‘inverter-free’ city, for residents bearing the brunt of unscheduled power outages over the past one week, it seems like a far-off dream.Twitter flooded with complaints‘Voltage fluctuates’Due to the electricity fluctuations on the night of June 27, our home appliances got damaged. It cost us around Rs60,000. - Nirbhay, a resident of Sector 4, MDCEarlier this year, state Power Minister Ranjit Singh had said that the state government was planning to provide uninterrupted power supply to make Gurugram and Panchkula inverter-free cities.Power outages amid the sweltering temperature have only added to residents’ woes. From urban pockets to places such as Kalka, Pinjore, Barwala, Raipur Rani and Morni, hardly any area has been left untouched. For students and employees working from home, it’s another obstacle in the scorching weather.“The power supply has become awry with no predictable pattern to the power cuts. The increased power cuts could not have come at a worse time as when temperatures hover above 40°Celsius,” said Munish of Sector 15.“There have been frequent electricity cuts in Panchkula for the past one month. There is a power cut almost every day (both during the day and night hours). It’s hard for people like us working from home or studying online. If this is happening in a well-planned city, what would be the situation villages?” said Sarthak Nath, adding that not everyone had inverters or generators at their homes.Apart from power cuts, residents are worried about low-voltage issues and its impact on expensive electronic appliances such as LED televisions and air conditioners, stabilisers notwithstanding.“Due to the electricity fluctuations on the night of June 27, our home appliances got damaged. It cost us around Rs60,000,” said Nirbhay of Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex (MDC).SK Nayar, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), said: “Our sleep gets disturbed due to power cuts during the night hours. For the past many days, it has become a daily occurrence. We have been clearing our bills on time, but authorities have failed to ensure uninterrupted power supply. All tall claims of making the city inverter-free are nothing but mere eyewash.”However, UHBVN Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) Rajender Kumar Rohilla denied any shortage of electricity.“A lot of problems occur due to a huge demand of electricity due to the unrestricted use of air conditioners and other heavy appliances in every second house, resulting in breakdown from overloading. However, we do ensure the power is restored as soon as possible in the area where the fault has occurred,” he said, adding that the UHBVN has sufficient electricity power to meet the current electricity demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inverter-free-panchkula-far-off-dream-power-cuts-continue-277487
03-07-2021||Mohali||Vaccination camps in Mohali today||Mega vaccination camps would be organised at government health institutions in the district on July 3.Acting District Immunisation Officer Vikrant Nagra said the purpose of the special campaign was to vaccinate as many people as possible. He said there was no shortage of anti-Covid vaccine in the district. He said the vaccination was being provided free of cost at government health institutions and people should get benefit from it.Nagra said the vaccine improved the immune system and had no side effect. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-camps-in-mohali-today-277492
03-07-2021||---||4 of gang nailed with 21 stolen vehicles in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 2The police have busted an inter-state gang of vehicle thieves with the arrest of four members. Twenty-one luxury vehicles have been recovered from the suspects.A case of theft, forgery and criminal conspiracy under Sections 379, 411, 420, 465, 467, 468, 473 and 120 of the IPC was registered at the Balongi police station on June 10. The police then launched an investigation into the case and arrested four persons, identified as Ramjeet Singh, Girish Bamby, alias Garry, Chanpreet Singh and Maninder Singh.During the investigation, it came to light that the kingpin, Ramjeet Singh, who has studied till the senior secondary level, was booked in 70 to 80 cases of vehicle thefts in different states and was the kingpin of the gang. Ramjeet Singh is a proclaimed offender (PO) since 2012.Another suspect, Chanpreet Singh, has also been booked in 20 to 25 criminal cases and is a PO after having jumped bail.The suspects used to sell the stolen cars to Bamby, who would later tamper with the chasis number to sell the vehicles further. The police have named 16 suspects in the case and raids are on to nab them.Modus operandiThe suspects used to open cars with a scale or used to break the rear window glass to open these. They used to bypass the Engine Control Module of the vehicle using zero ECM and start the vehicle. Then they used the ECM D-code of the stolen vehicle to steal the next vehicle.The stolen vehicles were sold in different cities in India. The stolen vehicles were parked at parks in Amritsar and at parking lots in Tarn Taran district. The interrogation of the gang members has so far revealed that the gang has stolen about 100 cars. ‘’A total of 16 other suspects have been named during the investigation, who are yet to be arrested. A large number of stolen vehicles are likely to be recovered from them,’’ said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-gang-nailed-with-21-stolen-vehicles-in-mohali-277494
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Youth dies in hit-and-run near Poultry Farm chowk||In a hit-and-run case, a 21-year-old pedestrian was killed after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle near the Poultry Farm chowk.Complainant Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Mauli Jagran, reported that the driver of the unknown vehicle sped away after hitting his brother Mukesh on the road between the Poultry Farm chowk and the Hallo Majra light point on June 30. Mukesh used to work at a car wash centre in Sector 27 and was returning home from work when the incident took place.The victim was admitted to the GMCH-32 where he later died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-in-hit-and-run-near-poultry-farm-chowk-277495
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 12 cases of Covid-19||No death, 4 cases in Panchkula Panchkula: The district on Friday reported four fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 30,593. With no fresh death, the Covid toll stood at 374. While 30,165 patients have recovered from the infectious disease, the active caseload stands at 54. The recovery rate is 98.60 per cent. — TNSMohali cases in single digit after 14 monthsMohali: After over 14 months, the fresh case tally in the district touched the single digit with seven Covid-19 cases being reported during the past 24 hours. Last year, on April 26, the district had reported eight cases. Meanwhile, one person died of Covid and 27 patients recovered from the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-12-cases-of-covid-19-277498
03-07-2021||Naina Mishra||64% Covid patients formed antibodies during hospital stay: PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Researchers from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have found that the antibody response increases gradually, with a maximum of 81 per cent patients forming antibodies against Covid-19 after 16 days of stay in hospital.Findings of PGI studyThe samples of 103 Covid-19 patients were collected at the PGI during their hospital stay. The presence of antibody (seropositivity) was seen in 64% patients. Of them, 33% developed antibodies within seven days.The study found that 64 per cent patients had formed antibodies during the hospital stay, while the remaining failed to show antibody response against the viral infection.Dr Pankaj Malhotra from the Internal Medicine Department, PGI, said: “This does not imply that patients did not develop antibodies at all. Some may have developed antibodies later, but a majority of them (80 per cent) developed antibodies in 16 days of the stay in hospital.”The maximum antibodies produced increased after 16 days of admission to a hospital with a cut-off index 13.85. This was significantly higher than antibody production at seven days and between 8 and 15 days.The samples of 103 Covid-19 patients were collected at the PGI during their hospital stay. The presence of antibody (seropositivity) was seen in 64 per cent patients. Of them, 33 per cent developed anitibodies at seven days, 62 per cent between eight and 15 days, and 81 per cent at 16 days from the time of admission to the hospital.According to the study, Covid-19 had failed to develop antibody response in all patients. The failure to produce antibodies could be due to underlying immunocompromised states. Anemia and disseminated tuberculosis were observed in two of the patients with anti-SARS-CoV-2 negativity in this study.The study also found that men (65 per cent) showed higher antibody response than women (59 per cent), whereas no difference was observed in seropositivity with respect to the age of the patients. In this study, an almost similar percentage of adults (62 per cent), paediatric (64 per cent) and old patients (64 per cent) were seropositive. Although, the immune responses, in general, are known to differ in different age groupsPatients in the ICU had higher antibody reactivity with 67 per cent positivity as compared to 60 per cent seropositivity in non-ICU patients, which could be due to the high viral load in ICU patients during the initial period.The antibody production, however, was more in non-ICU patients with the value of 8.78 as compared to ICU patients with avalue of 3.90, which may be due to adequate antibody production in non-ICU patients in an early phase of infection enabling them to control the disease, thereby decreasing the severity, the study noted.The study was authored by Dr Jyotdeep Kaur and Dr Indu Verma of PGIMER and published in Indian Journal of Clinical Biochemistry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-covid-patients-formed-antibodies-during-hospital-stay-pgi-study-277499
03-07-2021||---||Thieves’ gang busted, seven bikes recovered||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 2The police today claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters and recovered seven stolen motorcycles.The suspects, involved in separate incidents, were arrested from different locations recently.A suspect who tried to steal a car was arrested on Thursday evening. He has been identified as Parminder Singh (18) of Nangal Chharbar village.The other suspects have been identified as Amritpal Singh, 21, a resident of Nangal Chharbar, Paramjit Singh, 21, a resident of Manoli Surat village, and Maloya residents Farman Khan, 21, and Mohammad Nazim, 21.Liquor seizedZirakpur: The police have arrested a shopkeeper with illicit liquor. The suspect, identified as Mubarikpur resident Sahil Sachdeva, 24, ran a grocery store in Maya Garden City on Nangla Road. The police recovered around 100 bottles of illicit liquor from the store. The liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh only. Two more suspects are yet to be arrested in the case, said the police. A case under the Excise Act has been registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-gang-busted-seven-bikes-recovered-277501
03-07-2021||Mohali||Charging Rs 14 for carry bag costs Vishal Mega Mart in Mohali Rs 20K||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Mohali, has imposed a penalty of Rs20,000 on Vishal Mega Mart in Phase V for charging Rs14 for a carry bag from a consumer.Commission president Sanjiv Dutt and member Inderjit ordered the firm to refund Rs14 to the complainant within 30 days, along with consolidated amount of compensation for harassment and litigation cost to the complainant to the tune of Rs1,000.The commissioner observed: “We feel that the carry bag is definitely a part and parcel of the sale and the store had no legal or moral right to charge extra amount for the carry bag in addition to the price of the articles purchased. Further, we are imposing punitive/exemplary cost to the tune of Rs20,000 on the store to refrain from such acts.”Preeti Kalia, a resident of Sector 23-D, Chandigarh, had averred that she visited Vishal Mega Mart with her husband on March 23, 2019, and was charged Rs14 extra for the carry bag/paper bag. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charging-rs-14-for-carry-bag-costs-vishal-mega-mart-in-mohali-rs-20k-277502
03-07-2021||---||Congress workers protest rising fuel prices, burn PM Modi’s effigy in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 2Congress party workers today burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Phase 7 light point here to protest the rising fuel prices and inflation.Led by district Congress (urban) president Jaspreet Singh Gill, the protestors raised slogans against the Modi government for its failure to control the prices of fuel and other essential items.Addressing the protestors, Gill said: “In the last seven years, the Union Government has given nothing but false promises to the people of the country.”“The Modi-led BJP government is sucking the blood of common man,” said Gill.“While lakhs of people have lost their jobs due to the Covid pandemic in the past more than one year, those who have not lost their jobs suffered salary cuts,” he said, adding that keeping in view the economic condition of the people amid the pandemic, the Centre should “immediately reduce the prices of petrol, diesel and gas by decreasing the taxes and provide some relief to the common man”.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Youth Congress president Kanwarbir Singh Sidhu, District Congress (Urban) president Mohan Singh Bathlana and Municipal Corporation councillors also participated in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-protest-rising-fuel-prices-burn-pm-modis-effigy-in-mohali-277503
03-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Man commits suicide, wife, in-laws booked||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 2A man reportedly committed suicide by jumping in the Bhakra Canal yesterday. His body was recovered at Ganda Kheri.The deceased has been identified as Jaswinder Singh, said the police.On the complaint of Harnek Singh, father of the deceased, the police have registered a case against Gurvindra Kaur, wife of the deceased, Labh Kaur, mother-in-law, and two others — Baljinder Singh and Darshan Singh — under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.The complainant said Jaswinder Singh’s wife used to quarrel with him and his in-laws used to interfere and threaten his son.He said on the night of June 27, his daughter-in-law had a quarrel with his son, after which he left the house on his motorcycle.Around 11.30 pm, Jaswinder Singh told his brother Balwinder Singh on the phone that he was going to the canal.The DSP said the body was handed over to the family after a postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-commits-suicide-wife-in-laws-booked-277504
03-07-2021||---||Activists up in arms against fuel price rise||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 2On a call given by the AICC, the District Congress Committee organised dharnas in all three Assembly constituencies of Fatehgarh Sahib district, including Amloh and Bassi Pathana, against the continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices.In Fatehgarh Sahib, the protest was led by Member Parliament Dr Amar Singh and MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra.In Amloh, MLA Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha and in Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP led the protests, said Subhash Sood, the DCC president. Effigies of the Union Government were also burnt at all protest sites.Addressing the gathering at Fatehgarh Sahib Dr Amar Singh and Kuljit Nagra said, “Due to continuous rise in fuel prices every section of society has been adversely affected.”“Petrol price has crossed Rs100 per litre. When Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh left the government in 2014, the price of gas cylinder was Rs438, but now it has crossed Rs800,” they said.Subhash Sood said, “People are waiting to wipe out the BJP in the coming polls.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activists-up-in-arms-against-fuel-price-rise-277505
03-07-2021||---||Challan filed against woman arrested for trespassing Haryana Chief Secretary's house||Chandigarh, July 2The Chandigarh Police have submitted a challan against a woman arrested for trespassing and deterring a policeman from performing his duty.The police had arrested the 42-year-old woman on April 16, when she allegedly tried to forcefully enter the house of the Haryana Chief Secretary in Sector 7, Chandigarh.As per the FIR, the woman initially tried to enter the house without informing the security guards, who stopped her. Later, she tried to enter the house by scaling the boundary wall.The woman, a resident of Jhajjar district in Haryana, was arrested after a case was registered against her under Sections 448 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station.The FIR was registered on the complaint of a policeman deputed at the official residence of the Chief Secretary. The next hearing in the case will be held on August 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/challan-filed-against-woman-arrested-for-trespassing-haryana-chief-secretarys-house-277506
03-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Protests over power crisis in Bassi Pathana||SAD and BSP workers, led by their respective Halka in-charge, held dharnas outside the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited offices in protest against “acute power shortage” in rural areas of the state.The protestors claimed that the government had failed to provide eight hours of regular power supply to the rural sector in the prevailing hot and humid weather.The SAD and BSP workers laid a siege to the PSPCL offices and grids in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana.Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress dispensation in Punjab had promised eight hours of uninterrupted power supply to the rural sector for the paddy plantation season. Instead of providing the regular power supply to the rural sector, the government is imposing undeclared power cuts, the SAD leaders said while addressing the protestors. During the SAD regime, Punjab had become a surplus state as far as the electricity was concerned.“Due to infighting among the Congress and wrong policies of the Chief Minister, the state is heading towards anarchy,” claimed the SAD leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protests-over-power-crisis-in-bassi-pathana-277508
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||PU faculty on American journal board||Dr Deepak B Salunke, Assistant Professor at the Department of Chemistry and Coordinator, National Interdisciplinary Centre of Vaccine, Immunotherapeutics and Antimicrobials, has been invited to serve as a member of the American Chemical Society’s Journal of Medicinal Chemistry Early Career Editorial Advisory Board (EAB) for a three-year term.As a member of the EAB, Dr Salunke’s role will be to advocate the journal at the international meetings to recruit high-quality submissions in the emerging areas of medicinal chemistry, provide advice on policy issues and serve as manuscript reviewer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-faculty-on-american-journal-board-277509
03-07-2021||---||2 booked on charge of raping minor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Two persons have been booked by the local police for allegedly raping a minor girl.The victim, aged around 17, reported that she had come in contact with the suspect, Majid Khan, a resident of Maloya, who had promised to help her in getting a job.She alleged that he raped her in a forest area in Sector 56 on April 8.Two weeks later, he again asked her to meet him and took her to a hotel in Sector 20, where he gave her a cold drink laced with sedatives after which he and his friend raped her.The suspects allegedly made her objectionable video and threatened her not to disclose the incident to anyone.She approached the police following which a case was registered against the two at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-booked-on-charge-of-raping-minor-277510
03-07-2021||---||Panel submits final report on PU governance reforms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2A high-level committee of experts, under the chairmanship of Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, which was constituted by Vice-President of India and Chancellor of Panjab University M Venkaiah Naidu, has submitted its final report. Other recommendationsThe committee, after holding detailed deliberations and taking into account the views of the stakeholders, the recommendations of other committees on governance reforms made hitherto and the governing structure of other prominent institutions of the country, has come up with its final recommendations.The committee has recommended that the governing bodies, Senate and Syndicate, be retained. The composition of the proposed Senate will be a combination of ex officio, elected and nominated members. The committee has recommended the downsizing of these bodies for enhanced efficiency. The existing 93-member Senate has been proposed to be of 47 members. Similarly, the number of members of the Syndicate has been recommended to be at 13, as against the existing 18.Changes in the composition of faculties have also been recommended that include doing away with the bifurcation of faculties as major and minor. While the present PU regulation prescribes 11 faculties, the committee has recommended 10 faculties.The present system of appointment of deans of faculties by election has been recommended to be replaced with their appointment from amongst the senior professors of the university on a seniority basis by rotation.In order to have a better coordination between colleges and the PU administration, and also to facilitate efficient service delivery to students, realignment of territorial jurisdiction of the PU is also recommended so that the colleges situated in close proximity of the PU (including those in Mohali and Roopnagar) may be affiliated to it and the colleges situated at distant places (as far as 200 km to 250 km) from the university be affiliated to other universities of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-submits-final-report-on-pu-governance-reforms-277511
03-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Beopar Mandal hails Centre’s decision||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has hailed the announcement of the Central Government that the retail and wholesale traders would now be included in the priority sector of micro small & medium enterprises (MSMEs).Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said they welcomed the announcement made by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari that all retail and wholesale trades in the country will be included in the category of MSMEs extending them the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines, thus making all traders eligible to all other benefits of special incentives, subsidised loans and financial assistance etc as already announced by the Finance Ministry during the corona crisis and in general to support the MSME sector.Diwakar Sahoonja, official spokesperson for the CBM, said being in the priority category of MSMEs, thousands of traders of the city would be immensely benefited in building bylaws related to easy low interest bank loans for commercial buildings, excise and taxation limits etc, thus providing a boost to traders to recover from their losses incurred during the corona lockdown period.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association ofSector 17, also welcomed the announcement made by Gadkri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-beopar-mandal-hails-centres-decision-277512
03-07-2021||Mohali||Doctor’s Day celebrated at Ivy Hospital, Mohali||National Doctor’s Day was celebrated at Ivy Hospital, Mohali, today. Doctors and para medical staff were appreciated for their work put in during the ongoing pandemic.Gurtej Singh, Chairman of Ivy Group of Hospitals, said: “There’s no better day than today to express our gratitude for our medical team. In these pandemic times, the role of frontline workers has become even more important. Kudos to the spirit and dedication of our frontline workers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-day-celebrated-at-ivy-hospital-mohali-277514
03-07-2021||---||Drivers made aware of traffic rules at Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 2Education cell of the Mohali traffic police, under SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh Kler, DSP Guriqbal Singh, constable Harjeet Kaur from District Administrative Courts Complex Sector 76, instructed the general public and members of various auto unions to ensure proper parking of vehicles. They advised the drivers against parking their vehicles on the road so as to reduce the number of accidents.The reflective tape was pasted on vehicles. The drivers were made aware about the traffic rules in detail.Kler said: “Drivers were advised against using pressure horns, jumping red light and under-age driving. They were advised to use indicators at turns and to keep complete documents of vehicles.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drivers-made-aware-of-traffic-rules-at-mohali-277515
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 39 gets new station house officer||Almost 12 days after Inspector Karam Chand was transferred from the security wing and posted as the SHO of the Sector 39 police station, the UT Police Department cancelled his transfer.In an order issued today by SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, Inspector Rakesh Kumar, who was posted at the PCR, has been transferred to the Sector 39 police station as the SHO.Sources said Karam Chand had expressed unwillingness to serve as the SHO, following which his transfer orders were cancelled. Meanwhile, DSP Traffic (south) Harjeet Kaur has been given the additional charge of the Economic Offences Wing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-39-gets-new-station-house-officer-277517
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kishangarh man duped of Rs 52,000||Varsity, institute to join handsChandigarh: Panjab University and Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, held deliberations to collaborate in the areas such as usage of drones in management/surveillance of forests, pharmacology for natural extracts, ecology, silviculture, chemical bioprocessing, in-vivo testing, genetics, environmental management and image processing for identification/counting of vegetation. The meeting was held at the FRI on June 30. TNSVC for redressal of issuesChandigarh: Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar on Friday urged the authorities concerned to address all the issues related to students on top priority. Chairing an online meeting of the chairpersons, the VC said an action plan was required, keeping in mind the forthcoming NAAC visit. He also informed that the PU was in the process of integrating all its labs for optimal utilisation. Prof Kumar also urged the chairpersons to upload information related to their activities on the university portal. For the welfare of PU residents, a grievance cell has been constituted and a portal has been created on which all the grievances can be uploaded for necessary action. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kishangarh-man-duped-of-rs-52-000-277519
03-07-2021||Moga||Cancel false cases by Chandigarh police,  demand farmers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cancel-false-cases-by-chandigarh-police-demand-farmers-277335
03-07-2021||Vijay C Roy||Amid Covid, surge in pawned jewellery sale||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Like a few of his counterparts, Mohinder Sharma (name changed) took loan against gold jewellery, typically considered to be a last resort by most households, from a non-banking financial company (NBFC). Having lost his job amid Covid-induced economic crisis, he was unable to repay the interest. This resulted in the NBFC auctioning his gold.Sharma is not the lone example, the advertisements in newspapers announcing the auction of gold jewellery by NBFCs in the last few months indicate the severe distress faced by households. The NBFCs have a lion’s share in the gold loan segment.Ideally, in case of a default in repayment, customers are given notice to repay. In case, they fail to repay the loan, the gold is auctioned.Sample this, Manappuram Finance, a non-banking finance company in the gold loan segment, auctioned gold worth Rs 404 crore in the January-March 2021 period as against a total auction of only Rs 8 crore in the April-December 2020 period.“We had an auction of around one tonne this year, which is pretty high,” VP Nandakumar, managing director and chief executive officer of Manappuram Finance, said after the declaration of the company’s full-year results in May.Manappuram offers gold loans only for a three-month tenure while other NBFCs like Muthoot Finance gives loans for 9-12 months. Banks invariably make one-year offers.According to NBFCs and banks, the crisis is apparent not only in urban areas but also in semi-urban and rural areas across the country. People are unable to pay the EMI of gold loan due to job losses amid pandemic and fall in gold prices. Gold prices had peaked to Rs 57,000 per 10 gram in August last year. After falling in March, gold prices have now recovered and are trading around Rs 49,000 per 10 gram.“As people lost their jobs and their earnings were affected, they were not able to pay interest in time last year. We give one additional month to clear the dues. If that is not honoured, we are left with no option but to auction the pawned gold,” said Manish Sharma, branch manager, Manappuram Finance, Burail (Chandigarh).Experts are of the view that the auctions would likely to be more in the coming months when gold loans with one-year tenure mature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-covid-surge-in-pawned-jewellery-sale-277572
