04-07-2021||---||Town planners body hosts talk on land pooling in urban planning||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh, July 4The Punjab chapter of the Institute of Town Planners, India (ITPI) hosted a talk in Chandigarh on the system of land pooling process and implementation of town planning schemes in Gujarat, one of the most urbanised states in the country, recently.The talk was delivered by N K Patel, National President of ITPI, a highly experienced and successful industry professional who served as a town planner in the Gujarat government and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) for 17 years before launching his own real estate venture.Gurpreet Singh, former Chief Town Planner of Punjab, and Pankaj Bajwa, Chief Town Planner of Punjab, along with the members of ITPI and invited dignitaries, had a discussion with N K Patel on “how cities can be better prepared to meet the challenges. How lessons from the past can be implemented to avoid the problems in the future, how sustainable development and innovative planning can be incorporated, and what role town planners can play.”Addressing the gathering, Patel said, “As India becomes rapidly urbanised, land management in cities has become critical to ensure planned development. Land pooling and town planning schemes are an effective land management tool.”“There are several advantages of the town planning mechanism. It is a win-win for all the stakeholders. Developed land remains with the original owner, while the local urban body can raise funds by selling the unused land and finance the development. The land is also reserved for public purposes such as schools, parks, playgrounds, hospitals, etc., and housing for economically weaker sections as a result,” he added.The ITPI president also made a presentation about the various aspects of land pooling and town planning and explained the nitty-gritty of the highly complex and technical process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/town-planners-body-hosts-talk-on-land-pooling-in-urban-planning-278207
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 10 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 10 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from its administration showed.The union territory now has 143 active cases. The UT reported no new deaths.Some 1,253 samples were tested over the last 24 hours. The UT’s average positivity rate over the last 24 hours is 0.67 per cent.The bulletin showed 16 people as having recovered from the infection over the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, 4,60,694 have had at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the union territory, and 97,253 have been fully vaccinated, the bulletin showed. Some 6,361 vaccines were administered on July 4, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-278179
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three vehicles stolen from Chandigarh||NGO gives ration to 500 personsMohali: Karmacircles, an NGO founded by Kashish Dhingra, a student of Sacred Heart School, celebrated its first anniversary by distributing ration among 500 underprivileged persons in various parts of Phase 11, Mohali. TNSFour arrested for riotingChandigarh: Four residents of Sector 38 were held on the charges of rioting and assaulting a Sector 40 resident and his family on July 1. Three of the suspects have been identified as Akshit (19), Akash (24) and Anil (31). Sector 40 resident Rajender Kumar alleged that Akshit, Vikas, Natwar and Anil, along with 20-25 accomplices, forcibly entered his house and assaulted him and his family members on July 1. A case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 352, 323, 427 and 506 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-vehicles-stolen-from-chandigarh-277949
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees no death, 18 new infections||12 fresh cases in Mohali, no deathMohali: The district witnessed 12 fresh Covid cases during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,298. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district on Saturday. As many as 35 patients recovered from the disease. Among the fresh cases, seven were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Lalru, Gharuan and Kharar and two from Dera Bassi. No case was reported from Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Banur and Kurali on Saturday. Of the 68,298 cases reported so far, 67,026 patients have been cured. There are 221 active cases. — TNSOnly two test positive in P’kula, no fatalityPanchkula: The district reported only two fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 30,595. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 374. While 30,176 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 45 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.63 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-no-death-18-new-infections-277948
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Worker dies due to 'medical negligence'||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worker-dies-due-to-medical-negligence-277942
04-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Play only in authorised tourneys, shuttlers told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3The Badminton Association of India (BAI) has again issued a strict advisory to affiliated players and coaches against participating in any unapproved tourneys.The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA), meanwhile, implemented the orders and asked its registered players to take prior permission before playing in any tourney.“We will abide by the orders,” said Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, CBA. The BAI had authorised only affiliated bodies to conduct championships. And in case of participation of players from other states, the affiliated units have to take a prior permission from the BAI.The BAI’s circular stated: “We are receiving requests from various clubs/private academies to allow them to conduct tournaments and in many instances, a few organisations are declaring conducting tournaments through advertisements or by approaching the players directly. These are not acceptable and permissible as per the BAI’s constitution. Hence, the units should strictly follow the guidelines and registered players/coach/staff will not be allowed to participate in any unauthorised tournaments. If they do so, they will be debarred from participating in BAI tourney and their BAI ID may also be deactivated.”“There are many private organisations which conduct tourneys without informing the local state units. The players are lured from the social media and a hefty entry fee is charged. The participation holds no value and parents later blame the state associations. By this means (issuing circular), we are making parents and players aware of playing only tourneys conducted by verified units,” said an BAI official.He said: “So far, we have asked all our state associations to keep a check on players. We will also make sure that no private organisation gets to exploit our players.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/play-only-in-authorised-tourneys-shuttlers-told-277941
04-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Garbage mess: MC lax as mini-dumping sites mushroom in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3Several spots have become permanent mini-waste dumping sites in different parts of the Smart City Chandigarh.At some places, people dump waste while at some places, labourers or waste collectors throw it. On its part, the MC has failed to check this open dumping of waste. Neither could it get it cleared nor challan the violators to discourage them from repeating the act.No wonder this well-planned City Beautiful failed to make it to the top 10 cleanest cities in the country for two consecutive years in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan.In the last year’s cleanliness survey, the city stood 16th while in 2019 it was ranked 20th. It is a big fall for the city, which was the third best in India in 2018.In a random check, waste was seen dumped at several areas, including a parking lot in Sector 17, the Sector 22 mobile market parking lot, an open ground in front of jhuggis in Sector 38, the Sector 26 grain market, an open ground in Sector 34 and southern sectors.“Some places have become mini-dumping grounds with no check from the corporation. Waste dumps can be seen on both sides of the road separating Sector 40-C and 40-D. People, who have construction work going on, dump debris in public places. Waste collectors also use such places to segregate garbage. Areas along the forest belt are the worst hit,” said VN Sharma, chairman, RWA, Sector 40.A shopkeeper at the Sector 22 market said, “The issue in our market is that we have big items to throw as waste and MC bins are small. Thus, shopkeepers throw it outside. The corporation should ensure they send a special vehicle to collect garbage from us.”Interestingly, the MC recently launched a month-long special sanitation drive under Swachh Bharat Mission, but mini-dumping sites seem to have been ignored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-mess-mc-lax-as-mini-dumping-sites-mushroom-in-chandigarh-277885
04-07-2021||---||Cart rider hit by car, dies||Dera Bassi, July 3 A 31-year-old cart rider died when a speeding car hit his vehicle in the rear side on the Chandigarh-Ambala road here last night.  The victim has been identified as Pravesh Kumar, a resident of Zirakpur village. The car driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. Mubarikpur police incharge Kamal Taneja said the incident took place around 11 pm when the victim was on his way back home with some waste material on a motorcycle cart. As he approached the Ghaggar bridge, the car hit him.  Parvesh Kumar died on the spot. The car driver too was injured in the mishap. The body was handed over to the victim’s kin after postmortem. The police have impounded the car and registered a case against its driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cart-rider-hit-by-car-dies-277887
04-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Govt establishments among top property tax defaulters||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 3Several government establishments, including the Mini-Secretariat wherein the Deputy Commissioner and other senior administrative official sit, are among the top property tax defaulters who owe crores of rupees to the Panchkula Municipal Corporation.“In the above Rs1-lakh category, as many as 999 individuals owe Rs37 crore to the corporation. A sum of around Rs17.5 crore is to be recovered from 14 establishments with each having due over Rs5 lakh. Top defaulters include hotels, banks, government institutions, schools and petrol pumps,” Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said.According to MC officials, the list of defaulters has only grown in recent years, leaving the civic body in poor financial health.Shalimar Mall biggest defaulter, owes in croresLying closed for the past several years, Shalimar Mall in Sector 5 here is said to be the biggest defaulter, but the civic body has ordered a revaluation of its dues. “The dues of the mall run in crores,” said Goyal.The MC General House in its third meeting held recently had announced the formation of a committee for the revaluation of property tax owed by the mall.As per the list, Suraj Theatre has Rs1.12 crore dues, Haryana Tourism Department’s Red Bishop Hotel Rs75.32 lakh, Gymkhana Club, Sector 3, Rs62.40 lakh, Haryana Government Press Rs32.22 lakh, a government office near the court complex (unspecified) Rs24.88 lakh and the Mini-Secretariat Rs17.71 lakh.“If the owners fail to clear the dues, their properties will be sealed,” Goyal warned, adding that notices had already been issued to the defaulters. According to him, the civic body expects property tax collection of Rs25 crore to Rs30 crore every year, but it only receives between Rs7 crore to Rs10 crore.“Last year, Rs11.50 crore was deposited into civic body accounts as property tax. This year, we have set a target of Rs25 crore,” he said.Defaulters’ list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-establishments-among-top-property-tax-defaulters-277888
04-07-2021||Mohali||Protesting AAP leaders brave water cannon||Protesting power cuts in Punjab, hundreds of workers and leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today staged a dharna at the Siswan T-point and later marched towards the farmhouse of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Mohali. They were demanding the Chief Minister’s resignation.State AAP president Bhagwant Mann and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, along with their supporters, were detained by the police. However, they were released later.The police had put up barricades to stop the protesters from moving towards the farmhouse. The protesters, after crossing the first line of barricades, tried to break the second line. However, the police used a water cannon to disperse them. In a gross violation of Covid-19 norms, the protesters clashed with the police.Addressing the protesters earlier, Bhagwant Mann said in this hot weather, people were not getting adequate power supply and were suffering due to daily power cuts. Being the Power Minister of the state, the Chief Minister should take moral responsibility for the current power crisis, he added.He said anti-Punjab power pacts and mafia rule, which were witnessed during the SAD-BJP government, were going on in the Congress regime as well, and there was no one to listen to the problems of common man. — TNSState AAP chief among 23 leaders bookedMohali: Twentythree leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), including state president Bhagwant Mann, leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema and four party MLAs, were booked on the charge of holding a large gathering and protesting near the Punjab CM’s farmhouse in Siswan. A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 (A) of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against 23 people by name and 200 unknown persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-aap-leaders-brave-water-cannon-277889
04-07-2021||---||Chandigarh logs 12.2-mm rainfall||Chandigarh, July 3 There was some relief from hot weather today as 12.2-mm rainfall was reported in the city in the past 24 hours. As per the forecast, weather is expected to remain generally cloudy with light rain. Thunderstorm at 30-40 km ph is likely to accompany the rain. The max temp, which had remained around 40°C for the past few days, today dropped to 36.5°C. It is, however, one degree above normal. Minimum temp was 22.4°C, two degrees below normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-12-2-mm-rainfall-277890
04-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh to get 2 lakh doses this month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3There will be no shortage of vaccine in the city as the Union Territory is all set to receive 2 lakh doses of Covishield for this month from the Central Government.Of the total doses, private hospitals will get 50,000 doses. The city is vaccinating 7,000 beneficiaries daily on an average. It has vaccinated 64 per cent of the eligible population above 18 years (4,55,623) with the first dose. Around 13 per cent (95,470) of the eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated.City’s Target Population above 18 years of age 7,09,180If the city inoculates eligible persons at the same rate (7,000 per day on an average), it can further vaccinate 2 lakh more beneficiaries by July-end. With six lakh beneficiaries receiving the first dose by this month-end, the city will be able to cover over 85 per cent of the population that is qualified for vaccination (above 18 years).Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director Health Services, Chandigarh, said: “To facilitate the vaccination of all college students (18 years and above), dedicated vaccination camps will start at three sites - PEC, Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26, and Post Graduate College, Sector 46, - from July 12. Our target is to achieve 100 per cent vaccination of college students.”Meanwhile, the vaccination target of healthcare and frontline workers in the city has exceeded 95 per cent.Vaccination is also picking up pace in the city. The UT administered highest number of 51,527 doses from June 26 to July 2. This is the highest weekly vaccination in the city ever since the start of the inoculation drive in January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-2-lakh-doses-this-month-277891
04-07-2021||---||Labourer found dead in tank||Chandigarh, July 3 A 31-year-old labourer was found dead in an empty water tank of an under-construction building in Sector 22 here today. The labourer, a native of Uttar Pradesh, has been identified as Dharmendra Kumar. The police suspect that Dharmendra had consumed liquor before he fell into the five-foot-deep uncovered tank. Dharmendra’s elder brother, who is also a labourer at the same site, spotted the body in the morning. The victim was rushed to the GMSH-16, where doctor declared him brought dead. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-found-dead-in-tank-277893
04-07-2021||---||Residents refuse to hand over trash to MC staff||Chandigarh, July 3Having received no response to their complaints and feedback, residents of Dhanas today refused to give garbage to collection vehicles in protest against the charges levied by the Municipal Corporation.They held banners and protested in front of the MC vehicles.Nitin Goyal, a resident of Dhanas, who is also the chief spokesman of the Aam Aadmi Party, said residents were earlier paying Rs50 to Rs70 per month for garbage collection. “Without consulting the residents, the MC introduced garbage collection vehicles at a hefty charge of Rs200 per kitchen and the service of these vehicles was poor than waste collection through rehris.”Avtar Singh, president of the Residents’ Welfare Society, said: “The garbage collection service to our area should be stopped immediately and the charges paid till date be adjusted in the upcoming water bills.”Gautam Diwan, General Secretary of Welfare Society, said residents had refused to hand over their garbage to the vehicles today as a mark of protest.If the MC failed to review its garbage collection policy, we will collect the garbage in trolleys and dump it at the houses of councillors and the Commissioner, he said.Anil Madaan, president of the Dhanas Market Welfare Association, said the official notification mandates garbage charges on the basis of per square yard area and there was no mention of the number of kitchens to be the basis of calculation of the garbage collection charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-refuse-to-hand-over-trash-to-mc-staff-277894
04-07-2021||Lalru||Suspect sent to judicial custody||Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh, one of the suspects arrested for abetting the suicide of Kuldeep Kaur – a clerk in the Technical Education Department – was sent to judicial custody by the Dera Bassi court today.Arvinder’s police remand was extended by a day on July 2. He was arrested from Zirakpur on June 30 and sent to two-day police remand.Superintendent Bhupinder Singh is yet to be arrested, said railway police officials.Kuldeep (32) had allegedly committed suicide by jumping before the Shatabdi Express on the Ambala-Chandigarh railway track in Lalru on June 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-sent-to-judicial-custody-277895
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for attacking two denied bail||A local court here has denied bail to a man held on charges of attacking a father-son duo in the DMC Colony in May.  Joginder was arrested by the police last month. The counsel of the accused argued that no specific role had been attributed to the applicant in the FIR. He argued that the applicant was innocent and pointed out that the police was yet to present the challan in the case.  The public prosecutor though opposed the bail application. After hearing both the sides, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-attacking-two-denied-bail-277896
04-07-2021||---||Damaged cables being replaced, says PSPCL||Mohali, July 3After facing flak from general public, a spokesperson for the local unit of PSPCL today admitted that the power supply faults and unscheduled power cuts in the past few days were due to technical constraints.The spokesperson assured residents of uninterrupted power supply in Mohali.With the imposition of power regulatory measures on industrial consumers, there had been no power cut in the areas under the Mohali division, said the spokesperson.He said the damaged transformers were being augmented before being replaced and added that the damaged cables were also being replaced with higher sized cables to ensure uninterrupted power supply.The spokesperson further said many residents had ACs installed, but not regularised.The PSPCL appeals to its consumers to declare proper load so that system improvement can be carried out. Residents can register complaints on 1912, 9646115973, he added.Industry concerned over three-day power cut Mohali: The three-day industrial power cut imposed by the state government will be the “final nail in the coffin” for the industries in the district, said Mohali Industries Association here on Saturday. Yogesh Sagar, president of the association, said the industry had already gone through difficult times during the Covid-19 pandemic and the three-day power cut would “make it difficult for them to sustain”. “After the Covid-induced shutdown, businesses had barely gained momentum. The imposition of three-day power cut on large scale consumers will make it difficult for them to sustain,” said Sagar. He urged Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to discontinue the industrial power cuts. “It will not only cause losses to the industries, but also affect a large number of industrial workers who are unable to make both ends meet,” Sagar asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/damaged-cables-being-replaced-says-pspcl-277897
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||After surplus rains in early stages, monsoon over Punjab, Haryana, Himachal slips into the red||After having experienced surplus rains in the early stages of the season this year, the sought western monsoon over the region has slipped into the negative zone. Cumulative rain is less by 17 per cent in Himachal Pradesh, 12 per cent in Punjab, and 8 per cent in Haryana.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the hill state of Himachal received 96.1 mm rain from June 1 to July 3 against the normal of 115.5 mm for this period.The agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana received  54.3 mm and 52.2 mm rain, respectively for the aforementioned period as compared to the normal of 62 mm and 56.5 mm for these two states.The monsoon, which had arrived over northwest India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, was surplus by 14 per cent in the region during the month of June. IMD data shows that the region had received 85.7 mm rain against the normal of 75.3 mm last month.Though monsoon had made good progress in its early phase, it later weakened. It has covered most of the country except parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, and IMD expects it will continue to elude the region for a few days more, although some areas in north India experienced light rains and storms over the past 24 hours.This has been attributed to the impact mid-latitude westerly winds and the absence of formation of low-pressure system over North Bay of Bengal as well as an unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO), which is a major fluctuation in tropical weather due to an eastward-moving pulse of cloud and rainfall near the equator that typically recurs every 30 to 60 days.The IMD has said that spatial distribution suggests that below normal to normal rainfall is likely over many areas of northwest India during the month of July. Dry westerly and southwesterly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels can also bring in short spells of heatwave conditions over some parts of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-surplus-rains-in-early-stages-monsoon-over-punjab-haryana-himachal-slips-into-the-red-277740
