05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 7 new Covid-19  cases, one death||Chandigarh reported seven new Covid-19 cases, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Monday—the lowest reported since March when cases began to spiral because of the deadly second wave of the pandemic.The UT also reported one more death on Monday—the first one since last week.Chandigarh’s active cases now stand at 116, with a fatality count of 809.The UT’s positivity rate over the last week has been 0.67 per cent.Some 1,502 samples were tested over the last 24 hours. The bulletin showed 38 people as having recovered over the same period.Meanwhile, the UT’s covered 7,09,180 people over 18 in its vaccination programme so far—at least 4,66,337 of these have been given the first dose, and 1,000,01 are fully vaccinated, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-7-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-278616
05-07-2021||---||2 fire incidents reported from Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 4Two fire incidents were reported from the city today.In the first mishap, a fire broke out at a house in Sector 35-B here this evening.According to information, the house was lying locked as the family had gone to Manali. A neighbour informed the Fire Department about the incident.Short-circuit is said to be the reason behind the incident. Two fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. An air-conditioner, a refrigerator and clothes were destroyed in the fire.Another fire incident was reported from the forest area near the IT Park here this morning. Smoke had engulfed the area due to the fire.Firemen rushed to the spot after getting information. The fire was brought under control after a struggle of around one hour.No loss of property was reported in the incident. It is being suspected that the fire broke out after someone threw a lit cigarette or bidi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fire-incidents-reported-from-chandigarh-278297
05-07-2021||---||Over 68K beneficiaries fully vaccinated in Panchkula||Panchkula, July 4With 1,030 more beneficiaries taking the second jab of Covid-19 vaccine today, the number of fully vaccinated people in Panchkula reached 68,851. As per the data, 16.75 per cent of the targeted adult population (4.10 lakh) has completed the two-dose vaccination course.Among those fully vaccinated, the highest 41.20 per cent (28,371) beneficiaries are in the 60+ category, followed by 33.25 per cent (22,893) in the 45-59 age group, 11.30 per cent (7,785) frontline workers, 7.30 per cent (5,032) healthcare workers and 6.92 per cent (4,770) in the 18-44 age group.3,876 jabbed on SundayA total of 3,876 doses were administered at 13 government and three private centres here on Sunday. With this, the total doses administered so far reached 3.15 lakh.Vaccination picks up paceCovid-19 vaccination drive has picked up pace in the district since June 21 after new vaccine policy of the Centre came into effect. In the past two weeks, the district has managed to administer 68,230 doses at a daily average of over 4,800. It includes the figures of a mega vaccination drive conducted on June 21 where 18,724 doses were administrated at 65 centres.On June 27, there was no Covid vaccination due to Pulse Polio Sub-National Immunisation Day in the district.MC to felicitate 34 Covid warriorsThe Panchkula Municipal Corporation has decided to felicitate its 34 employees, who played a key role in cremating bodies of Covid patients. They will be felicitated with certificates and cheques for Rs2,100 and Rs5,100 out of the total honorarium amount received by Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal in the last two months. They will be honoured at an event to be organised in Haripur village in Sector 4 on Tuesday. Among the total employees to be felicitated, seven are cremation ground workers, 19 safai mitras, a data entry operator, a gardener and six sanitisation workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-68k-beneficiaries-fully-vaccinated-in-panchkula-278299
05-07-2021||---||Residents oppose hike in maintenance charges||Mohali, July 4  Residents of ATS Casa Espana in Bar Majra (Sector 21) today held a protest against an “arbitrary” increase in the maintenance charges by 34 per cent.  The residents, after exhausting all other means of redressal, raised black flags in balconies of their flats last week.  The protest march in the complex was peaceful. They held banners and flags demanding rollback of the enhanced common area maintenance (CAM) charges. The protesters alleged lack of transparency and unethical conduct by ATS Maintenance Services, a company of ATS Infrabuild Ltd. ATS Maintenance Services had arbitrarily jacked up the monthly CAM charges by a whopping 37 per cent (from nearly Rs6,000 to over Rs8,000 for a 3+1 bedroom flat) in the middle of the pandemic, when a host of facilities such as clubhouse, gym and swimming pool have been shut for well over a year now, the residents alleged.  However, Nath, the manager of ATS Maintenance Services, said some of the residents were protesting while a majority of them had agreed on the increase in the CAM charges. He said they had shown documents to the residents and had increased the charges due to the increase in maintenance expenditures, including the salaries of the security guards and other maintenance staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-oppose-hike-in-maintenance-charges-278302
05-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||83-yr-old woman left unattended in Dubai by airline for 12 hrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh, has directed an airline to pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 to an 83-year-old woman for leaving her unattended in Dubai for 12 hours without food and water while she waited for the delayed flight. The commission also directed the company to reimburse Rs31,850 being the cost of the cancelled one-way ticket.In her complaint, Krishna Malhotra (83) said she purchased an air ticket of Etihad Airline for to-and-fro journey from New Delhi to Sydney (Australia) and Sydney to New Delhi after paying Rs 63,700. She said a special request was made to provide her a wheelchair. She started her journey from New Delhi to Sydney on January 1, 2019. When the flight reached Abu Dhabi, she was told that the connecting flight from Abu Dhabi to Sydney was delayed by one hour. Later, she was informed that the flight was delayed by approximately 12 hours and was rescheduled to depart at 9:40 am (Abu Dhabi time).Krishna alleged that when she asked for some hotel accommodation, she was dumped at some hotel lounge. She alleged that she was not provided any room, food or water by the hotel authorities and she was forced to sit in the lounge area. She complained to the hotel reception about her being suffering from headache and backache, but the receptionist did not accommodate her in any manner.After repeated requests, she was told that there was a buffet system and it was only after that she got to eat food. She had to spend an hour without any information and assistance in an unknown country while sitting in the hotel lounge until she was picked up for the flight late at night. She also alleged that on arrival at Sydney, despite her request that she is having knee pain, she was not provided a wheelchair by the authorities concerned.She said due to her experience with the airline, she cancelled her return journey from Sydney to New Delhi. The travel agency cancelled her return journey and booked another ticket through Air India after paying Rs 34,536. She alleged that instead of giving a refund of the cancelled ticket, the company rejected her claim.Nobody from the airline turned up before the commission. After hearing the arguments, the commission observed that despite being duly aware about the old age of the complainant, the airline ignored the immense harassment suffered by her physically as well as mentally. This is a clear cut case of deficiency in service.The company has been directed to reimburse Rs 31,850 being the cost of the cancelled one-way ticket. It was also directed to pay Rs 20,000 as compensation to the complainant for causing harassment on account of deficient service along with litigation costs of Rs 10,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/83-yr-old-woman-left-unattended-in-dubai-by-airline-for-12-hrs-278303
05-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Garbage mess in Chandigarh: The stinking reality of waste collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4Replacing the old traditional rehri system of door-to-door garbage collection with two-bin waste vehicles has led to inconvenience to residents and confusion in many areas.Even though nearly 490 two-bin vehicles have been launched in the city, barring a few sectors, rehris are still picking waste from houses. The collection through vehicles has been introduced in Sector 1-38, 38 (West), 46, 47 and 48. In UT villages and city markets also, vehicles have been introduced.In many areas, including Sector 21, 47 and 22, residents said carts picked the waste and gave it to the vehicles after segregation.A house owner in Sector 19 said for a week, the vehicles did not pick waste. Sometimes they play the jingle sound and by the time, residents come out, the vehicles have already left.Residents of Sector 37 and 40 said vehicles had not yet started collection of garbage in their areas and there was confusion regarding it.“Vehicles never picked waste from houses in our area. What is the use of buying vehicles by spending crores of rupees,” said JP Yadav, president, RWA, Sector 37-A.“In our sector, carts lift waste; vehicles have never been used for the purpose,” said VK Sharma, chairman, RWA, Sector 40.“Carts are still picking garbage at many places,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED.Some collectors attach gunny bags along with the bins and vehicles carry these in the entire city in an unhygienic manner. At some places, the waste from the gunny bags gets strewn on the road.“What is the use of replacing the rehris with vehicles? The cycle carts were doing the same with open gunny bags. It is a sheer wastage of funds. It is unhygienic and an eyesore,” said RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association, a senior citizens’ body.The waste collectors attach the gunny bags on the two-bins so that they can segregate the dry waste and keep it separately for selling it.A door-to-door waste collector, requesting anonymity, said, “It is easy to move inside lanes of houses in a rehri. Segregating garbage in rehris is also easy. We later put the waste in vehicles. We feel there is no use of vehicles as we were doing the same job earlier as well,”OP Saini, chairman, Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said, “We are using MC vehicles. However, a faction of the collectors is still picking waste through rehris. At some places, cases of collectors are pending in court; so the MC is finding it difficult to operate vehicles there.”Meanwhile, the MC Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Pal Warring, said, “Our vehicles are collecting waste. There are some teething problems in a few pockets. We are trying to fix these. Once our three material recovery facilities are ready, issues related to hanging of gunny bags on vehicles will also get resolved. For the time being, we are giving specialised bags to the collectors.”Process to replace rehris began in January MC started replacing rehris with vehicles in January in a phased manner. Even after six months, both continue to be used at several places.What’s coming in the way||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-mess-in-chandigarh-the-stinking-reality-of-waste-collection-278304
05-07-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Fortnight on, head of Nagal man found buried near murder spot||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 4Fifteen days after a headless body of a Nagal resident was found partially buried close to Punjab Chief Minister’s farmhouse in Siswan, the police today found a bag containing the severed head buried 200-250 metres from the spot.The police exhumed the head buried deep near a Java plum tree where the suspects and the victim had reportedly consumed liquor before the gruesome murder. The last rites of the deceased’s headless body were performed on June 21.The deceased was identified as Sucha Singh, 40. He had been missing from his house since June 12. The deceased was a herder who used to graze sheep and goats in a nearby forest.The Mullanpur police had arrested three suspects — Jagir Singh, alias Ghola, Satnam Singh, both residents of Parol Village, and Desh Raj, a resident of Nagal village. The police are still searching for a Nepalese national reportedly involved in the incident and missing since June 12.Bikramjeet Singh, DSP (SD Kharar-2), said: “The head was recovered this evening after the leads from Ghola. The severed head will be sent for a post-mortem examination. The search is on for the fourth suspect.”The deceased and the suspects were known to each other and were consuming liquor when arguments began over some financial matter between Sucha Singh and prime suspect Ghola. Later, the suspects allegedly beheaded the victim and buried his body.Eyewitnesses said the deceased’s pet dog had helped in finding the headless body buried on June 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortnight-on-head-of-nagal-man-found-buried-near-murder-spot-278305
05-07-2021||Mohali||78% inoculated, Mohali on top||With 78 per cent eligible persons having got jabbed against Covid, Mohali has emerged as the leading district in the state in immunisation against the deadly virus.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said civil and medical officers of the district  were working together to get people inoculated. He said they were reaching out to people through outreach camps and door-to-door vaccination drives. He said in the mega vaccination camps held on Saturday, more than 20,000 people were jabbed in one day against the target of 15,000. Out of the total 20,959 vaccinated, 15,469 got the first dose while 5,490 were administered the second shot.Dayalan said public reluctance and fear surrounding the vaccine were reduced to a large extent, and they would continue to work on a war footing to counter the possible third wave of Covid.He said in view of the spread of Delta variant in Britain and other European countries, it had become important to bring more people under the ambit of vaccination. The Deputy Commissioner said every household should ensure that all eligible members of the family were vaccinated. TNS13 cases, no death in Mohali Mohali: The district on Sunday recorded 13 cases of Covid and no death. Besides, 29 patients were cured. Among the new cases, seven came from Mohali (urban), one each from Dhakoli, Gharuan and Kurali and three from Kharar. TNSNo death, 10 test positive for Covid-19 in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 10 new cases of Covid-19 and no new fatality. A total of 16 patients were reportedly cured of the disease during the past 24 hours. TNS2 cases, one fatality in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported just two fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,597. The district also witnessed one Covid death, taking the toll to 375. As many as 30,182 patients have recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-inoculated-mohali-on-top-278306
05-07-2021||Our Correspondent||3 of family booked for duping man of Rs 3 lakh||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 4The police have registered a case against a man, his wife and son for allegedly duping a resident of Sirhind of Rs3 lakh on the pretext of getting him the district dealership of a feed company.Pritpal Singh Chadha, a resident of Sirhind, lodged a complaint with the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Fatehgarh Sahib, alleging that Ashok Kumar, his wife and son, all residents of Sirhind, had duped him of Rs3 lakh. He had a good relationship with Ashok. The latter’s son worked at a senior position in a private feed company. He urged Ashok to get him the district dealership of the feed company and the former asked him to come to his house. His son told Chadha that a security of Rs5 lakh was required to be paid to the company for getting he district dealership of the feed company.Pritpal paid Rs1 lakh to Ashok, who assured him of getting the dealership letter within a month. He said a few days later, Ashok and his wife came to his shop and demanded the remaining Rs4 lakh. Pritpal said he gave the couple a cheque for Rs2 lakh. However, Ashok didn’t get him the dealership, nor returned his money.The SSP had marked an inquiry in this regard to the economic offences wing and the investigating officer recommended a case against the three suspects on the basis of the report submitted by the DA (Legal).The investigating officer, assistant sub inspector (ASI) Amrik Singh, said the police had arrested Ashok and his wife while their son Anjandeep was at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-family-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-3-lakh-278307
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||UT librarian on international panel||Dr Neeza Singh, librarian, TS Central State Library, Sector 17, has been elected as the standing committee member of the International Federation of Libraries Associations and Institutions (IFLA) in the Metropolitan Libraries Section.  The IFLA is a leading international body representing the interests of library and information services and their users. Her four-year term will start from August 25. She is the only librarian from Chandigarh, who has been elected to the international federation. “It was my dream to be a part of the IFLA. I’m so excited to be involved in IFLA, joining the expertise in the global library field and gaining an international perspective, collaboration and professional growth, along with a network of colleagues passionate about librarianship from across the world,” said Neeza.  She has received many awards for her endeavours, including Zindadil Award (2018), Best Public Librarian Award (2019), and IFLA Wall of Fame (2020).—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-librarian-on-international-panel-278308
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to help Chandigarh MC manage tertiary-treated water||Dr Naveen Gupta, Department of Microbiology, Panjab University, has been given a consultancy project by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) for the management of tertiary-treated sewage water in the city.“Under the smart city initiative, Chandigarh has been using the tertiary-treated sewage water for irrigation purposes in various areas of the city. However, a significant hurdle is the foul smell. Despite this leap towards a healthy ecosystem, the problem downplays benefits society could reap from the act,” Gupta added.“Now Panjab University will help the MC in the management of the tertiary-treated water,” said Gupta. Earlier, Gupta had suggested solutions to tackle the problem, including aeration of the treated water, for getting rid of the foul smell.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-help-chandigarh-mc-manage-tertiary-treated-water-278309
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 bikers snatch purse with Rs 2 lakh in Chandigarh||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a purse containing Rs 2 lakh and a mobile phone from a woman last evening.Complainant Rama Sharma, a resident of Sector 46, who runs a gas agency in Zirakpur, said she was returning home in an auto-rickshaw last evening.She said due to traffic near the Poultry Farm chowk, the auto was moving at a slow pace when the two miscreants, riding a black motorcycle, snatched her purse. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-bikers-snatch-purse-with-rs-2-lakh-in-chandigarh-278311
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 suspends OT technician||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has suspended the OT technician against whom a complaint was filed by a third-year student of the college who had accused him of molesting her. The suspension letter was issued on Saturday.The complainant was on duty on June 27 when she went to get some medicines from the store where the OT technician, identified as Kamleshwar, allegedly molested her. A case under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered against the suspect at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-suspends-ot-technician-278312
05-07-2021||---||4 robbers loot Rs 80,000 from Kharar fuel station||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 4Four miscreants looted around Rs80,000 and a mobile phone at gunpoint from two employees of a filling station on the Kurali road in Kharar here late last night.The incident took place around 2.15 am when two pistol-totting men barged into the office of Bheem filling station near Sahauran village and fired one round before looting cash from the employees.The police have recovered the empty shell of a round.Cops said the vehicle was bearing a Punjab taxi registration number.Kharar DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur said, “We are scanning the CCTV footage. The robbers will be arrested soon.”On the statement of Amit Kumar, an employee, a case under Section 307, 392 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act was registered at the Sadar Kharar police station today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-robbers-loot-rs-80-000-from-kharar-fuel-station-278313
05-07-2021||Is there a need for streamlining the system for removing dead trees on priority?||Proactive approach can prevent tree-related mishaps||Float dedicated helpline numberThere should be some uniform policy regarding cutting/disposal of dead trees. The UT Administration should float a dedicated helpline number/desk to address such like problems. Time frame and accountability of officials concerned should be fixed by the Municipal Corporation and the Administration.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhWe are only mute spectatorsThe Administration and the Municipal Corporation are in deep slumber. Our system is total failure. We are only mute spectators to such accidents. The MC should prune trees before the onset of the monsoon season. Fast winds uproot trees, which are too huge or dead, during this season. The Administration and the civic body do need to pay heed to complaints regarding disposal of dead trees. Every sector has trees, which can damage property.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhConduct inspection of trees in cityMany trees and their branches inconvenience public due to widening of roads and laying of new cycle tracks. Termites have also affected trees. The Horticulture, PWD and Electricity Departments should conduct joint inspection of trees periodically. Trees, which have to be cut or pruned, should be marked with red paint. It is a known fact that tree branches fall on electric wires resulting in power supply disruption. Safety comes first than greenery.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliForm panel of experts to deal with issueThe Municipal Corporation and the UT Administration must constitute a committee of experts comprising environmentalist, who may first identify all hollow/dead trees in the city by ground visit. The panel can submit its report/recommendations to the competent authority concerned to remove all such trees within stipulated time so that any possible tragedy can be averted.Harsimran Singh Kamboj, RajpuraRemove dead trees before monsoonMonsoon is already here. It may cause heavy loss of life and property as dead trees often fall during this season. Officials of the Forest Department should earmark an area, identify dead trees and ensure their removal before onset of the rainy season. The Administration and the Municipal Corporation have to establish time bound system for the redressal of complaints regarding disposal of dead trees. Residents also must park their vehicles away from dead trees.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliA wake-up call for the MC, administrationIt's unfortunate that an elderly couple residing in Sector 15 of the City Beautiful suffered injuries after a dead tree fell on their house. This is one of the many incidents that happen on a regular basis due to apathy of the civic authorities and reflects on their functioning in dealing with grievances of the public at large. Hopefully, this particular incident will be a wake-up call for the Municipal Corporation, UT Administration and a time-bound mechanism for expeditious disposal of complaints regarding disposal of dead trees will be put in place.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, Panchkula14-day MAX limit to address complaintsThe process of assessing dead trees for felling should be time bound. A time limit of 14 days should be set for acceptance/rejection of permission for felling a dead tree. Most of the time paper work, red- tapeism and endless wait make residents suffer, which presses them to give up their cases. Moreover, many times trees existing outside boundary walls of houses such as in parks, green belts and on footpaths also pose danger, but residents can do nothing about them as these don't fall within their premises. The UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation should formulate a mechanism to handle complaints of dead trees on time.Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhTake councillors into confidenceDevelopment of Chandigarh started back in the early fifties. The northern sectors have become old and so have trees therein. Old and dead trees always pose a threat to everyone. Due to inevitable strict rules it is impossible for an individual to cut old/dead trees. So, necessary permission has to be sought from the Municipal Corporation. The MC has its own problems. It takes time to take a final decision on such matters. Councillors of respective sectors can be roped in by the MC and the UT Administration to decide about disposal of dead trees. Their advice can expedite the decision making process.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhWhole system needs immediate overhaulAccording to the procedure in vogue it takes three months for the removal of dead tree after a complaint about it is filed with the JE of the Municipal Corporation's Horticulture Department. The process of inspection on site by the ground staff, reporting to higher officials, compilation of data, calling tenders and removal of dead trees by contractor needs a complete overhaul. Every dead tree in the city poses a risk to residents.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAdmn should have acted on its ownIn the first place, why there is always a need to complain and wake up the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation from their deep slumber. The Administration should itself get into action mode and do the needful for removing dead trees, which pose a serious threat to lives of city residents. In the said case, the elderly couple had complained about the dead tree to the UT Administration, but then also timely action was not taken by the authorities concerned thereby resulting in injuries to the couple.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhAdministraion must protect residentsThe UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation need to be proactive. Trees with weak roots getting uprooted in the city is a common sight during monsoon. The Administration must protect senior and young citizens. Why does it keep waiting for some mishap and then take action? Why can't the authorities act on their own?Garv Bhupesh Verma, PanchkulaRoutine check need of the hourThe UT Administration must take care of residents on priority. Dead trees and those with weak roots pose a danger to all. The Administration and the Municipal Corporation must keep a routine check on such trees and get these axed on time to save life and property of residents.Anju Mohan, Panchkulafix Seven days for complaint redressalThe waiting period for removing a dead tree is no way justified. After survey report by official concerned dead tree should be removed immediately to avoid any untoward incident. The Municipal Corporation and the UT Administration should form a rule as per which desk concerned will deal with such cases on day-to-day basis and recommend for action to the next higher authority. The maximum period for removing a dead tree in the City Beautiful should not exceed seven days.AK Jindal, PatialaConduct survey of old treesDead trees falling on houses or parked vehicles in Chandigarh is a matter of concern. Redressal of residents' complaints about dead trees takes two months, which is against safety norms. The UT Administration must deploy its officials to survey the whole city area to find, treat or cut old trees, whatever the case maybe. Timely action can secure life and property of residents.MR Bhateja, NayagaonDeal with complaints on a priorityNegligence in removing dead or damaged trees may harm someone. The Horticulture Department needs to be proactive by taking care of trees on routine basis and provide necessary treatment for any damage. Any complaints made by residents about dead trees should be dealt with immediately by the Municipal Corporation and the UT Administration as delay may lead to injury or loss of life as well as damage to property.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliUse ‘Scratch test’ to identify dead treesThe waiting period of two months to redress residents' grievances regarding dead trees by the authorities concerned isn't justified. Dead trees should be identified in the summer season through scratch or break test so that dormant trees are not taken to be as dead. Dead trees must be removed at the earliest.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhProcess long, Amend laws as per needDead trees in the UT are dangerous for life and property. Process for removing dead trees is long. Laws can be amended as per needs. Trees should be regularly checked after 20 days. Tiles and concrete near roots of trees must be removed. Complaints regarding dead trees should be resolved at the earliest.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliA lurking danger, but who cares?It is true that process of cutting dead trees is a long and time consuming. A complaint first goes to the SE then the EE and finally it's marked to the JE, who conducts ground inspection and submits report at the MC office for approval from the Horticulture Department after which the tendering process starts. After completing all formalities contactor removes dead tree. By that time a tree may fall and cause loss to life and property. Therefore, there is need to streamline the system and reduce time for removing dead tree.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLethargic response to complaintsThe response of the Horticulture Department and the Municipal Corporation to complaints regarding removal of dead trees is lethargic. An easy solution is to make a helpline desk to address such complaints. On receiving complaint it should be forwarded to official of the department concerned, who should take action as per the urgency of the case. The complaints received must be listed and action taken on daily basis. The whole process should be monitored by an official to avoid undue delay in response.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhMC yet to purchase pruning machinesIt's shocking to hear about an elderly couple getting injured when a dead tree fell on their house in Sector 15. Last year too, two accidents involving trees falling on vehicles in the city were reported. There is no doubt that trees look good, give oxygen and shelter to commuters and add to city's beauty. Overgrown trees block view of persons driving vehicles. Pruning of trees is must and should be done periodically. The MC authorities are delaying purchase of pruning machines because of internal politics. Axing dead trees without any delay will be appreciated by City Beautiful residents.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMC ignoring its workExcessive use of groundwater, laying of paver blocks and cementing green cover result in drying up of many trees. Roots of some of green trees became hollow as pests had eaten them. Such trees pose danger to life and property during storms. Trees are not pruned in time. The Municipal Coporation (MC) is ignoring pruning of mango trees. The civic body authorities should rope in RWAs to identify dead trees, which can get uprooted during storm.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhFix accountability for lapsesElderly couple getting injured as dead tree fell on their house is a cause of concern. This happened despite the fact that the matter was already reported to the authorities concerned for uprooting the dead tree. There should be a record of all such complaints at the department level. Head of the department should ensure redressal of all such complaints. Many public service-oriented departments are complacent due which citizens are at the receiving end. The UT Administration should fix accountability for all such lapses where grievances have not been addressed in a reasonable time. Citizens' Charter should be in place for all services provided by the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation, indicating timeline for the disposal of all complaints received.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhAllow public to remove treesNo complaints regarding removal of dead trees should be pending. Its duty of workers of the Horticulture Department to conduct periodic survey of all city areas to find dead trees. Residents' complaints to the authorities concerned are never resolved until some mishap is reported. The general public should be given the power to remove dead trees after uploading their pictures on site of the department concerned and social media.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhSurvey, early removal the only solutionThere are hundreds of dead trees in the City Beautiful posing threat to residents and their properties. Some trees spring over roads and adjoining houses, which can get damaged in storms. Dead trees should be removed in a specific deadline fixed by the authorities concerned. A survey should be conducted for dead trees and their early removal must be ensured. Overgrown trees near buildings should be pruned to prevent damage to power cables and public properties.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhCut red tape to redress grievancesIt's disheartening that the present official procedure adopted by the UT Administration takes about two months time for redressal of grievance concerning dead trees. Residents are at high risk as dead trees often get uprooted in the monsoon season. In order to cut red-tapeism a responsible official should be designated as a nodal officer to coordinate with different departments concerned and seek online approvals to reduce the procedural time for dealing with complaints related to dead trees to 10 days.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhMonitor complaints at the senior levelThe answer to question if the system needs to be streamlined to deal with complaints related to dead trees on priority is affirmative. Besides apathy and the indelible 'chalta hai' attitude, lack of responsibility and accountability of officials concerned is the main culprit. This warrants a drastic change. Officials need to put their own foot in complainant's shoe to feel the pinch. Priority to attend complaints should be fixed as per the gravity of the situation. Senior citizens deserve priority for redressal of their complaint or ordeal. Pending complaints with time lag should be monitored at senior level daily.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDeploy official in each wardThe Horticulture Department should hire new staff or give tender to a private firm so that the process to remove dead trees can be streamlined. The Municipal Corporation (MC) and the UT Administration can designate an official for each ward to conduct survey of dead trees in his/her respective area. The MC and the Administration can also decide the minimum amount, which has to be deposited, for the removal of the dead tree without any delay.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhSystem needs quick revampWhile on a random visit to various parts of the city, the scary sight of some dead trees dotting the residential areas may give you the willies. An elderly couple was grievously injured after a dead tree fell on their house in Sector 15. This is notwithstanding the fact that the couple had already lodged a complaint to the authorities concerned about the dead tree standing precariously over their house posing a potential danger to their lives and property. The sad part of the story is that it takes almost two months or so for the authorities concerned to redress complaints regarding dead trees. The existing system needs a quick revamp so as to streamline the process of disposing of complaints of the people. The Administration and the Municipal Corporation need to conduct a random survey of the city to identify the number of dead trees and remove them sooner than later and save precious lives.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhRepercussions of climate changeAll are aware of the climate change circle spinning at an increased rate. Its repercussion is stepping forth and showing furious side of the nature. The issue of dead trees falling can also be linked with untimely weather fluctuations for which the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation should gear up. Red-tapeism must be cut to accelerate redressal of complaints regarding removal of deal trees to prevent mishaps like the one in Sector 15.Aseem, ChandigarhMake all-out effortsThe Municipal Corporation and the UT Administration swing into action only after unfortunate incidents and fatalities are reported. Instead of playing with lives of residents, departments concerned should awaken and make all out efforts to prevent incidents like the one in Sector 15 by plugging loopholes wherever required.SK Khosla, ChandigarhTransfer plaints to higher officialsThe process for the redressal of complaints regarding dead trees needs to be streamlined and made efficient. The authorities should prioritise such complaints as no action can be life-threatening for citizens. The tendering process and other formalities should be simplified. Complaints should be transferred to higher official for quick action.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhTake erring officials to taskFirstly, why aren’t complaints related to removal of dead trees addressed within a week. Secondly, the Horticulture Department staff never listens to residents pleas to prune overgrown trees. This has created a scary situation. No one knows when an overgrown or dead tree will get uprooted during storm and damage property or even bring physical harm to residents of the City Beautiful. There are overgrown mango trees at Terraced Garden in Sector 33 garden, which have never been pruned. Some are old and can get uprooted anytime. Besides, the annual contract for plucking mangoes from trees in Terraced Garden has not been given to any contractor for the past many years. This has lead to increase in theft incidents as people, who climb trees for plucking mangoes, often scale rear walls of nearby houses and steal sanitaryware. The MC and the UT Administration should launch a dedicated help desk for the redressal of complaints related to removal of dead trees. Lapses on part of officials concerned must be taken seriously and they be taken to task.Harmeet Kaur Dhaliwal, ChandigarhQUESTIONUnscheduled power cuts amid an intense heatwave across Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali have left residents fretting and fuming. The rising demand for power has exposed lapses in infrastructure and preparedness to deal with such a situation. What steps should be taken to ensure residents don’t reel under long power cuts in the tricity? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proactive-approach-can-prevent-tree-related-mishaps-278315
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 2 lakh power bill a shocker||Vehicle thief in police netChandigarh: The police have arrested an alleged vehicle thief and recovered 10 two-wheelers. The police said the suspect, identified as Sunil (23), a resident of Sector 41, was arrested at a naka laid in Sector 17 while riding a stolen motorcycle. The motorcycle was stolen in October last year. During further interrogation, the suspect revealed information about other two-wheelers stolen by him. The police further recovered nine more two-wheelers. The police said while six vehicles were stolen from different parts of Chandigarh, one was stolen from Delhi and the remaining three from other places. TNSCafé manager bookedChandigarh: The police have booked the manager of a café, ‘The common room’, in Mani Majra for allegedly serving hookah to customers in violation of the District Magistrate’s order. The police said the manager was booked under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act at the Mani Majra police station. TNSAdda’s Cricket XI log victoryChandigarh: Adda’s Cricket XI defeated Motiaz Royal Cricket Club, Zirakpur, by 80 runs in the ‘My Country - My Love’ T20 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Adda’s Cricket XI posted 139 runs before getting all out in 19.4 overs. Prateek (49 off 20) and Saurabh (46 off 37) were the top scorers for the side. Manish, Vikas claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, Motiaz team bundled out for 59 runs in 13.4 overs. Anil (12) was the sole main contributor in the chase. TNSWidows get ration kitsChandigarh: The Balramji Das Tandon Charitable Foundation gave away ration kits to 71 widows. The programme was launched by senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon. He said the number of beneficiaries had been increased to empower women. He said the foundation would continue to strengthen the scheme by adding more widows under to the programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-2-lakh-power-bill-a-shocker-278326
