06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 10 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 10 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the administration showed on Tuesday.The bulletin showed that the union territory now has 106 active cases.  It showed that 1,515 swab samples were taken for testing over the last 24 hours.No new deaths were reported. The fatality count still stands at 809. The UT’s positivity rate over the last week stands at 0.69 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-279118
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Select Chandigarh swimming pools to open to athletes; no more restrictions on timings at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh administration opened up some of its swimming pools that come under the sports department for athletes and eased timings at the Sukhna Lake—the latest set of decisions that come as the administration continues to gradually ease restrictions in the union territory.In its latest set of decisions that came after a war room meeting, the Chandigarh Administration announced it was opening up select swimming pools for athletes and players on the condition that those using these services will have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and will have to be tested for Covid-19 every fortnight.Liquor vends will now fall into the category of restaurants bars and eateries and will be allowed to open under the same conditions.The administration has also raised the number of guests at special gatherings such as weddings to 100 or 50 per cent of the venue capacity, whichever number is lower. All guests at such events must have had at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine or must have tested negative in an RT-PCR test taken no more than 72 hours ago.The administration also lifted its restrictions at the Sukhna Lake: the lake will no longer be open to patrons only for four hours in the morning and two in the evening—a decision the administration hopes will help avoid overcrowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/select-chandigarh-swimming-pools-to-open-to-athletes-no-more-restrictions-on-timings-at-sukhna-lake-279091
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police use teargas, water cannons to stop protesting Punjab schoolteachers||Police on Tuesday lobbed teargas shells and used water cannons to disperse schoolteachers as they tried to force their way through barricades put up on the Chandigarh-Mohali border in a bid to reach Punjab CM Amarinder Singh's official residence here.Demanding that their services be regularised, temporary teachers have been protesting outside the Punjab School Education Board building in Mohali for the past several days. Under the banner of the Temporary Teachers' Union, they had planned to lay siege to the official residence of the Punjab CM to press for their demands.When scores of protesting teachers, including women, tried to force their way through barricades, Chandigarh Police used water cannons and teargas shells to prevent them from heading towards the CM's residence.The protesting teachers claimed that some of them suffered injuries. They also raised slogans against the Punjab government. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-use-teargas-water-cannons-to-stop-protesting-punjab-schoolteachers-279077
06-07-2021||---||Just 14 Covid cases in tricity, no death||Chandigarh, July 5In a big respite on the Covid-19 front, the tricity today reported no death and just 14 cases. Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali recorded single-digit fresh case count at seven, one and six, respectively. As many as 38 patients were cured of the disease in Chandigarh.6 infected in Mohali, 23 curedMohali: Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district today. As many as 23 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali (urban) and one each from Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Banur and Lalru. Of the total 68,317 positive cases reported so far, 67,078 patients have been cured. The active case tally in the district stands at 188. With no death today, the toll stays at 1,051. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-14-covid-cases-in-tricity-no-death-278816
06-07-2021||---||It’s down to one case in Panchkula district||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 5The district reported just one fresh Covid-19 case today, taking the overall tally to 30,598. With no death, the Covid toll stood at 375. While 30,195 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 28 cases are still active.The recovery rate stands at 98.68 per cent. Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the efforts put in by the district administration and the Health Department had led to a considerable reduction in Covid-19 cases in the district.“Though there has been a decline in the number of cases, people still need to be cautious as the pandemic is far from over,” he said. He urged people to remain vigilant and continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said speedy vaccination was the only way to beat the pandemic and prevent a third wave. On shortage of the vaccine, she said she would take up the matter with senior officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-down-to-one-case-in-panchkula-district-278817
06-07-2021||---||Mercury to rise, showers to follow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5Brace for a heatwave as the maximum temperature is expected to increase in the coming days. According to the Met Department, the maximum temperature in the city today was 38.2°C, three degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was 29.4°C, five degrees above normal.The forecastNo significant rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in the next two-three days. Rain activity is likely to again start from July 8 and light to moderate rain at few to many places is likely during July 8 to 10. — Met scientistThe weatherman has predicted a mainly clear sky for the next two days. The maximum temperature tomorrow is expected to be 39°C, while on Wednesday, it is likely to reach the 40°C mark.When the maximum temperature is at least 4.5°C above the normal temperature, it is termed a heatwave. “No significant rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next two-three days. The maximum temperature is likely to rise by about 2°C during this period, leading to heatwave conditions in isolated pockets. Light to moderate rain at few to many places is likely during July 8 to 10,” said a Met scientist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercury-to-rise-showers-to-follow-278818
06-07-2021||---||Molestation case: Doctors want OT technician of GMCH-32 arrested||Chandigarh, July 5Resident doctors of the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, held a peaceful symbolic protest in front of Admin Block on the campus in view of “delay in justice” and “failure to arrest” an OT technician, who allegedly molested a third-year student.On Saturday, the college authorities had suspended the OT technician, identified as Kamleshwar.Dr Sandeep Singh, president of the United Resident Doctors Association, said, “The response from the police in this matter is delayed as the suspect has still not been arrested. Such incidents and lack of adequate response bring our morale down as doctors, running the hospital round the clock and questions our safety at the workplace. Anaesthesia residents are running critical care units and OTs without any delay in patient care. In such a scenario, delay in bringing the suspect to justice is not acceptable to us. We condemn this heinous act by a staff member and want prompt and amplified efforts from the police in making sure that the culprit is arrested as soon as possible.”TECHNICIAN denied bail page 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/molestation-case-doctors-want-ot-technician-of-gmch-32-arrested-278819
06-07-2021||---||Panchkula residents write to Haryana CM Khattar as their ‘worst fears’ come true||Panchkula, July 5Garbage is being burnt at the new dumping site in Jhuriwala since yesterday, causing inconvenience to those living in the vicinity.The smoke billowing out of the site was also affecting the quality of air in trans-Ghaggar sectors, said residents, who have been up in arms against shifting of the dumping ground from Sector 23 to Jhuriwala. A resident said, “Not just the human habitation, it is also putting the lives of animals, along with the forest area around, at a risk.”In a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the House Owners Welfare Association, Sector 25, said the fears expressed by residents regarding the MC decision to start dumping the entire solid waste of Panchkula at Jhuriwala were coming true.“The dense smoke and polluted environment in the entire area of the trans-Ghaggar sectors due to the fire at the Jhuriwala dumping site has made the lives of over 20,000 residents miserable,” the letter read.The residents’ body has asked the Chief Minister to issue instructions to the local civic body to stop dumping the solid waste at Jhuriwala with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-write-to-haryana-cm-khattar-as-their-worst-fears-come-true-278820
06-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Composting fails to pique interest of Chandigarh residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The idea of at-home composting to make manure from the wet waste has failed to click with a majority of the residents.‘No space in houses’It is not successful as in small houses, there is no space. What will people do with manure? Not everyone has big gardens. If the corporation is serious about it, it should make people aware and offer some relief to the residents to encourage them.— Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFEDOnly a few individuals living in big houses have been undertaking composting. Four years after the civic body exhorted the residents to build compost pits on their premises, there have been barely any takers for it. The MC, in May 2017, had even offered 10 per cent rebate in the property tax to the residents segregating the waste and building compost pits.“In the southern societies, there are no compost pits. We have not heard about it from the MC,” said MN Shukla, convener, Voice of Housing Societies, Sector 48-51.Local composting was aimed at saving the transport cost and manpower of the civic body. “If people make compost pits, it will benefit the city and save residents from the heaps of wet waste at the dumping ground, which could lead to health hazards,” said a resident.The biodegradable waste was to be used for various purposes, including the production of biogas, electricity and fertilisers.The corporation had talked of using chemicals to keep foul smell at bay and a few firms were being considered to counsel the residents on composting.“People are not taking to composting as it did not prove effective. Things such as putting chemicals frequently in the pits did not pique their interest. However, a few individuals are doing it at their own level,” said Mahesinder Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor and councillor (Sectors 1-11).“It is not successful as in small houses there is no space. what will people do with manure? Not everyone has big gardens. If the corporation is serious about it, it should make people aware and offer some relief to the residents to encourage them,” said Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFED (umbrella body of RWAs).However, a few RWAs have built compost pits in parks for dry leaves. Even the MC has built 50 compost pits for dry leaves in different parks, but their utility is yet to be assessed. The civic body had earlier sent earthen boxes for composting to their officers’ houses.“We had to pay Rs2,500 each for the boxes. Manure never generated in them even after we tried. May be some other officer could make use of it, I could not,” said an official.Indu Verma, who has a two canal house in Sector 32, said: “I have been doing composting for many years. I have two boxes — one earthen and the other is plastic. I put all my wet waste in it. I only put coco peat in it and in a month or two, the manure gets ready and I use it my house’s front and back gardens.”However, Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said: “Some societies in the southern sectors are doing composting. The MC is also doing it with bulk generators.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/composting-fails-to-pique-interest-of-chandigarh-residents-278821
06-07-2021||Vijay C Roy||Of Chandigarh-based businesses thriving despite all odds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5Due to the pandemic, the past one year certainly hasn’t been easy for start-ups and small businesses. While some may never reopen, others are surviving all odds and ramping up their businesses, thanks to early adaptation, determination and innovative technology.It is an open secret that restaurants, bars and retail operations have been the hardest hit since March last year. However, Chandigarh-based Ocado, an organic food outlet started in March last year by city lad Rajat Bhandari survived all odds. “We had just started when the pandemic prompted a city mandate requiring all non-essential businesses to close. That did not deter us. Once it was allowed to open, we came out with different strategies to keep the business going and started engaging with customers,” said Rajat.He helped Covid patients during the lockdown and curfew where complete families were in isolation by distributing organic foods for free. “We started the initiative to serve society. However, gradually, our name spread by word of mouth because of quality and now we have a good customer base,” said Rajat. According to experts, the ability to adapt and pivot quickly contributed to the survival of businesses in the sectors hit hardest by the pandemic.Similarly, started in January 2020, an Agri-tech startup, Faarms, by Chandigarh-based Alok Duggal has been a boon for farmers in the tricity area, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan during the pandemic.Faarms, an e-commerce marketplace is catering to farmers. The idea is to help the farmers purchase farming inputs from some of the best-known brands in the world and obtain critical crop-related advice at the click of a button.The company is now connected with 8 lakh farmers in 20,000 villages of the absolute hinterland of India. The idea was simple. They wanted to be the Amazon for the farming community.“The pandemic has impacted farmers across the country with a limited availability of agricultural inputs and feed for livestock. Faarms has enhanced its operation from single state to six states, including Chandigarh, covering more than 20,000 villages to ensure the timely delivery of quality inputs on farmers’ doorstep,” said Alok Duggal, COO & Founder of FaarmsAnother entrepreneur, Ram Prasad, incorporated Bharat Lights and created an LED bulb assembling business in Panchkula during the Covid-induced lockdown with limited resources.Fast forward to this day, they are now able to sell over 5,000 LED bulbs a month mostly through their B2B distribution network established over time. Now, he is looking for an online marketplace to launch its products as it would add to the ability of creating a larger pool of customers, according to Ram Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/of-chandigarh-based-businesses-thriving-despite-all-odds-278823
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested on charge of theft at goldsmith’s shop||Two persons, including an employee working at a goldsmith’s shop, have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police for allegedly stealing one and a half kg of gold, diamonds and Rs3 lakh from the shop in Sector 23.Suspect Aakash was produced in a court today and remanded in seven-day police custody.Sources said the stolen jewellery items and some cash had been recovered from the suspect. Complainant Anoop Kumar had reported that he was into the business of jewellery making and had employed five workers, who used to sleep in the shop.On June 26, Aakash, a native of West Bengal, threw a birthday party and intoxicated the other employees and fled away with one and a half kg of gold, diamonds and cash. The suspect had left his mobile phone at the shop to avoid getting tracked.Another suspect, Arjun, also a native of West Bengal who worked at a shop in the same market and had gone missing after the incident, has also been arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-on-charge-of-theft-at-goldsmiths-shop-278824
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders want Sukhna Lake shut||Over the threat of a probable third Covid wave, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has requested the UT Administration to close down Sukhna Lake over the violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said a meeting was today held to discuss the current situation of Covid in Chandigarh. “We need to take extra care because people have started getting careless towards Covid and this can be fatal,” he said.He said they had suggested the UT to close Sukhna Lake for public for the time being otherwise the traders of the city would have to eventually suffer and would be asked to shut their shops down. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-want-sukhna-lake-shut-278825
06-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, pay nothing for power connection transfer in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5Now, power consumers will not have to pay for the transfer of electricity connection in case of change of ownership of the property. The directions were issued by the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) after amending the Electricity Regulations.The security depositin the name of the preceding consumer shall stand transferred in the name of the applicant and no additional security deposit shall be taken if the consumer continues with the same load. - Joint Electricity Regulatory CommissionIn a petition filed to the commission, Kulbir Singh Brar, a local resident, had submitted that the UT Electricity Department had imposed a sum of Rs 76,000 on him for the transfer of electricity connection in his name.“The security deposit in the name of preceding consumer shall stand transferred in the name of the applicant and no additional security deposit shall be taken if the consumer continues with same load,” stated the commission.The JERC further states that if the property is being transferred in the name of multiple owners, the connection will be transferred in the name of first owner, if connection is requested to be transferred in the name of the second co-owner, then the same shall be accepted on receipt of a no objection certificate (NOC) from other co-owners, and if other co-owners, up to two, of the property want to add their name to the electricity connection, they shall apply jointly for name change.Also, no NOC will now be required from the registered consumer/authorised person/previous occupant of the premises for cases involving transfer of security deposit in the name of applicant.“Prepaid meters installed will be exempted from security deposit while ensuring sufficient advance payment thereof,” stated the JERC.“Pre-payment meters will be designed to automatically cut off supply when the amount credited is exhausted. This shall, however, not be treated as a disconnection and the supply will be resumed whenever the meter is recharged,” stated the JREC.Providing relief to consumers on late payment charges, the commission stated: “In case of the delay in serving a bill by more than 60 days, the consumer should be given the option to pay the bill in monthly instalments without any late payment surcharge, fine or penalty”.On initial period of agreement, the commission clarifies that the “initial period of agreement” means the period of six months in case of LT supply, one year in case of HT supply and two years in case of EHT supply starting from the date of commencement of supply as per agreement. The initial period of agreement shall continue till the end of billing cycle, in which the end date of the six months/one/two year’s period expires.On calculating the total load, the commission stated that for domestic connections, the higher of the cooling load (air conditioners, coolers etc) or heating load, excluding equipment used for cooking (geysers, heating rod etc) only will be taken for determination of total load.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pay-nothing-for-power-connection-transfer-in-chandigarh-278826
06-07-2021||Panchkula||Cleanliness a priority: Panchkula MC chief||New Municipal Corporation Commissioner Dharamvir Singh assumed the charge today.In his maiden meeting with senior officials, Dharamvir Singh took stock of the MC functioning and development works carried out by the civic body.He instructed the officials to clear files on a priority basis so that the citizens don’t have to face any inconvenience. On his first day in the office, Dharamvir Singh pledged to strengthen the grievance redressal system of the MC as residents have to make rounds of civic body’s office to get their works done.While asking officials to work hard, he said with collective efforts, they will make Panchkula a clean, green and beautiful city.“Keeping the areas under the MC jurisdiction clean will be a priority,’’ he said.He laid emphasis on the upkeep and maintenance of public toilets in the city.According to an official release, the new MC Commissioner will soon call a meeting regarding the widespread encroachments across the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-a-priority-panchkula-mc-chief-278827
06-07-2021||---||Local Bodies Dept revokes F&CC power to spend up to Rs 1 crore||Mohali, July 5In a major setback to Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, the Local Bodies Department, Punjab, has revoked the extended limit of the Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) to spend up to Rs 1 crore.Zirakpur MC House meetZirakpur: The Municipal Council proposes to build two foot overbridges, one each at the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway and Zirakpur-Shimla National Highway, besides installation of reception gates at the main entrances to the town. Nineteen agenda items were put up at the meeting on Monday, of which all but two were passed with full majority. There was a proposal to lay sewer lines in Dyalpura, Bhudda Sahib and Chhat villages. The main point of contention in Monday’s meeting was the appointment of Karamjit Singh Chaudhary as the legal advisor of the Zirakpur Municipal Council.The department also told the Municipal Corporation Commissioner that the F&CC could not spend any amount directly.Earlier, the MC House meeting held in the presence of Balbir Singh Sidhu had extended F&CC’s spending power from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 1 crore, following which 12 councillors had shot a dissenting letter to the MC Commissioner.The councillors had demanded that two members of the Opposition should be included in the committee to ensure transparency.Today, members of the Azad Group – Sukhdev Singh Patwari and Sarabjit Singh – while displaying the letter issued on June 27 by the Director, Local Bodies, said: “The letter states that any work should be handed over to the F&CC only after deliberation in the General House of the Municipal Corporation. This clearly means that only the House has the authority to pass a cost estimate for a work, and only after the seal of the House is affixed, can the work of contracting for a project be entrusted to the committee.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/local-bodies-dept-revokes-fcc-power-to-spend-up-to-rs-1-crore-278828
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Property grab case: Police oppose Satpal Dagar’s bail plea, cite SCO transaction||Opposing the bail plea of Satpal Dagar, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37 here, the Chandigarh Police today placed before the court transaction details of an SCO reportedly purchased by the former.The transaction details form a part of the additional reply filed by the police before the court.The police claimed that Dagar, along with another accused in the case Khalendra Singh, had purchased shares in the SCO from the money allegedly obtained from the deal of the Sector 37 house.We got the transaction records from the banks concerned, said the police.The police also claimed that during the investigation they received a certified copy of the sale deed related to the Sector 22 SCO from the office of the Sub-Registrar, Chandigarh.The sale deed revealed that the accused (Dagar) had allegedly purchased 20 per cent share in the SCO, the police told the court.Dagar’s counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, however, argued that the alleged transaction details had no relevance to the bail application. The court has deferred the hearing in the cases for July 9.Meanwhile, the police have also filed a reply on the bail application of another accused in the case, Sanjeev Mahajan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-police-oppose-satpal-dagars-bail-plea-cite-sco-transaction-278829
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Central official visits Regional Pesticides Testing Laboratory in Chandigarh||The Additional Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (Government of India), Abhilaksh Likhi, visited the Regional Pesticides Testing Laboratory (RPTL) here for assessing the status of the laboratory which is engaged in quality control of chemical pesticides and bio-pesticides.Vijay Kumar, officer in-charge, RPTL, Chandigarh, briefed the activities of the laboratory. “Regional Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Chandigarh, is playing an important role in ensuring quality pesticides available to farmers,” he said.Likhi assured his full support to strengthen the laboratory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/central-official-visits-regional-pesticides-testing-laboratory-in-chandigarh-278830
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||NSUI makes suggestions to Panjab University VC, DSW||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Panjab University, has submitted a survey report to the Vice-Chancellor and the DSW on how to open the campus in a phased manner after the Covid-19 pandemic.“We suggested a phased manner of reopening for students and online hostel allotment. The online allotment of hostels will be easy to have a basic idea on the number of students seeking accommodation. Students from technical courses, dental and departments where campus placements take place should be called on priority. We also suggested that vaccination should be a must,” said a statement of the union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-makes-suggestions-to-panjab-university-vc-dsw-278831
06-07-2021||Mohali||Baldeep Karan Singh elected president of Punjab Excise & Taxation Officers Association||Baldeep Karan Singh has been elected president of the Punjab Excise & Taxation Officers  . Bhawna Handa and Bharat Sharma have been elected vice-president and general secretary, respectively.The election was conducted online under the supervision of a five-member election committee to ensure a free and fair election in which 90% officers exercised their voting right. The newly elected Cabinet nominated Amit Goyal as treasurer and also appointed eight members to the executive body.At its very first meeting, the body deliberated upon the shortcomings of the 6th Pay Commission report and decided a way forward to put forth its long-standing demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baldeep-karan-singh-elected-president-of-punjab-excise-taxation-officers-association-278832
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||205 board train to Goa||The Chandigarh-Madgaon Sampark Kranti Express Special train, one of the seven trains plying over Chandigarh station, resumed service after a hiatus of one year and three months today.The weekly train (number 04564/04563) departed the city station at 2:15 am. “A total of 205 passengers boarded the train from the city,” said JP Singh, Station Superintendent.A total of seven such trains, which were stopped since March 2020, have been restarted at the city station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/205-board-train-to-goa-278833
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab varsity clarifies on promotion issue||After the reports of Panjab University allegedly stopping Dr Pali Bhupinder’s promotion on the basis of his religion emerged in a section of the media, the PU authorities have cleared that the selection committee found a discrepancy in Dr Bhupinder’s academic performance indicator (API) score.“Dr Pali Bhupinder, Department of Punjabi, University School of Open Learning, Panjab University, was to be promoted in July 2018 from Stage 3 to Stage 4. The selection committee found a discrepancy in his academic performance indicator (API) score. On the basis of that, he was asked to submit additional documents/testimonials to USOL for fulfilling the requirements of API score. Accordingly, USOL was also informed to re-screen the same. It has been found that to date, no additional document has been submitted by him to USOL, in the absence of which, the department could not rescreen the application,” stated in an official statement of the PU today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-clarifies-on-promotion-issue-278834
06-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Erratic supply hits vax drive in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 5The erratic vaccine supply has forced the district administration here to reduce the number of vaccination centers by more than 50 per cent in a week. From 33 vaccination centres on June 28, the vaccination took place at just 16 centres today.According to the latest vaccine bulletin, the district is left with just 1,470 doses of Covishield and 4,940 doses of Covaxin. As a result, the Health Department has decided to further cut down the number of vaccination centers.Tomorrow, the vaccination will take place at only 14 centres, said the officials concerned. Of these, five will be at private hospitals and one at the Governor House in Chandigarh. Only 2,354 people were inoculated today.Though the district had managed to administer, on an average, 4,800 doses daily between June 21 and July 4, the shortage in supply is likely to disturb the upward Covid-19 vaccination graph.The district had administered a record 18,724 doses at 65 centres in a mega vaccination drive on June 21, when the Centre’s new vaccine policy came into existence. It had boosted the morale of the local health officials and they were keen on carrying forward the trend as they had been assured of ample supplies.However, the inadequate supply has once again proved to be a major roadblock in the administration’s plan to speed up the vaccination drive.On June 21, after administering 18,724 doses in the mega vaccination drive, the district’s vaccine stock stood at 22,180 doses of Covishield and 3,720 doses of Covaxin. Although the supply has improved as compared to the past months, the free flow of vaccine remains a distant dream.District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan said they had received no communication from the authorities on when the district would receive the fresh stock. “The fresh doses are yet to reach the district. We are running the drive with whatever vaccine is in stock,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/erratic-supply-hits-vax-drive-in-panchkula-278835
06-07-2021||---||Vitamin D overuse can lead to toxicity: PGI doc||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5“Use of vitamin D in high doses, especially injectable preparations, to prevent Covid-19 should be strongly discouraged. Vitamin D supplemented prior to the diagnosis of Covid-19 was not found to improve clinical outcomes in our meta-analysis. Instead, overuse can lead to vitamin D toxicity,” said Prof Sanjay K Bhadada from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.Promising results“As the Covid-19 pandemic continues, search for an effective therapy still remains elusive. Accordingly, multiple existing drugs have been repurposed for the management of Covid-19. In this context, vitamin D, a fat-soluble vitamin which is primarily related to bone and mineral metabolism, has shown some promising results in Covid-19,” read the study.Doctors at the PGI, Chandigarh, have recently published a study in the Journal of Endocrinological Investigation entitled “Vitamin D supplementation and clinical outcomes in Covid-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis”.The study was conducted by Dr Rimesh Pal, Dr Mainak Banerjee, Prof Sanjay K Bhadada, Dr Anirudh J Shetty, Dr Birgurman Singh and Dr Abhinav Vyas.“Pooled data from 13 studies showed that vitamin D supplementedafter the diagnosis of Covid-19 leads to improved clinical outcomes in terms of reduced mortality and/or intensive care unit admission,” said Prof Sanjay K Bhadada, Head of Endocrinology Department at the PGI, Chandigarh.“As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to rampage, search for an effective therapy still remains elusive. Accordingly, multiple existing drugs have been repurposed for the management of Covid-19. In this context, vitamin D, a fat-soluble vitamin which is primarily related to bone and mineral metabolism, has shown some promising results in Covid-19,” read the study.“The study lends ample support to the fact that vitamin D can be used as an effective adjuvant treatment modality in patients hospitalised with Covid-19. The anti-viral and the immune-modulatory role of vitamin D are perhaps helpful in this regard. Nevertheless, irrational and rampant use of vitamin D to prevent Covid-19 should not a norm,” it further reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vitamin-d-overuse-can-lead-to-toxicity-pgi-doc-278836
06-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Amount used on infra, coaches’ wages, says PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5With questions being raised over charging of sports fees from students at a time when no tournaments were held in the past one year, the Panjab University authorities said the amount was being used to pay coaches’ salaries and maintaining sports infrastructure.The authorities concerned also made it clear that the funds won’t be adjusted in future“The Panjab University Sports Committee (PUSC) will discuss the matter, but the sports fees collected from students is being spent on many things, including dispersing coaches’ salaries and maintaining grounds. The funds will also be used during upcoming projects,” Prof Prashant Kumar Gautam, PU Sports Director, had said recently.Panjab University charges sports fee from every student ad the amount is used for conducting sports activities, including inter-college, inter-university championships, purchasing of sports kits and maintaining of grounds.Besides sports funds, the PUSC also spends money collected from sports fees to develop infrastructure in affiliated colleges and to award scholarships.“Concerns voiced by some colleges and students are genuine as there have been no tournaments in the past one year. Not the entire amount, but the PUSC should adjust some amount in the next session,” said a senior coach.“Given the current situation, the university is not likely to host any major championships this year. An average amount, which was expected to be used in such tournaments or camps, should be waived off in the next semester’s sports fee,” said another coach.However, the coach asserted “authorities’ concern over dispersing coaches’ salary and maintaining grounds is indisputable”.Meanwhile, students studying in PU affiliated colleges demanded adjustment of sports fee in next semester’s fee.“If the sports fee is charged for conducting sports activities, the authorities should adjust or waive off a minimal amount from that fee as there have been no championships in the past one year,” said Anil, a student.“Moreover, no new infrastructure has been developed for the sportspersons either from the PU or the colleges,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amount-used-on-infra-coaches-wages-says-pu-278838
06-07-2021||---||BJYM activists face water cannons, tear gas shells||Chandigarh, July 5The UT police resorted to water cannon and tear gas shells to stop Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) members, who wanted to lay siege to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. The activists were protesting against the Punjab Government over its alleged failure to curb drug menace in the state.The police had laid barricades to stop the protesters in Sector 17. However, they tried to force their way through the barricades, following which the UT police used water cannons.The police also resorted to using tear gas shells to stop the activists from heading towards the Punjab Chief Minister’s residence.The police rounded up the activists, who were later released. A cop was also injured during the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjym-activists-face-water-cannons-tear-gas-shells-278839
06-07-2021||---||National Lok Adalat to be held in Mohali on July 10||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 5For amicable settlement of pending cases in various courts, the quarterly National Lok Adalat will be held in the district on July 10.Rajinder Singh Rai, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, held a meeting with civil and judicial officials today.To be held virtually, physicallyThe Lok Adalat will be organised virtually as well as physically for the ease of people and the Benches will be constituted in the Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi sub-divisions.He said a wide array of cases were to be taken up in the upcoming National Lok Adalat for settlement through compromise between the parties.The Lok Adalat will be organised virtually as well as physically for the ease of people and the Benches will be constituted in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi sub-divisions.Apart from the cases pending in the courts, pre-litigation cases will also be taken up in the Lok Adalat.Rajinder Singh said the major benefits of the Lok Adalat were that the court fee paid by the litigant was refundable and the decision passed by the Lok Adalat was final and binding upon the parties. He made an appeal that the litigants should avail maximum benefit of the time and money-saving Lok Adalats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-lok-adalat-to-be-held-in-mohali-on-july-10-278840
06-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Delay in handing over plot costs Mohali builder dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5While rejecting excuses like loss due to the lockdown and shortage of construction material for delay in completion of the project, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a Mohali-based builder to refund the entire amount of Rs42,25,000 to a consumer with interest.The Commission has also directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for causing mental agony and physical harassment.Complainant Usha Yadav approached the Commission through counsel Devinder Kumar after the builder failed to hand over the possession of the plot in the fixed time. She sought the refund of the amount paid for the purchase of a plot in the builder’s project, “The Palm”, in New Chandigarh, Mohali, Punjab, on the ground that the builder failed to offer possession for dearth of construction and development activities.The complainant said she purchased a plot measuring 250 square yards on March 3, 2012, after paying a booking amount of Rs13,50,000. Despite the fact that a substantial amount of Rs42,25,000 was paid, the builder failed to hand over the possession of the plot with all facilities. She claimed that as per the plot buyer’s agreement executed in 2017, the builder promised to hand over the possession of the plot within a period of 24 months from the date of allotment.Usha Yadav said the builder failed to do so due to lack of development activities at the project site. The complainant’s claim was contested by the builder on numerous grounds. In the reply, the builder claimed that the development work was at an advanced stage and some wings of flats had already been delivered to customers.The builder also sought extension for the completion of the project from the competent authorities, which had been granted. The builder also claimed that it suffered a setback due to the pandemic and suffered losses. Still, efforts were on to complete the project within the extended period.After hearing the arguments, the Commission rejected the excuses of the builder such as losses due to the Covid. The Commission, in the order, said the lockdown, which was imposed in March 2020 due to Covid-19, had no connection with the inordinate delay in the matter as the plot in question had been purchased by the complainant as far as back in 2012.In view of this, the Commission has directed the builder to refund Rs42,25,000 to the complainant and Rs50,000 compensation for harassment and litigation costs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delay-in-handing-over-plot-costs-mohali-builder-dear-278841
06-07-2021||Panchkula||Aditya, Pankaj shine in shooting championship||Aditya won the overall championship in the pistol category, while Pankaj claimed the top position in rifle event in the ongoing 1st Mark-10 ISSF Shooting Cup at Hallmark Public School, Sector 15, here.Aditya won the gold medal with a total score of 233 points. Sarbjot Singh claimed the second position by scoring 231 points and Bobby Kaushik claimed the third position with 210 points. Pankaj won in the rifle event with 237 points, followed by Nalin on the second spot.In the women’s senior rifle event, Vanshikha and Neetu claimed top two positions, respectively, while Lakshay won the men’s junior event. Sonal claimed gold in the women’s junior category and Pratha bagged the silver medal.Taj, Tilak and Harmanjot claimed top three positions, respectively, in the men’s youth category, while Diya, Rashmeet and Anureet bagged first three positions, respectively, in the women’s event.Results:Pistol: Senior Men: 1st Bobby, 2nd Tinjit, 3rd Vinay; Senior Women: 1st Priyanka, 2nd Aanchal, 3rd Lakshmi; Junior Men: 1st Sarbjot Singh, 2nd Aditya, 3rd Shubhajit; Junior Women: 1st Ariha, 2nd Kushal; Youth Men: 1st Chetan, 2nd Sujal, 3rd Himanshu; Sub-Youth Men: 1st Ajay, 2nd Tejas, 3rd Suryansh; Sub-Youth Women: 1st Angelina, 2nd Aditi, 3rd Seerat; Youth (II) Men: 1st Dilraj, 2nd AyaanRifle: Sub-Youth Men: 1st Pururaj, 2nd Destination; Sub-Youth Women: 1st Lavya, 2nd Harsimran, 3rd Ojaswi; Youth (II) Woman: 1st Kashvi — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditya-pankaj-shine-in-shooting-championship-278842
06-07-2021||Panchkula||2 arrested with Italy-made pistol, four cartridges||The police arrested two persons and seized an Italy-made pistol and four live cartridges from their possession on Sunday evening.The suspects, identified as Jony, a resident of Lohri village in Panchkula, and Ankit Rana of Sultanpur in Panchkula, belong to the Bhupi Rana gang.According to the police, they received information that one of the suspects, Ankit, along with his accomplice, was travelling on a motorcycle from Natwal village to Khatauli to commit a crime.“After getting information, the police laid a naka near Khatauli village. Around 6:05 pm, we spotted two youths approaching the naka at a high speed from the Natwal village side. On seeing the police, they tried to turn back. However, the police managed to nab them. During the checking, the police seized a pistol made in Italy and its magazine loaded with four cartridges,” the FIR said.A case under relevant sections of the Arms Act and the IPC has been registered. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to two-day police custody.According to the police, Ankit, along with his accomplices, had attacked a man at Sultanpur village, leaving him seriously injured, on January 25. An FIR in this regard was registered at the Chandimandir police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-italy-made-pistol-four-cartridges-278843
06-07-2021||---||Bail plea of GMCH technician rejected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5A court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of a GMCH-32 technician, who is facing charges of molesting a girl student.The suspect, Kamleshwar, a resident of New Chandigarh, Mohali, applied for anticipatory bail after the police registered a case against him under Sections 354 and 506 of the IPC last week.As per the complaint, on June 27, the victim had gone to the storeroom to fetch medical supplies when the technician allegedly molested her.She alleged that the suspect also threatened her of dire consequences in case she revealed the matter.The counsel for Kamleshwar claimed that the accused has been falsely implicated in the case.The victim’s counsel, Terminder Singh, said the complainant had no motive to falsely implicate the accused as the complaint was given on the same day of the alleged incident.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the anticipatory bail of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-gmch-technician-rejected-278844
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 miscreants snatch phone||Special talk on equity marketsChandigarh: Rotaract Club of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, in collaboration with Rotary Chandigarh Midtown, organised a special talk on "Equity Markets as an Asset Class". The talk was delivered by Nitin Kapur, Director, MS Finline Pvt Ltd. The main objective of the talk was to apprise the students of equity markets and to create awareness about investment. TNSWorkshop held at Dev Samaj-36Chandigarh: Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, in collaboration with the Government College of Education, inaugurated a 10-day curriculum revision workshop for the department of education, Eternal University, Baru Sahib. Dr Agnese Dhillon, Principal; Dr Richa Sharma, Charanjit Kaur, Dr Neelam Paul, Dr Harpreet Kaur, Dr Raina Bhatia and Dr Neeru Malik attended the event. TNSPanjab university declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared the results of BSc (Fashion Designing) 3rd semester, Master of Science (Microbial Biotechnology) 1st semester, Bachelor of Science (Agriculture) 4-year course 1st semester and Bachelor of Commerce 1st semester. The results are available at the respective departments/colleges and on the the Panjab University website. TNS2 snatchers held with five phonesMohali: The police nabbed two suspects allegedly involved in several snatchings and recovered five mobile phones from them. The suspects have been identified as Rahul and Pankaj. They have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station. ‘’Five premium phones have been recovered from the suspects. They were involved in various snatchings in Mohali city. The court has remanded them in two-day police custody,’’ said Shivi Brar, SHO, Phase 1 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-miscreants-snatch-phone-278845
