07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab, Gurugram records 44.5°C||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, with Gurugram sizzling at 44.5 degrees Celsius.Gurugram, which recorded a maximum temperature that was seven notches above normal, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 41.9 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded a maximum temperature of 42.3 degrees Celsius and 40.7 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rohtak’s maximum settled at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Ambala recorded a high of 40.3 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Karnal’s maximum settled at 39.2 degrees Celsius, also five notches above normal.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal.Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Ludhiana’s high settled at 39.8 degrees Celsius.Bathinda registered a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 40.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-gurugram-records-44-5%C2%B0c-279606
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board introduces facility for online payment of dues||Chandigarh Housing Board has introduced the facility of online payment of all kinds of dues and now the allottees are not required to visit the office of the Chandigarh Housing Board and they can pay their dues online by visiting the website of the CHB www.chbonline.in.2. CHB has decided that to further encourage the online payments, the CHB to continue with a monthly reward of Rs. 1,000/- each to 10 online payment transactions during the whole year of 2021.3. The Online Payment process has been further simplified and now the online payment can be made without making any registration or going through the process of user id and Password. The option for ‘QUICK ONLINE PAYMENT’ has been provided. The allottee/applicant needs to mention the Category, Sector, and Unit number only while resting the detail like the name of the allottee, registration number, and name of the scheme will get filled up automatically.  An auto-generated SMS is sent on every successful payment and receipt of the payment can be downloaded instantly. Online payments can be made through Net Banking, Debit Cards, and Credit cards, without any extra charge. 4. The online payment system was introduced in the month of October 2019 and during the month of June 2021, a total of Rs. 2.21 crores have been collected through 1021 online transactions. This is the highest ever monthly online collection since the introduction of the online payment system. Earlier the highest online payment was recorded as Rs. 1.52 crores in May 2021 and prior that as Rs. 1.32 crores in March 2021.4. A computerized draw to decide 10 winners for the month of June was held today. It has been observed that:i. Among the winners, one deposited the lowest amount of Rs. 800/- only.ii. The 10 winners include 07 allottees of Small Flats, 03 allottees of Residential Units.iii. 03 winners are from MALOYA, 03 from DHANAS, 01 from Sector-38-W, 45-B, 49, and Sector 51-A.iv. One of the winners is a female allottee who got the allotment of a flat in Sector-51 being the highest bidder in the last e-Tender in the month of June 2021only. She has deposited part of the consideration amount online and immediately after got this prize.5. The winners are being informed separately and the prize money will be credited to their Bank Accounts, through online banking, in the next few days.6. All the allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board are again requested to use the online payment facility while paying dues/fees to the Chandigarh Housing Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-introduces-facility-for-online-payment-of-dues-279508
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||29K take Panjab University's online examination||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29k-take-panjab-universitys-online-examination-279470
07-07-2021||---||Foreign varsities, Rayat Bahra University join hands||Mohali: Rayat Bahra University will now offer masters and doctorate programmes from various universities across the globe. With this collaboration, students will get different academic and non-academic scholarships. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of the university, said the RBU presented an opportunity to experience global education. He due to strategic alliances and links with foreign universities, the standard of education at the RBU was currently on a par with the best in the world. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foreign-varsities-rayat-bahra-university-join-hands-279468
07-07-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Teenaged cyclist found dead at the McDonald’s point||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-teenaged-cyclist-found-dead%C2%A0at-the-mcdonalds-point-279467
07-07-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Teenaged cyclist found dead at the McDonald’s point||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-teenaged-cyclist-found-dead%C2%A0at-the-mcdonalds-point-279466
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Foetus found in Sector 25, Chandigarh||Three held for snatching phoneChandigarh: Three youths have been arrested for snatching a mobile phone. The complainant, Tushar Dua of Ambala, had reported that three miscreants snatched his phone near the Vikas Nagar light point, Mauli Jagran, on July 2. Three days later, the police arrested Akash (18), a resident of Mauli village, Vikash (20) and Prem (19),  both residents of village Haripur, Sector 4,  Panchkula, in the case. TNSYouth arrested with pistolMohali: The police nabbed a youth with a country-made pistol and four live rounds in Sector 77. The suspect has been identified as Rinku, a construction labourer hailing from UP. His accomplice, Ayub Khan, who brought the weapon from UP two days ago, has also been arrested.The duo was remanded in two-day police custody. TNSProperty grab: accused gets bailChandigarh: A local court has granted anticipatory bail to one of the accused, Daljit Singh, in the Sector 37 property grab case. The court granted the bail after the police decided not to oppose his bail plea on the ground that the accused had made a statement that he intended to stand by the truth and wished to become an approver. The police said the petitioner was not required for further custodial interrogation. A case in the alleged property grab case was registered on March 2 against the nine accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foetus-found-in-sector-25-chandigarh-279366
07-07-2021||Naina Mishra||In sero survey, 69% children found exposed to coronavirus in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6“A majority of at least 69 per cent children acquired the infection from their family members during the second wave. This data proves that children have acquired natural immunity against the infection and there will be no exclusivity for this age group in the third wave,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, Chandigarh.‘They got infection from kin’ A majority of at least 69 per cent children acquired the infection from their family members during the second wave. This data proves that they have acquired natural immunity against the infection. — Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI“These children had remained asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic during the infection. Some parents may not have been even aware of their Covid status. If there is a third wave, all age groups will be uniformly involved. This is a piece of crucial information in preparing for the third wave and to overrule the theory of children being susceptible to the virus in the next surge,” he said.In the second wave (April and May), when the city recorded 33,047 cases, children aged up till 18 accounted for 10 per cent of the total infections. There was wide speculation worldwide by some experts, who projected that the third wave will be dangerous for children as they remain without vaccine and susceptible to the infection.The PGI was tasked with carrying out a Covid-19 sero survey among the paediatric population of the city to estimate the percentage of children who already have anti-SARS CoV2 IgG antibodies present, which is an indirect marker of the previous infection and will be useful in policy matters regarding the Covid vaccination among the paediatric population, if launched in the near futureOf the 2,700 target samples, the results of 756 samples (urban and rural) have been revealed by the institute. Of the 396 samples collected from the urban population, 257 were found positive. Similarly, 262 of the 360 samples collected from among the rural population were found positive.The prevalence of the Covid-19 infection was found in 65 per cent of the urban children population, while 73 per cent rural children were found seropositive during the survey.To have a uniform representation, samples are being collected from three different areas of the UT — Sector 3, 6, 22, 24, 29, 36, 46, 47, 48 and 56; Khuda Jasu, Dhanas, Maloya, Mauli Jagran, Makhan Majra, Raipur Kalan, Burail (Sector 45), Attawa (Sector 42) and Kajheri (Sector 52) villages; and Hallo Majra, Colony No. 4 (Industrial Area), Bhaskar Colony, Sanjay Colony (Industrial Area, Phase 1), Indira Colony, Bapu Dham, Mauli Jagran, Dadu Majra, Colony No. 5 (Industrial Area), SBS Colony and Mani Majra.The next round of sample collection will be carried out in slum colonies by a PGI team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-sero-survey-69-children-found-exposed-to-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-279152
07-07-2021||---||To check rush, Sukhna Lake to open all day on Sundays||Chandigarh, July 6To avoid overcrowding, the UT Administration has decided to open Sukhna Lake the whole day on Sundays. The decision was taken at a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.According to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, the restrictions on opening of Sukhna Lake for only four hours in the morning and two hours in the evening on Sundays had been withdrawn to avoid overcrowding.Expressing serious concern over the rush at Sukhna Lake, the Administrator directed the police to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour at the lake. Badnore said closure of Sukhna Lake would be considered during evenings on weekends if visitors did not adhere to the Covid protocol and overcrowding was observed even after opening the lake the whole day.The Health Department has started a special vaccination camp at the lake. Twently persons got the jab at the camp today.In view of a sharp decline in Covid cases, it was decided to increase the number of guests allowed for special gatherings such as weddings to 100 or 50 per cent of the capacity of the banquet hall, whichever is less. It will be mandatory for all adult guests and staff of the hotel or banquet hall to have received at least one dose of the vaccine or to have a negative RTPCR report of the past 72 hours.Keeping in view national and international events, the Administration has decided to open select swimming pools of the Sports Department for swimmers/players on the condition that all eligible players have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine and are tested after every fortnight.In another decision, the UT Administration has clubbed liquor vends in the category of restaurants, bars and eateries and allowed these to open from 10 am to 10.30 pm. During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said a 2,000 litre per minute oxygen plant would become functional at the institute tomorrow.Liquor vends to open from 10 am to 10.30 pm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-check-rush-sukhna-lake-to-open-all-day-on-sundays-279153
07-07-2021||---||70-yr-old woman, grandson die as tipper hits auto near Dhanas||Chandigarh, July 6A 70-year-old woman and her 14-year-old grandson were killed, while four others were injured after the auto they were travelling in was hit by a speeding tipper near Dhanas this morning.The victims were coming from Dhanas and going to the grain market in Sector 26 to purchase vegetables when the mishap took place. The tipper driver escaped, leaving the vehicle behind.Bhagwati and her grandson Chanchal were seriously injured in the accident.They were rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, in another auto. They were declared brought dead at the hospital.The other victims were identified as Bhagwati’s son Sanju (34), Raj Kumar (45), auto driver Vinod (48) and Rahul (16).They were rushed to the hospital in PCR vehicles. All injured were undergoing treatment, said a police official.Sources said Bhagwati was a vegetable vendor and her grandson also used to help her in the work.A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. The police have initiated an investigation and impounded both vehicles involved in the mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-yr-old-woman-grandson-die-as-tipper-hits-auto-near-dhanas-279154
07-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board pockets Rs 17.65 crore from 22 dwelling units at e-auction||Chandigarh, July 6The CHB has earned Rs17.65 crore from e-auction of 22 built-up dwelling units.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 55 units on freehold basis. The units were available in Sector 38(West), 49, 51 and 63. The board received 51 e-bids for 22 dwelling units, which were opened today.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the total reserve price of the 22 units was Rs16.77 crore. He said the board had received average of over 5 per cent above the reserve price of these units.Two MIG flats in Sector 51 were sold for Rs95.60 lakh and Rs95 lakh against the reserve price of Rs83.26 lakh each.Garg said the highest bidder would have to deposit 25 per cent of the bid amount (after adjusting earnest money deposit) within five working days of the closure of the bid. In case of default, earnest money deposit would be forfeited. Further, the bidder would be blacklisted from bidding on any CHB property, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-pockets-rs-17-65-crore-from-22-dwelling-units-at-e-auction-279155
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mucormycosis cases decline in Chandigarh hospitals||Cases of mucormycosis have decreased further in the city.The number patients being received daily at the city hospitals has come down to about three to four per day from eight per day last week.“Fatality in mucormycosis cases has also come down to 11 per cent at the PGI. We were getting 10-12 patients of mucormycosis daily in our hospital emergencies,” said PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram.Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, stated that there were 22 active cases at the hospital and four of them were likely to be discharged soon.Till date, the city hospitals have reported 551 cases of mucormycosis.A total of 53 deaths took place in the city hospitals due to the fungal infection, of these 10 deaths belong to Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mucormycosis-cases-decline-in-chandigarh-hospitals-279156
07-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Veteran athlete Mann Kaur racing against time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6“Old age is like a plane flying through a storm. Once you’re aboard, there’s nothing you can do,” these words from former Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir say a lot about the struggles of centenarians when they start living with a deadly disease.No one had ever thought that 105-year-old Mann Kaur, the veteran athlete who holds world record in various events in the 100 plus age category, despite following a healthy lifestyle and strict diet would one day be in the grip of cancer.Mann was diagnosed with gall bladder and liver cancers in February. The centenarian is on liquid diet and has been pulling through the disease with the help of homeopathic medicines, as operation is not an option for the people of her age, said her 82-year-old son Gurdev Singh. Gurdev claimed he had approached Kayakalp Himalayan Institute for Yoga & Naturopathy, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh), and Sanjeevani Kaya Shodhan Sansthan, Gohana (Haryana), for her mother’s treatment “but they refused, probably due to her age”.“Things have been tough. We don’t need any monetary help, but if these centres can help her recover (Mann) through naturopathy, it will be great. As of now, she is doing fine with the homeopathy medicines,” said Gurdev.When contacted, one of the office bearers at Sanjeevani Kaya Shodhan Sansthan said they didn’t take patients over 70 years of age, while the Palampur-based institute has mentioned on their website that they don’t provide treatment to patients suffering from AIDS, cancer, acute cardiac diseases, tuberculosis and infectious diseases.Asked about treating Mann through allopathy, Gurdev said: “Some representatives of a pharmaceutical company visited us. They offered us a machine which works on body cells, it’s like modern chemotherapy. The machine costs around Rs1.5 lakh. However, considering her achievements, they offered us to give it for Rs70,000. I am still in discussion with them.”Pandemic hit her hardMann’s journey||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-racing-against-time-279157
07-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Milkha Charitable Trust will care for adopted players: Jeev Milkha Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Even if the Milkha couple is no more, the players adopted by the Milkha Charitable Trust will continue to get the promised support, said their son Jeev Milkha Singh.Jeev, the winner of six Asian Tour titles, four European Tour titles and four Japan Tour titles, said the players adopted by his parents would continue to get support for building their career. Both Milkha Singh and Nirmal Milkha Singh were known philanthropists, who would support meritorious players from poor financial backgrounds in living their dream of becoming a successful sportsperson.“Yes, we will take care of them, my parents (Milkha couple) wishes will be fulfilled,” said Jeev. Last year only, the couple had promised full support to hockey player Harpreet Singh, one of the top goal scorers for Khelo India, after he was found working as a labourer. The couple was taking care of another player Chanjeet, a para-skater from Jammu & Kashmir, and many others.“This is one of the biggest losses of my life. I had promised them to represent the country. It’s sad that they won’t be there to see me, but one day, I will surely make them proud,” said Harpreet.Founded in May 2002, the Milkha Charitable Trust aims to promote sports among villagers by providing them with free equipment. It works with the underprivileged youth, who are deprived of basic opportunities required to build their careers. Last month, one of the famous couples of India—Milkha Singh and Nirmal Milkha Singh— breathed their last in a gap of just five days. While the former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh succumbed to the post-Covid complications, his wife Nirmal, former skipper of the Indian volleyball team, lost her battle to Covid at a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-charitable-trust-will-care-for-adopted-players-jeev-milkha-singh-279158
07-07-2021||---||In memory of Father Stan Swami||Chandigarh, July 6A gathering of more than 80 persons, including lawyers, teachers, writers, students, activists and civil society members of Chandigarh, today raised their voice against the death of 84-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swami in custody yesterday.The speakers, who were gathered at the Sector 17 Plaza, termed his death as the “merciless killing of a political prisoner”. Amandeep, a member of the PSU (Lalkaar), said: “Before his arrest eight months ago, Swami had explained in a video how he was being falsely framed in the Bima Koregaon case. He had also said that he was paying the price for raising voice for wrongly imprisoned adivasis. He stood by his words and fought against injustice till his last breath.”“While we salute the sacrifice and spirit of Father Swami, we condemn the fascist Indian state that has kept activists like Swami in prisons without any trial and legal grounds,” she added.Prof Chaman Lal, former Dean, faculty of languages, PU, equated Swami’s “killing” in the prison to the martyrdom of revolutionary Bhagat Singh’s comrade Jatin Das in 1929 in jail.The speakers said, goverment of India and the entire judicial system should be held accountable for such atrocities and violations of human rights and civil liberties using black laws such as the UAPA.They also lighted candles in the memory of Father Stan Swami.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-memory-of-father-stan-swami-279159
07-07-2021||---||GMCH-32 technician remanded in police custody in molestation case||Chandigarh, July 6A local court has remanded the GMCH technician, who allegedly molested a woman student, in one-day police custody.Earlier, the technician surrendered before the court today after his anticipatory bail application was dismissed on Monday.The accused Kamleshwar, a resident of New Chandigarh, Mohali, applied for the anticipatory bail after the police registered a case against him last week under Section 354 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of a woman student. According to the complaint, the victim student alleged that when she had gone to a storeroom to fetch medical supplies on June 27, the accused technician allegedly molested her.She said the accused also threatened her of dire consequences if she mentioned the incident to anyone. Terminder Singh, counsel of the complainant and public prosecutor, sought the police remand for the accused for further investigation in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-technician-remanded-in-police-custody-in-molestation-case-279160
07-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Despite tall claims by Chandigarh MC, city waste remains unprocessed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Despite tall claims made by the Municipal Corporation on waste management, the fact remains that a nominal amount of the city garbage is getting processed at the Sector 25 plant.The remaining unprocessed waste continues to be thrown at the dumping ground across the road in Dadu Majra.The city produces about 450 metric tonnes of waste daily, and as per an IIT-Roorkee inspection report, the plant has a capacity to process only 60-65 metric tonnes of garbage a day. Residents claim not even this much amount is processed.Two months after the MC took over the plant from the Jaypee Group, the IIT-Roorkee report had stated that all the machines at the plant had already passed their age and recommended setting up a modern 500 tonnes per day plant for dry and wet waste treatment.However, the civic body continues to work with the worn out machines, which has only led to an increase in the mountain of garbage at the dumping site, causing huge trouble to the residents.“It is a health hazard. Even while eating, we get the stench. We are mentally disturbed due to the constant smell. It is more dangerous than Covid. One can still get cured of Covid with medicines, but there is no solution to the waste dumping ground,” said Harjinder Singh, chairman, Resident Welfare Association, Dadu Majra.“Fire incidents are a norm here and they generate poisonous gases. During fire, and even due to wind, the areas up to Sector 22 get the stench. It is a challenge for commuters to cross the road near the dumping site,” added another resident.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “The BJP-led MC has failed to finalise the technology, which has resulted in problems for people. It should not be delayed further as the pile of garbage is only rising.”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The plant was set up by the Congress and its processing remained a problem since beginning. Now, we are taking time only to give the best plant to the city.”(Concluded)Garbage blues||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-tall-claims-by-chandigarh-mc-city-waste-remains-unprocessed-279161
07-07-2021||---||Empanelled centres tricity add to pain of CGHS beneficiaries||Chandigarh, July 6The beneficiaries of the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) are facing a tough time as many of the empanelled centres in the tricity are refusing to provide them cashless services.Despite getting proper permission from doctors at the CHGS centre in Civil Hospital, Sector 45, they are being told to pay for the services, though as per the government approved rates.“Why should I pay them, when I have got proper referral from the CGHS centre?” asked CGHS beneficiary Ashok Kumar, who visited Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula to get his blood sample tested.“This is complete harassment, I am entitled to cashless service but they are asking me to pay for the tests,” he said.The case is no different in some other hospitals.“Even Fortis Hospital is not entertaining the CGHS beneficiaries, they are being charged for the services despite having permissions,” said another CGHS beneficiary. “Though you can get the amount reimbursed, imagine if you don’t have the initial amount for the treatment. It is very scary,” the beneficiary added.Additional Director, CGHS, Dr Ashwani Kumar told Chandigarh Tribune that he had received complaints against Alchemist and Fortis hospitals and they had been told for an early compliance.“We have sent notices to them, asking why action should not be initiated against them for non-compliance,” said Dr Kumar.An official in Alchemist Hospital, meanwhile, said they were finding it difficult to upgrade to the new NHA IT portal and it would take some time to get used to the latest system.“We also want hassle-free service for CGHS beneficiaries but till the time we upgrade to the new system, people will have to bear with some inconvenience. We are undertaking trial runs and hopefully the issue will be resolved in the next few days,” said the official, who didn’t wish to be named.Earlier in June, the Centre had directed all the CGHS empanelled centres in the country to upgrade to the new system for providing cashless, paperless and citizen-centric services.Fortis Hospital said they adopted the new CGHS online system on June 10, but since then they were “not able to upload bills” on the portal “as per the directions of the CGHS”.“We had requested the CGHS to allow us to continue on the old system till the problems of the new site are resolved, but apparently that was not possible,” said the Fortis spokesperson.“We are sensitive to the needs of our CGHS patients. Despite having an outstanding of over Rs 6 crore and unpaid bills of as long as two years we never stopped cashless services earlier. It is only now, we have been forced to take this decision as there is no clarity on what will happen to our credit bills,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/empanelled-centres-tricity-add-to-pain-of-cghs-beneficiaries-279162
07-07-2021||---||Animals kept indoors should be vaccinated regularly, says doctor||Mohali, July 6A district-level function was held at Primary Health Centre, Boothgarh, to create awareness about zoonotic disease, which can be transmitted from animals to human beings, to mark World Zoonosis Day.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said World Zoonosis Day was held every year to commemorate the first vaccination against rabies, a zoonotic disease, which was successfully administered by Louis Pasteur, a French biologist, on July 6, 1885. The day is also marked to raise awareness about the risk of zoonotic diseases such as Covid-19, bird flu, Ebola, Avian influenza and West Nile virus.Addressing the gathering, Senior Medical Officer Dr Jaskirandeep Kaur said: “Animals play a significant part in spreading zoonotic diseases as 75 per cent of new or emerging diseases originate from them. The transmission can occur when there is a contact with animals, consumption of meat or using animal products. The disease can jump from pets, farm animals reared for meat or from hunting, butchering and consuming wild game”.She said rabies had been a deadly disease since time immemorial. When the cure for rabies was developed, it was a great achievement for the humanity. Covid-19 virus was currently a serious crisis in the world and it is believed that the virus had entered the human population from animals.District Epidemiologist Dr Vikran Nagra said several people keep pets at home, especially dogs and cats, and often pamper them, but caution was needed when doing so. Animals kept indoors should also be regularly inspected and vaccinated as failure to do so could lead to spread of dangerous diseases. He said zoonotic diseases could be transmitted through air, water or food. Caution was needed when dealing with pets, since proximity to animals could be dangerous.Dr Harman Mahal, Dr Kuldeep Singh, Dr Baltej, Dr Kaljotveer Singh, Dr Vikas, Dr Arun Bansal, Dr Subin, Dr Simon Kaur, Health Inspector Gurtej Singh, Swaran Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Baljit Singh and Asha workers were present. World Zoonosis DayCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said World Zoonosis Day was held every year to commemorate the first vaccination against rabies, a zoonotic disease, which was successfully administered by Louis Pasteur, a French biologist, on July 6, 1885. The day is also marked to raise awareness about the risk of zoonotic diseases such as Covid-19, bird flu, Ebola, Avian influenza and West Nile virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/animals-kept-indoors-should-be-vaccinated-regularly-says-doctor-279164
07-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu hits out at Opposition||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 6City Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu today hit out at the Opposition for “misleading” the people.He claimed that the Opposition councillors were “misinterpreting” the letter issued by the Local Bodies Department on June 28 over the enhancing of the financial powers of the Finance and Control Committee (F&CC) to Rs 1 crore.“The fact is that the said letter has also clarified the details of the last two letters (2013-14) and also referred to the Sections 42/1 and 42/4 of the Municipal Act, under which F&CC committees or other committees are formed and given financial powers,” said Sidhu.“Opposition Councilors lied that the financial power of Rs1 crore given to the F&CC by the House had been taken away… the resolution passed by the House of the Mohali Corporation has been approved by the Local Bodies Department,” he added.The Mayor said the F&CC continued to hold the financial powers of spending up to Rs 1 crore and added that he was going to convene a meeting of the committee soon.“The Opposition councilors have resorted to lies and deception to mislead the people. It is my duty to expose them,” he said.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg and SE Sanjay Kanwar were also present on the occasion.On Monday, councillors from the Azad Group, including Sukhdev Singh Patwari and Sarabjit Singh Samana, had issued a letter to the media saying that the Local Bodies Department had directed the MC that no work should be done by the F&CC without getting it passed by the House.The Opposition also termed it a major setback for Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu.Meanwhile, Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg, while responding to a query from the media, said he agreed with the Mayor, and as per the Municipal Act, the F&CC could meet as before and pass development resolutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-amarjit-singh-jeeti-sidhu-hits-out-at-opposition-279165
07-07-2021||Mohali||Kharar cricket academy win||Champion’s Cricket Academy, Kharar, defeated Cricket Bash Academy, Mohali, by eight wickets in the 1st Bal Krishan Dass Memorial U-14 Tournament today. Batting first, the Mohali outfit posted 137 runs before getting all out in 29.2 overs. Manthan Sharma (38), Chaitanya Verma (18), Meet Dahiya (17), Agampreet Singh (14) and Amitoj (11) contributed in the total. Anmol Khera (4/7) was the pick of the bowlers. In reply, Champion’s Cricket Academy lads posted 141/2 in 25.1 overs with the help of Shubham Sharma (70) and Chakshu Kumar (25).  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-cricket-academy-win-279166
07-07-2021||---||Chargesheet filed against youth accused of hitting Chandigarh cop with car at naka in Sector 20||Chandigarh, July 6The UT police have filed a chargesheet against a youth, Paras Arora, facing charges of hitting ASI Ramesh Chand of the Chandigarh Police with his car at a naka in Sector 20, here.The police also added Section 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) of the IPC against the accused in the chargesheet.The police have registered the FIR against the accused under Section 307 on a complaint of constable Parvesh, who, along with ASI Ramesh Chand and other officials, was deployed at a naka in Sector 20 here on April 10.Constable Parvesh alleged that Ramesh Chand noticed a car coming towards the naka. When he signalled the car driver to stop the vehicle, he allegedly accelerated the car and allegedly hit Ramesh before fleeing from the spot.He alleged that the impact of the hit was such that the ASI flung into the air and suffered injuries. The injured cop was rushed to the GMCH-32 in a PCR van.After verifying the registration number, the police arrested Paras Arora, a BA student. The police produced the car driver in a court, which sent him to jail on April 11.The ASI later died during the treatment at the PGI. However, while arguing for the bail, the counsel for the accused earlier told the court that the ASI’s death had nothing to do with the road accident. He argued that as per report of the PGI, the cause of the ASI’s death was attributed to respiratory failure with Covid and hypertension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-against-youth-accused-of-hitting-chandigarh-cop-with-car-at-naka-in-sector-20-279167
07-07-2021||---||4 AC retiring rooms open for stay at Ambala railway station||Chandigarh, July 6As per the requirement of passengers, various special express and passenger trains have been introduced by the Indian Railways in a phased manner. However, after the restoration of the trains, passengers were facing problems related to stay as they had no other option but to go to hotels for boarding and lodging.For the convenience of passengers, the Railways has decided to allow services of retiring rooms at railway stations subject to fulfilment of Covid-19 protocols issued by the government.The services of retiring rooms at railway stations were discontinued after the announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown. Retiring rooms are well equipped with various features, including AC, beds. Now that the retiring rooms have been opened, passengers will find these convenient, money and time-saving.Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh said Ambala Cantt Railway station was an important model-cum modern, Adarsh and NSG-2-category junction station as well as an important economic/industrial hub.“At present, this junction station deals with more than 100 pairs of express and passenger trains, including Shatabdis. It will be easy and convenient for the passengers travelling from other cities or states to stay in retiring rooms, which are more time and money-saving as compared to hotels,” he said.Further, he said there were four AC and four non-AC retiring rooms and the tariff of AC retiring room was Rs1,000 for 24 hours and Rs700 for 12 hours. The tariff of non-AC retiring room was Rs700 for 24 hours and Rs400 for 12 hours.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said passengers could book these retiring rooms through online or offline mode. Bonafide passengers could book their retiring rooms by visiting the IRCTC website (www.rr.irctctourism.com). They could also avail of the facility of retiring room by approaching the authority concerned at the Ambala Cantt station with their confirmed tickets. Passengers can book these retiring rooms for a maximum of two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-ac-retiring-rooms-open-for-stay-at-ambala-railway-station-279168
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Importance of research for teaching fraternity discussed||A seven-day online faculty development programme on the theme search, research and publication ethics for faculty members of colleges and universities started today. The course is organised by the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC), Panjab University, and Post Graduate Government College for Girls (PGGCG), Sector 42, under the aegis of RUSA, UT, Chandigarh. Prof SK Tomar, Honorary Director, HRDC, PU, and Prof BS Dhaiya, former Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, inaugurated the event. Dr Dilip Kumar, who was the guest of honour for the programme, discussed importance of research for teaching fraternity. Prof Nisha Aggarwal, Principal, PGGCG, Sector 42, thanked the UGC-HRDC, PU, Chandigarh, for granting permission to do this course. Dr Wiqas Ghai, Associate Professor from RIMT University, Mandi Gobindgarh, and Prof Sunil Dutt from the NITTTR, Chandigarh, took two technical sessions of the day. As many as 41 participants from all over the country have enrolled for the programme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/importance-of-research-for-teaching-fraternity-discussed-279169
07-07-2021||---||Bitcoin MLM scam: Anticipatory bail plea of accused rejected||Chandigarh, July 6A local court here has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Rajiv Rana, one of the accused in the alleged Bitcoin Multi-Level Marketing scam.The scam was unearthed in January 2018.The Chandigarh Police had first registered an FIR in the case in April 2018 on the complaints of various people from Chandigarh and Mohali.The police had registered the FIR on the complaints of Amardeep Singh, Manoj Garg and Sukhbir Singh Uppal against the CEO, directors, promoters and marketing head of M/s Variable Tech Pvt Ltd.The complainants alleged that they had been allured by these persons to invest in their company under the MLM scheme on their website www.gainbitcoin.com.They alleged that the website was stated to be owned by M/s Variable Tech Pvt Ltd, registered at Singapore.The complainants further said they were assured of guaranteed return on their investment for a continuous period of 18 months at 10 per cent per month.During investigation, 15 other complaints were received on similar grounds and were investigated under the present FIR.Kuldeep Singh and Jaswinder Kaur made specific allegations against the accused and said they were cheated on similar grounds.Manmohan, the counsel for Rana, argued that the accused himself had invested in the company and was a victim of fraud by the company.His name was not included in the original FIR, said Manmohan.He argued that at the instance of the accused, Jaswinder and Kuldeep had also invested amounts in company and received the Bitcoins from Zebay Exchange and Bitcoins stands transferred to the user account.Additional public prosecutor, meanwhile, displayed the account statement of Rana, wherein lakhs of rupees had been allegedly received by the accused from the investors in his own account.Additional public prosecutor argued that custodial interrogation was required to ascertain the mode and manner in which the offence had been committed and also the details regarding M/s Rana Enterprises owned by the accused was to be procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bitcoin-mlm-scam-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-accused-rejected-279170
07-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Scientists at Panjab University make scream-detecting device to prevent crime against women||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Panjab University scientists have come up with a “distress signal-based criminal activity detecting, preventing and reporting device”, which will be useful in prevention or detection of a criminal activity against women.The device, based on a special prototype chip, has been developed by Dr Disha Handa, DST women scientist, and Dr Renu Vig, former director, UIET.According to Disha, the prototype chip can be attached to the rear of a mobile phone.It analyses the scream patterns and sends signals to nearby police stations within a minimum time (from six seconds to nine seconds), she said, adding that for making the distress call, a person need not to use any application, just a scream will activate the system.Also, it will produce ultrasonic sounds to alert the nearby people, said Disha.“The research is focused at identifying and analysing women’s scream patterns to deduce a result that can be used as input to an electronic gadget which will immediately react for help,” said informed.“The chip circuit could be embedded into the back panel of the mobile phone which comprises a microphone, a GSM, GPRS module, memory unit and a controller,” she added. The provisional patent for the prototype was filed in May.Disha further said: “During simulation and prototyping, a few observations had been made for the project, which slightly deviate from the proposed solution.”“The solution becomes a network of nodes, where one node comprises a high quality microphone, controller, and an ultrasonic buzzer. Another node comprises a digital screen with a controller. There could be multiple nodes to transmit data,” she said.Disha also mentioned that the device could be mounted on a lonely street pole and one of its nodes might be installed at a nearby police station or beatbox.“In this case, one node should have a GSM and GPRS module to transmit location of the victim to the police station. Simultaneously, the ultrasonic buzzer will play after identifying the scream,” she said.“The device can also be put to use in a school or college campus. Multiple nodes can be installed on the corridors of campus. There is no need for the GSM and GPRS modules in this case, as the device can send location by using the campus WiFi. One node may be installed at the college/school authority check posts.”The live testing of the device could not be conducted due to the Covid pandemic. “Live testing will be conducted in near future, and probably the trial of the device will be launched in school or university campuses. Modifications will be done on the basis of the feedback,” said Disha.How the system worksIt analyses the scream patterns and sends signals to nearby police stations within a minimum time (from six seconds to nine seconds). For making a distress call, a person does not have to use any application, just a scream will activate the system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scientists-at-panjab-university-make-scream-detecting-device-to-prevent-crime-against-women-279171
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||No death, 10 Covid cases in Chandigarh||No fatality, 4 test positive in P’kulaPanchkula: The district on Tuesday saw four new cases of Covid and no death. So far, 30,602 cases and 30,198 recoveries have been reported from the district. Meanwhile, 1,410 persons were vaccinated at 12 government and three private vaccination centres across the district and 747 of them were given the second dose of the Covid vaccine. A total of 662 persons in the 18-44 age group, 602 in the 45-59 age group and 130 above the age of 60 were administered the vaccine. A total of 3,18,961 doses have been given in the district so far and 70,495 persons have completed their vaccination schedule. — TNSMohali sees no death for 4th dayMohali: For the fourth consecutive day, the district reported no death due to Covid. Meanwhile, 10 fresh cases surfaced till Tuesday while 31 patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, three each were reported from Mohali (urban), Dera Bassi and Kharar while one case surfaced in Kurali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-10-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-279180
07-07-2021||---||Panjab University Centre for IAS to start fresh batch||Chandigarh, July 6Panjab University is starting a fresh batch at the Centre for IAS and other competitive examinations.This course is especially suitable for students who are preparing for IAS (prelims) to be held in October 2021.The last date of submission of application forms for this course is July 16.The forms are available at www.iasc.puchd.ac.in and the classes will start from July 19.Webinar on story writersA webinar on short story writers from Jammu and Kashmir was organised by the department of Urdu, Panjab University, at the 8th online meeting of the Bazam-e-Adab on Monday.Dr Ali Abbas, Coordinator of the Department, highlighted the salient features of the Urdu literature produced by the region of Jammu and Kashmir.Shamim talked about the social life as presented in the short stories of the region of Jammu & Kashmir.Results declaredPanjab University declared the result of Master of Arts (Hindi) (1st semester) examination and Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications (1st semester).The results can be seen at the respective departments/colleges or the Panjab University website.Pandemic fallout discussedThe Centre for Social Work and National Service Scheme (NSS) organised an interactive session-cum-webinar on “Covid pandemic and its affect on Women: Looking through the Gender Lens”.Dr Rajesh Kumar Chander, Chairperson, Department of Women’s Studies, was the key speaker for this session.Supreet Kaur and Shubham, students from Centre for Social Work, shared their experiences of working with women during the lockdown period and afterwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-centre-for-ias-to-start-fresh-batch-279183
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||69% kids tested positive for antibodies in interim sero survey in Chandigarh||As much as 69 per cent children in Chandigarh tested positive for antibodies in an interim sero survey report, the PGI Hospital said on Tuesday.The PGI is carrying out the Covid sero survey in children between six and 18 years of age and the study is funded by the UT Administration.The survey, which was kick started on June 24, is progressing at a good pace, PGI Director Jagat Ram said.He said the survey among the paediatric population is of utmost importance since there is news that third wave can affect children.Till date, blood samples of 756 children had been collected for the sero survey out of which 519 had tested positive for IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, meaning almost 69 per cent of children had been previously infected.Dr Mini P. Singh said the testing is being carried out using a high throughput CLIA machine available in the Department of Virology so that reports can be made available in a short span of time.P.V.M. Lakshmi, who is coordinating the field activity of the survey, said that serosurvey teams have been divided into four groups, each consisting of a field investigator and a laboratory technician, who undertook household visits in different sectors, villages, and slums.Out of all children enrolled till July 4, 396 samples were collected from households of Sectors 22, 24, 36, 56 and 11, which showed positivity in 65 per cent of samples (257 positive out of 396) and 360 samples were collected from households of Burail, Maloya, Dhanas, Attawa and Khajeri villages, which showed positivity of 73 per cent (262 out of 360).These are the interim results and the study aims to collect around 2,700 samples in total which will provide a clearer picture of the actual percentage of children who had been infected during first and second waves in Chandigarh.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-kids-tested-positive-for-antibodies-in-interim-sero-survey-in-chandigarh-279147
