08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 9 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Thursday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 as the total number of cases recorded reached 61,794.The number of active cases has come down to 100 as 13 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 1,683 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and 0.53 per cent of these were tested positive.The death toll in the city remains 809.The number of people who have been cured till date is 60,885.As many as 4,78,584 people have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine while 1,07,712 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-9-new-covid-19-cases-280101
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rupesh Kumar is SDM (South)||Woman dies in hit-and-runMohali: An unidentified woman died after being hit by an unknown car driver near Gillco Valley on the night of July 5. The police said the victim was rushed to the Kharar Civil Hospital where she died. On a complaint of Kharar resident Atul Mal, a case has been registered at the Kharar City police station. TNSUniversity XI log nine-wicket winChandigarh: In the ongoing 8th T10 Corporate Cricket Tournament, University XI defeated Star Cricket Club by nine wickets. Batting first, Star Cricket Club posted 98/1 in 10 overs with the help of Ramesh Panchal (46) and Gurdit (39). Sunny claimed the lone wicket for the bowling side. In reply, University XI posted 100/1 in 6.4 overs. Vineet Kumar scored 58 runs while Sahib Singh posted 26 in the win. Paras claimed one wicket for the bowling side. TNSPlantation drive organised at PUChandigarh: Tree plantation drives were organised at girls' hostels no. 1 and 2 at Panjab University under the mentorship of Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar. He, along with Prof SK Tomar (DSW), Prof Meena Sharma (DSW-Women), Prof Ashok Kumar (Associate DSW), wardens Dr Anju Goyal (Warden-GH-1) and Dr Harjit Kaur (Warden GH-2) and others, inaugurated the drive by planting a "bel" tree. TNSSurgical gloves donated to PGIChandigarh: Harbhajan Kaur, a well-known philanthropist, handed over surgical gloves worth Rs2 lakh for the PGI healthcare workers here on Wednesday. The money for the purchase of gloves was contributed by Harbhajan's son Aman Preet Singh. TNS‘Hunar 2021’ held at USOLChandigarh: The University School of Open Learning, PU, organised its sixth annual event, “Hunar”. Keeping in view the pandemic norms, the event was organised online. The students emailed 200 entries. Forty students won prizes. Two prize winning students, Gopi and Anand Priya, shared their enriching experiences regarding the preparation of their respective items. TNS21,790 take online examChandigarh: As many as 21,790 students appeared for the Panjab University online examinations for students of undergraduate, postgraduate and other professional courses, including USOL/Private, on Wednesday. According to Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, a total of 73 examinations were conducted in two slots. TNSWork on laying Pipeline startsChandigarh: Heera Negi, Councillor of Ward 13, inaugurated the pipeline laying work for storm water drainage system in front of the BSNL Society, Sector 50, on Wednesday. She said the pipeline would be laid from Sai Enclave in Sector 49 and the BSNL Society in Sector 50 under the Ward Development Fund at an estimated cost of Rs15.63 lakh. TNSVaccination camp at Sai DhamChandigarh: A vaccination camp will be organised at Sai Dham, Sector 29, on Thursday for those above 18 years. The camp will start at 10 am and both first and second dose will be administered. TNSUTCA seeks support staffChandigarh: The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has invited applications for the post of the support staff — coaches, managers, selectors, physiotherapists, trainers for all formats of men’s and women’s teams for the ongoing cricketing season. Applicants up to the maximum 59 years of age as on March 2021 can send in their applications at operations@chandigarhcricket.in by July 15. All appointments will be made on the norms laid by BCCI/UTCA. TNSOffice-bearers elected by BJPChandigarh: The Chandigarh BJP’s Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar district president Ravinder Pathania, in consultation with BJP state president Arun Sood, announced the names of office-bearers of the district. State BJP general secretary Chander Shekher has informed that Pathania has appointed Neema Joshi, Shrawan Mishra, Shilanath and Meenakshi Thakur as the vice-president, Ravi Rawat and Vaibhav Parashar as the general secretary, Krishan Kant, Asha Jindal, Simran Jit Kaur, Manohar Lal and Lalit Kansal as the secretary, Vinod Rana as the district cashier, Yograj Singh as the office secretary and Amit Gambhir as the press secretary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rupesh-kumar-is-sdm-south-279891
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Covid report: Chandigarh records eight cases, no death||3 test positive, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported just three fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 30,605. With no fresh death, the toll stayed at 375. While 30,203 patients have recovered so far, 27 cases are still active. — TNSOne dies, 15 catch infection in MohaliMohali: One person died of Covid-19, while 15 new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 20 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, five each were reported from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli, two from Kharar and three from Mohali. Of the 68,342 positive cases reported so far, 67,129 patients have been cured. There are now 161 active cases in the district. With no new fatality, the toll stays at 1,052.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-covid-report-chandigarh-records-eight-cases-no-death-279886
08-07-2021||Amit Bathla||‘Abrupt’ suspension of Panchkula CMO triggers a controversy||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 7The abrupt suspension of Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur has sparked a row as well as a debate. She is claiming that she had sought time to meet state Health Minister Anil Vij to present her case, but the orders were issued beforehand.“A few days ago, I had sought time to meet Anij Vij sir, but he was occupied. In the meantime, they released my suspension orders,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur over a call.Though the reason for her suspension was not mentioned in the order, sources said she was suspended over her alleged failure to arrange a bed for a patient during the peak of the second wave when the bed occupancy rate was at an all-time high. An inquiry was also marked into the incident. However, the findings of the inquiry were neither made public nor they were attached with her suspension letter.As per the orders issued by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, during the suspension period, Dr Kaur’s headquarter will be the office of the Director General, Health Services, Haryana.“She will be paid subsistence allowance as per rule 83 of the Haryana Civil Services (General) Rules, 2016,” the order said.Meanwhile, Health Minister Anil Vij said he had received a complaint against the Panchkula Civil Surgeon over her failure to provide a journalist with a Covid bed. “The action was taken after allegations against the Civil Surgeon proved to be true,” he said.Dr Kaur was given the charge of the Panchkula Civil Surgeon in February 2020 before the start of the pandemic.Fought bravely: CMOEarlier this morning, Dr Kaur wrote in a media WhatsApp group: “Grateful for the support. We fought bravely.’’Unfortunate, says citizens’ bodyHer colleagues and a section of citizens have termed her suspension as an “unfortunate” development.The Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), an apex body of all Residents Welfare Associations (RWA), issued a press release today.“It is quite unfortunate that one of the best Chief Medical Officers in the state is being punished for such a minor issue. Those known to her are disheartened and perturbed on the action initiated by the Haryana Government by ignoring her sacrifice to handle the Covid-19 situation intelligently and with full enthusiasm,” said the citizens’ body. The body has also written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for her reinstatement.Dr Mukta Kumar new CMODr Mukta Kumar, who was serving as the SMO at the Civil Hospital, has appointed as the new Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abrupt-suspension-of-panchkula-cmo-triggers-a-controversy-279682
08-07-2021||Mohali||‘Sacrilege’ incident at Mohali's Manauli village||Tension prevailed in Manauli village when a morning walker found torn pages of Gutka Sahib at two places around 7.56 am today.He informed a ‘Granthi’ about this, who further communicated it to the Sarpanch of the village and the police were informed.City SP Harvinder Singh Virk and DSP Deepkamal reached the spot and investigated the matter. On the complaint of village native Zora Singh, the police have registered a case under Sections 295-A and 120-B of the IPC at the Sohana police station. The police said around 70 torn pages were found in an untidy place while two pages were found on the roof of a house.The police said the incident seems to have taken place on Sunday or Monday. “The Granthi of the nearby Saini Majra village gurdwara confirmed that all Gutka Sahib in the gurdwara are safe. The police are trying to find out from where the Gutka Sahib was brought or in whose house it was kept at the village. The CCTV footage of the area is being scanned,” said Virk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sacrilege-incident-at-mohalis-manauli-village-279683
08-07-2021||---||Panchkula Congress protests against inflation||Panchkula, July 7The local unit of the Congress today staged a protest against rising inflation and prices of LPG cylinders.The agitation was led by party’s state women unit’s president Sudha Bhardwaj.Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary were among those present.Bhardwaj said: “Ever since the Modi government came to power, inflation has become uncontrollable and the prices of all essential commodities, including petrol, diesel and LPG, are rising at an unprecedented rate.”With banners and posters in their hands, Congress workers also raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-congress-protests-against-inflation-279684
08-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bank responsible for failed ATM transaction: Consumer panel||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 7In a significant judgment, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed a bank to pay Rs 7,000 compensation to a consumer for not crediting into his account the amount for an unsuccessful ATM transaction.While holding the bank guilty of deficiency in service, the commission directed it to refund Rs 12,000, along with interest (at 7.5%) from the date of the disputed transaction till its realisation, to the complainant.In his complaint to the commission, Daljit Singh, a resident of Sector 45, Chandigarh, said he was a customer of Punjab National Bank, Chandigarh, and used the ATM machine of Sector 18 branch to withdraw Rs 12,000 but no money was dispensed.He said, in the second attempt, he tried to withdraw Rs 10,000 but again the machine failed to dispense the cash.While both transactions remained unsuccessful, the amount was debited from my account, claimed Daljit.Daljit said the customer care representatives first sought seven days’ time to answer his query and then they asked him to wait for some more time for the refund of Rs 12,000.Later, the bank in a written statement told Daljit as per the records an amount of Rs 10,000 was credited into his account for being an unsuccessful transaction. However, the second transaction of Rs 12,000 was reported to be successful.The bank claimed that they had taken up the matter with the competent authority and after examining the record, it was observed that the transaction of Rs 12,000 was a successful one and the claim was rightfully rejected.After hearing both sides, the commission said an internal email clearly reveals that the disputed ATM transaction was declined with response code 112A.Besides this, the bank has failed to place on record any reliable and tangible documentary evidence to show that the disputed transaction was successful and the amount was actually dispensed to the complainant.In view of this, the deficiency in service on part of the bank is proved, the commission observed and directed the bank to refund Rs 12,000 along with interest to the complainant.The bank has also been told to pay a compensation of Rs 7,000 to the complainant on account of mental agony and physical harassment as well as litigation expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-responsible-for-failed-atm-transaction-consumer-panel-279685
08-07-2021||---||Protest against 6th pay panel||Mohali, July 7 Employees of various government departments here today took out a motorcycle rally on the call of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union to protest against the state government’s decision to implement the Sixth Pay Commission in its existing form.  The rally started from Punjab Mandi Board Office in Phase-11 and ended at the Water Supply and Sanitation Department in Phase-1.  Members of the DC Office Employees Union and employees of various departments of the District Administrative Complex participated in the rally.  Union leaders Gurmukh Singh and Navvinder Singh Navi appealed to the state government to implement the Sixth Pay Commission as per the recommendations and demands made by the employees during the meeting with the state government committee.  The union leaders warned of intensifying the protest if their demands were not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-6th-pay-panel-279686
08-07-2021||---||Just 280 Covishield doses left in Panchkula||Panchkula, July 7 No fresh stock of Covid vaccines arrived in the district today against the expectations of the health authorities.  Only 795 doses were administered today – the lowest since June 21 when the Centre’s new vaccine policy came into place. The vaccine figure stood at 2,354 on Monday, while it was 1410 on Tuesday. Low vaccination rate is likely to persist tomorrow with only 280 doses of Covishield and 4,450 doses of Covaxin left in the stock. The local Health Department has set up only 10 centres.  For those between 18-44 years, there would be only one centre where Covaxin would be administered. At the three other centres, only the second dose of Covishield would be given to people above the age of 45. District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan couldn’t be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-280-covishield-doses-left-in-panchkula-279687
08-07-2021||---||Lok Adalat to take up land acquisition disputes||Mohali, July 7 Litigation is a time and money-consuming exercise and an amicable resolution of disputes should be preferred, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan while asking people to make the most of the National Lok Adalat to be held on July 10. He said cases related to the Revenue Department/ land acquisition disputes pending in various courts at the sub-division and tehsil level might be settled through the Lok Adalat. Apart from the cases pending in courts, pre-litigation cases would also be taken up, he said. Further, the issues related to traffic challans, electricity and water bill disputes may also be resolved through the Lok Adalat. The Lok Adalat will be organised virtually and physically and the benches will be constituted at the Mohali District Courts Complex as well as at the Kharar and Dera Bassi sub-divisions. Encouraging people to take the maximum advantage of the opportunity, he said a quick and easy disposal of the pending cases was a win-win situation for all parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lok-adalat-to-take-up-land-acquisition-disputes-279688
08-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda
||Proposal for setting up more tennis courts at Panjab University||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 7 In a major boost to the sports infrastructure, Panjab University here is planning to set up more tennis courts, including the ones with flood lights, on its campus during the upcoming session.  A proposal in this regard has already been submitted by the officials concerned.  Along with tennis courts, the university also proposes to build a velodrome and a synthetic athletics track – both projects have been in the pipeline for many years. “A proposal has been sent to the authorities to upgrade the existing infrastructure for tennis and also for building some new synthetic tennis courts. It has also been proposed to introduce flood lights at tennis courts,” said a source.  At present, the campus has two synthetic courts and has provision of grass courts, which have been lying unused since ages.  When asked about plans of introducing clay or grass courts, the source said it needed a lot of care and maintenance.  “We need permanent staff and resources for maintaining clay and grass courts. Given the structure, it’s not recommended to have these here,” said the source.  Besides setting up new courts, it has also been proposed to fence the arena, said the source. Earlier, the Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, had said the funds collected through sports fee may get utilised in improving sports infrastructure.  “Laying of synthetic track and building a velodrome, these are a few projects hanging in balance for quite some time now. If funds are to be diverted, they should be used to make these two arenas to benefit the players,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proposal-for-setting-up-more-tennis-courts-at-panjab-university-279689
08-07-2021||---||Late night, early nakas to check traffic violations in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 7To check traffic violations, especially red light jumping, during late night and early morning hours, the UT police have started laying nakas to catch offenders.DSP Traffic (Administration) Palak Goyal said the focus would be on traffic offences, including red light jumping, dangerous driving, drunken driving, etc.“To check drunken driving, we won’t use alcometer. The suspected driver will be asked to go under medical examination,” the DSP added.The city had recently witnessed accidents during wee hours in which precious lives were lost. The police said such nakas would help in preventing road accidents, especially due to rash driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/late-night-early-nakas-to-check-traffic-violations-in-chandigarh-279669
08-07-2021||---||Step up vaccination drive: MHA to Chandigarh Admn||Chandigarh, July 7To stop a third wave of the coronavirus, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the UT Administration to step up the vaccination drive and ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour.‘Already on the job’During a video conference with the Secretary, Home, UT Adviser Dharam Pal mentioned that they had already ramped up testing and the vaccination drive. Camps were being organised and even dispensaries were opened on Sundays so that people could just walk in to get vaccinated.During a video conference with the Secretary, Home, UT Adviser Dharam Pal mentioned that they had already ramped up testing and the vaccination drive in the city. Special camps were being organised in different areas of the city and even dispensaries were opened on Sundays so that people could just walk in to get vaccinated at their nearest centre.He said action was being initiated against violators of the Covid protocol as per directions issued under the Disaster Management Act.On the directions of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, a special vaccination camp was being organised at Sukhna Lake as a large number of visitors throng the area every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/step-up-vaccination-drive-mha-to-chandigarh-admn-279670
08-07-2021||---||Amritsar man arrested for robbing Chandigarh resident of Rs 1.26 lakh, jewellery||Dera Bassi, July 7The police have arrested an Amritsar resident in a loot case. The suspect, Vipan Kumar, alias Ricky, was among those who allegedly robbed a Chandigarh resident, Davinder Sharma, of Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery on June 3.The suspect was traced through the registration number of the SUV used in the crime and arrested from Buttra village of Baba Bakala. He was produced in a court, which sent him to five-day police custody.The complainant, Davinder Sharma, had stated that he used to repair jewellery of goldsmiths of Punjab and Haryana and had gone to Paonta Sahib for work on June 3. He was returning with Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery worth Rs14-15 lakh when the incident took place.Sharma said at Ambala, he took a lift in an SUV going towards Chandigarh. Apart from the driver, there were three persons in the SUV. Sharma stated that when they reached Dera Bassi around 9.30 pm, the driver took a turn towards the forest area near Dera Bassi.The suspects then threatened him and robbed cash, jewellery, an ATM card, a mobile phone and other documents before fleeing.A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Dera Bassi police station on June 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amritsar-man-arrested-for-robbing-chandigarh-resident-of-rs-1-26-lakh-jewellery-279671
08-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Immunity against delta variant, high vaccination rate behind dip in cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7From witnessing a Covid peak in the region two months ago, the UT and Punjab have shown a steep fall in daily cases and weekly positivity rate. Experts indicate that herd immunity against the most commonly circulating variant, Delta, as a reason behind this huge dip in the cases.Chandigarh’s weekly positivity rate is 0.70 per cent, while Punjab’s is 0.4 per cent. The national positivity rate is 2.4 per cent.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “It is for the first time that Chandigarh has shown such a low record of daily cases. Such a trend was not even seen after the first peak.”Dr Kang believed that good vaccination coverage and herd immunity are two major reasons for the decline in cases in the city. “There are multiple factors for a steep fall in cases. To begin with, Chandigarh had imposed heavy restrictions during lockdown and enforcement was strict due to which cases started declining. Secondly, around 66 per cent population of the city has been vaccinated with at least first dose of the vaccine, which is also an indicator of the decline,” she said.She added, “The sero survey report shared by the PGI shows that around 70 per cent children had natural immunity against Covid-19. Going by the report, the prevalence of infection among older adults will be even higher than children.This implies that a majority of population got the infection in the second wave, during which the Delta strain was prominent and these people had gained natural immunity against the circulating variant (Delta) as well.”The Delta strain was found in 95 per cent samples sent by the UT Health Department for genome sequencing on June 25.Dr KK Talwar, Health Adviser to Government of Punjab, said, “In May, 90 per cent of samples sent for genome sequencing from Punjab had the Delta variant. The second surge happened due to this strain mainly. Many people got infected and we assume that many people have been asymptomatic as well. People have acquired immunity against this strain and herd immunity has kicked in. Delta Plus is now a new threat and scientific community is still finding out whether it can be dangerous or not. For now, Punjab has reported only two cases of the variant.”Notable epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya explained, “The disease spread is an outcome of interplay of immunity (natural or vaccine induced), Covid-appropriate behaviour of people and the characteristics of the virus (including variants). The current decline is largely attributable to natural immunity, as we see in sero survey findings and vaccine coverage. However, this cannot be taken as an assurance that this is enough to prevent all future spikes. We don’t really know how long immunity lasts after natural infection as well as vaccination, most likely for 6-9 months.”Dr Lahariya added, “In months ahead, some of the currently protected population will become susceptible again, and then there can be increase in cases.”"With this virus, we should not assume herd immunity, the way we see for a few other diseases. Higher the transmissibility of a strain, higher the proportion of population we need to achieve here immunity. With vaccine effectiveness against new variants with full dose ranging from 60-85%, the theoretical threshold of herd immunity appears to be more than 100% population. In other words, the concept doesn’t seem to be applicable for the ongoing pandemic,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immunity-against-delta-variant-high-vaccination-rate-behind-dip-in-cases-279672
08-07-2021||---||Murder accused denied interim bail, allowed to take online exam||Chandigarh, July 7A local court has allowed Sumit Kumar, one of the accused in a murder case, to appear for the BA examinations online while rejecting his plea for interim bail sought for the purpose.Sumit was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of a 24-year-old former student leader of DAV College, Vishal Chillar, in 2019.The counsel for the accused argued before the court that the accused had to appear for the examinations of BA (2nd semester) of Panjab University to be held on July 10 and 17. He prayed for relief of interim bail from July 9 to 18 for appearing for the examinations. His co-accused was also granted interim bail by the High Court on September 18 last year.The Public Prosecutor opposed the interim bail on the ground that the applicant could threaten the complainant and other witnesses of the case. He argued that the applicant was facing trial in the case registered on a complaint filed by Pankaj. Pankaj had alleged that when he, along with his friends, was sleeping in his house at Sector 49-B, they were allegedly attacked by Sudeep, Rahul Manda, Ramdeep and others with swords and rods in the morning of March 6, 2019. He alleged Sudeep and Rahul were carrying pistols and Sudeep fired shots on Vishal who was declared dead at the PGI.After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, said in view of the serious allegations against the accused, no ground was made for his release on interim bail. Moreover, as per the schedule of the examinations attached with the application, these are to be held in the online mode. Therefore, the accused shall be at the liberty of appearing for the examinations through the online mode at his own expenses. The Superintendent, Model Jail, Burail, shall make necessary arrangements for the purpose, as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-accused-denied-interim-bail-allowed-to-take-online-exam-279676
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Econoverse 2021’ held at MCM College in Chandigarh||The postgraduate department of economics, Mehr Chand Mahajan College for Women, Sector 36, organised its annual fest, ‘Econoverse-2021’.Prof Suman Makkar, Department of Economics, Panjab University, was the chief guest and Prof Pardeep S Chauhan, Department of Economics, Kurukshetra University, was the guest of honour. The Principal, Dr Nisha Bhargava, inaugurated the fest and congratulated the department for keeping this annual tradition alive even during such times when offline events were not possible.She added innovation and knowledge held the key to the future and “Econoverse” assumed immense significance in the light of the fact that it was the right platform for promoting innovation and knowledge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/econoverse-2021-held-at-mcm-college-in-chandigarh-279677
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel for restarting practice of issuing online challans to vendors and shopkeepers||The Enforcement Committee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has recommended restarting the practice of issuing online challans to vendors and shopkeepers.A meeting of the committee was held today under the chairpersonship of Asha Jaswal. It was attended by other members of committee namely Shakti Parkash Devshali, Rajesh Kumar, Bharat Kumar, Charanjiv Singh, Ravinder Kaur Gujral, Mahesh Inder Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor along with officials concerned.The committee decided to add a hologram of the MC to the receipts given to vendors.The members of the committee asked the officials concerned to provide a list of vending zones to the respective councillors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-panel-for-restarting-practice-of-issuing-online-challans-to-vendors-and-shopkeepers-279678
08-07-2021||---||Cadets felicitated for taking  part in NCC R-Day camp||Chandigarh, July 7 Six cadets from the Chandigarh NCC Group, who had attended the Republic Day Camp in New Delhi, were today felicitated by the UT Administration and given cash awards of Rs21,000 each along with an appreciation certificate. Out of the six cadets, two had also attended the Prime Minister's Rally and another three were part of the cultural programme contingent. All cadets were from different educational institutes in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cadets-felicitated-for-taking-part-in-ncc-r-day-camp-279679
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers to suspend work||The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) and the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) have decided that teachers of the PU will suspend all evaluation work assigned to them by the university while opposing the delay on the part of the Punjab Government in implementing the UGC pay scales along with the pay scales of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-to-suspend-work-279680
08-07-2021||---||Tokyo Games: Manpreet-led side can do what previous teams couldn’t: Jagbir||Chandigarh, July 7With less than 20 days to go for the Tokyo Games, the Olympic fever is gripping the entire sporting world. Former India striker Jagbir Singh went back in time to reflect on India’s topsy-turvy campaign at the 1988 Seoul Olympics and the remarkable fight back to finish in the top-six after being relegated to the bottom of the table in the 1986 World Cup.“One can imagine, as a youngster when selected for the Olympic Games, how excited all of us would have been. Firstly, for me, it was a dream come true being an Olympian. Secondly, facing the task of regaining a spot in the top-six as India, unfortunately, had finished at the bottom of the table in the 1986 World Cup, and people had started writing us off. So, the big challenge was to bring that confidence among the team and bring India back to where it belonged,” Jagbir recalled.“This very spirit was inculcated in all of us right from Day 1, when we started training at the SAI campus in Bengaluru. We were told that your aim was to finish among the top-six and then see how it goes. The main objective was to play the semifinals,” he recalled while speaking about the build-up to the 1988 Seoul Olympics.MM Somaya-led India hockey team started their campaign with a 0-1 loss to Russia and held Germany to a 1-1 draw in the second match before registering convincing victories against South Korea and Canada.“After losing our opening game, it seemed as if it may not work for us in this Olympics. But again, we knew what we were here for,” he remembered.“Rest of the matches, we could play very well. On the way, we had a couple of good games – we beat Canada and Korea, and played a draw against Germany,” Jagbir added.The Indian team went down 3-0 to Great Britain and were pushed to the 5-8 placing bracket.Vividly recalling every moment of the Seoul Games, the 56-year-old emphasised that “not obeying the coach’s advice cost India a spot in the semifinals”. Jagbir said the team could have won that game easily.“We were shattered. We knew where we went wrong. One mistake, not obeying to what the coach had said cost us a spot in the semis,” he lamented.Meanwhile, talking about the current Indian team, the Arjuna awardee said he was optimistic that the Manpreet Singh-led side could do what the previous teams couldn’t at the quadrennial event.“I am very optimistic that this team can do what the previous teams couldn’t do. Firstly, this team has its own style of play, be it Manpreet, Dilpreet or Surender in the defence or Sreejesh under the bar, they all have very different qualities compared to any other team. So, the variety of talent in this Indian team is good and they are far fitter than any other team in the world,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tokyo-games-manpreet-led-side-can-do-what-previous-teams-couldnt-jagbir-279681
08-07-2021||---||Lalru: Four dupe people on pretext of jobs in Indian Army, held||Lalru, July 7The police have arrested four persons suspected of duping residents on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Indian Army.The suspects have been identified as Sachin (19), alias Fauji, and Chandra Shekhar (19), both residents of Sirsa, Prem (24) and Sunil Kumar (23), both from Hisar.They were booked under Sections 420, 406, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Lalru police station. A laptop, a car, an Army uniform, fake certificates and appointment letters had been seized from the suspects, the police said. The police said Rs2 lakh had been recovered from Sachin and Rs85,000 from Chandra. The money was taken from innocent youths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-four-dupe-people-on-pretext-of-jobs-in-indian-army-held-279673
08-07-2021||---||Panjab University to conduct golden chance examination||Chandigarh, July 7Panjab University has decided to conduct a golden chance examination for students who have exhausted all their chances.The examination will be held for all professional courses – annual and semester system/undergraduate semester system – for the admission session 2014, 2015 (odd and even semesters) and 2016 (odd semester only) for (BBA/BCA/BCom and other courses) and for BA/BSc courses.Improvement examinationCandidates, who had applied for improvement/additional examination, scheduled to be conducted during the ongoing semester exams, will also appear in the physical mode.The applicants can appear in re-appear/compartment examinations/improvement of the performance and deficient subjects.Golden chance even semester examinations for BA/BSc courses and others will be held later on as per the decision of the university.“The applicants can appear along with students who have already applied for golden chance in February 2020 but for whom the examination could not be conducted by Panjab University due to Covid-19 pandemic. Those candidates, who have already applied in February last year need not apply again,” said a PU spokesperson.It was further informed that examinations were likely to be held in the second week of August in physical mode.The centres for golden chance examination will be set up in Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Abohar and Muktsar.Students have been advised to visit https://exams.puchd.ac.in/show-noticeboard.php for further updates.The site will become operational with effect from July 12.The last date for online registration and submission of forms is July 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-golden-chance-examination-279674
08-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Sports Dept to throw open 5 pools for local swimmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore today approved the opening of swimming pools with immediate effect, but the Sports Department will take time to initiate the process.The department is in charge of over 10 swimming pools and for the first time, only half of these will be thrown open to local swimmers who have to participate in state or other competitions. Panjab University to follow suitPanjab University has also decided to open its swimming pools for professional swimmers. Pools on Panjab University campus have been shut for over a year. “Yes, we will also open the pools. However, we will follow the guidelines of the UT Administration. Once they decide, we will follow the suit,” said Prof Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director, Sports, PU.As per the guidelines, only those swimmers, who have been administered at least one dose of Covid vaccine, will be allowed to practise at the pools. While those below 18 years will undergo tests every fortnight and provide reports to the coach to continue practising at the pool.“As per the instructions, swimmers have to undergo a test after every 15 days. Since there are no vaccines for children below 18 years, the competitive swimmers of this age group will have to produce Covid test reports after every 14 days,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT Sports Director.Five pools to openThe Sports Department, meanwhile, has chosen to throw open Sector 23 (all weather swimming pool), Sector 27, Sector 38, Sector 50 and Lake Sports Complex pool to public. Out of these, Sector 23 and Sector 27 are ready to resume operations.The Sector 27 pool was inaugurated by Badnore recently, while the Sector 23 facility had already been opened for international and national level swimmers.The process to open other swimming pools is expected to take time as the department has to appoint maintenance staff, clean the pool arena, fill water into the pools, run tests, repair plants, and perform other necessary steps. The coaches have already been appointed at these five pools.Allotment of slotsThe pools are expected to be open twice a day – morning and evening – under different timings.Limited number of swimmers will be allowed to practise in a single slot, which will be issued by the appointed coaches in accordance with the SOPs.Sharing of kits will not be allowed and the arena will be cleaned after every 45 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-dept-to-throw-open-5-pools-for-local-swimmers-279675
08-07-2021||---||Chandigarh active Covid case tally dips below 100 after year||Chandigarh, July 7Exactly after a year, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city has dipped below 100. Today, the active case tally fell to 99 with 35 more patients recovering from the virus.Chandigarh also ranks third in terms of the least active cases in the country after Andaman and Nicobar Islands (14) and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (38).Officialspeak“This has been achieved by extensive testing, creating micro-containment zones and strict enforcement of the mask norm. People should continue wearing mask and avoid crowded places and Chandigarh will rise to a morning when there is zero Covid case,” said Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.It was on July 7 last year when the tally of active cases in Chandigarh fell below 100 and it recorded 84 cases. During the first wave, the active case tally rose to 3,075 on September 17 last year and fell to 123 in February this year.The active cases again rose to 8,625 on May 11 during the second wave. There has been a constant decline in the active infections in the past one month.At present, for every 100 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, only 0.2 are currently infected. With this, the recovery rate in the city stands at 98.5 per cent.Only nine oxygen beds are occupied at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and 28 Covid beds at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. As many as 12 ventilator beds are occupied at the PGI and four at the GMCH. After a long time, all Covid ventilator beds at the GMSH are vacant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-active-covid-case-tally-dips-below-100-after-year-279707
08-07-2021||---||Woman jumps before train near Dappar, dies||Lalru, July 7A 35-year-old married woman reportedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train near Dappar on the Ambala-Kalka railway line around 6.15 am.The police said the deceased had been identified as Amarjit Kaur of Manoli Surat village in Banur. She is survived by a six-year-old boy and an eight-year-old girl. Her husband Manjit Singh is a linesman with the PSPCL.The police said she was mentally disturbed and undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-jumps-before-train-near-dappar-dies-279667
08-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||After Supreme Court order, Chandigarh administration writes to ministry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7After the Supreme Court (SC) order, the UT Administration has written to the Ministry of Power for the further course of action on the privatisation of the Electricity Department.On June 28, the SC had stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court whereby the privatisation process was put on hold.The Ministry of Power had appointed Deloitte as a consultant to help with the process to privatise the Electricity Department.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the matter had been referred to the Ministry of Power and now, the consultant had to give the final recommendation on the issue. “We will proceed further on the privatisation process after getting approval from the ministry,” he said.Decks have been cleared for the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department after the SC stayed the order of the High Court, which had stayed the privatisation process on May 28. On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the purpose. On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the High Court had, on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The High Court was also told that the process of privatisation of the department could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the department was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the SC had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.After the Administration restarted the process, the union again filed a petition in the High Court, which again stayed the process on May 28.Six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bids for the privatisation.Powermen union, residents against moveOn account of suboptimal performance of the power sector, the Central Government had, in May last year, decided to privatise the power distribution sector in UTs to provide better service to consumers. However, the move was opposed by the UT Powermen Union and residents’ welfare associations in Chandigarh.Criticising the privatisation policy as the Electricity Department is a profit-making utility with low transmission and commercial losses, Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said the government was misleading the public by saying that electricity would be cheaper after privatisation.Expressing similar views, Satish Khosla, general secretary, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 40, said the privatisation of the department would be harmful for city residents. “Experience shows wherever unbundling has taken place, there has been no appreciable improvement in the electricity system,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-supreme-court-order-chandigarh-administration-writes-to-ministry-279668
