10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 8 new Covid-19 cases||Eight new Covid-19 cases took Chandigarh’s active case tally to 100, a health bulletin from Chandigarh administration said.No new deaths were added to Chandigarh’s fatality count, which stands at 809. Chandigarh’s positivity rate over the last week stands at 0.55 per cent.Meanwhile, a total of 7,09,180 people over 18 have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine in the union territory, the bulletin showed. Of this number, 1,15,481 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-8-new-covid-19-cases-281112
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ventilators to fight Covid-19 in Chandigarh had glaring faults: Reports||At a time when city residents were on roads scrambling for ventilator beds and many patients died for want of these in hospitals during the second wave, the Central Government provided “low quality ventilators” to fight Covid-19. These ventilators had “substandard features” due to which tertiary care hospitals in the city were afraid to use these on critically ill patients and reported back to the Centre.What hospitals in the city saidThe PGI has even advised the manufacturer, Jyoti Dhaman III, to reconsider these ventilators for use on critically ill patients due to safety concerns. Similarly, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, stated in its report that these ventilators could not be used in “Covid ICUs”.The ventilators provided by the Centre under the much-celebrated PM CARES Fund on a fast-track basis to deal with the pandemic are not fit for “critically ill patients”, reports on the quality of ventilators prepared by Chandigarh-based government hospitals, which were accessed by The Tribune under the RTI, reveal.The PGI has even advised the manufacturer, Jyoti Dhaman III, to reconsider these ventilators for use on critically ill patients due to safety concerns. Similarly, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, stated in its report that these ventilators could not be used in “Covid ICUs”.The PGI had constituted a committee comprising senior faculty members from the Department of Anaesthesia and Pulmonary Medicine to evaluate the functioning of Dhaman III ventilators received on May 23. The committee checked two ventilators using different modes in adult and paediatric settings. The report was submitted to the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, on June 11.The PGI report mentioned clearly that “the committee felt that the ventilator may not be suitable for ventilating critically ill patients with abnormal pulmonary mechanics in its current form and advised the company to look into these issues before it was allowed to be used on patients due to safety concerns.”The reports list the technical issues found upon evaluating the quality of ventilators such as the set respiratory rate could not be achieved for paediatric patients and persistent leak of 10 to 20 per cent was observed with adult settings.The ventilator was not able to deliver the set tidal volume in the VCV mode (this mode is used for patients who are unable to initiate a breath) for adult and paediatric settings. Besides, the tidal volume (volume of air moved into and out of the lungs during each ventilation cycle) could not be set less than 8ml/kg for paediatric patients.On June 11, the Department of Anaesthesia at the GMCH also wrote to the Principal-Director regarding Dhaman ventilators provided by the Centre.The letter reads, “We wish to inform you that 10 ventilators by the name of Jyoti Dhaman III were received from the GoI and were installed in different Covid ICUs at the GMCH. Since the installation and subsequent use, some observations have been made…”The report pointed out that there was a high variability of delivered tidal volume and a persistent leak had been observed during its functioning on adult patients.The report further pointed out that during their functioning at the GMCH, five ventilators required repair by service engineers, which happened in a very short span of time.“In light of these issues and more frequent requirement of repair, these ventilators may not be suitable for use in Covid ICUs,” read the report||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ventilators-to-fight-covid-19-in-chandigarh-had-glaring-faults-reports-280693
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination must to avoid third wave, says AIIMS Director Prof Randeep Guleria||The Department of Microbiology, PU, today organised a webinar on “Promotion of Scientific Temper among People of India” to spread awareness among the public about the current pandemic situation.Prof Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, New Delhi, spoke on “What the pandemic has taught us and where do we go from here?”He discussed the reasons behind the emergence of the devastating second wave and that there was an urgent requirement to invest in public health services.Dr Guleria emphasised that Covid-19 appropriate behavior could help prevent a third wave.Dr Guleria, meanwhile, said the Covid-19 pandemic “is not over nor is it going to end soon”. People should get vaccinated in order to avoid a third wave, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-must-to-avoid-third-wave-says-aiims-director-prof-randeep-guleria-280694
10-07-2021||Panchkula||No fatality, 2 cases in Panchkula||UT sees 8 casesChandigarh: The city on Friday reported eight new cases of Covid-19 and no death. A total of 16 patients were cured during the past 24 hours. — TNS1 more succumbs in Mohali, 6 test +vemohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 1,054. Meanwhile, six new cases surfaced in the district till Friday evening, taking the total number of cases to 68,359, while 21 patients got the better of the virus. Among the new cases two each came from Mohali (urban) and Khrar and one each from Dhakoli and Gharuan. No fresh case was reported from Dera Bassi, Lalru, Banur, Boothgarh and Kurali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fatality-2-cases-in-panchkula-280696
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Power Dept in profits, will privatisation help?||Despite being in the pink of condition, the Centre is bent on giving the UT Electricity Department into the private hands. The department has been generating profit for the past five years. In 2017-18, the department had earned a record profit of Rs 258 crore with the line loss of 9.51 per cent, which is below the 15 per cent target fixed by the Ministry of Power.The department has also been conferred with the Utility Award. Contrary to, by and large, smooth functioning of the Chandigarh Electricity Department, the Centre on May 12 last year, had decided to privatise the electricity distribution in all the Union Territories.The UTs were told that the move would provide them an opportunity to leverage the private sector efficiency in the distribution sector for improving the quality of service and enhancing consumer satisfaction. It will also set an example for other states, the Centre had said.However, the move is being opposed by the UT Powermen Union and Resident Welfare Association (RWA) in Chandigarh.The decision of the government to privatise the distribution and supply of the Electricity Department by selling off its 100 per cent stake is in contravention of the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, said Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union.In comparison to the power being supplied in Chandigarh, residents of the neighbouring district of Mohali are the worst affected as they are not only facing unscheduled power cuts amid the peak summer season, but also paying high tariff. The situation is relatively better in Panchkula. Due to continuous power cuts, people in Zirakpur and other parts of Mohali are having a harrowing time.Zirakpur resident Aman Verma said: “We are having sleepless nights as there has been no power supply for the entire night for the past three days.” “Last night, power supply was there, but voltage was very low,” Verma added.The electricity rate in Chandigarh is Rs 2.50 per unit up to first 150 units and no single paisa has been enhanced in the last five years. On account of being revenue surplus, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has approved a reduction in the tariff for all categories of more than 2.34 lakh electricity consumers in the UT for 2021-22.“Even after acute shortage of men and material, the standard performance is being implemented 100 per cent and 24x7 uninterrupted power supply is being provided to the consumers. There is no reason to sale out 100 per cent share of the department to a private money monger,” said Joshi.Expressing similar views, Mani Majra resident Manjit Singh said the tariff in Chandigarh was much lower in comparison to other parts of the country. “But once the sector is privatised, the rates can go up as the private player will try to earn as much profit as possible,” he feared.“Privatisation is not going to give any benefit to either the Administration or the residents, but it will certainly benefit the private firm,” Manjit added.Meanwhile, Hetesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Associations’ Welfare Federation (Crawfed) supported the idea of privatising the power sector.“There is a fear in the minds of the people that rates can go up after the privatisation. After the privatisation, the theft of power will stop and also, equipment and infrastructure will be upgraded, which will provide quality service to the people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-power-dept-in-profits-will-privatisation-help-280697
10-07-2021||Mohali||4 snatchers nailed with 101 phones in Mohali||The police busted a gang of mobile phone snatchers with the arrest of four members and recovered 101 phones and some purses from them. The suspects have been identified as Sohana residents Rahul, Pankaj, Nandan Singh and a 16-year-old juvenile.A case has been registered at the Phase 1 police station.The police have named Sanjay as the mastermind of the gang. Many FIRs have already been registered against him. Nandan Singh runs a mobile phone shop in Sohana. As many as 76 phones and spare parts were recovered from him.The police said the suspects used to take drugs and snatched phones from vulnerable women and industrial labour in the afternoon and late at night in the Mohali area.Phase 1 SHO Shivdeep Singh Brar said, “More revelations are likely in the case.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-snatchers-nailed-with-101-phones-in-mohali-280699
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Expand capacity of construction waste plant: UT to Chandigarh MC||For better use of recycled construction waste, UT Adviser Dharam Pal has directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to expand the capacity of the construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant at the Industrial Area, Phase I.The Adviser today visited various big projects of the MC, including the C&D waste plant, material recovery facility at 3 BRD and legacy mining and garbage processing plant at Dadu Majra. The Adviser was accompanied by MC Commissioner KK Yadav and other senior officials of the civic body.“Right now, we are not in a position to process the entire C&D waste generated in the city,” he said and asked the Commissioner to enhance the capacity of the plant to accept C&D waste from the city outskirts also.The Adviser said nearly 80 per cent waste of the city was being segregated and he had directed the Commissioner to get the remaining 20 per cent waste segregated too.The segregated waste is processed at the Dadu Majra plant, which is being run on old technology. Due to this, the entire waste of the city could not be processed.The Adviser said he learnt that a new technology had been finalised but somehow was pending with the MC House. He directed the Commissioner to decide the issue in three months or the Administration would have to intervene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expand-capacity-of-construction-waste-plant-ut-to-chandigarh-mc-280700
10-07-2021||Mohali||Elderly farmer run over by BMW near Kurali||An elderly farmer of Baroudi village was killed after being hit by a luxury car near a filling station yesterday.The police said the deceased, identified as Ratan Chand, a resident of Baroudi village near Kurali, was coming back from the farmers’ protest against the hike in fuel prices near the Baroudi toll plaza. While trying to cross the highway, he was standing on the median when he lost balance and came on the road. A speeding BMW car, coming from the Kurali side, hit him and sped away.The registration number of the car was traced through CCTV footage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-farmer-run-over-by-bmw-near-kurali-280710
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pick-up hits 10 vehicles in Mani Majra||A Mahindra pick-up sped away after hitting around 10 vehicles, including two-wheelers, parked on a street in Mani Majra this morning. The police said an Activa scooter and an Ertiga car were badly damaged, while other vehicles suffered minor damage.The police said the rashly driven pick-up hit the vehicles parked on the street during the wee hours and sped away. The vehicle owners came to know about the incident later.The police were informed, who scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area and found that the pick-up had hit the vehicles. The incident was reported around 4 am.A police official said only two vehicle owners had approached them with a complaint following which a case had been registered under Section 279 (rash driving) of the IPC against unknown person on a complaint of Sanjeev Gautam, whose Activa scooter was damaged in the incident.The police said they were trying to establish the registration number of the vehicle through the CCTV footage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pick-up-hits-10-vehicles-in-mani-majra-280722
10-07-2021||Panchkula||Man stabbed to death over parking in Panchkula||A 55-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by his neighbour following a quarrel over parking space in a narrow street at Indira Colony in Sector 16 here late last night.The victim, identified as Binder of the same colony, died on the spot, while his two sons and wife suffered injuries in the attack, in which a knife, rods and sticks were used.The police have registered a case under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (punishment for murder), punishment for voluntarily causing hurt and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against five persons on the complaint of the victim’s son Rinku.Those named in the FIR as suspects were identified as Satish Kumar, his two sons Vicky and Sunny and their two neighbours Mahipal and Mohit (said to be a minor). Three of the five suspects, who fled from the scene following the attack, have been arrested.Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 16 police post, said they arrested Satish Kumar and his two sons Vicky and Sunny, while the two other suspects were on the run.According to the police, an argument took place between Binder and Satish Kumar over tight space on a street for passage of the latter’s Activa as the former used to park his bicycle there.“Satish got angry and picked up Binder’s cycle and threw it at him. He (Satish) didn’t stop there and started abusing the victim and threatened to teach him a lesson. He left the place and returned after a while along with his sons Vicky and Sunny and their two neighbours Mahipal and Mohit. The suspects were armed with a knife, rods, and sticks,” stated the FIR.Meanwhile, Vicky allegedly stabbed the victim with a knife in the left side of the chest. As the victim’s son Rinku screamed for help, his brother Vikas and their mother Saroj came outside. The suspects didn’t spare any of the three and subsequently went on to attack them with rods and sticks in their hands, the FIR stated.The police said the two parties had been involved in verbal spats over the parking issue many a times in the past. A police official said one of the suspects, Satish, was in a drunken state during the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabbed-to-death-over-parking-in-panchkula-280748
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vagaries of time: Pierre Jeanneret’s legacy broken to pieces in Chandigarh||Architecturally valuable and culturally priceless, a cemented sculpture designed by Pierre Jeanneret at the nursery wing of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, is lying in a shambles, broken in three pieces and neglected by the UT Administration.In its former glory, as seen in a few pictures available on record, the white sculpture stands erect in the backdrop of a serpentine ramp extending from the stone-wall facade of the school, located right next to Punjab Kala Bhawan. Not long ago, a local guide, Sanjeev Sharma, chanced upon it while attending a phone call. “A few months ago, I was here for some work and had stepped out to take a phone call. As I walked in the school playground, I saw a cement like structure that was half covered by a sheet of dead leaves. I thought it was a bench, so I started brushing the leaves aside and sat on it to talk in peace. When I got up, I was intrigued by the scale of the structure, so I continued to brush the leaves aside. I found three chunks of cement half-dug in the ground. I took pictures of it,” said Sharma.It took Sharma months to decipher what he had seen at the school. Clueless, he took the pictures to Deepika Gandhi, director, Le Corbusier Centre, Chandigarh, who was also instrumental in restoration of Pierre Jeanneret’s house as the Jeanneret Museum.“Madam found a picture of the sculpture in the old edition of Marg magazine and that’s how I got to know that it was designed by Pierre Jeanneret,” he added.When contacted, Gandhi said the sculpture was a rare one, which had not been recorded widely.In fact, apart from the picture in one of the oldest art and architecture magazines, the only real picture of the sculpture available on Internet is on a blog titled ‘Mondoblogo’ by Patrick Parrish.The author of ‘The Hunt: Navigating the Worlds of Art and Design’ and owner of Patrick Parrish Gallery, an art gallery in New York City, Parrish shared the sculpture’s picture on his blog.The picture had been taken from ‘Chandigarh 1956 Le Corbusier, Pierre Jeanneret, Jane B Drew, E Maxwell Fry’ photographs by Ernst Scheidegger.“In March this year, UT’s Department of Urban Planning was intimated about the sculpture’s deplorable condition and a request for its restoration was proposed to the Engineering Department by involving Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi and the Department of Education. However, Covid’s second wave brought everything to a staggering halt,” said Gandhi.Sumit Kaur, former UT Chief Architect, who prepared the expert heritage report, nomination dossier for the Capitol Complex for UNESCO world heritage site and the city’s first master plan, said the school’s building had been listed as a heritage building in a Government of India approved report on ‘Chandigarh’s enlisted heritage – its preservation, conservation, management and maintenance’.“This report has been incorporated in the city’s first notified master plan. It’s not just the sculpture, but its setting in the site of the nursery school, its integration with the building which needs to be looked into and restored. The sculpture speaks volumes about the passion and detailing with which the city has been designed,” she says.As for architect Kunal Mathur, the sculpture is a memorabilia of his father BP Mathur’s association with Jeanneret and his childhood.In a picture shared by his brother Tarun Mathur, Kunal poses on top of the sculpture with his mother and relatives.“I was right there when this sculpture was being made. I would accompany my father most of the time. The event of site execution was quite a fanfare with the entire staff of assistants. It took two days for the sculpture to be made. The entire team Capitol Complex, including labourers, would sit together and have meals there,” he recollected.The piece of art, conceptualised in the 1950s is learnt to be worth lakhs, if not crores, as the heritage furniture designed by Jeanneret has been auctioned for crores abroad on several instances in the past.“To me, it seems the sculpture is inspired from the large horns of local buffaloes. Jeanneret explored the rich clay for bricks and spent time in his home workshop developing clay forms. The sculpture developed with stiff mix of concrete and simple scaffolding but no shuttering. If this sculpture was to be auctioned anywhere in France, I am sure it would not go under the hammer for less than a few crores,” said Mathur.Sangeeta Bagga, Principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture, suggested that the college could provide technical support for the restoration of the sculpture.“I remember playing on it as a kid. There is no literature on the concept of this sculpture. It’s interpretive. But through discussions, it appears to be a child’s arms raised in the sky,” said Bagga.For all its interpretation, the sculpture now only appears to be an Ozymandias-like irony, reminiscent of artistic details in passionate, experimental escapades of modernism and post-modernism that defined the newness of an era so far gone. Will this broken beauty be restored? “No comments,” said UT Chief Architect Kapil Setia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vagaries-of-time-pierre-jeannerets-legacy-broken-to-pieces-in-chandigarh-280749
10-07-2021||Panchkula||4-year jail for former cop of railway force in graft case||Stating that bribery among police officials is one of the most common acts of corruption, a special CBI court here today sentenced a 60-year-old former SI of Railway Protection Force (RPF) to four years of rigorous punishment for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a labourer at Jakhal in September, 2016.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 40,000 on the convict.The convict, Devinder Singh, who was then posted at Jakhal railway station in Haryana, had demanded a bribe of Rs 30,000 from Mandeep Singh in lieu of not taking action against him and his two fellow labourers after he illegally detained them for allegedly damaging an optical fibre cable of the railway station during their work.Devinder has been held guilty and convicted three years under section 7 and four years under section 13 (1) (d) read with section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.However, the sentences will run concurrently.“It is pertinent to mention here that police corruption is a form of police misconduct in which law enforcement officers abused their power for personal gain. Police officers have several opportunities to gain personally from their status and authority as law enforcement officers... Bribery among police officials is one of the most common acts of corruption. The cancer of corruption in the police very often jeopardises constitutional governance and acts as catalyst in the violation of civil and human rights of the citizens.“Therefore, to curb the menace of corruption in society, strict action is required against such police officials who generate distrust amongst the civilian against the police department,’’ said Special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg in his order.Praying for the lenient view, the defence counsel for the accused-convict had stated that he was not a previous convict, was 60 years old, the sole breadwinner of the family and was suffering from various ailments like knees and heart problems. All his retirement benefits had already been stopped by the department. He was facing the agony of protracted trial since 2016 and had requested a lenient view while awarding sentence to him.On the other hand, CBI counsel KP Singh argued: ‘’Corruption in the police department is at peak and in order to check rampant corruption in public life, it is the need of the hour to give an exemplary punishment to such public servants, who are found indulging in corrupt practices. The public servants have a moral obligation to serve the country and its citizens with utmost honesty. Taking a lenient view in such matters sends a wrong message to the undesirable elements in society, therefore, a stringent and deterrent punishment may be given to the accused-convict.’’Devinder had detained the complainant and his fellow labourers Randhir Singh and Chandi Ram on the intervening night of September 13 and 14 in 2016.He had demanded an illegal gratification of Rs 30,000 in lieu of releasing them as well as an impounded car. He subsequently reduced the bribe money to Rs 15,000. On September 14, 2016, the accused- convict directed the complainant to hand over Rs 10,000 as bribe money to Sourabh Saini, a resident of New Basti near the railway station.Following a complaint, the investigating agency laid a trap and arrested Saini while taking the bribe money of Rs 10,000 from the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-year-jail-for-former-cop-of-railway-force-in-graft-case-280750
10-07-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||2 snatch chain from woman at Sirhind||Two unidentified scooter-borne youths snatched golden chain from a woman in the Bassi road area of Sirhind last night. The victim, Kulwant Kaur, told the police that last night at 8 pm she was going to her house in Preet Nagar on a Scooty after shopping. Her relative was also riding pillion with her, the victim added.As they reached near the Aam Khas Bagh area two young men in their twenties, riding two-wheeler, started following them, the victim said. All of a sudden they blocked her scooty and before she could understand anything, the young man riding pillion on two-wheeler, snatched her 15-gm gold chain and they fled from the spot, the victim added.She followed them to some distance and cried for help, but of no use, the victim said. The Sirhind police post in-charge said a probe had been initiated in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-snatch-chain-from-woman-at-sirhind-280751
10-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Residents of Jhuriwala write to NGT panel on garbage dumping issue||With their repeated appeals to the administration to not dump the solid waste at Jhuriwala village falling on deaf ears, local residents have sent a representation to a monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Mohali seeking its intervention.The letter, dispatched by the Citizen Committee, House Owner’s Welfare Association, Sector 25, today, alleges “Gross violation of the Solid Waste Rules, 2016, and irreversible damage to the environment by the Municipal Corporation, Panchkula, at Jhuriwala village.’’It states: “That around 2003-04, the Haryana Urban Development Authority or HUDA (now HSVP) and the Municipal Corporation of Panchkula (MCP) started utilising open area measuring about 12 acres in Sector 23, Panchkula, for dumping solid waste generated by the town. This illegal site is in close proximity to the Khol-Hai-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary, residential areas and religious sites. Thereafter, for over a past decade, the MCP and HSVP have been attempting to set up a solid waste management plant at a site at Jhuriwala village. This site of 12/13 acres is again close to inhabited residential areas, is next to a declared wildlife sanctuary and has a choe passing through it. This choe joins another choe (Nandana Choe) which ultimately joins the Ghaggar river. The gradient again is towards the Ghaggar river. Thus, if a solid waste management plant is set up at this site, the flow of natural water to the Ghaggar river shall also be affected as one of its seasonal sources will get blocked.”The residents claimed no fresh environmental clearance had been obtained by the civic authorities from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for dumping solid waste at the village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-of-jhuriwala-write-to-ngt-panel-on-garbage-dumping-issue-280752
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested for duping woman of Rs 23.76 lakh||The UT police have arrested two swindlers for duping a woman to the tune of Rs23.76 lakh on the pretext of selling her liposomal amphotericin B injections at genuine prices.Complainant Geeta, a resident of Mani Majra, reported that she was running a pharmaceutical business. On May 24, she received a phone call from an unknown person. The caller offered to provide her liposomal amphotericin B injections at genuine prices.The complainant deposited a sum of Rs23.76 lakh in various accounts provided by the caller. However, the person neither delivered the injections nor returned the money.The police had registered a case. During the course of investigation, the police arrested the accused, identified as Pallav Kumar (29) and Brijbhushan Verma (28), both residents of Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-duping-woman-of-rs-23-76-lakh-280754
10-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali: MC to set up outdoor gyms in Sec 76 to 80||The Municipal Corporation here has decided to set up one outdoor gym each in Sectors 76 to 80, which were recently transferred to the civic body by the Greater Area Mohali Development Authority.A resolution to this effect was passed during a Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting held under the chairmanship of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu here today.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, committee members Jasbir Singh Manku, Anuradha Anand and MC Commissioner Kamal Garg were present in the meeting.The committee also decided to carry out development works worth Rs 7 crore in the Mohali Industrial Area, Phase 8A and Phase 8B. The area was taken over by the Municipal Corporation from the Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation (PSIEC).Pertinently, the Opposition had claimed that the Mayor could not pass any resolution in the F&CC unless it was passed in the MC House. Sidhu, however, had rebutted the Opposition claims by stating that the committee would continue to function as per the rules and he would convene a meeting soon.Sidhu, meanwhile, informed that a video conferencing room would be set up in the Municipal Corporation building, Sector 68, and a new bathroom will be constructed at the Rose Garden in Phase 3B1.Speed breakers and traffic lines will be installed on the roads with full focus on road safety, he added.Sidhu said no ward was discriminated against in the resolutions passed in the F&CC meeting and all these works would be carried out with full transparency.Sidhu further said: “I am the Mayor of the entire city and all the councilors should be satisfied that the responsibility of development of their wards lies with the Municipal Corporation and will be paid in full.”“There will be no shortage of funds for the development works in Mohali city,” he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-set-up-outdoor-gyms-in-sec-76-to-80-280755
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 42 resident loses Rs1.06L to con woman||A Sector 42 resident lost Rs1.06 lakh to a woman who befriended him on Facebook. The woman made the victim deposit the money on the pretext of paying customs duty.Complainant Netram Meena, an SBI employee, reported that a girl, who claimed to be from the United Kingdom, sent him a message on Facebook messenger and expressed her desire to visit India to donate money. The fraudster also sent a fake air ticket to the victim.Fails to recover entire amountUnaware of the fact that he was being duped, the victim transferred Rs86,000 and Rs1.48 lakh to an SBI account number provided to him. The victim later realised that he had been duped, following which he made a reversal entry of Rs1.28 lakh. However, he failed to recover the remaining Rs1.06 lakh.The victim later received a call from the fraudster. The woman claimed that she had been stopped by the customs at the airport as she had brought a huge amount, following which she needed to pay the customs duty.Another woman also spoke to the victim and claimed that she was a customs officer. Unaware of the fact that he was being duped, the victim transferred Rs86,000 and Rs1.48 lakh to an SBI account number provided to him.The victim later realised that he had been duped, following which he made a reverse entry of Rs1.28 lakh. However, he failed to recover the remaining Rs1.06 lakh.The police have registered a cheating case at the Sector 36 police station and initiated investigation into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-42-resident-loses-rs1-06l-to-con-woman-280756
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Youth Congress protests fuel price hike||Members of the Chandigarh Youth Congress held a protest against the rising fuel prices at the Sector 9 petrol pump here today.Raising slogans against the fuel price hike and the callous approach of the Central Government, the protesters stated that fuel prices had gone through the roof and affected the common man the most.The protesting leaders collected signatures from motorists queued up at the filling station and passersby registering their discontentment and disillusionment from the Central Government over the unchecked fuel prices.Chandigarh Territorial Congress president Subhash Chawla, who was flanked by Youth Congress leader Manoj ‘Mouji’ Lubana, stated that since morning they had collected more than 600 signatures from men and women who were helpless because of the rising prices of essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-protests-fuel-price-hike-280757
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 fined Rs1,000 each for violating Covid norms in Chandigarh||A court has imposed a fine of Rs1,000 each on three persons for violating the orders issued by the District Magistrate (DM), Chandigarh, to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The police had arrested Yakub, Mushtaq and Gaurav Negi from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, last year. As per the prosecution, Yakub and Mushtaq were found creating a nuisance in the Covid-hit Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, Chandigarh, on June 2, 2020, despite a ban imposed by the UT Administration.Bapu Dham Colony was declared a containment zone due to an increase in the number of Covid cases. As per the guidelines of the containment zones, certain restrictions were imposed in the area.The prosecution argued that despite the restrictions imposed by the UT Administration, both accused did an act, which was likely to spread Covid-19 infection. They violated the order promulgated under Section 144 of the CrPC passed by the District Magistrate, Chandigarh, dated March 23, 2020.Hence, offences punishable under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC were made out against them and an FIR was registered.The police arrested Gaurav Negi, another resident of BDC, roaming without a mask on May 17, 2020. The police also registered a case against him under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented against him.After finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC was served upon the accused to which they all pleaded guilty and did not claim trial.The court said since the accused had pleaded guilty with free consent and voluntarily, they had been held guilty under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. “Considering the nature of offence, a lenient view is taken and each convict is ordered to pay a fine of Rs500 under Section 188 of the IPC, Rs200 under Section 269 of the IPC and Rs300 under Section 270 of the IPC,” said the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fined-rs1-000-each-for-violating-covid-norms-in-chandigarh-280758
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board demolishes unauthorised constructions in Mauli Jagran||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today demolished unauthorised constructions in dwelling units at Mauli Jagran.During the drive, construction of stairs and ‘chajjas’ projecting on public land, construction of extra floors and additional rooms were demolished, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.In all these five cases, challans to stop further constructions and remove the fresh violations were issued in July last year, but these were not complied with by the allottees, said Garg.Due to Covid-related issues, demolitions by the CHB got delayed and the exercise was carried out today.“The Chandigarh Housing Board is computing cost of demolitions, which will be recovered from the allottees and in case of non-payment, their allotment is liable to be cancelled,” he said.To ensure effective action against fresh illegal/unauthorised constructions, Garg said: “The enforcement squad of the CHB is making daily inspections in all Sectors to identify fresh violations/alternations and effective actions are taken in each of such cases.”On-the-spot challans are being issued by the enforcement squad with the direction to immediately stop further construction and remove the same, he said.After issuance of challans, repeated inspections are carried out to see whether the construction has been stopped. Photographs of fresh constructions are also being taken, Garg informed.If further constructions are stopped and the allottee starts removing the violations, the CHB waits for three days before taking up the demolition work, he said. However, if further constructions are not stopped, then the demolition may be carried out immediately.In case of demolitions by the CHB, all the cost of demolition is to be recovered from the allottee.Though required precautions are taken during the demolition, there is possibility that adjoining structures may get damaged and in such event, the alloteee will be held responsible for extra damage to own or adjoining units, said GargHe further said the additional constructions permitted under need-based changes also cannot be started without submission of required documents and obtaining permission from the CHB.All the allottees who have been issued challans/demolition notices against the fresh constructions are requested to remove these violations immediately to avoid demolition by the CHB, said Garg.They are also requested not to undertake any fresh building violations otherwise the same is liable to be demolished, he added.Since these violations may lead to structure safety issues, not only for the dwelling unit but also for the adjoining unit, the CHB is adopting zero tolerance policy, said Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-demolishes-unauthorised-constructions-in-mauli-jagran-280759
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Worker returns bag with Rs 1.5L||Trials for boxing championshipChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association will conduct selection trials in the following weight categories for the Youth Men & Women National Boxing Championships on July 11 at Boxing Hall, Sports Complex, Sector 42. Interested boxers of Chandigarh are instructed to report at the venue with original and photocopies of valid photo Identity proof, Aadhaar card, original institutional identity card and age proof etc. Weighing in time is 6 am- 8 am, followed by trials. TNsIllegal felling of treesDera Bassi: Illegal felling of trees by developers and others in Dera Bassi and Zirakpur has come to the notice of the Forest Department. District Forest Officer Amit Chouhan and Dera Bassi Range Officer Sukhminder Singh Mavi, during a press conference held at the office of Forest Department in Dera Bassi, said investigations revealed that some developers and other people were involved in illegal activities. If any tree comes in the way of one's project, he can get permission from the department to remove it. After following the rules, the department would cut it down and the road would be cleared for the said person, the officials said. TNSNational Lok Adalat todayChandigarh: A National Lok Adalat will be organised at the District Courts here on Saturday. All types of civil and criminal compoundable cases will be taken up for amicable settlement during the Lok Adalat. As many as 13 Benches have been constituted to take up the aforesaid categories of cases. In addition to above cases, traffic challans, STA challans, Shop Act cases, Registrar of Companies Act, Municipal Corporation matters, etc., will also be taken up. Three benches have been exclusively set up for the disposal of cases under Section 138 of the NI Act and one exclusive Lok Adalat Bench has been set up for the settlement of matrimonial cases. TNSBag snatched from womanChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a handbag from a woman near the BSNL turn in Mani Majra. The purse contained an ATM card, documents and Rs300. The police have registered a case. TNSMan arrested with heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Sector 56 resident with seven grams of heroin. The accused, identified as Ravi (35), was arrested from Maloya. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSTwo cheating cases registeredChandigarh: The UT police have registered two cheating cases. In the first case, complainant Tarsem Lal reported that Sarda Bhargav, Nirmal, Rohit Walia, Madan Shukla, Khullar and others cheated him of Rs48.46 lakh in the name of investing money in various companies. The police have registered a case at the Sector 11 police station. In another case, Sandeep Kumar Sindhu of Sector 24 reported that Pooja Plantation, Ambala, took Rs6.84 lakh from him through online transactions on the pretext of providing some product. However, it neither gave the product nor returned the money. TNSP’kula resident held with knifeChandigarh: The UT police have arrested Rahul Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, for possessing a knife. The suspect was roaming near Vikas Nagar. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against him. TNS2 held for duping man of Rs 20,000Mohali: The police have arrested two suspects for duping a Hoshiarpur resident of Rs20,000 on the pretext of providing him a job at the Chandigarh airport. The suspects have been identified as Ramanveer Kaur, alias Baljeet Kaur, a resident of Phase 7, and Baljeet Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran. Complainant Lakhvir Singh met Ramanveer on a matrimonial website where she showed interest in marrying him. Later, she offered to arrange a job for him in Mohali and took Rs20,000. Later, she stopped taking his phone calls. The duo was produced in a court, which sent them to one-day police remand. A case has been registered. TNSTree plantation programme heldChandigarh: A tree plantation programme was organised on the premises of Government Model High School, Mauli Colony, here. Headmistress Parveen Malik and other staff members of the school took part in the programme. A slogan, “Plant Tree, Save Life”, was displayed on the school premises. Parveen Malik said plants contribute to the environment by providing oxygen, improving air quality, supporting wildlife, preserving soil, climate amelioration and conserving water. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worker-returns-bag-with-rs-1-5l-280760
10-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Being Human Salman Khan foundation says have nothing to do with cheating case lodged by Chandigarh Police||The 'Being Human - The Salman Khan Foundation' on Friday issued a clarification after Chandigarh Police summoned actor Salman Khan, his sister Alvira Khan and six others following a complaint of cheating lodged by a local businessman."The current matter stands between SQJPL and Modern Jewels alone as neither 'Being Human - The Salman Khan Foundation', Salman Khan, Alvira Khan nor any other representative of the Foundation are parties to the said MOU, and that they have nothing to do with it", read the statement."Further, in fact, Salman Khan is only the owner of the Brand "Being Human" and not even a trustee of the Being Human Foundation"."We sincerely request Media houses to ascertain facts with the concerned authorities where the complaint has been registered before publishing or republishing any media article about this matter. We at SQJPL have already submitted a written response that clarifies all of the above"."Since the matter is currently sub judice, we will not be able to comment more"."We would also like to clarify that Alvira Khan, representatives of Being Human -The Salman Khan Foundation have always been extremely supportive of their partners and we will always hold them in high esteem.Meanwhile, apart from the actor and his sister, those called for an inquiry on July 13 to verify facts of the complaint included the Being Human Foundation CEO and officials of Style Quotient (licensee of Being Human Jewellery), police said on Thursday.Arun Gupta, a local businessman, has complained that he had opened an exclusive store under the brand "Being Human Jewellery, by spending Rs 2 to 3 crore in 2018.Gupta said he was assured that they would provide all kinds of backup and also promote the brand.According to his complaint, neither promotion commitments were fulfilled nor goods were delivered to him for his store.Gupta said it was assured to him that actor Salman Khan will promote the brand, but nothing happened.He said he repeatedly contacted company officials, but they refused to keep their promises.The complainant claimed that the office which was to be used for collecting stock was also lying to shut since February 2020.Gupta further said in his complaint that he was assured that Salman Khan will come himself for the inauguration of the showroom. But his brother-in-law Aayush Sharma came, he said.Gupta demanded the registration of an FIR in this case. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/being-human-salman-khan-foundation-says-have-nothing-to-do-with-cheating-case-lodged-by-chandigarh-police-280528
