11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sultry weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab||Sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with maximum temperatures hovering above the normal limits at most places.Hisar in Haryana recorded a high of 40.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal limits while Bhiwani recorded a high of 40.7 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department here.Narnaul, Rohtak, Gurgaon and Ambala also recorded above normal maximums of 39.8 degrees Celsius, 38.8 degrees Celsius, 39.7 degrees Celsius and 37.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 37.5 degrees Celsius, up three degrees against normal limits.In Punjab too, the temperatures hovered above normal at most places.Patiala recorded a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius, up two degrees while Ludhiana’s maximum settled at 36.1 deg C, up two notches.Faridkot registered a high of 37 degrees Celsius.However, Amritsar and Gurdaspur, which received rains, recorded respective below normal maximums of 34 degrees Celsius and 30.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sultry-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-281654
11-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh hawker offers free ‘choley-bhature’ to anyone getting Covid vaccine||Chandigarh, July 11A hawker in Chandigarh is winning hearts not just with his mouth-watering ‘choley-bhature’ but also with his great sense of responsibility in Covid times.The street vendor has been offering free ‘choley-bhature’ to anyone getting vaccinated against Covid-19. He has hung a cardboard, clearly stating the ‘offer’, right next to his bicycle.The initiative has been lauded by none other than VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator and Governor of Punjab.Hats off to the spirit of #Chandigarh hawker! My heart filled with gratitude to see his bit of duty towards his country and the extent of awareness this man has favouring #vaccination and offering free #CholaeBhatura to all those who get vaccinated. pic.twitter.com/sGebF1nRSc  “Hats off to the spirit of #Chandigarh hawker! My heart filled with gratitude to see his bit of duty towards his country and the extent of awareness this man has favouring #vaccination and offering free #CholaeBhatura to all those who get vaccinated,” Badnore tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hawker-offers-free-choley-bhature-to-anyone-getting-covid-vaccine-281649
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 8 new Covid-19 cases, no deaths||Chandigarh reported eight new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin said on Sunday.The union territory’s active cases now stand at 96, the bulletin said. Some 1,663 samples were tested over the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.The UT reported no new deaths. The UT’s fatality count since the pandemic began last year stands at 809.Meanwhile, the bulletin showed 7,09,180 people over 18 have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine so far. Of that number, 1,18,029 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-8-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-281645
11-07-2021||---||Lok Adalat settles 1,136 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 10  As many as 1,136 cases were disposed of by various benches during the National Lok Adalat held at the New District Courts Complex, Sector 43 here today.  The cases which were disposed of included 16 criminal compoundable cases involving an amount of Rs10 lakh; 590 cases under Section 138 of the NI Act involving Rs 2,45,83,445; 42 motor accident claim cases involving Rs 3,98,70,000; 13 matrimonial/family disputes; 23 civil suits and rent cases involving Rs 2.10 lakh; 11 executions involving an amount of Rs9.44 lakh; a criminal revision; and 32 arbitration cases.  Three civil/rent appeals, 12 cases under the CrPC involving a settlement of Rs5 lakh, six cases of the DV Act, five shop Act cases and three cases of the guardian Act and 20 municipal matters were also settled. As many as 329 traffic challans were also disposed of by imposing a fine of Rs2,21,100.  A total of 173 cases involving an amount of Rs1,53,95,559 were disposed of by the Permanent Lok Adalat (Public Utility Services). Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, visited the Lok Adalat.  Justice Jaswant Singh said: “Lok Adalats provide threefold benefits involving a speedy resolution of disputes coupled with reduced costs of litigation and avoiding further appeals, thereby making them a perfect instrument to resolve the heightened burden on judiciary for disposing of cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lok-adalat-settles-1-136-cases-in-chandigarh-281235
11-07-2021||---||Couple living separately for 25 years reunited in Mohali||Mohali, July 10 As many as 4,050 cases were taken up during the National Lok Adalat in Mohali today. As many as 1,272 cases were disposed of and Rs40,31,55,946 compensation was paid to the beneficiaries by 19 Lok Adalat Benches.  Under the guidance of RS Rai, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, cases related to Criminal Compoundable Offences, NI Act cases under Section 138, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, matrimonial disputes, labour dispute, land acquisition, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable theft cases), service matters related to pay and allowances and retiral benefits, revenue cases and other civil cases pertaining to rent, injunction suits and specific performance suits were dealt with.  A petition for dissolution of marriage was filed by petitioner Nirmala Devi against her husband Rakesh Kumar in the family court on February 24 this year. The parties were living separately for the past 25 years since May 1996. National Lok Adalat provided a platform for dialogue to the parties which bore fruit and they reunited after more than 25 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-living-separately-for-25-years-reunited-in-mohali-281237
11-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||2,000 cases disposed of||National Lok Adalats were held in Fatehgarh Sahib and sub-divisions Amloh and Khamano here today.The adalats were carried out under the supervision of Nirbhow Singh Gill, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority.During the Lok Adalat, an estranged couple was united and a 15-year-old execution petition was settled as the possession was delivered to the decree holder. The District and Sessions Judge said during the Lok Adalat, 2,324 cases were taken up and 2,000 cases were amicably settled. Compensation worth Rs1.18 crore was awarded to the beneficiaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-000-cases-disposed-of-281239
11-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali park to be upgraded||The Mohali Municipal Corporation today announced that the nature park located in Phase 8 would be developed as the identity of the city. City Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu made the announcement after visiting the park. He met residents living in the area and talked about the shortcomings in the park. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg were present on the occasion. He asked the authorities concerned to develop the park as the ‘’identity of Mohali’’ so that the tourists visiting the area would come to see the park. Residents told the Mayor that on about 250 feet of track, dirty water kept accumulated and there was no provision for clean drinking water. They said the nullah drain passing from there created foul smell. Mayor Jeeti Sidhu directed the authorities to immediately solve these problems. He also directed that the existing gym be repaired and a new gym be set up so that the visitors could exercise and keep themselves fit. He also directed the officials to install more new benches and beautify the nature park by planting flowers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-park-to-be-upgraded-281240
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Clear fee dues by July 26 or lose licence, civic body tells vendors||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has asked registered vendors to pay their pending fee by July 26 or their vending licence will be cancelled. The vendors, however, demand that they should be exempted from paying fee in view of Covid.About 2,500 registered vendors could not pay the vending fee of the past few months. Vendors said rather than giving exemption, the MC was forcing them to pay the fee for a period when there were lockdown restrictions in the city.Jagat Shankar, a street vendor in Sector 15, said, “During the past two-three months, there was not much footfall in the market. Some vendors continued to work while some had left to their native places as there was no sale due to fixed timings for vending. How can we pay fee for the whole month when vending hours were limited?”Another vendor added, “We have been requesting the MC to exempt us from paying the fee but they have instead issued a notice asking us to clear the fee or face the axe. The MC should have taken a lenient view and give a fee exemption for at least two-three months.”Councillor Satish Kainth said, “We will take up this issue with the corporation. It was difficult for vendors to make ends meet during Covid. Their fees should be waived so that they could earn their livelihood. After all, they have been paying the fee regularly before the pandemic struck.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-fee-dues-by-july-26-or-lose-licence-civic-body-tells-vendors-281241
11-07-2021||---||One more nabbed for looting Chandigarh resident of cash, jewellery||Dera Bassi, July 10 The police have arrested one more suspect in a loot case and recovered 200 grams of gold from his possession. He is among the four suspects who allegedly robbed a Chandigarh resident, Davinder Sharma, of Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery on June 3. The suspect has been identified as Surjit Singh, alias Bittu, a resident of Buttar village in Baba Bakala, Amritsar. The police have already arrested Vipan Kumar, a resident of Amritsar, in the loot case. Complainant Davinder Sharma had stated that he used to repair jewellery of goldsmiths from Punjab and Haryana. He went to Paonta Sahib for some work on June 3. He was returning with Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery worth Rs15 lakh. Sharma said in Ambala, he took a lift in an SUV going towards Chandigarh. Apart from the driver, three more persons were present in the SUV. When they reached Dera Bassi around 9.30 pm, the driver took a turn towards the forest area. The suspects then threatened him and robbed him of cash, jewellery, an ATM card, a mobile phone and other documents. A case was registered at the Dera Bassi police station on June 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-nabbed-for-looting-chandigarh-resident-of-cash-jewellery-281242
11-07-2021||---||Woman SHO suspended, another cop booked for ‘shielding’ accused||Ambala, July 10The Ambala police have booked an inspector and a sub-inspector of the Women police station, Naraingarh, for allegedly causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen an offender and framing incorrect record to save a person from punishment, in connection with a POCSO Act.Ambala Senior Superintendent of Police Hamid Akhtar has suspended the woman inspector. A case has been registered against Inspector Satwinder Kaur, who was posted as the SHO, Women police station, and Sub-Inspector Rajwinder Kaur under Sections 166-A, 167, 201 and 218 of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.As per information, a girl, a student of Class XII, in her complaint to the police on June 26, had alleged that Navneet (25) of Hussaini village had been raping her for the past several months. When she got pregnant, the suspect forced her to undergo abortion.On her complaint, a case was registered. The girl claimed that her original complaint was not registered. Instead, a case under lighter sections was registered. She also accused the police of pressurising her to marry the suspect and favouring him.The victim’s family alleged that a raid was conducted at the suspect’s place. He had already escaped before the raid and was yet to be arrested. Even the victim’s medical was not conducted timely and the family had to approach a local court in Naraingarh to get her medical done. The family has also sent complaints to the Women Commission and the Human Rights Commission.DSP Barara Rajnish Kumar said: “A minor girl had accused a boy of raping her, following which a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered. The girl alleged that several grave allegations, which were mentioned by her in the complaint, have not been included in the FIR and a case under lighter sections was registered to favour the accused. Following the girl’s complaint, an inquiry was initiated and the woman SHO was suspended. A case has also been registered against the inspector and the sub-inspector. The matter is being investigated further.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-sho-suspended-another-cop-booked-for-shielding-accused-281247
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||... hold protest at Mani Majra||Congress workers today protested against the BJP government over the hike in petrol, diesel, cooking gas and food prices. Party workers protested at Mani Majra main bazaar under the leadership of Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee president Subhash Chawla. The workers gathered in front of the Old NAC office and marched on foot to the main market, where they raised slogans against the BJP government. Chawla said: “The BJP government has proved unsuccessful in controlling the inflation. The government has nothing to do with rising inflation and the problems of the people.”  Chawla said: “The BJP had promised public on reducing inflation. The common man believed in them and brought them to power. Now, they are supporting capitalists.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hold-protest-at-mani-majra-281248
11-07-2021||Panchkula||NRI accuses sister of duping him of Rs75L, lodges plaint||A Canada-based NRI has registered a complaint against his sister, brother-in-law and their son for allegedly duping him to the tune of Rs 75 lakh.An FIR has been registered under Sections 120-B, 406 and 420 of the IPC at Mansa Devi Complex police station.Naresh Kaushal (50), who arrived in the city in 2019 to settle a property dispute and couldn’t return due to Covid-19 restrictions, told the police that her sister Renu Manrao and her husband Harkesh Manrao, had asked him to get the beautification work of their under-construction house in MDC, Sector 4, done from a contractor and pay the expenses on their behalf as they were in Uganda.According to the complainant, the suspects had promised to pay him the money upon the completion of work.When Renu returned to India, the complainant asked her to pay the expenses incurred by him on the beautification of their house. At first, Renu kept on delaying the payment on one pretext or another and later denied to make any payment despite several requests made by the complainant, said the police.Interestingly, Renu, her husband and their son Nimit had called Kaushal and requested him to get all the beautification work done and for this purpose, they had handed over the possession of the said house to the complainant, read the FIR. Kaushal told the police that Renu and her family even threatened to implicate him in a false case.“The suspects threatened me with dire consequences, saying they share good relations with higher ranked police officials and politicians in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, and I won’t be able to do anything to them,” Kaushal told the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nri-accuses-sister-of-duping-him-of-rs75l-lodges-plaint-281250
11-07-2021||---||Babla seeks declaration of reserved category seats, writes to Badnore||Chandigarh, July 10Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla today wrote to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore about the reserved seats not being declared for the Municipal Corporation elections slated to be held in December.This time, instead of 26 seats, elections will be held on 35 seats in Chandigarh as nine villages have been added to the civic body.“Approximately five months are left for the Municipal Corporation elections, but till date no one is aware of any SC/ST reserve seat, women’s seat, general seat, and which year’s census is to be considered for the reservation of these wards/seats, nor is there any official confirmation on the seats,” Babla wrote to Badnore. “Till date, never have elections been held in such a way,” he said.“Arbitrary decisions are being taken without taking political parties into confidence. Even the ward delimitation was done unilaterally without taking the political parties into confidence. It seems that the administration is taking all the decisions on the instructions of the BJP. The administration is waiting for the green signal from the BJP, then only the ward reservation will be decided,” Babla alleged.“We also expect a foolproof system in place for the EVM machines,” Babla said, adding “we request you (Administrator) that the elections may be held with full transparency in all the wards”.“The reservation of wards should be announced soon to ensure that elections shall be held in fair and transparent manner without coming under any pressure from anyone in the best interest of the spirit of Indian democracy and electoral system,” he wrote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-seeks-declaration-of-reserved-category-seats-writes-to-badnore-281251
11-07-2021||---||Cong workers pedal in P’kula to protest hike in fuel prices||Panchkula, July 10Congress workers led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan took out a cycle rally here today to protest the increasing fuel prices and inflation.The rally, which began from Chander Mohan’s house in Sector 8, passed through various Sectors before concluding at the Sector 15 market.“In the past 18 months, the prices of petrol and diesel had been hiked by Rs 25 and Rs 24 per litre, respectively. It is rising every alternate day. After the elections in West Bengal and four other states, the fuel prices have shot up substantially,” said Chander Mohan.Despite a significant fall in crude oil price in international market – which has come down from $101 per barrel in June 2013 to $74.12 per barrel in July 2021 – people are being forced to pay over Rs 100 for one litre petrol, he added.Similarly, the price of LPG gas cylinder has increased substantially. From Rs 412 in 2014 to Rs 845, its price has reached an unprecedented level, said the Congress leader.PM Narendra Modi is “insensitive” towards the agony of people as nearly 20 crore are sleeping with an empty stomach and 7.50 crore people slipped below poverty line during his regime, he claimed.“The average income has slipped to Rs 405 per month in the past seven years,” he said.“The prices of essential commodities have also increased manifold due to the wrong policies of the BJP government. Take the example of mustered oil, a litre of it now costs around Rs 200,” he said.Congress activists urged the Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel to provide some relief to the common man.Cycle rally passes through sectorsThe cycle rally, which began from Chander Mohan’s house in Sector 8, passed through various Sectors before concluding at the Sector 15 market in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-workers-pedal-in-pkula-to-protest-hike-in-fuel-prices-281252
11-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||In pics and hearts, Jeanneret’s art lives on||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Tracing the history and origin of Pierre Jeanneret’s cement sculpture, which languishes in neglect at the nursery wing of Government Model Senior School, Sector 16, two new pictures of the rare artwork were shared on social media today.The two pictures are from ID Mirchandani’s personal collection. In one picture, the sculpture is placed against the school building’s ramp, while the other shows it from a distance, in an open ground that’s cut by a seemingly one-foot tall cemented boundary wall of sorts, the curves of which resemble that of a snake.“My father was involved with the construction of Chandigarh as executive engineer from 1954 to 1957 way before I was born, and taught at Punjab Engineering College (PEC). He was very fond of clicking pictures, but all I have of this sculpture are these two pictures,” said Delhi-based retired civil engineer Arun Mirchandani, who was born in Chandigarh.As architect Sarbjit Bahga posted these pictures on his Facebook account, pointing at a Chandigarh Tribune article about the sculpture, he wrote: “This unique photo has been shared by my friend and great archivist Arun Mirchandani for the benefit of those who will be reviving this sculpture... It is hoped that the Chandigarh Administration will get it restored immediately as it is a valuable piece of art of Chandigarh’s heritage.”The Tribune correspondent also found a picture of the sculpture’s model while scrolling down the website of the Canadian Centre for Architecture (CCA), Montreal. The picture mentions it as “the Gift of Jacqueline Jeanneret”. Jacqueline was Pierre’s niece and had gifted his works to the CCA.Just like architects Kunal Mathur and Tarun Mathur, who shared the sculpture's picture from their father BP Mathur's personal collection, the sculpture tugs at the heartstrings of many who saw it in its prime. Part of Le Corbusier’s core team of architects, SD Sharma remembers the sculpture as “pristine white, valuable and rare designs by Pierre Jeanneret. “Jeanneret didn’t make many sculptures. That’s what makes this one a rarity. Though I wasn’t there when it was being made, I did see it some 50 years ago. I hope the administration does something about it soon,” he says. On a similar note, architect Sudhir Vohra, who is now based in Delhi, shares, “I studied in this school and remember this sculpture. Though I don’t have a very vivid memory of it, I do remember it was tall, measuring about 7 or 8 feet.” Vohra’s father, BB Vohra, was the first estate officer of Chandigarh Project.At the school, though, the sculpture stands divided between two eras and identities of the city; finding its rightful place in City Beautiful and as a famous Punjabi song calls it ‘patharan da shehar’ (city of stones).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pics-and-hearts-jeannerets-art-lives-on-281255
11-07-2021||---||Prepare plan to remove legacy waste, Adviser tells civic body||Chandigarh, July 10UT Adviser Dharam Pal has directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to prepare a plan to completely clear the legacy waste from the dumping ground in Dadu Majra. Unprocessed waste from the waste processing plant is thrown at the dumping ground.MC Commissioner KK Yadav has been asked to prepare a plan to clear the rest of the waste from the Dadu Majra dumping site, stated the Adviser during a visit to the site yesterday.An MC official said they were planning to allot the work for disposal of the remaining waste at the site.Biomining of one part of the garbage dump was on, but the remaining part had been left. The civic body has now decided to initiate the work of the other part by utilising funds under the Swachh Bharat Mission or AMRUT.It was earlier found that the biomining work, which was allotted to a private firm for Rs33 crore in 2019, was only for half of the garbage dump. The company was assigned the task to biomine 5 lakh metric tonne of waste and about 4.50 lakh tonne of waste was left behind.The MC had taken over the waste processing plant from Jaypee Group last year. It is only processing about 70 metric tonne of waste daily, while the city generates nearly 450 metric tonne of garbage each day. The fresh waste, which is being dumped at the ground, could thus pose a major challenge to the corporation in clearing the site.Officials hope to upgrade the processing machinery at the plant to ensure that fresh waste does not end up at the ground.Notably, the mining of legacy waste and recovery of land on the oldest dumping zone was inaugurated on December 20, 2019, by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.It is learnt that the MC is considering the use of plasma technology to clear the waste and the timeline for the entire project can be four to five months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prepare-plan-to-remove-legacy-waste-adviser-tells-civic-body-281257
11-07-2021||Naina Mishra||City Beautiful logs three Covid deaths in 20 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Fatalities due to Covid-19 have been negligible in the recent past as only three deaths took place in the past 20 days. This is a massive decline by 94 per cent as 53 deaths had taken place between June 1 and 20.There was a time in May when Chandigarh saw 10-12 deaths of Covid patients every day. Patients had even died waiting for ICU beds in emergency wards.At present, there are only 100 Covid patients in Chandigarh, of whom 10 have been admitted to the PGI. Till Saturday, there was no Covid patient on a ventilator bed at the GMSH-16, while only two patients were on ventilator beds at the GMCH, Sector 32.In the past one week, only 1 per cent of samples had tested positive. For every 100 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, only 0.2 are at present infected and 99 have recovered from the virus. The month of June had reported 55 deaths as against 275 deaths in May that was marred by the raging second wave.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “There was a time when our wards were full and we struggled referring patients to other hospitals who required ICU beds as such beds were occupied in other hospitals also. It was a really hard time for healthcare workers who couldn’t do much to save the lives of young patients. A lot of effort has gone into decreasing the positivity rate in the city.”8 more infected, no death in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported eight new cases of Covid-19 and no death. A total of 13 patients were cured in the past 24 hours. — TNSOne more dies, 8 test +ve in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 1,055. Meanwhile, eight fresh cases surfaced till Saturday evening while 14 patients were cured. — TNSNo fatality, two new cases in Panchkula Panchkula: The district on Saturday reported just two new cases of Covid, taking the overall tally to 30,611. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 375. While 30,212 patients have recovered so far, 24 cases are active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-beautiful-logs-three-covid-deaths-in-20-days-281259
11-07-2021||---||Rain likely till July 14 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 10The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a rain forecast in the city till July 14.According to the department, light to moderate rain/thundershower activity is likely at a few places over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next 24 hours.Thereafter, rain activity is likely to increase further from July 11 to 13 with light to moderate rain/thundershowers at most places and heavy rain at isolated places.Isolated thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds (speed up to 30-40 km ph) is also likely during the next 48-72 hours.“Maximum temperature has fallen by 2-3°C over most parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the past 24 hours, consequently heatwave conditions have abated in the region. Maximum temperature is likely to further fall by 2-3°C during the next two-three days,” said a scientist.The max temperature in the city today was 37.5°C, three degrees above normal, while minimum temperature was 30.3°C, six degrees above normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-till-july-14-in-chandigarh-281261
11-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration plans to reopen colleges from next month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10With a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration is planning to reopen colleges from the next month, after vaccinating the students and staff.On the directions of the Administration, the UT Health Department has decided to hold special vaccination camps to administer the Covid jab to the maximum number of students before the reopening of colleges. Students too have been appealed to get themselves vaccinated before joining college.Vaccination campsFrom July 12, the department will hold vaccination camps at the Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12, the Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26, and the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, from 10 am to 5 pm every day.An official said they were planning to reopen colleges next month as the ongoing semester examinations would be over by the first week of August. However, the option of online mode of study would continue for the time being for the students reluctant to attend physical classes and those who could not get vaccinated.The official said all college heads had also been asked to provide vaccination data of the teaching and non-teaching staff.However, no decision has been taken on reopening of schools, fearing the possibility of a third wave of coronavirus.After the Covid outbreak in February-March last year, the authorities had decided to reopen the colleges in February this year. However, the authorities had again ordered the closure of the colleges in March after a sudden surge in the number of cases in the second wave of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-plans-to-reopen-colleges-from-next-month-281264
11-07-2021||---||3 held guilty of looting liquor vend at gunpoint||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 10A court here has held three men guilty of looting a liquor vend at gunpoint at Rathpur Nanakpur village in Pinjore on August 6, 2018.The Court of District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta convicted Mandeep Singh (29), Subhash (28), and Manish, alias Gurdeep Singh (21), under Section 397 read with Section 34 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Arms Act. The court will pronounce the sentence on Tuesday.The convicts, with their faces covered, came to the liquor vend around 9 pm and asked its salesman Dinesh Rawat to hand over the entire cash from the cash counter.The trio pointed their revolvers at the salesman. One of them fired a shot, which hit the liquor vend. Later, they entered the vend and took away Rs19,000 kept in the box, besides two liquor boxes and a mobile phone.Before leaving, the convicts also threatened to kill the salesman if he disclosed the incident to the police.On a complaint of Rawat, an FIR was registered under Sections 392, 120-B, 411, 506 and 397 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Pinjore police station on August 6, 2018.According to the prosecution, all three convicts, who were already arrested in connection with another FIR registered at the Pinjore police station in 2018, confessed to have committed the crime. The case was later transferred to the Crime Branch, Sector 26.According to the investigation, the convicts had distributed the looted money among themselves and consumed the liquor stolen from the vend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-guilty-of-looting-liquor-vend-at-gunpoint-281306
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Car set afire at Hallo Majra||Man found dead in houseMohali: A 52-year-old man was found dead at his house in Janta Colony, Kharar, on the night of Friday. The deceased has been identified as Ravinder Adlakha who was living alone after a marital discord with his wife. Neighbours called the police when foul smell started emanating from the house. The police found him lying in a pool of blood. Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said the body was three days old. The deceased died after being inured on the head at a washbasin, he said. TNSMan steals three cellphones, heldChandigarh: A man was arrested for stealing three mobile phones from a booth in Sector 22 on July 9. The suspect has been identified as Sahil, alias Shinda (27), a resident of Sector 40. Hardeep Singh, a resident of Sector 38, reported that Sahil stole three mobile phones from his booth. A case has been registered. TNSYouth nabbed for theft at houseChandigarh: Amandeep, alias Mota (19), a resident of Khuda Jassu, was arrested on Saturday for stealing a laptop, a gold pendant and one pair of gold earrings from the house of Diwan Singh, a resident of Khuda Lahora, on the night of January 5. A case has been registered. TNSTheft reported at BJP officeChandigarh: Majot, a resident of Karnal, reported that an unknown person stole two loudspeakers and a ceiling fan from the BJP office in Sector 3 here on the night of July 3. A case has been registered. TNSBicycle stolen from houseChandigarh: A Sector 14 resident reported that an unknown person stole a bicycle from her house on July 9. A case has been registered. TNSPlantation drive at Panjab varsityChandigarh: A plantation drive was organised by MC Mahajan Hall, Boys’ Hostel No. 1, and GC Chatterjee Hall, Boys’ Hostel No. 2, at Panjab University here on Saturday. Prof Brij Kishore Kuthiala, chairperson of the Haryana State Higher Education Council, inaugurated the event. He emphasised the importance of trees and oxygen, especially in this pandemic, and the urgency to plant more trees. TNSWoman held with ganjaPanchkula: The police arrested a woman from Barwala and recovered 1.995-kg ganja from her possession on Friday evening. The woman has been identified as Geeta, a jhuggi-dweller. “We got a tip-off about the woman, following which a raid was conducted and the ganja was recovered from her possession,” said Investigating Officer Rajbir Singh. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against her. On Saturday, the woman was produced in a court, which sent her to two-day police remand. TNSRemembering the 1971 warPanchkula: An event was organised by the local unit of the Congress to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh at Parshuram Bhawan in Sector 12 on Saturday. Addressing the gathering, Captain Parveen Dagar, who was the chief guest and the coordinator of event, maintained that it was the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi who had shown exemplary courage and a new country namely Bangladesh had emerged. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-set-afire-at-hallo-majra-281316
