12-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 9 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Monday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 61,841.The number of active cases has come down to 93 as 13 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll in the city remains 809 as no new fatalities were reported.As many as 60,939 patients have been cured of the virus till date.The number of people who have received the first dose of the vaccine is 4,99,073 while 1,21,217 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-9-new-covid-19-cases-282098
12-07-2021||New Delhi||Conditions favourable for advance of monsoon over Punjab, Haryana||Light rain is likely in Delhi on Monday with the weather department saying conditions are favourable for advance of the monsoon over the national capital.The long-delayed monsoon missed yet another date with Delhi on Sunday.The city woke up to a humid morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 37 degrees Celsius, it said."Conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on Monday,” the India Meteorological Department said.The relative humidity was recorded at 74 per cent at 8.30 am.The arrival of the monsoon will be announced in Monday's midday bulletin based on observations at 8.30 am on July 12, IMD scientist Sunitha Devi had said on Sunday.According to the standard operating procedure, the monsoon onset is declared based on the rainfall reported during the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 am, she explained. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conditions-favourable-for-advance-of-monsoon-over-punjab-haryana-282016
12-07-2021||---||Drone to keep vigil on Chandigarh-Manali highway||Mandi, July 11To keep a vigil on the traffic on the Chandigarh-Manali highway, the district police will take the help of a drone.Due to the rising temperature in the plains, a large number of tourists are visiting Kullu-Manali. As a result, the rush of commuters has increased manifold on the Chandigarh-Manali highway.Superintendent of Police, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said, “In wake of tourist influx towards Kullu-Manali and Mandi, the district police have intensified vigil on the movement of vehicles on the Chandigarh-Manali highway. We have decided to use drone for the purpose.”She said additional police personnel would be deployed at key locations on this highway to regulate the traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drone-to-keep-vigil-on-chandigarh-manali-highway-281923
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chain snatched at Dadu Majra||Delhi man cheats bizman, arrestedChandigarh: The UT police have arrested Jai Shankar Jha of Delhi for cheating the owner of Oyster Hotel in Sector 17 to the tune of Rs4.30 lakh. Complainant Rajesh Mahajan alleged that Jai Shankar, who introduced himself as a representative of M/s Jaya Carpets, visited his office in Sector 17 in October last year. The complainant ordered goods from the suspect and made a payment of Rs4.30 lakh. However, the suspect did not deliver the goods. TNSP’kula resident held for cheatingChandigarh: The UT police arrested a 29-year-old Panchkula resident for cheating. According to the police, complainant Amrit Kumar Singh, senior branch manager of Vijaya Bank, reported that the accused, Gurdeep Singh, took car loan from the bank and purchased an Innova SUV. Later, the accused allegedly got the vehicle registered on the basis of forged documents wherein the bank’s name was not mentioned as a financer. A case was registered at the Sector 17 police station in 2020. TNSMan caught with 230-gram ganjaChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 45-year-old man for possessing ganja. According to the police, Ghanshyam, a resident of Colony No. 4, was arrested from near the CTU workshop in the Industrial Area, Phase-I, with 230 grams of ganja. The police have registered a case against the accused under the NDPS Act. TNSYouth nabbed for vehicle theftsChandigarh: The UT police have arrested an eighteen-year-old youth for stealing two Activa scooters. The police said Himani and Anit, residents of Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra, had complained that their scooters were stolen from outside their house earlier this month. The police have registered cases at the Mani Majra police station. During investigation, the accused, identified as Arjun, a resident of Mari Wala Town, Mani Majra, was arrested. The police said the accused had a criminal past. TNSMan held with illicit liquorZirakpur: The police arrested Surinderpal Singh, a resident of Jarnail Enclave, Zirakpur, with 20 bottles of illicit liquor. A case under the Excise Act was registered at the Zirakpur police station on July 9. The suspect was produced in a court on Saturday, which remanded him in one-day police custody. A case regarding sale of illicit liquor was already registered against him at the Dera Bassi police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chain-snatched-at-dadu-majra-281840
12-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Fight against Hepatitis C takes a beating||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 11The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted the government’s battle against Hepatitis C – commonly known as ‘Kala Pilia’ – in the state, reveals the data.If left untreated, Hepatitis C can lead to cirrhosis or liver cancer, say the experts.Government Rajindra Hospital, one of the two model treatment centres in the state for Hepatitis C, saw a considerable decline in the cases. From 765 in 2019, the cases dipped to 428 in 2020. So far in 2021, the count is only 249.Notably, Government Rajindra Hospital caters to the entire Malwa belt, which has around 60 per cent of the total Hepatitis cases reported in Punjab.Similarly, at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital here, the disruption in OPD services due to Covid has already resulted in a steep dip in the reporting of Hepatitis C patients.As per the diagnostic count, the number of Hepatitis C patients have come down from 369 in 2019 to 222 in 2020. This year, only 101 patients have reported at the hospital so far.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, said the decline in footfall of Hepatitis C patients was due to Covid.The OPD services had to be shut for months due to Covid, said Dr Singh, adding “though the government is providing free treatment for Hepatitis C, including tests, patients seemingly fearing Covid infection are not showing up for the treatment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fight-against-hepatitis-c-takes-a-beating-281821
12-07-2021||---||1 held for looting filling station near Kurali||Mohali, July 11The police arrested a suspect and named three others in the looting incident at a filling station in Sahauran village near Kurali in the wee hours of July 4.The CIA staff today arrested Ravi Kumar, a resident of Banur, near the Sahauran bus stand.Kiratpur Sahib residents Jaswinder Singh, alias Binder, Jaspreet Singh, alias Nupi, and Sirsa resident Gaurav Jain, alias Minku, have been identified as other suspects involved in the incident. A case under Sections 307, 392, 342 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sadar Kharar police station on July 4.Four miscreants looted around Rs80,000 and a mobile phone at gunpoint from two employees of a filling station on the Kurali road in Kharar on July 4.The incident took place around 2.15 am when two men carrying a pistol barged into the office of Bheem filling station near Sahauran village and fired one round before looting cash from the employees. The police recovered the empty shell of a round.The police claimed that the trio was involved in the loot incident on July 4. However, they were arrested from Khanna on July 6.Jaspreet Singh, Jaswinder Singh, and Gaurav Jain, alias Minku, are alleged members of a Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) module. The trio, along with one more member, was arrested from Khanna after exchange of fire on July 6. The suspects were involved in several crime incidents such as murder, attempt to murder, gunpoint robberies and carjacking.Jaspreet is facing trial in seven cases and was dismissed from the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-for-looting-filling-station-near-kurali-281820
12-07-2021||---||Dr Luthra’s Cricket XI emerge champs||Chandigarh, July 11Dr Luthra’s Cricket XI (DLCE) defeated Junior Livewire Coaching Centre by 64 runs to win the final of the Donate Eyes Win Hearts Cricket Cup.Batting first, DLCE posted 162/5 in 20 overs with the help of Amit (59), Panckaj (32) and Gulab Rubani(31). Sunny Sachdeva claimed two wickets for the bowling side, while Nitin, Kamal and Sumant Joshi took one each.In reply, Junior Livewire scored 98 runs before getting all out in 14 overs. Kamal (48) and Pankaj Guleria (11) were the two main contributors for the bowling side.Pratik claimed three wickets for the bowling side, while Pankaj and Sahib Jit Singh claimed two wickets each. Anand and Harvinder Nain took one wicket each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-luthras-cricket-xi-emerge-champs-281819
12-07-2021||---||Woman among 2 arrested with illegal weapons||Chandigarh, July 11The Operation Cell of the UT police has arrested two persons, including a woman, with two country-made pistols and 10 live cartridges.According to the police, Rahul, alias Shabu (24), and the woman were arrested from the road separating Sectors 36 and 42 here while riding an Accent car. The police said two country-made pistols and 10 live cartridges were recovered from them.A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at the Sector 36 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-2-arrested-with-illegal-weapons-281818
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi hopeful of good show by Punjab athletes in Tokyo||Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today backed state’s athletes to bag laurels for the country at the Tokyo Olympics. Punjab is sending second largest contingent of athletes to the Games.Extending warm wishes to the Olympics-bound players, Sodhi said: “India is sending 117-member contingent to the Olympics, out of which 14 per cent players belong to Punjab. As we are sending second largest contingent after Haryana, the players from Punjab will be able to win at least three or four Olympic medals.”The minister also assured all the support to the athletes. “We will take care of their financial and logistics,” he said.Punjab’s contingent includes Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinderpal Singh, Hardik Singh, Manpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh, Mandeep Singh and Gurjit Kaur (all hockey players), Anjum Maudgill and Angad Veer Singh (shooting), Simranjit Kaur (boxing), Kamalpreet Kaur, Tajinderpal Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh (athletics).“It’s a proud moment for the Punjab as it got captaincy in the Olympics after 21 years. Manpreet Singh, DSP, Punjab Police, will lead Indian hockey team as captain in the Tokyo Olympics. He will also be a flag bearer of the Indian contingent,” said the minister.With a bottom-up approach, Sodhi highlighted that efforts were being made to create a sporting culture in Punjab through national programs like Khelo India and Fit India movement, besides injecting measures for grass-roots level motivation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-minister-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-hopeful-of-good-show-by-punjab-athletes-in-tokyo-281817
12-07-2021||---||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari for strict action against real estate mafia in Mohali, Kharar, New Chandigarh||Mohali, July 11Anandpur Sahib MP and Congress National spokesman Manish Tewari today urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take strict action against the real estate mafia in Mohali, Kharar and New Chandigarh areas for failing to fulfil their obligations to people to whom they have sold plots.Tewari made an appeal to the Chief Minister after listening to the aggrieved residents of Sectors 116 and 117, Mohali, who were complaining about the lack of basic infrastructure by errant builders. The meeting was organised by the Resident Welfare Association, Sector 117, TDI City.Tewari assured a group of residents, who met him here today, that he would also personally take up the matter with Capt Amarinder Singh for an early and effective solution to their problems.He also advised people to move the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) against the defaulter builders/companies. He also assured them of legal and other assistance required in the matter.The MP urged the Chief Minister, who is also the chairman of GMADA, to personally review all housing projects in these three areas and order strict civil and criminal action against those real estate developers who failed to fulfil their obligations to people when they sold plots and flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-for-strict-action-against-real-estate-mafia-in-mohali-kharar-new-chandigarh-281816
12-07-2021||---||Haryana CM to launch ‘Dial 112’ project in Panchkula today||Panchkula, July 11Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal will launch an integrated emergency helpline “Dial 112”, an emergency response support system project, for all police, fire brigade and ambulance emergencies from Panchkula on Monday.The Chief Minister would also flag off 601 emergency response vehicles equipped with mobile data terminals on the occasion.For the functioning of the “Dial 112” project, a state-of-the-art State Emergency Response Centre (SERC) has been built in Panchkula, which is based on the hi-tech geospatial technology providing immediate response to the distress calls received from across the state.State Home Minister Anil Vij along with other political and administrative dignitaries and other senior officers of the Police Department would attend the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cm-to-launch-dial-112-project-in-panchkula-today-281814
12-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||No one noticed heritage crumbling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11Yesterday, while praising Pierre Jeanneret’s sculpture, 89-year-old SD Sharma, who was part of Le Corbusier’s core team of architects and worked with Jeanneret on several buildings, said: “I visited the school to see Jeanneret’s sculpture and the building, which is a sculpture in itself, a year and a half ago, just before the pandemic. Even then, the sculpture was in a neglected state.”Also read:His statement raised a pertinent question - when did the sculpture break?In a quest to find this out, The Tribune correspondent called several people who served as principals and teachers at the school. Turns out, till about five years ago, none of the teachers or principals saw this sculpture in one piece. Also, none of them was willing to come on record.Have you seen this sculpture?The only pictures of this sculpture were clicked in an era when digitisation was only a far-fetched dream. And now as we look for the city’s heritage sculpture through the one-click-away digital view, it leaves with no clue on its present, unfortunate fate.When the correspondent sent pictures of the sculpture, which is estimated to have been clicked in 1955, from ID Mirchandani’s collection, none of the employees was able to recognise it.“I just saw two blocks of cement lying in the ground ever since I worked here, not quite aware of what it was,” said a former employee while jogging his/her memory to 2016, on the condition of anonymity. Three more employees too refused having seen the sculpture as a whole.As of now, the only available pictures of the sculpture date between years 1955 and 1961. All through 70s, 80s, 90s, 2000s, there seems to be no available pictorial record of this sculpture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-one-noticed-heritage-crumbling-281807
12-07-2021||---||Two patwaris, 3 others booked for cheating Omaxe||Mohali, July 11The Vigilance Bureau has booked five persons, including two patwaris, for cheating a real estate firm, Omaxe, and benefitting another firm, Ambika Realcon, in a two-year-old case.The suspects have been identified as Diwakar Bansal, Ritesh Sehgal, Harsh Bhargav and Dhode Majra patwaris Baljit Singh and Lekh Raj.On a statement of Vigilance Bureau DSP Puneet Singh, a case under Sections 406, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) hasbeen registered at the Vigilance Bureau police station in Mohali.Omaxe employees Diwakar Bansal, Ritesh Sehgal and Harsh Bhargav used internal information of the firm to benefit another firm for personal gains and also caused loss to the state exchequer, the police said.The suspects gave false information for Change of Land Use (CLU) of a land and cheated buyers by selling them flats on the land, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-patwaris-3-others-booked-for-cheating-omaxe-281786
12-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Sports Dept plans pending championships in coming months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11After opening most of the sports complexes, the UT Sports Department is now planning to conduct pending championships in the coming months to provide major relief to sportspersons.If the Covid cases dip further in the coming months, the department may announce its annual sports calendar. However, the authorities are in no mood to take any risk and will assess the pandemic before announcing any major championship.“Yes, plans are being made to start conducting championships in the coming months. The second wave of Covid-19 has hit the country hard and the authorities are in no mood to take any risk. Even sports complexes were allowed to open with extra caution. This department is one of the most revenue-making units of the UT Administration, but it is not bothered about generating revenue right now,” said an official.Besides the Sports Department, local sports associations are also planning to conduct championships from the next month.“Some associations had conducted championships after the restrictions were lifted in the first phase of the lockdown. However, future planning was hit by the second wave. Things are moving in the right direction as of now. Hopefully, the associations will start conducting senior championships following Covid protocols. Several private organisations have already started conducting events, but they are organising these to earn a quick buck. We cannot do that as our aim is different and we have to follow guidelines,” said a senior official.After the first wave of the pandemic, the Sports Department was really keen on conducting tournaments to fill-in the gap. Schedule was made and approval was also taken from the higher authorities, but the second wave took destroyed all planning.“We have to restart the planning again. It will take time. The complexes were opened recently and players will take time to regain their form. Till then, we are looking ahead to complete the paperwork,” said another official.Besides conducting annual age groups and other championships, the department holds cash-prize competitions. In the last session, the department did not organise summer camps for local trainees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-dept-plans-pending-championships-in-coming-months-281785
12-07-2021||Use of solar energy||Boost infra, manpower; plug loopholes in power distribution||Give power cut info in advanceSince the onset of summer season, Chandigarh witnesses unexpected power cuts. On calling the Electricity Department officials tell there is a fault in wires. If the department informs residents through newspaper about scheduled power cuts due to any reason, then they can do their work in advance. Students expect that the department solves all power-related issues as soon as possible because exams are approaching. Otherwise, frequent power cuts hinder studies.Sunny, ChandigarhCampaign to save powerThere is need to launch mass campaign to save electricity. The government should plan in advance to generate required electricity and meet the demand. Difference in supply and demand is a major cause of power cuts in the tricity.Dr Amit Sandhal, Mandi GobindgarhConduct power audit in tricityThere must be an audit of supply, consumption, leakage, and theft of power in the tricity. Accountability of officials concerned for any lapses must be fixed. All commercial establishments must have mandatory solar power stations. The VVIP areas must not have dedicated grid line when people face long power cuts. Let VVIPs face heat, which common man experiences every day.Capt Amar Jeet, Mohali QUESTIONAmid fears of an impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, should the UT Administration wait for some more time before opening colleges in Chandigarh? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comFailure to assess power situationAn astute and prudent planning and prompt execution thereof may immediately rescue hapless residents, who bear the brunt of multiple unscheduled power cuts amid an intense heatwave across the tricity. However, the authorities concerned have miserably failed to emerging power situation each year? Needless to say, any hidden move to privatise power generation and its distribution may only be grossly ill-conceived and thus least advisable.Vinayak G, PanchkulaShortage of field staffDespite having sanctioned need based additional load after charging from consumers, the Electricity Department has not set its house in order. Transmission lines do not seem to be suitably upgraded. It appears that responsible officials are in deep slumber and not concerned about consumers' woes. Tripping and power shutdowns take time to rectify due to shortage of field staff like linemen. This must act as a wake-up call for officials concerned.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhDon’t ignore residents’ callsAmid the ongoing heat wave, disruption in power supply is wreaking havoc on residents' routine. To alleviate the situation, the Electricity Department should not ignore residents’ calls. The department should employ more workforce to communicate with residents and solve their power-related issues. Also the department should ask all consumers to get their electricity meters upgraded according to their load.Ananya Goel, Ambala CanttBan air-conditioners in govt officesThe government should should curb the misuse of electricity in government offices. Air-conditioners (ACs) should be banned in ministers, councillors and government offices. Solar panels should be installed and be mandatory for bigger houses. Subsidy should be given for installing solar panels.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCut down on power consumptionNo doubt, PSPCL has miserably failed to provide uninterrupted power to consumers in Mohali. At the same time, being responsible citizens, we must cut down on our consumption of electricity upto maximum extent. Use one air-conditioner instead of two and two in place of three. Moreover, we may curtail use of AC by an hour daily in the morning and in the evening.AK Jindal, PatialaPurchase power from surplus statesIt is really sad that the government has again failed when it comes to saving consumers from power cuts. It should have made adequate provisions for uninterrupted power. The government should endeavour to purchase power from surplus states like Uttaranchal and Himachal Pradesh. In case the government purchases power at higher cost the hike can be passed to consumer.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhEnsure correct information of loadIt happens that consumers give Electricity Department wrong information about their load consumption. In order to cut down the cost, they show less number of ACs, TVs, refrigerators or heavy appliances. The government should conduct a survey, redistribute power and revise its data. This will ensure reduction in power cuts to some extent in the tricity.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhPrior arrangements to meet peak demandThe Electricity Department should have made prior arrangements to meet demand for power in the summer season. Consumers should be educated to save electricity. Office working hours should be reduced during summer in the tricity. Instead of air-conditioners water coolers should be installed in offices. All thermal plants should be made functional.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliFresh survey to check loadA fresh survey should be conducted to check overall household electricity load in the tricity. When the exact load is not on record, how can the Electricity Department assess demand for total power consumption? Consumers, who declare wrong electricity load, should be penalised to set an example.Harsimran Kamboj, ChandigarhUse electricity judiciouslyAdmit it or not we are over dependent on electricity. Where will this extra power come? Solar power is the solution. People have to make their own arrangements to meet their growing need for more electricity. They can also use electricity judiciously. The green cover of the City Beautiful has to be increased in order to decrease use of air- conditioners, which consume a lot of power and pollute the environment. Inculcate habit of saving electricity among kids. They should be advised to switch off all gadgets in the room when going out.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhProvide solar panels to allThe Administration should provide solar panels to all residents at subsidised rates to augment power generation. Electricity produced by solar power system can supplement the main grid supply without any additional cost. It is, therefore, suggested that solar power system be made compulsory in the tricity. Solar power system has low maintenance cost as compared to hydro/thermal power generation machinery.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliTwo-day off for industrial consumersThere should be two-day weekly off for industrial consumers because the demand for electricity is more than supply. Electricity must be judicially used in government offices. Unlimited use of air-conditioners must be banned in government offices. The authorities concerned are responsible for inconvenience to the public. Efforts must be made to arrange extra power during summer season.Anita Tandon, KhararOverhaul power generation systemThe power generation system of Punjab must be overhauled. The grid load capability must be improved. The Bhakra Beas Management Board must increase its generation. The focus should also be shifted to setting up renewable energy sources. More solar and biomass power generation plants must be set up. Punjab once had the tag of a power surplus state. It’s high time for the government to get it again.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhReplace old metersOne of the main reasons for unscheduled power cuts is non-declaration of load by residents. The respective Administrations of the tricity should immediately replace all old meters with preferably three or more phase electronic meters for houses above three marlas after duly verifying their electric load. Hefty fines should be imposed on consumers, who draw electricity directly from poles through 'kundi' connections.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhSave electricity is the mantraSolar energy must be harnessed at homes and commercial establishments. Set your refrigerator to 2°C and freezer to -16°C. Only LED bulbs should be allowed in the city. Clean air filters of air-conditioners regularly. Check air leaks in rooms where air conditioners are installed. Switch off lights when not in use. Unplug mobile battery charger when phone is charged. New design of buildings has scope for natural light and air in rooms. Use window shades.Antara Rakheja, ChandigarhUnplanned, shoddy infrastructureFrequent power cuts in this heat spell misery for residents and damage electrical gadgets. The infrastructure is unplanned, shoddily made and badly maintained. So, even a minor storm plays havoc with the power supply. Identifying threats like unstable trees, proper maintenance and use of better-quality equipment may prevent breakdowns. Unnecessary lighting in buildings and tourist places should be restricted.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhWorst situation could have been avoidedIt has been nightmarish for residents of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula to face unscheduled and long power cuts forcing them to come out on streets and protest at various power substations. This worst power situation could have been avoided had the government and the PSPCL authorities planned for excessive demand. They should have undertaken preventive maintenance of all power plants in advance to avoid outage during the peak demand period.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliNo emergency plan to blame for situationIll preparedness, lack of maintenance of power plants and no emergency plan has angered farmers, residents and the business community in the tricity. Decisions to stop power supply to industrial plants and power cuts in residential areas has proven that nothing was planned for the expected peak load during the year. Responsibilities and accountability must be fixed to plug loopholes in the power generation system.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliStudents are the worst affectedThe main reason behind power cuts is old infrastructure. The Electricity Department has no option, but to use old transformers, which cannot bear increased load. Power theft is another cause of cuts and shortage. The worst affected are students, who attend online classes and officials working from home. The Electricity Department should ensure that existing transformers do not break down owing to increased load. Old and less capacity transformers should be replaced with new.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaFix responsibilities of officialsTricity is facing power cuts because of the old infrastructure and less maintenance of generation plants. The Administration should upgrade power generation and supply infrastructure from time to time. The government should promote and give more subsidies for installing solar panels. Responsibility of officials concerned to provide uninterrupted power to tricity residents should be fixed.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhPrepare schedule for load sheddingThe frequent power cuts across tricity have made the life of people miserable. Consumers are not aware about power cuts in advance. The Electricity Department should impose rotational power cuts. A schedule must be prepared and implemented for load shedding. This schedule must be published in newspapers and uploaded on the Electricity Department website. Those stealing power should be penalised.Dr Shruti Chawla, ChandigarhDetect pilferage, theft of powerUninterrupted power supply is a sine qua non for ease of living/doing business in rural, urban, industrial and agricultural sectors and smooth running of household. Power disruptions expose man-made lapses in planning and execution. The real culprit is not the paucity of power, but drains on it, which reduce availability. Power supplied and actually billed at various distribution points should be metered and matched to pin-point pilferage and thefts.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaRope in private playersLike every year, this year too, problems of power cuts haunt tricity residents. Electricity production should be in surplus so that no one suffers in the intense heatwave. If the government cannot provide electricity in extreme hot weather then it should rope in private companies for generation and supply of power. All street lights should be switched off in the day time.Adish Sood, AmlohSave electricity at individual levelThe crises can be reduced by saving electricity at the individual level. Planning to manage demand for power during summers, when it is at peak, should be undertaken well in advance. Power production should be increased to meet the requirement. Power line losses can be reduced with meticulous maintenance. Illegal power connections should be identified and disconnected.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhRuling dispensation must take a callThe burgeoning demand for uninterrupted power supply has exposed lapses and loopholes not only in infrastructure, but also preparedness to deal with an alarming situation when the power-hit people have been forced to raise the pitch against government's apathy. The ruling dispensation should come out of its cosy confines and find a lasting solution to the perennial problem of plenty. It needs to step up vigil on pilferage of electricity.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhSolar panels for independent housesThough it's the responsibility of the Administration to provide 24x7 electricity, onus lies on residents also to save power by using less appliances, including air-conditioners and switching off fans etc when not required. Residents should opt for alternate power generation sources like solar system. The Administration on its part must ensure that all independent houses have installed solar panel. Subsidy must be provided for the installation of solar panels.Col KJ Singh (retd), ChandigarhIncrease power generationLife is more dependent on electricity. Need of the hour is to resolve inconsistencies between power supply and its demand. Increasing generation capacity can solve inconsistencies to meet ever rising demand of electricity. There should be limited use of appliances during high power demand period.Charu Malhotra, MohaliMonitor supply at user levelIn view of the paddy season and scorching heat, the UT Administration should have made alternate arrangements to provide uninterrupted electricity to consumers. In order to achieve 24x7 power for all, the focus should be on real-time monitoring of supply at the end-user level. Improving maintenance services, estimation of adequate demand and power procurement will also go a long way in reducing load shedding.Akash Kumar, ChandigarhOnly corporate houses will benefitIt is not the fault of residents, but the Administration as there is an acute shortage of manpower and absence of infrastructure, which is hampering repair work. This is an example of indecision. If Electricity Department is privatised residents will suffer tremendously as seen in other states. Corporate houses will benefit most from privatisation of the department. There will be no power. Whatever available will be at skyrocketing rates.SK Khosla, ChandigarhFailure of UT AdministrationHarsh summer coupled with frequent power cuts has made residents lives miserable in the tricity. People are suffering on account of the gross failure of the UT Administration to anticipate demand for power in the peak summer season. There is an immediate need for privatisation of the electricity generation and supply in the tricity. Pilferage and theft is another major cause of loss of electricity accentuated by large scale corruption in the power sector. It's high time to carry out major power sector reforms so that residents do not suffer more.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhRectify faults immediatelyFrequent power cuts in the tricity point towards the need to change functioning of the Electricity Department. First of all, faults should be immediately rectified as soon as possible. Electricity wires should be maintained and changed regularly. Privatisation of the Electricity Department should be completed as soon as possible. This will improve service quality and efficiency of the department.Saikrit Gulati, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boost-infra-manpower-plug-loopholes-in-power-distribution-281783
12-07-2021||---||Increase in life expectancy led to rise in Indian population: Expert||Chandigarh, July 11Emeritus Professor Tim Dyson, London School of Economics and Political Science, today said in the post-Independence period in India, an increase in life expectancy and decline in infant mortality led to a significant rise in the population.He delivered a lecture online on the occasion of World Population Day at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) here today.Prof Dyson analysed the evolution of Indian population from sixty to eighty thousand years ago to present day. He highlighted the emergence of the subcontinent’s first towns Mohenjodaro and Harappa and specified that the Indus Valley Civilisation was considered to be the most populous of the ancient world.He outlined the prevalence of high urban infant mortality rate peaking up to 380 per 1,000 during the Muslim rule. He traced the impact of several epidemics and numerous famines on Indian population and suggested that black deaths did not affect India in a big way as many would presume.He said the mortality declined during 1947-52 and improved subsequently in the 1950s and 1960s. Interestingly, at least as gauged by the rise in life expectancy, the Indian population grew probably faster in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, than it was in subsequent decades, he added.“There is no simple relationship between the rate of economic growth and the rate of improvement in life expectation,” he said. He ended his talk with giving his population projections for India for the year 2051 at 1,579 million.Earlier in the day, several faculty members of the CRRID took part in awareness drive and distributed free masks among disadvantaged sections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/increase-in-life-expectancy-led-to-rise-in-indian-population-expert-281769
12-07-2021||Zirakpur||Vehicle thief in police net||A vehicle thief was arrested near the Baltana light point here. The police have recovered a stolen motorcycle and a scooter from him.The suspect has been identified as Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Rampura village of Sangrur district.The police said the suspect had stolen the motorcycle from Patiala. The scooter was stolen from Wadhawa Nagar, Baltana, on June 10. He had hidden it in Baltana and was in the process of selling it. A case in this connection was registered under Section 379 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.The suspect was produced in a court on Saturday and remanded in one-day police custody. During the interrogation, it came to light that the suspect had also stolen several vehicles from Patiala and Sangrur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicle-thief-in-police-net-281764
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 new Covid cases||Mohali logs 3 fresh cases, one fatalityMohali, July 11After nearly 13 months, the number of new cases in the district has reached three.It was on June 15 last year when the district had reported three cases. The active cases have also touched the double digit. There are 94 persons battling the virus in the district.Meanwhile, one person succumbed to Covid while 36 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, two came from Mohali and one from Kharar. No new case was reported from Dera Bassi, Gharuan, Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Lalru, Banur and Kurali. — TNSJust one case in Panchkula, no deathPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported just one case of Covid, taking the overall tally to 30,612. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 375. While 30,217 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.70 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-new-covid-cases-281762
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Youth Cong protests rising prices||Leaders of the Chandigarh Youth Congress leaders took out a symbolic march with a cylinder pyre in protest against the rising prices in Sector 28-A here today.Youth Congress leader Manoj Lubana ‘Mauji’ said the increasing fuel prices would eventually lead to an unprecedented hike in the prices of all household items and essential commodities, which would have a direct impact on the common man.“The country’s GDP is crashing, unemployment is rising and fuel prices are skyrocketing. The petrol price is either close to Rs100 per litre or has crossed the mark in many cities. The price of LPG has crossed Rs900,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-cong-protests-rising-prices-281757
12-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Property owners face taxing time paying tax in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 11Glitches in the new software launched by the state government are causing problems for the residents of Mohali in depositing property tax with the Municipal Corporation.Paramjit Singh, a resident of Sector 60, said he tried to pay property tax online through the MC website but it was not responding. He added that several residents of his area faced the similar problem.He said during the Covid times, people, especially senior citizens, were avoiding to move out of their homes and preferring to deposit property tax as well as electricity and water bills online. Since the website was not functioning, people were forced to stand in long queues at the MC office to deposit tax on time so as to avoid late fee, he added.Another resident of the town, Surjit Singh, said he had visited the MC website and the mSeva portal to deposit the tax but could not do so. He said he was not interested in visiting the MC office to deposit property tax due to the fear of getting infected with the virus which had taken many lives. He demanded that MC officials should remove the technical glitches.Deputy Mayor Kuljti Singh Bedi said the MC was having its own software for payment of property tax till March 31 this year. The software was working smoothly and people had become used to it. From April 1, the Punjab Government provided a new software/portal, mSeva, for the payment of property tax. Due to glitches in this software, the system sometimes got hampered. He said at present, people could either pay property tax on the mSeva portal or at various counters set up on the MC complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-owners-face-taxing-time-paying-tax-in-mohali-281756
12-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Year on, Panchkula active caseload down to 20||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 11With just one case emerging from the district and five people recovering from the infectious disease on Sunday, the number of active Covid-19 cases now stands at 20 — a first since the first week of July last year.It was on July 6 when the number of active cases was exactly 20 last time. Of the124 patients reported till then, 104 had won the battle against the virus.The district has witnessed a significant downfall in the number of active cases in the last two months, marking a massive turnaround in its battle against coronavirus.The healthcare system of the district was struggling to cope with the unprecedented rise in daily fresh cases between the end of March and the end of May, with the active caseload once almost touching the 3,000 mark.On May 11, as high as 2,988 people in the district were battling the virus. Amid the devastating second wave, all Covid beds in both private and public sectors were occupied, and doctors were facing an unprecedented workload while crematoriums were running out of space.The issue even led to the suspension of Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur for her alleged failure to arrange a Covid bed on the instructions of state Health Minister Anil Vij.District sees 15 cases, no death in past 7 daysThe district saw just one fresh Covid-19 case on Sunday, the fourth day in a row when it recorded two or even less than 2 cases. Over the past week, the district added 15 fresh cases to the tally at an average of less than three cases each day. Meanwhile, no one died of the Covid-19 infection in the past week.On a substantial fall in the number of active cases in the past two months, Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said, “We can’t really say for how long the same trend will go on.” Urging people to still remain cautious and follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour, she said Covid infections were still rising in many states of the country and regions across the world in a clear indication that the pandemic was far from over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-panchkula-active-caseload-down-to-20-281755
12-07-2021||---||Child, mother die as truck crashes into pedestrians in Kalka||Panchkula, July 11A mother-son duo was killed and four persons were injured when a speeding truck hit them while they were standing on the roadside near a government school on the Pinjore-Kalka road in Kalka around 7 pm yesterday.The deceased have been identified as Sakshi (30) and her son Saksham (11 months). They died on the spot. The four injured were Neelam Kumar, his wife Swati, son Vansh and daughter Sakshi. They were shifted to the Kalka subdivisional hospital from where the doctors referred them to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 after giving first aid.Two two-wheelers parked near the spot were also damaged in the accident.The truck driver tried to flee the spot but passers-by nabbed him and handed over to the police. He has been identified as Rohtash, a resident of Churu in Rajasthan.Rishu, who witnessed the accident, told the police that the truck was on its way towards Pinjore when it hit the pedestrians before hitting a pole near the government school. Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Karam Singh, who is the investigating officer (IO) in the case, said the bodies were handed over to the family of the victims after post-mortem. The suspect would be produced before a local court tomorrow.A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304 A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt) and 427 (causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Kalka police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-mother-die-as-truck-crashes-into-pedestrians-in-kalka-281751
12-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Shell out less for water bills in Chandigarh from next month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11Having paid high water charges for about eight months, residents will get a big respite next month. The Municipal Corporation (MC) will issue bills on the basis of reduced water charges from August.The UT Administration had on May 25 issued a notification to put the hike in water tariff on hold till March 2022. The MC had approved these charges in September. There was a hue and cry when people started receiving their water bills with a three-fold increase. Later, the MC House rolled back the water tariff hike.However, there was confusion among residents many of whom thought that they would get water bills on the basis of the reduced rates from the previous month. Since the old rates were notified in the end of May, the bills for June and July will be based on the old charges.President of Second Innings Association, a senior citizens body, RK Garg said: “People were confused, but now the coming bills will be based on the old rates. However, we want the Administration to cancel the water-rate notification, rather than deferring it. After March, people will again be burdened with the same high rates.”Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, FOSWAC, said: “The old rates should be there even after March. People are facing inconvenience due to the faulty policies of the MC. They should also adjust the hiked rates paid so far by people in the coming bills.”While the MC favours hike in water rates saying that it is already suffering losses due to the low charges, the Opposition blames huge water leakage and mismanagement for the losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shell-out-less-for-water-bills-in-chandigarh-from-next-month-281749
