13-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records only 2 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported only two new cases of Covid-19, the lowest since the pandemic began as the total number of cases in the city has reached 61,844.The death toll in the UT remains at 809.As many as 1,306 samples were tested in the last 24 hours as the positivity rate was recorded at 0.15 per cent.The number of cured patients till date is 60,958.The number of active cases has fallen down to 77 as a total of 19 patients were discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-only-2-new-covid-19-cases-282595
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents to get free plants on doorstep till July 29||One can receive up to five plants of his/her choice of species without any charges from specially designed vehicles. The citizens can also contact the vehicles at 97801-80238, 79862-64894 & 93571-48202.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-to-get-free-plants-on-doorstep-till-july-29-282485
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||From today, dial 112 for all emergency needs in Haryana||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched emergency response support system — Dial 112. From tomorrow, people can dial only 112 for all their emergency needs related to the police, fire service and ambulance.Khattar, while launching the facility in Panchkula, said help would reach the person concerned within a time span of 15-20 minutes. He said Dial 112 was 24-hour multilingual facility (Hindi, English, Punjabi and Haryanvi)Response time 15-20 minutesThe Chief Minister said the project was initiated by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to provide a single number for all emergency services across the country. The state-of-the-art system would further improve the overall security scenario and help check crime across the state. Khattar also flagged off 630 emergency response vehicles equipped with mobile data terminals from Panchkula. A total of 300 more such vehicles would be added so that the target of deploying 10 vehicles per Assembly constituency can be achieved.In faux pas, DGP calls Vij CMHaryana DGP Manoj Yadava, in a faux pas, termed Home Minister Anil Vij as Haryana Chief Minister. "I welcome Haryana CM Anil Vij to the function," Yadava said at the function which was presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.State Home Minister Anil Vij said the project would ensure transparency and ensure accountability among various emergency service providers.Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava said combining IT and communication initiatives, the police was committed to providing a variety of facilities to the public in a phased manner.The Chief Minister inaugurated the newly built state-of-the-art State Emergency Response Centre (SERC) in Panchkula, which is the nerve-centre of the project.The SERC has been digitally connected to the police control room at the district level and suitably located emergency response vehicles.To handle additional call load at the SERC and to switch operation in case of any technical failure at the SERC, a ‘mirror emergency response centre (MERC)’, having capacity of 20 per cent to that of the SERC, has been established at Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-today-dial-112-for-all-emergency-needs-in-haryana-282377
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nigerian accused of duping Chandigarh resident denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of Francis Emeka, a resident of Nigeria, who allegedly cheated a Chandigarh resident by posing as a woman on Facebook.The accused was arrested on the complaint of a city resident, Sadho Singh. He alleged that the accused introduced himself as a woman from the UK. Emeka cooked up a story that her husband had died and the money left by him was to be distributed among the poor. Thereafter, the complainant was asked to get a courier carrying a huge amount of money released from the officials concerned. The courier contained nothing and the accused also posed as an official and chatted with the complainant on WhatsApp and sent fake certificates by the Ministry of Finance, Income Tax Clearance certificate, police verification certificate and custom certificate to gain his trust. Thereby, the complainant was duped of Rs14.62 lakh.The counsel for the accused argued that he will get the Indian citizenship in two years and will not abscond from the trial. On the other hand, the public prosecutor opposed the bail by saying that the charges against the accused are serious. After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-accused-of-duping-chandigarh-resident-denied-bail-282244
13-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Mayor pushes for sports complex at government school in Sector 22||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12The UT Sports Department had reportedly said ‘no’ to a proposal of building a sports complex at a government school in Sector 22-A, proposed by city Mayor and area councillor Ravi Kant Sharma.As per the authorities, the adjoining sectors already have a cricket stadium (Sector 16), a football stadium (Sector 17), two swimming pools, one table tennis hall, one yoga centre (Sector 23) and one sports complex (Sector 34) having facilities of badminton, swimming, judo and table tennis.However, Sharma claimed that he had taken up the matter with the higher-ups and got the assurance of getting a sports complex built at the Sector 22-A school soon.“The proposal was rejected by the UT Sports Department, citing that the nearby areas already have swimming pools and other facilities. Sector 22 has enough population and other facilities, besides already existing, can be provided to the masses. I have re-approached the Secretary Sports and requested him to build infrastructure as the Sector 22-A government school has ample space. He (Secretary Sports) assured me of pursuing the matter at the earliest. It’s been over a year now I have been trying to get approval for this project. Hope to see some light,” said Sharma.Sources claimed that the department said a ‘no’ to the project as there had already been many similar sports complexes in Chandigarh. A majority of the newly built sports complexes at local government schools have the same facilities of swimming, badminton, multipurpose hall and table tennis hall. However, there were a limited number of resources (coaches and staff) to run these centres professionally.“The matter is still under discussion and it is completely up to the competent authority to give approval for building sports complexes. We had given our view as per the records available. The decision-making authority will take the final call. However, building sports infrastructure is not a waste of money. It will benefit people at all levels. Chandigarh has a rich history of promoting sports and its infrastructure,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT.Sports complexes for masses or players?Meanwhile, questions have been raised on the UT Administration, which is building the same type of infrastructure in various sectors. “The Administration should decide whether these sports complexes are for the general public or for professional sportspersons. If these are for the general public, these should be made revenue-earning centres and retired coaches should be appointed to look after the daily affairs or should be outsourced. If these are for sportspersons, professional coaches should be appointed at every centre for better outcome. For instance, the city now has over 11 swimming pools, but it does not have a directly affiliated body to push swimmers at the national or international level,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-pushes-for-sports-complex-at-government-school-in-sector-22-282245
13-07-2021||---||2 Jalandhar natives held for cloning ATM cards in Mohali||Mohali, July 12The police have arrested two Jalandhar residents involved in an ATM card cloning fraud. They recovered Rs6.9 lakh, an ATM card skimming device, a micro camera, one laptop, two mobile phones and a smart watch from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Savej and Rajiv Kumar, both residents of Jalandhar. One of their accomplices, Bimal Mehra, is yet to be arrested.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and the IT Act has been registered against the suspects at the Phase 1 police station.Mohali SP (Cyber Crime) Gurjot Singh Klaer said the gang members used to dupe people in ATMs at Phase 1 and Phase 5 where there were no security guards and the machines were outdated. The duo chose Mohali, instead of Jalandhar, to exploit the lax security infrastructure here. The duo used to fix a micro-camera inside the kiosk and attach a skimmer with the ATM to get the password and magnetic code. The money was withdrawn from various locations in Jalandhar.“Savej is a Bachelor in Computer Applications and Rajiv is MBA (Finance). The duo took the help of “dark net” and also joined various Telegram and WhatsApp groups of fraudsters to learn the nitty-gritty of the crime. They were operating here since December 2020. With their arrest, almost 100 complaints have been solved in the Mohali area,” said Klaer.Modus operandiMohali SP (Cyber Crime) Gurjot Singh Klaer said the gang members used to dupe people in ATMs at Phase 1 and Phase 5 where there were no security guards and the machines were outdated. The duo chose Mohali, instead of Jalandhar, to exploit the lax security infrastructure here. The duo used to fix a micro-camera inside the kiosk and attach a skimmer to the ATM to get the password and magnetic code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-jalandhar-natives-held-for-cloning-atm-cards-in-mohali-282246
13-07-2021||---||Abhimanyu Dhara, Hazel Chauhan shine in golf||Chandigarh, July 12Abhimanyu Dhara and Hazel Chauhan won the title of category A (15 to 17 years) boys and girls, respectively, in the 4th TTBGS Junior Golf Championship organised by Chandigarh Golf Club.Vasu Sehgal claimed the second position in boys’ category and Aarushi Bhanot finished second in the girls’ group. Manraj Singh Deol won the boys’ category B (13 to 14 years) event, followed by Manyaveer Singh Bhadoo at the second spot.In the girls’ category, Mannat Brar and Laavaanyaa Mahajan won top two positions, respectively. In the boys’ category C (11 to 12 years), Arshvant Srivastava claimed the first position and Rannvijay Singh Gill finished second, while in the girls’ group, Ashira Singh Sandhu finished first and Bhavya Mann claimed the second position. Arjunveer Sishir won the category D (nine to 10 years) group, followed by Samriddh Chand Thakur at the second position. In the girls’ group, Rabab Kahlon won the top position.In the boys’ category E (seven to eight years) event, Sohraab Singh Talwar shined by claiming the pole position and Fatehvir Singh finished second. Anhad Kaur won the girls’ category E title. In the category F (six years and below), Upraj Singh Mehdiratta and Nihaal Cheema claimed top two positions, respectively.Gairat Kaur Kahlon won the girls’ title of the same group. The best gross (combined category A to D) was won by Abhimanyu Dhara and the best gross (combined category E and F) was won by Sohraab Singh Talwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhimanyu-dhara-hazel-chauhan-shine-in-golf-282247
13-07-2021||---||151 commercial, 38 residential properties of Chandigarh Housing Board up for grabs||Chandigarh, July 12Several commercial and residential properties of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) are up for grabs.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said e-tenders were invited for the sale of 151 built-up commercial units and 38 built-up residential units on a leasehold basis.He said the e-bids could be submitted from 10 am on July 14 and till 6 pm on August 2. The e-bids would be opened on August 3 at 10 am, he said.To submit e-bids, every prospective bidder is required to get himself/herself registered at etenders.chd.nic.in. All willing participants may visit the official website — www.chbonline.in — to know the procedure.The residential units will be kept open for inspection every Monday and commercial units every Saturday. The details of the site offices for facilitating inspection are available on the website of the CHB.Specific details such as unit number, location and reserve price of each of the unit is available on the website of the CHB — www.chbonline.in. Stickers have been pasted on each of the unit. Prospective bidders may locate and visit these vacant properties using the location on Google map shared on the website of the CHB.The e-tender process is open to all citizens of India as well as NRIs/PIOs above 18 years. Those already possessing a property (residential or commercial) can also participate in the e-tender.The e-tenders will be invited separately for each built-up unit. The e-bid must be above the reserve price and the built-up unit shall be allotted to the highest bidder. The GST will not be charged on the consideration amount. The bidders can revise their e-bids any number of times till the closure of the bid submission.There is no restriction on the transfer of the unit sold by way of e-tender subject to the payment of prescribed transfer charges and permission from the CHB. A valid e-mail id, mobile number and digital signature are basic requirements for participating in the e-tender process.The earnest money deposit (EMD) for each unit is to be submitted online through e-tendering portal — etenders.chd.nic.in.Bidders can submit their bid only after depositing EMD online. In case of unsuccessful e-bids, the EMD shall be refunded online to the bidders’ account.e-bids can be submitted from tomorrowYashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), said the e-bids could be submitted from 10 am on July 14 and till 6 pm on August 2. The e-bids would be opened on August 3 at 10 am.Details available on CHB websiteSpecific details such as unit number, location and reserve price of each of the unit is available on the website of the CHB — www.chbonline.in. Stickers have been pasted on each of the unit. Prospective bidders may locate and visit these vacant properties using the location on Google map shared on the website of the CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/151-commercial-38-residential-properties-of-chandigarh-housing-board-up-for-grabs-282248
13-07-2021||---||Husband arrested on charge of dowry death||Mohali, July 12The police arrested Parveen Kumar, a resident of Sector 80, and booked his father Satyawaan, mother Kalawati and sister Suman in a dowry death case. Parveen’s wife Lalita (25) was found dead in the house on Saturday afternoon.The police said the victim hanged herself to death with a ceiling fan in her room. However, Lalita’s parents alleged that her in-laws had killed her.A case under Sections 304-B and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the suspects at the Sohana police station on July 10. Parveen was today produced in a court, which remanded him to three-day police custody.Complainant Ajay Kumar, brother of the victim, said her in-laws started harassing her for dowry. The harassment increased after she gave birth to a girl child.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said: “The victim’s post-mortem was conducted on Sunday. Her viscera samples have been sent to a forensic laboratory for further investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-arrested-on-charge-of-dowry-death-282249
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Forest Dept to plant 1.75 lakh saplings in Chandigarh||Administrator of UT VP Singh Badnore today launched Van Mahotsav-2021 by planting a ‘jamun’ sapling in reserve forest area of Sector 26 in the presence of senior officers of the Administration, Forest Department employees and NCC cadets.The chief guest flagged off vehicles designed for the distribution of free saplings by the Forest Department titled “Forest Department at your doorstep”.Dharam Pal, UT Adviser; Arun Kumar Gupta, Home Secretary-cum-Principal Secretary (Forests); Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests; and Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, and other officials also planted saplings to commemorate Van Mahotsav-2021.Badnore appreciated the efforts of the department for maintaining the greenery and urged the people to take part in Van Mahotsava-2021 with full enthusiasm following all Covid-safety protocols. He further asked the department to enrich the existing forest area with more native species.Debendra Dalai said as per plan, a total of 1,75,000 saplings would be planted in a phased manner on government and available private land and 80,000 saplings would be distributed free of cost to residents by the Forest Department. — TNSFree Plants on doorstep till July 29 The saplings would be distributed till July 29 from 9 am to 6 pm.One can receive up to five plants of his/her choice of species without any charges from specially designed vehicles. The citizens can also contact the vehicles at 97801-80238, 79862-64894 & 93571-48202.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-dept-to-plant-1-75-lakh-saplings-in-chandigarh-282250
13-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Covid on the wane, Chandigarh RLA ups daily appointment slots to 640||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12With fresh Covid-19 cases dropping in the city, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has decided to increase the number of daily slots for various services, including registration certificate, driving tests etc.The move will provide some relief to people, as the RLA had restricted the number of appointments to 252 per day for all its services in view of the spread of coronavirus and people had to wait for long to get their works done.For appointment, the RLA has decided to open the slots at 10 am, but many people still face difficulty in getting the slot booked, as all slots get booked within a few minutes.RLA in-charge Pradhuman Singh said earlier, appointments were booked for two to three months in advance, but it was observed that the old appointments had to be cancelled after the pandemic struck. It caused harassment to those who had been waiting for days to get their work done.“Therefore, the appointment is now booked in advance only for seven days and the slots are opened daily at 10 am. Now that the number of slots has been increased to 640 per day, it will enable quick disposal of public works,” he said.Earlier, 252 slots were availableThe RLA move will provide some relief to people, as the authority had restricted the number of appointments to 252 per day for all its services in view of the spread of coronavirus and people had to wait for long to get their works done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-on-the-wane-chandigarh-rla-ups-daily-appointment-slots-to-640-282251
13-07-2021||---||Landran: Man fires at wife, 4-yr-old son, held||Mohali, July 12A man has been arrested for firing at his wife and a four-year-old son with his licensed pistol on Sunday.The suspect has been identified as Amarinder Singh, a resident of Landran.The complainant, Gurjot Kaur, 32, stated that on July 10, her husband had consumed some intoxicant and started arguing. When he was stopped from doing so, he turned violent. The suspect then went to another room and took out his pistol and fired at her and their four-year-old son. The duo escaped unhurt.A case has been registered against the suspect at the Sohana police station.The police have recovered the pistol with which the shot was fired.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/landran-man-fires-at-wife-4-yr-old-son-held-282252
13-07-2021||Amit Bathla
||Panchkula begins vaccination of pregnant women||Tribune News Service Panchkula, July 12 Following the Centre’s nod given on July 2, a vaccination drive for pregnant women was kicked off in Panchkula at Civil Hospital in Sector 6 today, a first in the tricity. Both Chandigarh and Mohali may launch the drive in next few days, officials concerned said. Dr Veena Singh, Director-General, Health Services, kicked off the campaign. At least 11 expectant mothers got jabbed on day 1. As per the guidelines, pregnant women should be provided all information about the risks of Covid-19 infection in pregnancy and the benefits of vaccination along with the likely side effects before inoculation. Even though the district went ahead with the launch today, it is yet to complete training sessions of all ASHA and ANM workers who can further counsel pregnant women about the vaccine. Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said they decided to launch it from Civil Hospital in Sector 6 as the facility haf trained staff, including counsellors. “We are still in the phase of training the staff for counselling of pregnant women. Those who have got the training can counsel the pregnant women who come for antenatal check-ups at health centres,” she said. Hesitancy another challenge For the Health Department, convincing pregnant women to get vaccinated is another challenge, especially in villages and rural areas where husbands and in-laws mainly make decisions for them. “One of the main concerns among pregnant women remains that the vaccine will affect the baby. Though it definitely won’t be easy for us, we are hopeful. As vaccine hesitancy among other groups has gone away, we expect the same in case of pregnant women,’’ said Dr Meenu, adding that they would also ask their staffers to do their bit to increase awareness. On increasing vaccination centres for pregnant women, she said they would first focus on the completion of training sessions.  The CMO, Dr Mukta Kumar, said a pregnant woman who opted for vaccination could get jabbed at any stage of pregnancy. “The gap between the two doses (depending upon which vaccine they will be administered) will be the same as for other groups,’’ she said. Meanwhile, Dr Veena Singh said: “Covid infection can cause women pregnancy-related complications. Vaccination will provide them protection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-begins-vaccination-of-pregnant-women-282253
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, rain brings respite in Chandigarh||After much wait, rain lashed the city this evening. According to the Chandigarh Met Department, 17.9-mm rainfall was recorded in the city today. The department said it was first time after July 3 that a measurable rain was recorded in Chandigarh in July this year.The rain started at 6:38 pm and continued till the filing of this report. The evening also witnessed winds blowing at a maximum speed of 44 km ph.Though drizzling was witnessed on Sunday and Saturday, it was not a measurable rain. On July 3, 12.2-mm rainfall was recorded.According to the department, light rain is likely in the next three days. Today’s wind and rain brought down the maximum temperature to 34.1°C, which is one degree below normal. The minimum temperature was 29.1°C, five degrees above normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-rain-brings-respite-in-chandigarh-282254
13-07-2021||---||Now, Chandigarh plans ramps for PU-PGI underpass||Chandigarh, July 12Apart from a staircase, the UT Engineering Department has decided to construct ramps, not escalators as perceived earlier at the proposed pedestrian underpass between Panjab University (PU) and the PGI.A senior official of the Engineering Department said the UT Urban Planning Department had already prepared drawings of the underpass. As the escalators would be installed outdoor, the cost of maintenance would be high and also wear and tear would be more in comparison to indoor installation, he said. Hence, it was decided to have ramps instead of the mechanised staircase, he added.He further said the underground cables, water and sewer lines would to shifted by the Municipal Corporation, while the remaining work would be carried out by the Engineering Department.He said efforts were on to start the construction of the underpass between the gate number 1 of the PU and the main gate of the PGI at the earliest. On completion of the underpass, thousands of patients visiting the PGI will get relief from crossing the busy Madhya Marg.Likely to cost nearly Rs 7.20 crore, the underpass would be 15-metre wide and 38 metre in length and it would have 12 shops (including those giving photostat service) so that patients or their attendants visiting the PGI could get basic facilities at one place.In November 2019, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given in-principle approval to the construction of the underpass.The first pedestrian underpass in the city was constructed to connect Sector 17 and 22 at the bus stand and the second between Sector 16 and 17 at Rose Garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-plans-ramps-for-pu-pgi-underpass-282255
13-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Centre doubles vax target for Chandigarh; erroneous, says Adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Even as Chandigarh claims that it has vaccinated 70 per cent of its eligible population against Covid-19 with one dose against a target of over 7 lakh beneficiaries (7,09,180), the Central Government does not approve of this milestone achieved by the UT.According to the Centre, Chandigarh’s eligible population above 18 years of age, which is to be covered for vaccination, is double the target of the UT, i.e. 15 lakh (15,75,709).The UT Administration has repeatedly written to the Centre seeking a correction with regard to the eligible population in the record so that the target achieved can be rightly projected. The UT Adviser, Dharam Pal, said: “Our target population for Covid-19 vaccination above 18 years is 7.1 lakh. The total population of Chandigarh is estimated to be 12 lakh. We have taken it up with the Central Government to correct the same because our target achieved is reflected lower than the actual target achieved in the ministry’s database.” Till Monday, Chandigarh had vaccinated 4,99,073 beneficiaries (70.37 per cent) with first dose and 1,21,217 (17.09 per cent) beneficiaries with two doses.Vaccination at collegesThe Adviser added: “We have now opened 100 vaccination centres across the UT. The drive has started in colleges as we plan to vaccinate students before opening the colleges. We have started vaccination at Sukhna Lake where visitors are often spotted. We aim to bring down the Covid curve and prevent the third wave through vaccination.”In the past week, around 7,677 beneficiaries got vaccinated on a daily basis. There is no shortage of vaccines in Chandigarh as it will receive two lakh doses of Covishield for July from the Central Government. Of this, about 75,000 doses were sent by the ministry recently.UT sees 9 casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of 13 patients were discharged during the past 24 hours. — TNSTwo infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported two fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 30,614. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 375. While 30,219 patients recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. — TNSIn Mohali, three contract infectionMohali: For the second consecutive day, the district recorded three fresh cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, no fresh fatality was reported till Monday evening while 10 patients defeated the virus. Among the new cases, one came from Dhakoli and two from the Kharar area. No case was reported from Mohali (urban), Dera Bassi and Gharuan, Banur and Kurali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-doubles-vax-target-for-chandigarh-erroneous-says-adviser-282256
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||284 challaned at Sukhna Lake for violation of Covid protocol last week||In the past one week, the UT police have issued a total of 284 challans at Sukhna Lake for violation of the Covid protocol.While 117 challans were issued to people found roaming without mask, 167 persons were fined for not observing social distance.SI Jaspal Singh, incharge, Lake police post, said 10 cops patrol the lake to check the violations. The police said they were also sensitising people to follow the guidelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/284-challaned-at-sukhna-lake-for-violation-of-covid-protocol-last-week-282257
13-07-2021||Panchkula||Thieves strike at 3 temples in Kalka village||Burglars broke into three temples at Majra Mehtab village in Kalka and made off with ornaments on idols besides cash from donation boxes on Friday.The police said thieves gained entry into the temples by breaking open the main door.“They decamped with two silver bowls, three silver ‘chhattar’, a nose ring, two silver water containers (‘lota’), a silver spoon, a brass trident and Rs600 from the collection box at Durga Mandir. Thieves stole Rs1,500 from a collection box at Sheetla Mandir besides a silver tong, two silver ‘charan paduka’, hard disk of the CCTV camera and Rs3,000 from the donation box at Baba Balak Nath Mandir,” the FIR read.Roshan Lal, the complainant in the case, told the police that Durga Mandir was located at his house and he came to know about the burglary when he found the main door of the temple broken and ornaments stolen on Saturday morning. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-3-temples-in-kalka-village-282258
13-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Consent clause on physical hearing of cases removed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12The consent clause has been removed from the physical hearings of the cases as more relaxations have been allowed to help litigants at the District Courts Complex in Sector 43. The order in this regard was issued by the Chandigarh District and Sessions Judge today.According to the order, all judicial officers shall hold their respective courts on all working days, except working Saturdays, till further orders and may conduct the hearing of all categories of cases through physical /virtual mode of appearance as the court deems fit while keeping in consideration various directions with regard to Covid-19. The order further states that to avoid any congestion in the courtrooms, the presiding officers shall properly manage their daily work and make earnest efforts to complete the proceedings expeditiously so that a limited number of advocates are present in the courtroom at a given time.The order has been issued after assessing the prevailing conditions with regard to the spread of Covid.Earlier, the court had imposed a consent clause while allowing the physical hearing of the cases. The earlier directions with regard to restricting the attendance of the court staff to 50 per cent on a rotation basis had already been withdrawn. While the consent clause has been withdrawn, the remaining orders for the restriction will continue.The undertrial prisoners from the Model Jail, Chandigarh, shall be produced before the court through video-conferencing. However, in cases where the court concerned orders production of an undertrial prisoner physically, the accused be produced accordingly. To restrict the unnecessary footfall on the court premises, the entry of only advocates shall be allowed initially. However, in cases where the court deems the physical presence of litigant/witness as necessary, their access to court shall also be allowed.Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said the association had raised the demand to remove the consent clause before the session judge. He said the removal of the clause would help both litigants and advocates.Vinod Verma, former vice-president of the DBA, said the removal of the clause would help in early disposal of cases and the litigants would get justice without further delay.What the order statesAccording to the order, all judicial officers shall hold their respective courts on all working days, except working Saturdays, till further orders and may conduct the hearing of all categories of cases through physical /virtual mode of appearance as the court deems fit while keeping in consideration various directions with regard to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-consent-clause-on-physical-hearing-of-cases-removed-282259
13-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University Senate elections: ‘Getting nod for poll booths in other states a concern’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12The Senate/Syndicate elections have again become a hot topic for the Panjab University politics after the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked the authorities to submit details on the election schedule before July 16.Sources claimed that a schedule had already been prepared by the authorities. However, getting permission from the nearby states for setting up voting booths is a major concern.A request letter has already been sent to these states and those in fray to attain the power are praying to get over with the election process before the probable third wave.“The process to make and announce the schedule has already started. We still have a week to get a detailed report from other states and thereafter to submit it in the court. Everything will get completed in a specific frame of time,” said an official.Row over reportSimultaneously, authorities have been keeping mum over the row over disaffiliating faraway colleges of Punjab. A high-level committee, constituted by the Vice-President of India and the Chancellor, Panjab University, for governance reforms, has recommended that colleges (affiliated with PU) located far away in the state should be affiliated to nearby universities such as Punjabi University or Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.Representatives of the Punjab Government and Panjab University were also among the committee members which reportedly suggested these changes. However, as the recommendations came out in public, political parties have started opposing it.“The parties are giving it religious colour by saying that committee members want to damage Punjab. However, the government is very much a part of the committee and a majority of the members belonged to the state,” said a member.Meanwhile, opposing this, a principal of a Punjab-based college said: “There’s no logic in delimiting the number of affiliated colleges. We are not a burden on the university, but we are contributing to its growth. We pay the fee and our children bring laurels to the campus. In the digital era, the students can pay the fee through colleges or private candidates can pay it through online mode. The excuse (affiliating other universities would be beneficial for students) made by members is away from understanding of a common man.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-elections-getting-nod-for-poll-booths-in-other-states-a-concern-282260
13-07-2021||---||Panjab University: YAD, SOI activists protest against suggestion by panel||Chandigarh, July 12Activists of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) and Students Organisation of India (SOI) today held a protest at Panjab University demanding immediate withdrawal of a report of a high-level committee on governance reforms, along with an assurance that no college affiliated with the university in Punjab will be disaffiliated from it.The youth activists also demanded an undertaking from the Vice-Chancellor that the territorial jurisdiction of the university would not be rewritten.“The activists held a huge protest in front of the Vice-Chancellor’s office holding placards to save Panjab University,” said Vicky Middukhera, former SOI president, PU.Parambans Romana, YAD president, announced that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal would lead the fight to ensure the character of the university was not changed.The YAD president said the high-level committee, which did not include any member from the Senate or the Syndicate, had recommended limiting the territorial jurisdiction of the university to the municipal limits of Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-yad-soi-activists-protest-against-suggestion-by-panel-282261
13-07-2021||---||Students, staff jabbed at colleges in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 12The Chandigarh Health Department began the vaccination drive in city colleges today.Camps were held at three city colleges – Panjab Engineering College, Sector 12; Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26; and Government College sector, Sector 46.The drive was inaugurated by Rubinderjit SIngh Brar, Director Higher Education, Chandigarh Administration, and Prof Dalip Kumar, Mission Coordinator, RUSA, Chandigarh Administration, at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46. Students of the college turned up in large numbers to get themselves inoculated.Around 200 students, teachers and other beneficiaries from across the tricity were vaccinated on the first day of the drive at Sector 46. The college and the Administration took all necessary steps to inform the students and general public about the vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-staff-jabbed-at-colleges-in-chandigarh-282262
13-07-2021||Mohali||Atul Gupta is Mohali Tax Bar Assn chief||Taxation advocate Atul Gupta has been unanimously elected as the president of the Mohali Tax Bar Association. Other members of the association that were elected office-bearers for the 2021-22 session are Ram Bansal (senior vice-president), Paramajit Kumar (vice-president), Sanjeev Sharma (vice-president II), Suresh Kumar Bhuria (general secretary) and Sanjeev Rana (finance secretary).  After being elected, the president of the tax bar, Atul Gupta, said, “He will take up the advocates welfare issues religiously.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atul-gupta-is-mohali-tax-bar-assn-chief-282263
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Students told to opt, update exam centre||Panjab University has decided to conduct exams under the golden chance category in August in the physical mode. All candidates, who have applied under the golden chance category, notified in February 2020, are advised to update the examination centres at the ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in.They can opt for a centre in Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Abohar and Muktsar Sahib. The link will be available on July 13. Candidates who have filled their examination form under the improvement/additional category for the June 2021 session are also required to update their centre as per the above mentioned list.The last date for updating the exam centre is July 22. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-told-to-opt-update-exam-centre-282267
13-07-2021||Zirakpur||Three held with vials, heroin||3 held with opium, intoxicantsZirakpur: The police have arrested three suspects involved in selling intoxicants and betting on cricket matches, from Royal Empire Society. The police conducted a raid and recovered 450 grams of opium, 250 grams of intoxicant powder, four laptops and 13 mobile phones from them. The suspects have been identified as Rajesh Kumar, alias Kala (48), Suridner Kumar, alias Bhinda (49), and Rahul Arora, alias Monty (32), all natives of Malout. A case under the NDPS Act and Section 13-A of the Gambling Act has been registered. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them in police remand till July 14. TNSOver 61K appear for online examChandigarh: As many as 61,275 students of undergraduate/postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private, on Monday appeared for the ongoing even semester online examinations conducted by Panjab University, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, PU. He said as many as 161 exams were conducted in two slots. The exams went off smoothly. TNSAnthology of English poemsChandigarh: “Wheel of Life”, a latest anthology of English poems by Panchkula resident Rama Gupta, former Principal of Government Girls College, Shimla, was released virtually by the chief guest, Vivek Atray, former IAS officer, on Monday. TNS305 vaccinated at Bapu DhamChandigarh: A Covid vaccination camp was organised at Sheetla Mata Temple in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, here. It was organised by the Yuva Stamabh, an NGO, in association with Swarmani, an NGO, and Nehru Yuva Kendra. As many as 305 people were vaccinated at the camp. It was inaugurated by social activists Jeevan Jyoti and Ashinder Kaur. Yuva Stamabh chairman Upendra Maurya said the NGO members informed about the benefits of vaccination by beating drums in Bapu Dham Colony for two days and went to door to door. TNSCricket trials tomorrowMohali: The Mohali Cricket Association (MCA) will organise trials for the selection of a senior cricket team on July 14 (3.30 pm) at the PCA C-Ground. The selected team will take part in the Inter-District Senior T20 Tournament to be organised by the Punjab Cricket Association. The players born, residing or studying in Mohali district will be eligible for the trials. TNSOnline workshop on compost heldChandigarh: The Swachhta Committee (Arts) of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, in collaboration with MCM Eco Club, organised an online workshop on the topic “how food residue can be turned to compost”. The event was organised as part of the 75-week-long celebration of “Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-with-vials-heroin-282279
13-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib: Doctors abstain from work, hold march||On a call of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC), doctors in the district, who were members of the PCMSA, Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association went on three-day strike starting from today.They abstained from work and held a protest march in support of their demands today. The OPD and other medical services were worst affected whereas emergency and Covid services were running normal.Dr Gagandeep Singh, president, PCMSA, and Dr Pawanpreet Kaur, president, Dental Association, said, “Doctors working in government hospitals have been protesting against the recommendation of Sixth Pay Commission de-linking non-practicing allowance from basic pay and its reduction from 25 per cent to 20 per cent.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-doctors-abstain-from-work-hold-march-282281
13-07-2021||Naina Mishra||96% samples from Chandigarh found with Delta variant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11Highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2) has been found in 96 per cent of the samples collected in Chandigarh, reveals the latest report on whole genome sequencing (WGS) prepared by the NCDC lab, New Delhi.About Delta variantThe Delta variant, first discovered in India, has been attributed as the driver behind the country’s devastating second Covid wave. The variant is reportedly responsible for over 90 per cent of the recent cases in Israel, which lifted restrictions in June, although around 57 per cent of the population has been vaccinated. It is linked to increased transmissibility.The samples were collected between June 6 and 21 and sent by the UT Health Department for genome sequencing on June 26. The results were received on July 3. Of a total 28 samples, the results of 27 were received. The variant of concern (VoC), Delta (B.1.617.2), was detected in 26 samples.A total of 50 samples of city residents collected randomly in May-June were sent to the NCDC lab on June 4 for WGS. The VoC was detected in 35 samples, of which one had the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), 66 per cent samples had the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and one sample had the Delta Plus variant (AY.1). Till March, Alpha variant was dominant in the UT. It was replaced by Delta variant in April.‘No Delta Plus variant found’The Health Department collected the samples of four direct high-risk family contacts of a 35-year-old person, who tested positive for Delta Plus, and sent them to the NCDC. In the latest report, the close contacts of the man found positive for Delta Plus have not been found infected with the Delta Plus variant.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had recently declared Delta Plus as a variant of concern and linked it to increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/96-samples-from-chandigarh-found-with-delta-variant-281754
