14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Not GDP but only prices of gas, diesel and petrol is showing a surge: Prof Gourav Vallabh||Lashing out at the Central government, Congress spokesperson Prof Gourav Vallabh said that when 4.11 lakh people had died due to Covid in the country, 97 per cent of population had suffered a dip in income in 2020 and middle class has reduced, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is running at 6.26 per cent.  Holding a press conference on Wednesday, he said that the people had voted Modi government for growth in GDP but in actual only prices of gas, diesel and petrol have been rising. Elaborating further, he said since January 1 till July 12, fuel prices have been increased 66 times. He added that petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in all the four metros along with more than 250 cities while diesel is costing over Rs 89 per litre in almost all the cities.  He pointed out that in the last seven years, the excise duty on petrol has been increased by 247 per cent, as it was raised from Rs 9.48 per litre to Rs 32.90 per litre.Also, the excise duty on diesel was raised by 794 per cent since 2014, as it was hiked from Rs 3.56 per litre to Rs 31.80 per litre.  He added that the price of LPG has doubled in the last seven years of the BJP government.  “The high fuel prices have impacted both the middle class and farmers,” he said.  He said that food inflation is at 5.58 per cent, clothing inflation is at 6.21 per cent and pulses inflation is at 10.01 per cent. Also, transport inflation is at 11.56 per cent, fuel inflation has reached 12.68 per cent and oil and fats inflation is 34.78 per cent.  “The Congress demands that the Central government should immediately reduce the prices of petrol and diesel. Also, the import duties be reviewed so that prices of essential imported goods are cheaper,” he said.  He said that the party would raise the issue of inflation in Parliament in the Monsoon Session.  He said that the Central government couldn’t hide behind Covid pandemic or shift burden on state governments. Their focus is on controlling TV debates from 5 pm to 9 pm, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-gdp-but-only-prices-of-gas-diesel-and-petrol-is-showing-a-surge-prof-gourav-vallabh-283132
14-07-2021||---||Tejasvi Surya names new BYJM team; Chandigarh’s Amandeep is media in-charge||New Delhi, July 14Tejasvi Surya, national president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), on Wednesday announced his new team which includes seven vice-presidents and three general secretaries and seven secretaries.Chandigarh’s Amandeep Singh is media in-charge, Himachal’s Kapil Parmar social media in charge and Haryana’s Gaurav Gautam a secretary in the new team.Raju Bista, MP from Darjeeling, West Bengal, has been made national general secretary, along with Delhi’s Rohit Chahal and UP’s Vaibhav Singh. West Bengal MLA Anup Kumar Saha, Maharashtra’s Madhukeshwar Desai, Bihar’s Manish Singh, Odisha’s Arpita Aparajita Badajena, Maharashtra MLA Ram Satpute, UP’s Abhinav Prakash, and Uttarakhand’s Neha Joshi have been made the national vice-presidents.Tejinder Pal Singh Bagga of Delhi, Shyam Raj of Kerala, Shehzadi Sayyed of Telangana, Ravi Bhagat of Chhattisgarh, Gaurav Gautam of Haryana, Arun Jyoti Hazarika of Assam, and Ningthoujam of Manipur are the new national secretaries.Sai Prasad has been given the responsibility of treasurer, Vineet Tyagi has been made office in charge, Amandeep Singh has been given the charge of media,  Kapil Parmar of social media and Varun Jhaveri of policy and research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tejasvi-surya-names-new-byjm-team-chandigarhs-amandeep-is-media-in-charge-283128
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh registers five new Covid-19 infections||Chandigarh recorded five new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the administration showed on Wednesday.No deaths have been reported in the union territory since last week. Chandigarh’s fatality count still stands at 809.The UT’s positivity rate over the last week is 0.41 per cent, the bulletin showed.Chandigarh’s active cases now stand at 72.Some 1,706 swab samples were tested over the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.Meanwhile, some 7,09,180 over 18 have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine in Chandigarh, the bulletin showed. Of this, 1,26,896 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-registers-five-new-covid-19-infections-283109
14-07-2021||Vibha Sharma||Finally, monsoon reaches Delhi, covers entire nation||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 13A day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a detailed clarification over its inaccurate forecast on the progress of southwest monsoon to northwest, including Delhi, the seasonal rains finally arrived over the National Capital today, almost 16 days behind the normal date of onset.The rains also covered entire India, again later than the normal onset date of July 8.The weather office said, “In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the monsoon today covered the entire country.”It said scattered to widespread rainfall is likely over parts of northwest during the next three days, along with isolated to very heavy rainfall over Uttarakhand, Himachal and West UP. The IMD also warned of thunderstorm with lightning over Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, West UP and Bihar in 24 hours.Facing severe criticism over repeated wrong forecast on monsoon’ arrival over Delhi, the weatherman yesterday called such failure by numerical models in predicting its advance “rare and uncommon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-monsoon-reaches-delhi-covers-entire-nation-282843
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools to reopen for Class IX-XII from July 19||After witnessing a sharp decline in fresh coronavirus cases, the UT Administration has announced further relaxations in restrictions imposed in the city.After a detailed discussion at a review meeting, which was chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was decided to reopen schools after a hiatus of over three months for Class IX to XII.Coaching institutes allowed to open; Rock Garden tooAccording to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, the schools will start functioning physically from July 19 for Class IX to XII subject to parents’ consent. However, the online mode of teaching will continue.The Administration has also allowed coaching institutes to function physically from July 19 with the condition that all eligible students and staff should have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine and strict adherence to the Covid protocol.The authorities have also decided to increase the number of guests at social gatherings such as wedding from 100 to 200 or 50 per cent the capacity of the banquet hall, whichever is less, with the condition that all adult guests and staff of hotels or banquet halls should have received at least one dose of the vaccine or should have a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours.The Administration has also decided to reopen Rock Garden and museums, and cinema halls and spas with 50 per cent capacity from tomorrow.During the meeting, Dr GD Puri of the PGI said almost all OPDs had been opened at the PGI. He said they were doing about 100 surgeries daily and at present, about 1,500 patients were admitted. There were over 200 patients in the emergency wing, which was almost full. Dr Puri said two oxygen plants each of 1,000 litre per minute (LPM) capacity had been commissioned in the PGI.The Administrator advised the PGI to start the genome sequencing lab at the earliest.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, said all operation theatres in the hospital had been restarted. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said 6,20,721 doses of the vaccine had been administered in Chandigarh so far. While 71 per cent of the eligible population had been given the first dose, 17 per cent were fully vaccinated.At present, about 55,000 doses were available in government hospitals and 45,000 in private hospitals. About 75,000 doses of the vaccine had been allocated by the Centre for the remaining period of July and would be received shortly.She said enough doses of the pneumococcal vaccine had been received from the Centre for immunisation of children up to one year of age and would start the drive from July 16 in all government hospitals and health and Wellness centres free of cost.The Health Department would start a door-to-door survey-cum-drive in Dadu Majra and Mani Majra for encouraging vaccination of the left-out eligible population with the help of councillors of these areas.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said road gullies had been cleared and 18 teams deputed to tackle temporary flooding during heavy rain in the city. A helpline number — 0172-2787200 — had been set up for redressal of complaints in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-to-reopen-for-class-ix-xii-from-july-19-282620
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private hospitals find few takers for paid vaccine||Private hospitals in the city are keen on sending Covid-19 vaccine doses either back to the manufacturer or other needy hospitals in view of a low turnout for paid vaccines and to curb wastage of jabs.The UT Administration today also appealed to the corporate sector to come forward for the purchase of vaccines from private hospitals on cost-to-cost basis out of CSR funds and donate the same to the government hospitals so that these could be provided to general public free of cost.Under their quota for July, the private hospitals were allocated over 50,000 doses in Chandigarh. However, no hospital came forward to place an order with the manufacturer.Chaitanya Hospital, Sector 44, has written an email to the Serum Institute of India (SII), the manufacturer for Covishield, to facilitate shifting of at least 50 per cent doses out of the 12,000 procured to prevent the vaccine wastage. The hospital authorities said the vaccines were procured a month ago but the order was placed much before when the free facility was not opened in government hospitals for those below the age of 45. Due to delayed supply, the hospital was finding it difficult to consume it.The hospital has requested the SII to facilitate shifting of the doses to other private hospitals that have placed orders with the manufacturer or allow it to send the doses to other small clinics that require the vaccine for their own patients.Dr Neeraj Kumar of Chaitanya Hospital said, “The government health facilities in Chandigarh are quite good due to which no person wants to approach the private sector for the jab. The vaccine consumption is so low at private facilities that it will take another six months to exhaust the stock. We even approached the SII to take back the vaccines but we were informed that there are no such provisions. We have now requested the SII to allow us to give the vaccines to other hospitals.”Dr Hardeep Singh of Santokh Hospital said, “We had purchased around 5,000 doses but have been able to administer only 600 of these so far. When the free facility was not available, we were able to vaccinate up to 150 people a day, but now not more than 20 doses are administered. We will also follow the suit and give our doses to others.”Dr RS Bedi, former president of Indian Medical Association, said, “The government should allow selling vaccine among doctor fraternity. The SII sells a certain number of doses and not less and doctors have to pay in advance. So, the margins are low. For example, it costs Rs63 lakh for 10,000 doses at Rs630 each.”Dr Bedi added, “If the vaccine in the private sector was distributed through stockists, like for other vaccines, every doctor will have access to the vaccine and the vaccination percentage in the private sector will shoot up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-hospitals-find-few-takers-for-paid-vaccine-282621
14-07-2021||Mohali||Six infected with coronavirus in Mohali, no death||One fresh case in Panchkula distPanchkula: One case of Covid-19 surfaced in the district, taking the overall tally to 30,615. No death was reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 2,643 persons were vaccinated at 10 government and five private vaccination centres across the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-infected-with-coronavirus-in-mohali-no-death-282622
14-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali does away with night, Sunday curfew||Reducing the Covid restrictions, the district administration today ordered that there would be no night curfew or Sunday curfew.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said all bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, coaching centres, sports complexes, gyms, malls, museums, zoos, etc, would be allowed to operate subject to the condition that the staff and visitors over 18 years of age had taken at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. Dayalan ordered that all schools would continue to remain closed while colleges, coaching centres and other institutions of higher learning were allowed to be open, provided a certificate was submitted that all teaching, non-teaching staff and students had received at least one dose of the vaccine, at least two weeks before the reopening of the institute. The certificate was to be submitted to the respective SDM/ADC/DC office, he added.Dayalan said the limit on the gathering would be 100 for indoor and 200 for outdoor events. He said the orders would not apply to containment areas. Any violation would invite criminal proceedings under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-does-away-with-night-sunday-curfew-282623
14-07-2021||Panchkula||Two held for murder over parking issue at Indira Colony, Panchkula||The police have arrested two persons for allegedly murdering a 55-year-old man over parking at Indira Colony in Sector 16 here on July 9.The suspects have been identified as Mahipal and Junael, both residents of the colony. They were produced in a court, which remanded them in judicial custody.The police said the suspects had allegedly stabbed Binder to death following a quarrel over parking of a two-wheeler. The victim’s two sons and wife had also suffered injuries in the attack involving a knife, rods and sticks. The suspects had fled from the scene following the attack.A case was registered on a complaint of the victim’s son, Rinku, at the Sector 14 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-murder-over-parking-issue-at-indira-colony-panchkula-282624
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 held for duping retired IAF officer of Rs 1.08 crore||Two fraudsters have been arrested by the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the Chandigarh Police for allegedly duping a retired Indian Air Force officer of Rs 1.08 crore.The complainant, Wing Commander Bikram Dev Singh (retd), reported that he had received a friend request from Jasmine Wilson on Facebook. After a chat on Facebook, he shared his mobile number with the suspect, who started chatting with him.The suspect claimed that she visited India every six months to purchase “mucuna nut” from a local farmer in Arunachal Pradesh, for a company.The suspect lured the complainant with a business proposal about buying “mucuna nut” (20 gm) per sachet at around Rs 71,000 from a local farmer and further supplying it to the company at Rs 2.10 lakh per sachet, after registering a company in India.The complainant fell in the trap and made a payment for 150 sachets, which turned around Rs 1.08 crore. The complainant later realised that he had been cheated following which he informed the police.During the course of the investigation, the suspects, identified as Godwin Afambu (45), a Nigerian residing in Delhi, and Navneet Singh (35) of Delhi were arrested.They were produced in a court today and remanded in six-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-duping-retired-iaf-officer-of-rs-1-08-crore-282625
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cases dip to 2, warriors strive for ‘Covid-free’ Chandigarh||PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram’s joy knew no bounds as the city logged only two cases of Covid-19 today. After April 12 last year, the daily case tally in the City Beautiful has hit this low.The PGI was instrumental in managing Chandigarh’s critical Covid patients.Prof Ram said, “I cannot believe this. I am feeling greatly relieved. At the moment, there is no great news than this.”“Covid-19 had ruined everything for us and it is time that this virus leaves us once and for all. May this be the end of the pandemic. Now, we have only two choices – to follow Covid-appropriate for some or allow the third wave to come. It is only a matter of time that we will see zero cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh. We can now focus on non-Covid patients as well, who have been badly affected due to the pandemic,” he said.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, who increased testing and tracing in the city so as to contain the number of cases during the second wave, said, “This (low number of cases) is all because of vaccination. About 71 per cent of the eligible population has been given the first dose and 17 per cent are fully vaccinated. Many people who had been asymptomatic during the second wave also got vaccinated and therefore have increased immunity against the virus now. Secondly, we have been able to trace Covid patients through 80 per cent RT-PCR tests. With constant efforts, we hope to see zero cases someday.”UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “We aim to vaccinate the entire population of Chandigarh by August 15, at the most by the end of the next month. Our team has been instrumental in curbing the pandemic to a great extent but the real milestone will be zero Covid cases in the tricity.”The number of active cases has fallen to 77 as a total of 19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. In the last week, 0.45 per cent of samples tested came back positive. The recovery rate of the city has reached 98.6 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-dip-to-2-warriors-strive-for-covid-free-chandigarh-282626
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by vehicle, motorcyclist killed in Chandigarh||In a hit-and-run case, a 45-year-old man riding a motorcycle was killed, while the pillion rider was injured after the mobike was hit by an unknown vehicle.Complainant Dinesh Yadav, a resident of Maloya, reported that he, along with his friend Ranveer Singh, was going from Sector 31 to Sector 32 on July 11. While crossing the Sector 31/32 light point, a speeding car coming from the Sector 31/32/29/30 roundabout side jumped the red light and hit the bike. Both victims were injured and rushed to the GMCH where Ranveer was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-vehicle-motorcyclist-killed-in-chandigarh-282627
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two Burail jail inmates booked for extorting Rs 2 lakh from another||Two inmates lodged in Model Jail, Burail, have been booked for allegedly extorting Rs2 lakh from another inmate lodged there. The suspects threatened the complainant, whose wife then transferred the money to the bank account provided to her.Complainant Philip Jacob, a native of Kerala, who was among six persons arrested by the UT police in April for illegally dealing in remdesivir, a Covid-19 treatment drug, reported that he was lodged in barrack number 9 along with other co-accused in the case, KP Francis and Prabhat Tyagi.Jacob alleged that Tyagi shared his personal and financial details with other inmates lodged in the same barracks. Jacob alleged that Tyagi claimed that he had links with gangsters who were lodged in the same barracks.He alleged that an inmate, Ankit Narwal, threatened him and demanded an extortion of Rs40 lakh. Ankit was arrested by the police in 2020 in a murder case of two youths, who were shot dead at their rented accommodation in Sector 15.According to the complaint, Narwal claimed that he was a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang and could eliminate Jacob in the jail.Narwal provided a mobile number of a person, named Vikas, and asked Jacob to get the money paid to him.Jacob spoke to his wife through the calling facility provided by the jail authority and shared the mobile number with her. His wife contacted Vikas, who gave a bank account number and asked her to get the money transferred into that account.According to the complaint, Jacob’s wife transferred Rs1 lakh on June 18 and Rs1 lakh on June 22 to the account number of a woman, named Kamla Devi.Jacob claimed that after getting Rs2 lakh, Tyagi and Narwal started demanding Rs10 lakh and Rs30 lakh after getting out on bail threatening that or else Narwal’s gang members would shoot him.The police said a case under Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention) of the IPC has been registered against Tyagi, Narwal and others at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-burail-jail-inmates-booked-for-extorting-rs-2-lakh-from-another-282628
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lack of concurrence between Chandigarh departments?||One wing of the UT Administration, it seems, is not listening to the other. The Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning, has advised the CITCO Managing Director to close a gate on the rear boundary wall of Hotel Mountview. So far, the issue raised by the department concerned has apparently neither been acknowledged nor redressed.It has compelled the Residents Welfare Association of Sector 10 and other petitioners to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court by filing a writ petition against CITCO and other respondents.Taking up the petition, the Division Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri today put CITCO and certain other respondents on notice. The Bench also fixed August 16 as the next date of hearing in the matter.Appearing before the Bench, senior advocate Akshay Bhan and Rohit Nagpal contended that the site in question was under the ownership of the UT. “A situation has arisen whereby one department of the UT is refusing to acknowledge and redress an issue that has been raised by the relevant department — the Department of Urban Planning — pursuant to a complaint having been made by residents of the area,” Bhan added.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, observed that the Residents Welfare Association, Sector 10, had filed the petition as it was aggrieved by the gate permitted on the rear-side wall of Hotel Mountview run under the aegis of CITCO.The Bench also took note of the submissions that the rear side of the hotel was abutting a narrow V-6 internal sector road and was surrounded by houses. The CITCO management leased out a part of the hotel to a private party to operate a gym and spa facility. It, in turn, allowed the private party to create an entry by breaking the rear boundary wall of the hotel to facilitate direct access to the gym and spa facility.“The precise contention raised is that such an entry in the rear wall of the hotel is not in consonance with the approved zoning plan of the area in question. To substantiate such a contention, reliance has been placed upon documents whereby the Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning, UT Administration, has advised the Managing Director, CITCO, to close the gate in question so as to abide with the approved zoning clauses of the site,” the Bench observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lack-of-concurrence-between-chandigarh-departments-282641
14-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula civic body allots tenders worth Rs 88.21L||Coming out of slumber, the Municipal Corporation here today allotted the tenders for cleaning the road gullies in the city.Tenders worth Rs88.21 lakh have been allotted to various agencies for clearing road gullies in ward numbers 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 13, 14, 17 and 18. Money mattersThe civic body, however, recalled the tender for ward number 8 as it had floated tenders for Rs 9.53 lakh but the applicant agency sought more money for the work. Now, the tender has been floated again and the agencies have been directed to submit bids within three days.Similarly, the tender for ward number 10, Sector 12 and 12A, has also been recalled due to a higher amount.The remaining tenders have been allotted at a lower rate of 5 to 15 per cent.The agencies which had been allotted the work will have to clean the road lane, lift the debris and maintain the road lane for one year.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal held a meeting with the section engineer, executive engineer, junior engineer and the SDO concerned in this regard.He said now that the work had been allotted to the agencies, officials should monitor the cleaning work on daily basis.He said the work should be carried out near all the main squares of the city on priority basis as water gets accumulated at these points due to lack of proper drainage.Goyal said the road lane tenders worth Rs 1 crore had been allotted to different agencies so that works could be carried out simultaneously at all places.Earlier, one or two agencies were given the work, due to which the work could not be done, he said, adding that now, the agency concerned and officials would be held responsible if road gullies were not cleaned in their respective areas.Goyal, meanwhile, informed that agencies had started work in many Sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-body-allots-tenders-worth-rs-88-21l-282658
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fellow cricketers remember Yashpal||A pall of gloom descended on the cricket fraternity as the news of death of former Indian cricketer and 1983 World Cup winner Yashpal Sharma, one of the famous cricketers of the region, arrived here.Sharma, who was part of Panjab University teams and played with the likes of former players of Punjab and Haryana Kapil Dev, Rakesh Jolly, Sarkar Talwar, Ganesh Lal, was a gutsy and visionary man. In his career spanning from 1979 to 1983, Sharma had played 37 Tests for India and scored 1,606 runs with two centuries and nine fifties. Yashpal made his debut in 1979 against England and strengthened the Indian middle order.Prior to making his international debut, Sharma was among well-known faces of the region. Not many are aware but Sharma had also played as a wicketkeeper while representing Panjab University in one of the inter-varsity championships. He was a student of Government College, Ludhiana, and represented Panjab University on many occasions.“I must say that he was one of the players who won’t give up easily. He was calm and gutsy. In 1972 inter-varsity tournament, held in Jammu, I asked him if he could play as a wicketkeeper. He said ‘yes’ in one go. As the team’s captain, it was a big boost for me. Since then, I became his fan. He went on to play for Haryana and was outstanding among the likes of Kapil Dev. His demise is very shocking and a personal loss to me,” said Sarkar Talwar, former state cricketer and right-arm bowler.Former fast bowler of Haryana Rakesh Jolly termed Sharma’s demise as one of the biggest setbacks for the people of the region. “Last week only, I and Kapil Dev talked about the well-being of all members of the 1983 World Cup winning squad. I was on a conference call with Kapil and another friend, when I heard about Sharma’s death. He was very fit and moreover was very helpful to fellow cricketers. It’s shocking that a personality like him is no more between us,” said Jolly.“I had a long association with Sharma, first as a player and then as an administrator. Sharma made his Ranji Trophy debut for Punjab under my captaincy and later went on to don the India Colours with great success. He was a great team man. After hanging up his boots, he became the national selector and also served as Chairman of the Senior Selection Committee, Punjab. His sudden demise was a great personal loss and a great setback to the cricking fraternity,” said MP Pandove, former honorary treasurer, BCCI.Capt offers condolencesPunjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh paid condolences on Sharma’s death. In a message, he described Sharma as an outstanding cricketer who brought laurels to the country as a member of the 1983 World Cup winning team. The PCA office-bearers, members of the Apex Council, also paid tributes to Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fellow-cricketers-remember-yashpal-282665
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Senate poll contestants complain to Chancellor||More than 12 contestants of the Panjab University Senate elections have once again complained to the Vice-President of India and Chancellor, Panjab University, alleging change in the sequence of elections of various constituencies.“The motive and objective for delaying the election process was not bona fide and was mainly aimed at ensuring that the entire functioning of the university is paralysed and limited to a ‘one-man show’. Despite specific directions passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for completing the election process within two months, it was delayed by the university authorities.“We have reasons to believe that the Registrar-cum-Returning Officer, in connivance with the Vice-Chancellor, reportedly is contemplating yet another mode to create unnecessary controversy. A mala fide attempt is being made for tinkering with the sequence of the schedule of the election from various constituencies. It may be observed in this context that it has been an age-old practice to hold elections in the same sequence as were announced twice in 2020 and 2021, duly approved by the Chancellor,” read the complaint.“We, from various constituencies of the Senate, request that the elections should be conducted without altering the past practices and sequence of the elections of various constituencies of the Senate,” read the complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-contestants-complain-to-chancellor-282666
14-07-2021||Panchkula||Migrant worker duped of Rs 25,000||A migrant worker, who had visited the SBI bank branch in Sector 19 to deposit money today, was robbed of Rs 25,000 by miscreants. He dialled 112 and the police arrived there within 58 seconds, but the robbers had fled the scene by then.The victim, Suresh, a native of Khapur village in Bihar, said after filling out a deposit form, he asked a person to check the slip. The latter told him that it had been wrongly filled. In the meantime, another person came there and gave him a cloth and told him that it contained stolen currency worth Rs 2 lakh. He, however, refused to accept it.Suresh said the person, who was filling out a deposit slip for him, took him outside. He took Rs 25,000 from Suresh and handed him the cloth allegedly containing Rs 2 lakh. The person asked him to reach the Sector 29 light point where they would divide money between them.Suresh said when he boarded an autorickshaw, he found the cloth contained papers only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-worker-duped-of-rs-25-000-282667
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for pregnant women in Chandigarh||The first pregnant woman to get inoculated in the city got her jab at the Health and Wellness Centre, Sector 42, today.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, said: “Evidence indicates that pregnant women are at an increased risk of severe illness from Covid compared to non-pregnant women in case they get infected. The vaccine will reduce the risk of mortality among pregnant women.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-drive-for-pregnant-women-in-chandigarh-282672
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dadu Majra garbage dump: PIL seeks end to air pollution||Claiming “gross violation of the fundamental rights of over 50,000 citizens living in the vicinity of the Dadu Majra garbage dump”, a city resident today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directions to the Municipal Corporation and other state authorities to ensure an end to air pollution.Directions were also sought to end unbearable stench and frequent fires that released toxins in the air. Petitioner Amit Sharma also called for directions to the corporation and other respondents to address health issues faced by the people living in the dump’s vicinity.Sharma further asked for inquiry/probe into the MC’s failure to follow the directions given by the NGT on waste management and processing, and also on flouting environmental laws and outcome of “crores of taxpayers’ money spent on study tours for waste management”.Sharma has stated that Dadu Majra and Dhanas had 107 per cent more cases of pneumonia in 2020 compared to all other colonies in Chandigarh. A study shared by the GMCH-32 in an RTI suggested that people with lung diseases and respiratory issues were more susceptible to severe Covid-19.The wretched quality of air and life in the area was further aggravated by the frequent toxic fires in the “mountain of garbage” turning higher by the day. The MC was able to process a mere 13.36 per cent of the waste dumped here last year, and only 16.09 per cent from January to May in 2021.Not only was the problem of unprocessed garbage threatening to swamp the Dadu Majra area, it was also leading to increased incidents of fire in the dump. The Medical Officer of Health (MOH) was neither able to prevent nor explain. The fire in March this year lasted a week and covered the entire city in a haze, hindering visibility and causing respiratory issues among people in the vicinity.“The Medical Officer of Health, MC, has wilfully failed to manage the waste, the fires, and the health of the people in the area…. Innumerable appeals by beleaguered residents living in hellish conditions to the highest authorities, local and Central, RTI applications, and personal meetings with the Administration have not yielded any positive result,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dadu-majra-garbage-dump-pil-seeks-end-to-air-pollution-282685
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic taught us to expand primary care, says Chandigarh Adviser||UT Adviser Dharam Pal today released a pictorial booklet “Covid-19 & Home-Based Care: Beating The Waves” to inform the general public about the home-based care for Covid-19.The booklet is written and designed by Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, Additional Professor, Department of Community Medicine & School of Public Health, and Prof Ashish Bhalla, Department of Internal Medicine, PGIMER, and Dr Suman Mor, Chairperson and Associate Professor, Department of Environment Studies, Panjab University, in partnership with the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM, India), for wider public outreach.During the release, Dharam Pal mentioned that “the Covid-19 pandemic taught us that we need to expand primary care. As the first line of protection, primary care strengthens the patient’s ability to manage infection at home, minimise transmission risk and prevent overcrowding in hospitals.”He said: “With Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and vaccines, we can significantly reduce the impact of Covid-19, if cases rise in near future”. He highlighted that this infographic booklet on home-based care would be a valuable tool to enhance self-care in suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients.Prof Bhalla said the purpose of this booklet was to educate about Covid-19 and home-based care using easy-to-understand graphics. He stressed that it was crucial to keep monitoring vital symptoms during the home care. He specifically mentioned that patients or caregivers should be in direct contact with doctors during home isolation and update their conditions regularly.Dr Suman Mor mentioned that this booklet would help in beating the impact of the third wave as experts suspect that due to massive vaccination, the future Covid-19 wave could have patients with none or mild symptoms.Dr Khaiwal highlighted that this booklet provides basic instructions on home isolation, treatments, recording of vital parameters, clinical stratification, including best practices such as “proning” to manage Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pandemic-taught-us-to-expand-primary-care-says-chandigarh-adviser-282687
14-07-2021||Ambala||Congress workers submit memo to Ambala City MC Commissioner||Congress workers, led by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee Treasurer Rohit Jain, today submitted a memorandum to the Ambala City MC Commissioner regarding the problem faced by residents in getting no-dues certificate from the Municipal Corporation.Rohit Jain said: “No-dues certificates are required for sale and purchase of properties, but getting these from the corporation is not an easy task. The corporation had recently pasted a notice stating that no-dues certificates issued before July 9 had been disposed of and people are being asked to apply for these again. Data updation and technical fault in the software have been cited as the reasons behind it”.He said: “Despite clearing the dues, these are being shown as outstanding on the portal. If a person has lost his receipt, he will have to clear the dues again. Colonies already approved by the Municipal Corporation are being shown as unapproved. Even property IDs are shown wrong. The commissioner has assured that he will get the matter resolved. If the issue is not resolved, the Congress will be forced to hold protests.”Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said: “After the updation of data, the server was showing outstanding dues. It has already been corrected. The directorate has issued several directions regarding no-dues certificates. We are taking cognisance of all grievances and these are being resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-submit-memo-to-ambala-city-mc-commissioner-282690
14-07-2021||---||Rs 11,000 snatched from pedestrians||Chandigarh, July 13Three motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched cash from two pedestrians near the Kali Bari light point on Tuesday morning.Complainant Vijay Kumar and Sarvesh Kumar, residents of Phase VII, Mohali, were going home when the miscreants, riding a black Pulsar, snatched cash from them. They fled from the spot after snatching Rs6,000 from Vijay and Rs5,050 from Sarvesh. The police were informed about the incident following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-11-000-snatched-from-pedestrians-282694
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bail denied to Sanjeev Mahajan, Satpal Dagar in Sector 37 property grab case||A local court has dismissed the bail applications of Sanjeev Mahajan and Satpal Dagar arrested in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh.Mahajan and Dagar are among five accused arrested in the case so far. Mahajan was arrested on March 2, along with another accused Manish Gupta, soon after the police registered an FIR in the alleged fraud case against nine persons.The police registered the case against the accused under Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 39 police station.As per the FIR, the accused allegedly sold a house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37, Chandigarh, fraudulently. It is alleged that an imposter, Rahul Mehta, was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house. The police alleged that Dagar brought another accused, Gurpreet Singh, as proxy of Rahul Mehta before the office of sub-registrar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-denied-to-sanjeev-mahajan-satpal-dagar-in-sector-37-property-grab-case-282699
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Court frames charges against ex-BDPO, JE||A local court has framed charges against former Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Ram Lubhaya and Junior Engineer Darshan Kumar in a five-year-old alleged corruption case lodged by the UT Vigilance Department. The case was registered against the accused on a complaint of a panchayat member in 2015.The panchayat member alleged embezzlement of public funds in the construction and repair work of Dr BR Ambedkar Stadium and laying paver blocks at Khuda All Sher village using sub-standard material. After investigation, the Vigilance registered the case and filed a chargesheet against the accused.Finding a prima facie case against the accused, Additional Sessions Judge Dr Rajneesh framed the charges under Sections 120-B, 409 read with Section 120-B, of the IPC and Section 13(2) of the PC Act read with Section 120-B of the IPC, against the accused. The duo pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Meanwhile, the court ordered the prosecution to preserve the videography of the construction work.Accused Darshan Kumar, through his counsel, moved an application for supplying videography of the construction work. The counsel argued that at the time of taking the sample on July 23, 2016, the videography was done by the investigating officer in the presence of the DSP and that is important for the adjudication of the case.He said though videography was part of the evidence, the prosecution did not attach it with the challan. He requested the court to issue directions to the prosecution to produce the videography before the court and provide a copy to the accused.After hearing the arguments, the court said: “The videography sought to be produced is not a part of the report submitted under Section 173 of the CrPC. Therefore, the prosecution was not bound to supply its copy to the accused as envisaged under Section 207 of the CrPC. Even otherwise, the case is at the stage of framing charges and only a prima facie case is to be seen at this stage. The court is not to go into the details of evidence for the purpose of framing charges. Accordingly, the application is disposed of with a direction to the prosecution to preserve the videography, if still intact. At appropriate stage, the accused shall be at liberty to get it produced in his defence, as per law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-frames-charges-against-ex-bdpo-je-282705
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fee dues: Court issues notices to parents||A local court has issued notices to the parents of four students of Saupin’s School for allegedly not depositing the school fee. The cases were filed by the Saupin’s Education Foundation. The court has asked the parents to file a reply on September 9.The school had started filing cases in October, 2020. Yadvinder Singh Saini, counsel for the school, contended that the educational institution had no other sources of income to pay salaries to teachers and non-teaching staff, except fees. He said more than 200 cases had been filed against parents for the fee arrears worth over Rs 2 crore. He cited the orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court in this regard.The counsel submitted that the parents had failed to deposit the tuition fee despite legal notices served on them. He argued the students were regularly attending classes online but not paying the fee. Fee of many students were pending for a period ranging from six months to one year.Saini said the parents were not even agreed to deposit the fee in the instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fee-dues-court-issues-notices-to-parents-282710
14-07-2021||Zirakpur||Woman robbed of gold bangles in Zirakpur||Four unidentified women robbed a Noida resident of her gold bangles near Patiala Chowk here on Tuesday. Victim Amarjit, a resident of Noida, came to visit her niece in Zirakpur.In her complaint to the police, the victim stated that she boarded an auto-rickshaw from Patiala Chowk. Four unidentified women also boarded the auto. Later, the women deboarded the auto-rickshaw and started walking towards a car waiting for them. The victim later realised that her gold bangles had been stolen.She tried to chase the suspects, but they fled in the car, said the police. The victim managed to note down the registration number of the car. SI Ajit Singh said the police have registered a case. They were tracing the car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-robbed-of-gold-bangles-in-zirakpur-282711
14-07-2021||Zirakpur||Cart-puller hit by truck, dies||A cart-puller died after being hit by a speeding truck in Dhakoli on July 11. The victim, identified as Sumit, a resident of Kathgarh village, was rushed to the GMCH-32 where doctors declared him brought dead.The truck driver fled from the spot after the mishap. The police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC against the unidentified truck driver.The victim’s brother, Surjit, in a statement to the police, stated that Sumit was on his way home from Dhakoli to Kathgarh on July 11. When he reached near the sabzi mandi in Dhakoli, a speeding truck hit his brother from the behind around 3:40 pm.ASI Jagroop Singh said: “The registration number of the vehicle has been noted. The police have registered a case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cart-puller-hit-by-truck-dies-282712
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||ITBP men plant over 3K saplings in Nepli forest||A mass tree plantation drive was undertaken by the Transport Battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) at Nepli forest here on Tuesday in collaboration with the Forest Department, Chandigarh.ITBP personnel planted over 3,000 saplings of different varieties in the forest area. The drive was led by Gauri Shankar, Commandant, Transport Battalion, and Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator, Chandigarh. Around 100 ITBP men took part in the plantation drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbp-men-plant-over-3k-saplings-in-nepli-forest-282713
14-07-2021||Panchkula||Kaithal man held for looting power board staffer of Rs 2.34 lakh||The Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested a person for looting a power board employee of Rs 2.34 lakh in January this year.The arrested accused has been identified as Akash, a resident of Kaithal. At present, he is living at Landa Shah village in Ambala. He was produced in a court, which remanded him in two-day police custody.The police said Satnam Singh, a resident of Panjokhra Sahib, Ambala, in his complaint on January 27, had stated that he was returning to the Electricity Department office in Raipur Rani on his motorcycle to deposit Rs 2,34,215 collected on account of electricity bills. Six persons on two motorcycles approached him and threw chilli powder in his eyes and snatched the bag containing the cash, a laptop and a printer.The police said efforts were on to nab other accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kaithal-man-held-for-looting-power-board-staffer-of-rs-2-34-lakh-282717
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Valuables stolen from house||Cong protests high veggie ratesChandigarh: The Chandigarh Pradesh Mahila Congress on Tuesday held a protest against the soaring prices of vegetables, near the office of Municipal Corporation. Its president, Deipa Dubey, said as a mark of protest, they set up a vegetable market outside the office. However, not a single customer turned up to buy vegetables at these prices - peas for Rs 150, chilli for Rs 60, bottle guard for Rs 100 and lady's finger for Rs 100. Dubey also demanded the rollback of the licence fee of vendors. TNSSanskrit poetry book releasedChandigarh: A Sanskrit poetry book, "Bhasate Bhuvi Bharatdesh", by Dr Raj Kumar Shandilya was released at Brahmarishi Yog Mahavidyalaya, Sector 19, on Tuesday. Dr Shandilya is a Hindi spokesperson for the Chandigarh Administration. His book consists of seven titles and 700 verses. It focuses on the importance of womanhood, drug de-addiction and other reforms. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of Master of Arts (Fine Arts) 1st semester, MEd (General) (two-year course) 3rd semester, BA LLB (Hons) (five-year integrated course) 7th semester and BCom LLB (Hons) (five-year integrated course) 7th semester examinations. The results are available at the respective departments/colleges as also the website of the university. TNSSAI conducts virtual meetZirakpur: A virtual programme was conducted by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) during which 15 Olympics-bound athletes interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Under the jurisdiction of SAI Regional Centre, Chandigarh, were middleweight boxer Ashish Kumar of Sundernagar, Manpreet Singh (Indian hockey team captain) from Mithapur village, Jalandhar. The athletes were motivated for winning medals for the country. TNSTwo officers to join UT policeChandigarh: Two DANIPS-cadre officers will join the Chandigarh Police on deputation. The 2011-batch officers - Niyati Mittal and Rajnish - have been transferred from Delhi. While Niyati was posted as the ACP (Traffic), Rajnish was posted as ACP, Hauz Khas. TNSTwo booked for setting car afireChandigarh: The UT police have booked two persons for setting a car on fire. Complainant Karan Walia, a resident of Sector 52, reported that Shiv Charan, alias Shibi, and Sunil, alias Nathi, set his Chevrolet Cruze car on fire while it was parked in Sector 50. A case has been registered. TNSCity Cong protests hike in fuel pricesChandigarh: The Chandigarh Congress held a protest against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, in Sector 41 here on Tuesday. Led by city Congress president Subhash Chawla, party leaders, workers and councillors took out a protest march. Congress spokesperson Harmail Kesri said the government should bring down the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. TNSOver 78K appear for online examChandigarh: As many as 78,228 students appeared in the ongoing online examinations of Panjab University’s undergraduate/ postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL /private. According to Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, PU, a total of 124 exams were conducted in two slots (morning and evening). TNSTrials to select U-23 cricket teamPanchkula: The Panchkula District Association, affiliated to the Haryana Cricket Association, will organise trials to select U-23 team for the upcoming season. According to Sandeep Moudgil, Secretary, trials will take place on July 20 (3 pm) at Andale public School, Sector 9, here. He said only those players, who had received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, would be allowed to participate in the trials. All players were advised to come with the vaccination certificate or RT-PCR report of not more than 72 hours. No player below the age of 18 years will be allowed to participate in trial keeping in view the Covid protocol. The selected probable squad will undergo an off-season training camp under the guidance of BCCI-qualified coaches. TNSWoman among 2 held for cheatingMohali: The police arrested two suspects, including a woman, for duping people on the pretext of providing jobs, on July 9. The suspects have been identified as Ramanveer Kaur, a resident of Amritsar, and Baljit Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran. They are currently staying in Mohali. The police seized Rs21,000 and a car from them. The suspects used to create fake IDs on a matrimonial site and cheat innocent people on the pretext of marriage. A case has been registered. TNSThree arrested with 3-kg opiumMohali: The police have arrested three persons with three-kg opium near Phase 10 here. The suspects have been identified as Brijpal, Anil Kashyap and Rakesh Verma, all residents of Bareilly. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects at the Sohana police station. The trio has been remanded in four-day police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/valuables-stolen-from-house-282733
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools to reopen for Classes 9-12 on July 19||Schools and coaching institutes will partially reopen in Chandigarh from July 19, Chandigarh administration said in its latest order on Tuesday as it continued to ease the restrictions imposed during the deadly second wave of the pandemic in March.Schools in Chandigarh will reopen on July 19 for students from Classes 9 to 12, the order said. Parents’ authorisation will be essential for sending their wards to school. Meanwhile, online teaching will continue.Haryana schools open from July 16Coaching institutes can also reopen their in-person teaching for students on the condition that staff and students attending their sessions have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Additionally, Covid protocols must be followed strictly, the order said.The administration also made an upward revision of its limit on social gatherings—indoor gatherings can now have up to 200 people or have up to 50 per cent of the venue's capacity, whichever is fewer.  Guests at these events and staff of hotels or banquet halls must have had at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine or must have tested negative in an RT-PCR test taken no more than 72 hours ago.The Rock Garden, which has been closed to patrons so far, will reopen, as well museums, and Covid-19 protocols must be followed strictly.Cinema halls and spas can function at 50 per cent of their capacity.The development comes as Chandigarh continue to report a decline in Covid-19 infections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-12-on-july-19-282554
