15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported only two new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the administration showed.Chandigarh’s average positivity rate for the last seven days has fallen to 0.35 per cent, down from 0.41 per cent on Monday, the report showed. Active cases now stand at 67, down from 72 the day before.Chandigarh’s recorded no new deaths since July 5.Some 1,507 samples were taken for testing over the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.  Chandigarh also reported 10 recoveries over that period.Meanwhile, 7,09,180 people have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, the bulletin showed. Of that number, 1,30,013 are fully vaccinated, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-new-covid-19-cases-283676
15-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Make random calls to foreigner in drugs case, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells SHO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14In an out-of-the-ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked a Station House Officer to make random calls to a foreign national allegedly involved in a drugs case. The officer was also asked to keep tabs on his whereabouts.The direction came as the High Court made it clear that nationality was not a factor to be taken into consideration while deciding bail pleas. Stringent conditions could be imposed, but bail could not be denied on the ground that the accused was a foreign national.The directions by Justice Suvir Sehgal came after the state counsel opposed a bail plea on the ground that the accused was a foreign national. The state counsel, upon instructions from a police official, submitted that the petitioner was a citizen of Nigeria. “It has been noticed that when foreign nationals are released on bail, they invariably abscond or go underground, which hampers the trial”.The state counsel added that the drugs recovered from the petitioner fell within the ambit of commercial quantity and the bar contained in Section 37 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was attracted.The accused was seeking regular bail in an FIR registered on March 29, 2017, under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Zirakpur police station in Mohali. The prosecution had claimed that a person was apprehended by the police with 18 gm of intoxicating powder. During investigation, he named the petitioner as the person from whom he had purchased the contraband. On the basis of his statement, the police arrested the petitioner from New Delhi in March 2017 and allegedly recovered 190 gm of cocaine and 300 gm of heroin from him.Justice Sehgal asserted that the Supreme Court, in the case of “Lachhman Dass versus Resham Chand Kaler and another”, had ruled that the law under Section 439 of the CrPC on regular bail was very clear. In the eyes of the law, every accused was the same irrespective of nationality.Granting bail to the accused, Justice Sehgal observed that his period of incarceration was by now more than four years and the trial was not likely to come to an end in the near future. For allaying the state counsel’s apprehensions, Justice Sehgal asked the accused to report to the police station concerned twice a month. He was also asked to give his residential address, along with his proof of actual stay, and mobile number to the SHO of the police station concerned for making random calls. The petitioner was also asked to surrender his passport and remain present before the trial court on each and every date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-random-calls-to-foreigner-in-drugs-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-sho-283201
15-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Address shortcomings at Jhuriwala dump, Panchkula MC told||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 14A monitoring committee, which is headed by Justice Pritam Pal (retd), has directed the local Municipal Corporation to address the shortcomings at the Jhuriwala dumping ground such as no fencing or boundary around it and regular treatment of waste. The committee was constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The instructions were issued during an inspection of the new dumping site at Jhuriwala by the committee on Monday. The panel also asked the civic body to make sure the waste should not be visible to the public (considering the height of the garbage heaps at the site in future) and ensure plantation at the dumping site.The panel was in the district for a meeting with the district administration to finalise the draft of the district environment plan (DEP).The committee’s directions came at a time when residents from trans-Ghaggar sectors are stepping up their efforts against the dumping site, citing environmental concerns, violation of NGT and court orders and threat to flora and fauna and human habitations.This afternoon, the representatives of Sector 25 RWA also met Justice Pritam Pal in Mohali over the same issue. Senior vice-president, Sector 25 RWA, BR Mehta said: “We apprised him of the whole issue. There were many aspects that were not in his knowledge. He assured us that whatever is in his power, he will certainly do it.”“The district administration didn’t present a true picture (of the issue) before him during his visit to the dumping ground on Monday,” he added.On July 9, the Citizen Committee, House Owner’s Welfare Association, Sector 25, had written to the NGT monitoring committee, seeking its intervention on the issue after their “repeated appeals to the administration fell on deaf ears.”Municipal Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said they were in the process of addressing all concerns pertaining to the new dumping site at Jhuriwala. In June, the MC had stopped dumping waste at Sector 23 and started unloading trash at Jhuriwala. What experts sayExperts said the dumping of waste in an open area without any fencing or cover most of the time led to light waste getting carried away by winds and reaching nearby residential areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/address-shortcomings-at-jhuriwala-dump-panchkula-mc-told-283202
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man alleges attempt by wife, kin to forcibly convert him||A local court has issued notices on a complaint of a Sikh man to her wife and her relatives. The man has alleged that they all are forcing him and his nine-year-old son to convert their religion from Sikhism to Islam.In a civil suit filed through counsel Dixit Arora, the man sought the directions of the court to restrain them not to interfere in his religious practices and stop forcing him to convert his religion. While issuing the notices, the court fixed the next hearing of the case for July 20.Arora said the plaintiff had approached the court after the police failed to act on his complaints filed against his wife and her relatives. The man, in the complaint, has said that he met his wife when they were working together at a shop in 2008. He is a Sikh and his wife a Muslim by religion. They married the same year after the woman proposed to him.He alleged that soon after the marriage, her parents and relatives started forcing him to convert to Islam. To avoid the pressure, he had lived out of the city for many years and returned here in 2016 on the insistence of his wife.The complainant said his wife gave birth to a boy in 2012. He alleged that from day one of the birth of the child, her relatives had been trying their best to convert the child to Islam, but he opposed it. — TNS The complaintThe man said he met his wife when they were working together at a shop in 2008. He is a Sikh and his wife a Muslim. They married the same year. He alleged that soon after the marriage, her parents and relatives started forcing him to convert to Islam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-alleges-attempt-by-wife-kin-to-forcibly-convert-him-283203
15-07-2021||---||Mining guard ‘attacked’ , 2 booked||Ambala, July 14The police have booked two men for allegedly assaulting members of a special enforcement team (SET) of the Mining and Geology Department in Shahzadpur last evening.In his complaint to the police, Roshan Lal, mining guard posted in Ambala Cantonment, said following a tip-off on illegal mining, he, along with his team, reached the spot near the Begna river at Bari Bassi village. The team found a tractor-trailer laden with sand and a loaded trailer there. Two men, identified as Vijay of Jangu Majra village and Shivam of Shahzadpur, who claimed to be the owners of the vehicles, were standing there.“The department has not authorised any company for carrying out mining in the Begna river. We seized the vehicle and the trailers and I sat with Vijay on the tractor, and used a private tractor for pulling the another trailer to the police station. After driving around 200-metre, several local people gathered there and they started threatening us.“Vijay and Shivam threatened us with dire consequences and started pushing us. They managed to steal the impounded tractor-trailer while the other trailer was taken to the Shahzadpur police station,” he added.A case has been registered against the two under sections 186, 189, 332, 353, 379A, 506 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mining-guard-attacked-2-booked-283204
15-07-2021||---||Extortion accused brought on production warrant||Chandigarh, July 14 The UT police have brought the two inmates of Model Jail, Burail, who are accused of extorting money from another inmate, on production warrant. The duo was produced before the court that sent them to two-day police remand. The accused, Ankit Narwal and Prabhat Tyagi, were booked on a complaint of another jail inmate, Philip Jacob, who had alleged that both threatened him and extorted money from him. The complainant, through his wife, got Rs2 lakh paid to the accused last month. The money was transferred to the bank account provided to the complainant’s wife by a person named Vishal. The police said it would investigate as to who all were involved in this extortion racket.  The accused had demanded Rs40 lakh more from Philip. He was asked to pay Rs10 lakh before he got out of the jail on bail and Rs30 afterwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extortion-accused-brought-on-production-warrant-283205
15-07-2021||Zirakpur||Farmer leaders gather at Zirakpur tehsil office||Heavy police force was deployed at the Zirakpur tehsil office after farmer leaders gathered there to gherao BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal who allegedly gave controversial statements about farmers’ agitation in Delhi. Grewal was scheduled to reach the tehsil office today to give the power of attorney to his son. However, he did not turn up. According to information, Grewal had an appointment with the Zirakpur sub-tehsil office to give the power of attorney for his property to son Prateek Grewal. “The farmers waited for the BJP leader till the closure of the tehsil, but he did not turn up. Members of farmer union returned after raising slogans against the BJP leader,” said a farmer leader, Karam Singh Karkaur. Zirakpur Naib Tehsildar Puneet Bansal said the BJP leader had taken an appointment to transfer the power of attorney in the name of his son, but he did not arrive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmer-leaders-gather-at-zirakpur-tehsil-office-283206
15-07-2021||---||Chandigarh MC to take call on waste plant tech today||Chandigarh, July 14The local Municipal Corporation will decide on the technology for its waste-processing plant in Sector 25 during a special House meeting today. The issue has been hanging fire for a long time.After visiting a few processing plants in the neighbouring towns, the corporation now wants to finalise the technology for the plant.The plant has been processing a minimal amount of waste at present. More than a year after the MC took over the plant from Jaypee Group, it is yet to decide on the technology to for running the plant. Once a technology is decided, tenders will be floated and the eligible firm will install the latest machinery and will be responsible for running the plant.Chandigarh Tribune recently ran a campaign highlighting the waste-managment system of the MC which is in a shambles. The UT Adviser, Dharam Pal, who recenlty visited the plant, had said he learnt that a new technology had been finalised but the matter was pending with the MC House. He directed the Commissioner to decide on the issue within three months or the Administration would intervene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-take-call-on-waste-plant-tech-today-283207
15-07-2021||---||Mohali: Cops act against illegal colonisers, book 48||Mohali, July 14Acting against unauthorised colonisers involved in the construction of housing societies, flats and commercial buildings on agricultural land in and around Mohali villages, the police today booked 48 persons under Sections 5 and 36 (1) of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act at the Balongi police station. Most of the colonisers who have been booked operate in the Jhampur, Ballomajra and Behlolpur areas. The case was registered after complaints from the GMADA Additional Chief Administrator.Balongi SHO Rajpal Singh said, “Forty-eight persons have been named in the FIR. It is a bailable offence, no person has been arrested till now.”A common grievance of residents is that GMADA demolishes illegal constructions, causing losses to buyers, but takes no action against colonisers who raise unauthorised construction on agricultural land. On March 16, GMADA demolished 60 illegal under-construction structures at Jhampur village. A day later, officials went to demolish 58 illegal houses in the Behlolpur area, but had to return after stiff resistance from residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-act-against-illegal-colonisers-book-48-283208
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man accused of duping people denied bail||A local court here has rejected the bail application of Saurav Ghosh, facing charges of cheating many people of the city, including two retired judges of the High Court.The accused was arrested following a complaint by Kuldeep Singh Grewal of Sector 27, Chandigarh.The counsel for Gosh claimed that he had been falsely implicated in the case.The assistant public prosecutor said keeping in view the huge amount involved in the case and the gravity of offence, the bail application of the petitioner might be dismissed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-accused-of-duping-people-denied-bail-283209
15-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh teachers press for single mode of education||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14With the UT Administration planning to reopen colleges from next month, faculty members of various institutions have urged the authorities to avoid conducting both online and offline classes.“The authorities should consider conducting either online or offline classes. In case they allow both modes of teaching, it will be difficult for us. Almost all the faculty members are vaccinated and we have no objection in opening of colleges,” said a faculty member of a local college, seeking anonymity.As per sources, the UT Administration is planning to reopen colleges after online semester examinations. However, the option of online mode of study would continue for the time being for the students reluctant to attend physical classes and those who are still to be vaccinated.“There’s no logic in conducting both offline and online classes. It would be an extra burden on teachers. The same has been intimated to the higher authorities. Amid no clear guidelines, it will be difficult for all of us (faculty members) to provide quality education to students,” said another faculty member.Opening of PU campusMeanwhile, along with colleges, Panjab University campus is also expected to open after the semester examinations.“The campus is likely to open after the online examinations. However, the only concern is to adjust the hostellers if a third wave comes. Also, it will be difficult to shut the institutions once they open for students,” said PU faculty member.“Initially, the plan will be to open the campus for the final year students only. The teachers, meanwhile, are prepared to take offline classes,” the faculty member added.However, no decision has been taken as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-teachers-press-for-single-mode-of-education-283210
15-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||UT Adviser Dharam Pal kick-starts governance reforms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14To check red tape and do away with archaic rules, UT Adviser Dharam Pal has initiated a process to rationalise and simplify all cumbersome rules and procedures for improving ease-of-doing business and delivering services to residents.A review meeting regarding minimising the regulatory compliance in Chandigarh was held today under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Dharam Pal with all Administrative Secretaries and heads of departments.The meeting was held to examine the relevance and rationale of various compliances under the purview of the UT and simplify these. “The process would require a thorough scrutiny of various Acts, regulations, administrative processes and procedural requirements,” said Dharam Pal.He said they were looking at reducing the compliance further for citizens as there were too many lengthy procedures and documentations. “We need to simplify our procedures for the public and to facilitate ease-of-doing business,” he said, directing the officials to identify all procedures or documentation that need to be done away with within a month. He, however, said the entire exercise would take at least six months to complete.“With the advancement of technology, our aim is to deliver faceless services to cut city residents’ visit to government offices. We will try to deliver the maximum possible services online,” the Adviser added.The Adviser said: “The burdensome regulatory compliance adds unnecessary procedure, time and cost for citizens or businesses that hinder the overall ease of living and doing business. These compliances are no longer relevant due to innovative practices and economic developments.”The Adviser directed all officials to take necessary steps to make government-to-business and government-to-citizen interfaces simple and transparent by exhaustive analysis of Acts, rules, regulations, schemes, grants and subsidies. The task would include consulting stakeholders to identify the burdensome aspects of different compliances, decriminalising Acts or provisions in case of minor civil offenses and repeal, amend or subsume redundant laws, he added.Archaic laws have proved a stumbling block in the development of the city. For the second year in a row, the UT was at the bottom in the ease-of-doing business rankings (EODB) announced in 2020. In 2017-18, the city was ranked 29th and in 2020, it was again at the same position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-adviser-dharam-pal-kick-starts-governance-reforms-283211
15-07-2021||---||2,700, many sans mask, show up as Chandigarh's Rock Garden reopens to public||Chandigarh, July 14On the first day of the reopening of Rock Garden after three months, a large number of visitors thronged the garden today.It was closed for the public on April 13 after the UT witnessed a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. After witnessing a sharp drop in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration had yesterday decided to reopen Rock Garden for the public from today. An official said more than 2,700 people, including 200 children, visited Rock Garden today.However, some visitors seemed to have learnt no lessons from the deadly second wave of the coronavirus and threw Covid-19 norms to the wind. They were not wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing while roaming.Amanpreet Singh, a resident of Samana in Punjab, said he had come to Chandigarh for routine work with his friends. On learning about opening of Rock Garden, he did not miss the chance of seeing the world famous garden and rushed to see it with his friends.A health expert said a possible third wave of Covid-19 could not be ruled out if people continued to violate Covid-19 norms. He said it was the duty of the Administration to ensure compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour and penalise the violators. The pandemic appeared to be slowing down, but it did not mean that people should lower the guard, he added.Third wave can’t be ruled out: ExpertA health expert said a possible third wave of Covid-19 could not be ruled out if people continued to violate Covid-19 norms. He said it was the duty of the Administration to ensure compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour and penalise the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-700-many-sans-mask-show-up-as-chandigarhs-rock-garden-reopens-to-public-283294
15-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Art attack on Chandigarh’s heritage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Far from being preserved, three nursery school buildings designed by famous Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret and categorised as ‘Grade II heritage’ by an expert panel of the UT Administration have been robbed of their architectural authenticity.The paint jobs done at the government schools for kindergarteners in Sector 7, 16 and 22 under the BaLA Scheme of the Centre are in violation of the government-approved report titled ‘Chandigarh’s enlisted heritage-its preservation, conservation, management and maintenance’. “No external change is to be permitted, however, only limited internal change is permitted, which does not affect the exterior of the building,” the guidelines of the report state.In contrast to its original white colour, the ramp of Government Nursery School of Sector 16 has been painted in tool-bar cyan, pink and yellow, while the building’s basic repair work stands ignored. “The principal of the school told me that in 2014, the school received a grant of Rs2 lakh under the BaLA Scheme and the ramp and classrooms were painted. In the past, schools have written to the Engineering Department regarding the repairs, but in vain,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School Education.A bright ‘green and orange’ painting adorns the pillar of the Sector 22 Government Nursery School’s grey and white façade. It extends to the entrance door, the porch and is splashed like graffiti over the walls of the single-room classroom of the school. The classic stone wall, typical of Jeanneret’s minimalistic design, has been painted in white too, sparing a few grey stones. According to the UT Education Department, the school spent Rs50,000 of the funds given to it under the Centre’s scheme on the paint job.The condition of the Sector 7 Government Nursery School in the posh Northern part of the City Beautiful is such that the students of a local NGO are forced to take their classes outside the classroom, as was seen by The Tribune correspondent on a recent visit to the school. A foot tall grass has grown out from the fishers between the concrete slabs that make the base of the beautiful sickle-shaped ramp of the building. The tubelight in the washroom can fall any minute and the water leakage has damaged the building’s roof and a wall in one of its rooms. Yet in 2005, the school spent funds worth Rs75,000, as told by the UT Education Department, for painting the pillars blue and white and classrooms under the BaLA Scheme.None of the in-charges or principals of the schools were aware of the building’s heritage status. “I have discussed the case with the chief architect and we will be ask them to give us buildings and parts of buildings that have been declared as heritage. I think the staff doesn’t have any idea of these buildings being heritage,” said Brar.Need for regulationsSumit Kaur, a former UT Chief Architect who prepared a report on the heritage buildings, said: “Heritage regulations need to prepared and notified at the earliest in order to guide the preservation, conservation, management and maintenance of Chandigarh’s enlisted heritage. A detailed management plan for their restoration should be prepared in accordance with the grading and heritage regulations.”She said: “We also need standardised signages displaying heritage status of all buildings, precincts, zones that form part of Chandigarh’s enlisted heritage to create awareness among the general public and resident welfare associations and to facilitate the tourists. Heritage walks should be conducted on a regular basis.”Review on cardsUT Adviser Dharam Pal, who is the chairperson of the Heritage Committee, said: “We will review these buildings next week and maybe, we can have signs and issue circulars regarding the dos and don’ts for the heritage buildings. We will also soon call a meeting of the heritage committee to see what can be done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/art-attack-on-chandigarhs-heritage-283295
15-07-2021||Naina Mishra||15 months on, GMSH-16 plans laboratory for RT-PCR tests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Nearly 15 months after the pandemic started, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, is preparing to set up a laboratory for conducting RT-PCR tests ahead of a possible third wave.The purchase of a gold standard RT-PCR machine will augment the capacity of tests and can decrease reliance on other health institutes for Covid tests.Till now, the hospital used to collect samples for the Covid-19 test, but was dependent on the PGI and the GMCH, Sector 32, for the RT-PCR reports.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have initiated the process of setting up a laboratory for Covid-19 testing and it will be ready within two months. To begin with, the institute will be able to do 500 tests daily.”Failing to expand the RT-PCR testing capacity in government institutions, the UT Administration had roped in private testing laboratories during the second wave. The ministry had asked the UT to increase the share of RT-PCR tests to 80 per cent of the total tests. Both the PGI and the GMCH could not stretch the capacity to 950 samples per day.The low testing capacity in the UT for RT-PCR tests during the second wave cost the UT Administration Rs 77 lakh as the amount was reimbursed to private laboratories for giving timely RT-PCR reports.As of now, the GMSH has a TrueNat machine that gives results in three to four hours, but is only meant for testing of emergency cases and not mass-scale testing.On the contrary, the general hospital in the neighbouring district of Panchkula, which earlier used to be dependent on Karnal for Covid testing, has set up its own laboratory and has a capacity of testing around 2,000 samples a day.Chandigarh sees 5 casesChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported five fresh Covid cases and no fatality. A total of 12 patients were discharged. — TNS8 cases in MohaliMohali: Eight new Covid cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. With no new fatality, the toll stands at 1,056. There are 75 active cases in the district. — TNS4 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported just four fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,619. With no new death, the toll remained at 375. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-months-on-gmsh-16-plans-laboratory-for-rt-pcr-tests-283296
15-07-2021||---||Chandigarh MC draws flak over road recarpeting during rains||Chandigarh, July 14Even as there has been much hue and cry over roads not being repaired by the Municipal Corporation for a long time, the decision of the MC to do the needful during the monsoon has raised eyebrows.Residents are wondering if the roads repaired in the monsoon will last long. At some places, contractors are still undertaking road works. In Sector 30, workers are carrying out recarpeting amid rain, much to the surprise of area residents. “What is the point of recarpeting roads during the monsoon. It serves no purpose as roads will come off soon. It is just a wastage of public money. There should be a strict check by officers,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Sector 30-A.When the weather was conducive for road recarpeting, the civic body failed to do so despite repeated complaints by residents. In Sector 9, the MC had earlier left the work midway after scraping a road. Only after it was pressured, road recarpeting work was started.“When we complain to the MC about the poor condition of roads, it takes a long time to take note. However, now is not the right time to carry out the work,” said another resident.NP Sharma, MC Chief Engineer, said: “The Superintending Engineer of the road division had yesterday issued orders asking all contactors to stop the work. We will get it stopped if someone is still doing it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-draws-flak-over-road-recarpeting-during-rains-283297
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to look into Jeanneret’s broken sculpture||In a three-part series published last week, Chandigarh Tribune threw light on Pierre Jeanneret’s rare sculpture, which was found broken in three pieces and neglected by the UT Administration at Government Nursery School in Sector 16.Also read: Art attack on Chandigarh’s heritageWhile the UT Chief Architect refused to comment on its restoration, the Adviser said the sculpture would be reviewed soon. He said: “I will speak with the authorities concerned this week and review the broken sculpture soon.”Meanwhile, two monochromatic pictures of the sculpture have surfaced on the social media. So far, the only available pictures of this artwork dated between 1954 and 1961.Architect Sarbjit Bahga, who shared these pictures on his Facebook account, said: “I took these pictures in late 90s or early 2000s. Till then, it was intact. I hope the Administration restores this art piece soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-look-into-jeannerets-broken-sculpture-283298
15-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board to invite e-bids for 46 residential units||Chandigarh, July 14The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to invite e-bids for 46 residential units on a freehold basis from next week. The e-bids can be submitted from 10 am on July 20 and the last date to submit the bids will be August 4.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the reserve prices of EWS/LIG/one bedroom flats may be kept the same as was in the last e-tender. However, the reserve prices of two bedroom/MIG flats in Sector 63 would be Rs70 lakh instead of Rs 67.31 lakh. The reserve price of each of the MIG flats in Sector 51 would be Rs 90 lakh instead of Rs 83.27 lakh or Rs 84.46 lakh.A total of 86 units (77 residential and nine commercial) have been sold by the CHB since the auction started this year.The bid amount received for these 86 units is Rs 67.26 crore against a reserve price of Rs 62.02. Hence bids were 8.44% above the reserve prices, said Garg.A total of 13 highest bidders failed to deposit the 25% bid amount within the stipulated period of five working days. Considering that EMD was Rs2 kakh for each unit, a total of Rs 26 lakh has been forfeited by the board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-invite-e-bids-for-46-residential-units-283299
15-07-2021||---||Protest against hike in fuel prices at Sector 17 Plaza||Chandigarh, July 14Congress councillors protested against the rising fuel prices at Sector 17 Plaza here today.They criticised the policies of the BJP-led Centre.Youth Congress members protested against the hike in fuel prices at Sector 15 petrol pump, saying it was causing “hardships for the common people amid the Covid-19 pandemic”.Manoj Lubana, who led the protest, said: “The unabated rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have burdened the common people. However, the BJP-led government at the Centre is not bothered about the people as they are solely concerned about revenues and serving the interests of big oil companies.”“Frequent hike in the prices of petrol and diesel do not affect the BJP government. This government is least concerned about the plight of the common people. The common people have been financially distressed by the Covid-19 pandemic and are in no position to bear the extra burden of price hikes,” said Navdeep Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-hike-in-fuel-prices-at-sector-17-plaza-283300
15-07-2021||Kharar||Congress stands shoulder to shoulder with farmers: Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari||Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib and former Union Minister Manish Tewari today said his party had been standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers against the farm laws.Addressing various public meetings in Kurali, Kharar and Naya Gaon, Tewari expressed his support to the farmers.The “Congress has stood shoulder to shoulder with farmers against these black laws. The Congress has supported farmers at all levels since the enactment of these laws,” he said.Tewari said he would continue to raise his voice in support of farmers in the Lok Sabha during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament.Speaking on the occasion, former Minister Jagmohan Singh Kang said the development of the constituency was his priority and in collaboration with Tewari he had been working on a number of projects in the region. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-stands-shoulder-to-shoulder-with-farmers-anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-283301
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for dealing in remdesivir gets bail||A local court here has granted bail to Prabhat Tyagi, one of the accused arrested allegedly with remdesivir injection. The police had arrested Tyagi from a Sector 17 hotel on April 17. The police alleged in the FIR that the accused were dealing in the sale and purchase of remdesivir without any permit or licence. A sample of the vial with an MRP of Rs 4,700 was also recovered from the accused.  Tyagi’s counsel though argued that he had been in custody for a long time and was not required for the purpose of investigation. He argued that the five co-accused in the case had already been given concession of bail by the High Court.  The public prosecutor opposed the bail on the ground of severity of the offence and that the applicant was very much present at the hotel at the relevant time for the sale of remdesivir.  After hearing the arguments, the court granted Tyagi bail on furnishing Rs 1,00,000 bail bond. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-dealing-in-remdesivir-gets-bail-283302
15-07-2021||---||PU’s Navneet Kaur, Sushil Kansal awarded||Chandigarh, July 14Dr Navneet Kaur, Department of Chemistry, Panjab University, got DVS Jain Best Researcher Award for the year 2019 during an online ceremony organised by the Department of Chemistry, under the aegis of Smt Prem Lata and Prof DVS Jain Research Foundation.The award included a citation and cash prize of Rs 30,000.Prof Sushil K Kansal, Department of Chemical Engineering, got Smt Prem Lata Jain Award (2019) comprising a citation and cash prize of Rs 15,000.Prof GR Chaudhary (Chemistry), Dr P Natarajan (Chemistry), Prof Sonal Singhal (Chemistry) and Prof Navneet were also awarded on the occasion. They received a citation and cash prize of Rs 5,000 each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pus-navneet-kaur-sushil-kansal-awarded-283303
15-07-2021||---||Identify accident-prone sites, dark spots in Panchkula: DC||Panchkula, July 14In view of the ongoing monsoon season, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has directed the road construction agencies to “identify accident prone sites and black spots” so that speed breakers and lighting arrangements could be made at these points to prevent mishaps.in Panchkula. Tribune photo: Ravi KumarThe DC further said directions had been given to the agencies to start repair work on roads damaged due to rain at the earliest.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to form a team of traffic volunteers that would assist the police and other departments concerned in various road safety initiatives.Vinay Pratap Singh said along with the local police and road owning agencies like the National Highways Authority of India, Public Works (Building and Roads), Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran and Municipal Corporation, it was the responsibility of every citizen to come forward and contribute actively towards road safety.Any resident of the district who intends to work as a volunteer can forward his name to the office of the Regional Transport Authority, Panchkula, he said.The DC said besides officials from the road construction agencies, road safety volunteers would be invited to the meetings of the District Road Safety Committee constituted under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner.He said these volunteers would be entrusted with the task of making people aware of traffic rules through awareness programmes and campaigns.They will also assist the traffic police in road traffic management, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/identify-accident-prone-sites-dark-spots-in-panchkula-dc-283315
15-07-2021||A seven-day faculty development programme on “Needonomics for Revival of Economy in Post Pandemic Era” being organised by the Human Resource Development Centre||7-day event on revival of economy||Cleanliness and plantation driveA cleanliness-cum-plantation drive was launched at a park near the Mori Gate, Sector 14, by the Department of NSS in collaboration with the Horticulture Division on Wednesday. Prof Ashwani Koul, programme coordinator, shared his vision of a clean and beautiful environment. He informed that 11 more such drives would be held in July and August. A tree plantation drive was also organised by the boys’ hostel No. 3. The event was attended by RS Verma, IAS, Managing Director, Haryana Tourism and Registrar, Cooperative Department, Haryana. . TNSWebinar on tech, innovationTo sensitise policymakers, academicians and researchers, about technology transfer, commercialisation and various public-private partnership (PPP) models, DST - Centre for Policy Research (CPR) organised a webinar on “Science Technology and Innovation (STI) based public-private partnerships in India: Global Innovation & Technology Alliance (GITA) an exemplary PPP model”. TNSPU VC meets Education MinisterPanjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar made a courtesy visit to the office of Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday and extend his greetings. The VC apprised him briefly about the developments of the PU and assured him of fruitful contribution in the higher education. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-day-event-on-revival-of-economy-283322
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Col from Chandigarh Amarjeet Singh Sidhu killed in road mishap in Bhilwara||Laptop, purse stolen from carChandigarh: A resident of Sector 21, Gurmeet Singh, reported that a laptop and a purse containing a driving licence, a registration certificate and other documents were from his Honda City car parked near his residence. A case was registered. TNSBiker snatches woman’s purseChandigarh: A bike-borne miscreant allegedly snatched a purse from a woman outside her house in Sector 34 on Tuesday evening. Complainant Shalini Goyal (45) reported that the miscreant snatched her purse containing Rs5,000, car keys, a mobile phone, a debit card and other belongings. The police have registered a case. TNSCourt notice to AdministrationChandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday put the Chandigarh Administration on notice on an application seeking directions to a school to accept monthly tuition fee "at the same rate as was paid during the academic year 2020-21". The notice by Justice Sudhir Mittal came on an application filed by Manpreet Kaur and other applicant-petitioners. Taking up the matter, Justice Mittal also fixed August 18 as the next date of hearing in the matter. TNSBoxing tourney begins tomorrowChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association (CABA) will organise the 41st Junior Men and 17th Junior Women State Boxing Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex from July 16 to 17. During this championship, the CABA will also select teams for representing the city in the Junior National Boxing Championships to be held at Sonepat, Haryana, from July 25 to 31. Interested boxers of Chandigarh are advised to report at the venue with original and photocopy of valid photo identity proof (Aadhaar card, original institutional identity card and age proof). The weighing-in time is from 6 am to 9 am. TNS2 held under NDPS ActChandigarh: Two persons have been arrested under the NDPS Act. The crime branch nabbed Ravinder Pal Singh, alias Ghoda (38), of Patiala with 51.15 gram of heroin in Sector 40. In another incident, the police nabbed a resident of Hallo Majra, Amarjeet Singh, alias Happy (52), with 85 banned vials and 68 syringes at Ram Darbar. TNSShuttler gets rs 2-lakh rewardChandigarh: Shuttler Devika Sihag, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, has won a cash reward of Rs 2 lakh from the Sports Department, Haryana, in recognition of her achievements in badminton during the past year. She is ranked No. 2 in girls' doubles and No. 6 in girls' singles as per last year's rankings released by the Badminton Federation of India (BFI). She has won gold in sub-junior doubles (U-17), a bronze in U-15 singles and a team bronze in the U-19 category. She is at present training at Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy, Bengaluru. Senior Principal Vineeta Arora congratulated Devika on this feat. TNSTwo held for duping manChandigarh: Two persons have been arrested for duping a resident of Nayagaon of Rs 48.46 lakh. Tarsem Lal had reported that he had received calls from unknown persons who made him deposit money in lieu of LIC bonus and a club's membership. He later found that he had been duped. Two suspects, identified as Atul Abhishek (37) of Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh and Hardeep Kumar (32) of Fazilka district in Punjab, have been arrested. TNSElderly man hit by train, diesDera Bassi: An elderly man died after being hit by a train near here on Wednesday. The deceased is yet to be identified. Rajinder Singh Dhillon, Mubarikpur railway police station in-charge, said a person was reportedly hit by a train heading from Ambala to Chandigarh around 6.30 pm. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-col-from-chandigarh-amarjeet-singh-sidhu-killed-in-road-mishap-in-bhilwara-283328
15-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula villages in grip of diarrhoea; boy dies, 24 ill||A nine-year-old boy reportedly died and 24 others fell ill after a diarrhoea outbreak in Abheypur and Budhanpur today. Those affected are believed to have consumed contaminated water.The deceased has been identified as Arpit from Abheypur. Senior health officials said cases with symptoms of diarrhoea and vomiting started showing up at the Civil Hospital this afternoon. Of the 24 reported cases, nine were children and 15 adults. Their condition was reportedly stable.“It is most likely to be a case of water contamination. We have collected water and stool samples from the affected areas and sent these for testing. The reports will be out in two-three days,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar.On the lone fatality, she said it’s a suspected case. “He was brought dead to the hospital. Reports will confirm the reason behind his death,” she said, adding that they had distributed chlorine tablets and ORS packets in the affected and would set up a health camp tomorrow.The CMO said they were in touch with the water supply authorities in the areas to find out the possible reason behind the outbreak.“We have asked them to disinfect the tubewells and check drinking water pipeline,” she said.The Health Department has also urged the public in the affected areas to take precautions.Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) SDO Ram Kumar said recently, they had received a complaint of contaminated water from a street in Abheypur, following which they had replaced the pipeline.“We found leakage in five connections. Cases that cropped up today could possibly be because of the same reason,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-villages-in-grip-of-diarrhoea-boy-dies-24-ill-283330
