16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one new case; lowest infection number since March 2020||Chandigarh recorded only one Covid-19 case over the last 24 hours—a figure not seen in the union territory since the pandemic began in March 2020—a bulletin from the administration showed on Friday.The average positivity rate of the last seven days fell further to 0.30 per cent, the bulletin showed, and active cases dropped down to 58.Some 1,280 tests were conducted over the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.The UT hasn’t reported any death since July 5.Meanwhile, 7,09,180 people over 18 have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Of that number, 1,33,148 are fully vaccinated, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-new-case-lowest-infection-number-since-march-2020-284155
16-07-2021||---||Covid vaccine's first dose given to 6 lakh in Mohali||Mohali, July 15To defeat Covid under Mission Fateh-02, the first dose of the Covid vaccine has been administered to 6.07 lakh people in the district and the second dose has been given to about 93,000 people, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.The DC was presiding over the annual meeting to review the health services in the district at District Administrative Complex here today.Girish Dayalan said a large scale vaccination campaign was being carried out in the district.He said the Punjab Government was providing free treatment facility for Rs5 lakh to the beneficiaries of the Sarbat health insurance Scheme in government and empanelled private hospitals.Under the scheme, 1.83 lakh e-cards had been created so far and more than 80,000 families were covered. Around 8,000 people were given free treatment in government hospitals, he added.Dayalan said under the scheme, more than 30,000 people had been treated free of cost in private empanelled hospitals and Rs26,58,72,946 released to these hospitals.He also asked the officers to ensure that a maximum number of eligible beneficiaries were covered under the scheme.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration was also making continuous efforts to control dengue and these measures would be further enhanced in the near future.He said so far this year, 11 cases of dengue had been reported and 13 special teams had been formed for prevention of dengue and 30 breed ing checkers had been appointed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccines-first-dose-given-to-6-lakh-in-mohali-283717
16-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh private schools to open only if 50% parents willing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15After the UT Administration allowed opening of schools for offline classes for students of Class IX to XII from July 19, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) – a group of private schools – is in a state of confusion.The ISA has decided that the schools would be open only if more than 50 per cent of parents were willing to send their wards for offline classes. Otherwise, the students would continue to be taught through the current online education mode.“We (the schools) were not consulted by the higher authorities before taking the decision. The circular calls for conducting both offline and online classes, which is not feasible. We will assess the situation for the first few days and thereafter take a final call,” ISA president HS Mamik.“If more than 50 per cent of parents agree to send their wards to schools then all have to attend or else we will continue teaching through online mode. We are in a very dicey situation. The authorities should have either opened the schools or continued with online classes,” said Mamik.Meanwhile, Amita Khorana, Principal, Shishu Niketan Public School, Sector 22, welcomed the UT’s decision on opening of schools.“It is a timely and appropriate decision on part of the Administration,” she said. “We welcome the decision and are gearing up for the opening of the school. We are sanitising the school building and following other Covid-19 protocols.”“Rest depends upon the parents’ readiness to send their wards to schools. However, if the number of approvals is less, then it will not be feasible to hold offline classes. It’s not possible to do justice to teaching with both offline and online classes,” Khorana added.“Going by the earlier experience, parents are unlikely to send the wards to school as they are now comfortable with the online classes. If parents are willing, we are all set to open. But if they don’t, then we will start the school in offline mode during September, when the students will have their first term exams,” said S Sardana, director, Manav Mangal School.“The students will come to school for three hours only and there will be no break. Once the students and parents develop the required confidence through this arrangement, we shall be opening to full strength,” Sardana added.Not only school management, but parents are also not sure about sending their wards to schools.“There are reports of a possible third wave and in such a scenario it’s difficult to send kids to school. Children are yet to be vaccinated and they cannot be kept under restrictions once they are in their friend circle. I have yet to decide on this,” said Ishita Arora, one of the parents.Meanwhile, Chandigarh School Bus Operators Association will also wait for parents’ consent before resuming operations. “We can run our services only if a good number of students come to school. Also, we will need some financial assistance from schools to resume operations,” said Manjeet Singh, president of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-to-open-only-if-50-parents-willing-283719
16-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Waste-to-energy tech for Chandigarh MC plant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today decided to upgrade its garbage processing plant with a waste-to-energy technology.The MC will tie up with the Power Department, UT, to decide on the share of the electricity to be generated at the Sector 25 plant. It will also be decided what will be the share of the company or the MC in the electricity produced from the waste.The MC has decided to invite quotations from the Punjab Engineering College, the IIT-Ropar and Thapar University, which situated in the proximity of Chandigarh, for preparing a request for proposal (RFP) and a detailed project report (DPR).The decision was taking during a special MC House meeting held today. The agenda was brought up before the House after a team comprising councillors and officials visited different processing plants in neighbouring cities.MC officials said the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) technology being used at the plant had remained unsuccessful. After the RDF was generated, the unprocessed waste was shifted to the Dadu Majra dumping ground.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said the garbage processing plant was run by the Jaypee Group from 2007 till June 2020 when the MC took over the unit. All these years, the plant processed only 70-80 metric tonne (MT) of waste per day.Experts Dr Shakti Arora and Rhythm Aggarwal, special invitees to the House meeting, also favoured the waste-to-energy technology.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the waste-to-energy plant would be for dry waste while they were thinking of setting up another plant to dispose of horticulture waste. Besides, they would also upgrade the composting plant. An MC official may be sent to Mumbai to assess a technology for a plant to process horticulture waste.Drama during House meetLeader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla tore a water bill and a bank cheque in the MC House meeting. The drama prevailed after BJP councillor Asha Jaswal offered a cheque for Rs8,000 to Babla, who had earlier said he had spent some amount during a study tour. However, the Congress leader said he did not ask it from her, but the MC. He also tore the water bill saying that residents were still getting hefty bills.Meanwhile, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma termed the act of the Congress leader a drama.He said Congress councillors, who were shouting and not letting the House function, could go out or “we would make arrangements for it”.He said the cheque was given as he had asked for the money and the water rates were notified by the UT Administration at the end of May. Thus, the next bills would be lower.Referring to the Congress, the Mayor said people had elected such an educated councillor. Babla sought Ravi Kant Sharma’s resignation saying that his term had been a failure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-to-energy-tech-for-chandigarh-mc-plant-283720
16-07-2021||---||Woman among 3 held, six cars recovered||Mohali, July 15The Zirakpur police today arrested three persons, including a woman, who used to steal vehicles and loot people on the highway. The police recovered six cars and a country-made pistol from one of the suspects.The suspects have been identified as Manoj Thakur, who was a resident of Moradabad district (Uttar Pradesh), Arpit Kumar, an alleged highway looter, who was a resident of Karnal and Murti, alias Gurnamo, a resident of Johlian village in Sangrur.Giving details, the Superintendent of Police (SP), Rural, Ravjot Kaur Grewal, said the police arrested Thakur from a recently developed slum area behind Big Bazaar in Zirakpur. Fourteen cases had been registered against Thakur and he was out on bail, the SP added. Six vehicles were recovered from him, the SP said. Thakur used to steal cars and sell these at cheaper rates, the SP added. All stolen cars had fake number plates, the SP said. More stolen cars were likely to be recovered, the SP added.The Zirakpur police received information that a gang was active in the area and was looting people on the highway, the SP said. The police arrested Arpit Kumar and recovered a country-made pistol from him, the SP added.The police also arrested Murti, a member of the vehicle thieves’ gang, who robbed a woman of gold bangle on July 12, the SP said. Several cases were registered against gang members at different police stations, the SP added.Earlier, in her complaint to the police, victim Amarjit Kaur, a resident of Noida (Uttar Pradesh), stated that she had come to Zirakpur to meet her niece. She boarded an auto-rickshaw at the Zirakpur-Patiala chowk, the victim added. Four more women, who were already sitting in the auto, started quarreling among themselves, the victim said. After sometime, they got down from the auto, the victim added. Later, she realised that her gold bangle was missing, the victim said. She got down from the auto and started chasing the women, but they fled in a white Swift car, which was parked nearby, the victim added. However, she was able to note down the registration number of the car, the victim said.The suspects were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody, the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-3-held-six-cars-recovered-283721
16-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Death due to cholera: Panchkula Civil Hospital accused of negligence||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 15The father of the 9-year-old boy from Abheypur, who died of cholera following the consumption of contaminated water, has accused the Civil Hospital here of negligence.Anil Kumar said after his son Arpit developed symptoms like vomiting and diarrhoea on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, he took him to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 around 4 am on Wednesday. The doctors at the hospital discharged him on the same day around 11 am after giving some medication, he claimed.Kumar alleged that doctors discharged his son before he was stable and on reaching home his health worsened.“The doctor who was working in the night treated my son well but the one who took over around 8 am discharged him despite his condition being far from normal. Thereafter, around 2 pm, my son went numb. I rushed him to the hospital but he was already dead,” Kumar said while asking others to “not take their loved ones to Civil Hospital for treatment” and rather approach a private hospital.Mala, another Abheypur resident, shared a similar story.“After my son developed symptoms like vomiting and diarrhoea, we admitted him to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. They (doctors) administered him a couple of glucose bottles and left him in a terrible condition. After his legs and arms started going numb, we took him to a private hospital for better treatment. He is stable now,” said Mala.Refuting the allegations, Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said: “The victim’s condition had improved following infusion of intravenous (IV) fluid, he could stand up with no difficultly. He was examined in the paediatric OPD.”“After assessing his medical condition, the doctors on duty discharged him,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/death-due-to-cholera-panchkula-civil-hospital-accused-of-negligence-283722
16-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two get 7-yr jail in robbery case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15A local court has awarded seven-year rigorous imprisonment to two persons — Karan and Sourav — for robbing a person and stabbing him with a knife.Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, pronounced the punishment after holding them guilty for the offences punishable under Sections 397 and 411 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Both were arrested on the charges of robbing and stabbing a person on the night of September 18, 2018, near the Sector 7 petrol pump.An FIR was registered against the accused on the complaint of Rohan Kumar. He alleged that he, along with his father Arun Sharma, were returning after the completing their work when around midnight, two boys came on a motorcycle and obstructed his father’s movement.The pillion rider alighted from the motorcycle, took out a knife and asked his father to part with everything he possessed or face dire consequences.Then the boy gave a knife blow to the chest of his father who screamed in pain. As he came to his rescue, the boy pointed a knife towards him also.In the meantime, the one riding the motorcycle took out the wallet from the pocket of his father. Thereafter, both of them ran away from the spot on their motorcycle.The accused denied the allegations. After hearing the arguments, the court ruled that the accused committed robbery and caused grievous hurt (declared dangerous to life) by a sharp weapon to Arun Sharma and later, accused Sourav was found in possession of stolen articles. Therefore, both accused were held guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-get-7-yr-jail-in-robbery-case-283723
16-07-2021||---||Plastic Surgery Day: PGI starts ‘replantation’ helpline - 7087007677||Chandigarh, July 15The PGI launched ‘replantation helpline (7087007677)’ to mark National Plastic Surgery Day at an event organised here today.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, was the chief guest. Dinkar Gupta, DGP Punjab, was present as the guest of honour. He joined the event virtually.Commending the initiative, Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “The intent of the helpline is to streamline the flow of patients with such injuries so a body part can be stored properly and the patient can be provided with care at the earliest without losing precious time.”Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was severed in an attack while on duty, was physically present on the occasion. He was extremely emotional as he expressed his sentiments, “There are no words to thank the PGI for giving me back my normal life. It is because of the PGI that my amputated hand has returned to full function.”Prof RK Sharma, Head, Department of Plastic Surgery, said: “The department has also been in the forefront of replantation services and have successfully replanted amputated hands, forearms, thumbs, fingers, scalp and penis-scrotum in the past 30 years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plastic-surgery-day-pgi-starts-replantation-helpline-7087007677-283724
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||House-to-house vax drive in Dadu Majra||To speed up vaccination in the city, the UT Health Department today conducted a house-to-house survey-cum-vaccination drive at Dadu Majra. A mobile vaccination centre was set up in an AC bus, which moved near the houses. In addition, two other centres were set up in the colony and at the Health and Wellness Centre. A total of 442 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of whom 393 got the first dose.Of eight persons with disability, four were vaccinated at their homes as they were bed-ridden. Besides, 40 elderly people were offered the pick-and-drop service from their homes to the centre by the Health Department.Tourism Dept to hold special vax campsJaswinder, an ex-Army man staying alone with paraplegia, was grateful to the department for this initiative as he had been wanting to get vaccinated since long but there was no one to take him to the centre. — TNSUnion Health minister hails UTUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a tweet appreciated the UT Health Department for using CTU buses for vaccination in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.City reports two cases, no fatalityChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported just two fresh Covid cases, taking the overall tally to 61,856. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 809. With 10 fresh recoveries, the total number of cured persons has reached 60,980. The active caseload is 67. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-to-house-vax-drive-in-dadu-majra-283725
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh not to get afternoon water supply from today||There will be no water supply in the afternoon in the city from July 16. This was announced by the Municipal Corporation today. The MC stated that being rainy season, there was not much demand for the afternoon supply (noon to 2 pm) and it would save around Rs14 crore annually with this move.The afternoon water supply was started in the city last year when the MC got extra water supply from the Kajauli waterworks. MP Kirron Kher had launched the afternoon water supply in January last year. With this, one-hour additional supply in the morning and evening was cut to make a provision for the afternoon supply.After the water rates were reduced in May, the MC has decided to cut the afternoon supply to save some bucks.According to the MC, it was already running into losses and reducing the water rates was going to affect it more.When contacted, Shailender Singh, Superintending Engineer, Public Health, MC, said, “At present, there is not much demand for water in the afternoon. So, they have cut the water supply for the time being.”Now, water will be supplied in the city from 3.30 am to 9 am and from 5.30 pm to 9 pm.Meanwhile, there is no clarity whether the supply will be restored or not. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-not-to-get-afternoon-water-supply-from-today-283726
16-07-2021||---||School kits distributed among EWS students||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15Competent Foundation, headed by Sanjay Tandon, in association with the UT Education Department, today organised a school kit distribution programme at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18.The programme is aimed to help the students whose parents are not financially strong to provide them the means of education.A total of 300 EWS students of the city-based government schools would be benefited under the programme.The kit includes a school bag, water bottle, lunch box, text books (as per NCERT syllabus), notebooks, geometry box and school uniform.The launch program was attended by UT Adviser Dharam Pal; SS Gill, Secretary, UT Education Department; Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma; local councillor Asha Jaswal and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-kits-distributed-among-ews-students-283727
16-07-2021||---||Telecom firms told to improve connectivity||Chandigarh, July 15Telecom service providers have been directed to resolve the issue of call drop and poor mobile connectivity at the earliest.Professionals and residents have been complaining of call drop and poor mobile connectivity for the past many months.During a recent meeting held with representatives of various telecom companies, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar had directed the telecom service providers to resolve the poor mobile connectivity at the earliest.The new guidelines for the installation of towers were discussed at length with the representatives and it was decided that a standard operating process may be formulated to process and dispose the applications for installation of towers in a time-bound manner.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) is the appropriate authority for the installation of towers and he had been asked to monitor pending cases of installation of towers.As the rise of pandemic has popularised work from home among companies, the load of calls and data has drifted towards the business end. The representatives had been told that the improvement in the data and calls must be the priority of the telecom companies.Meanwhile, the ADC had received more than 30 applications for the installation of new mobile towers, but they were rejected as these were incomplete and the firms had been asked to submit fresh applications.Tower InstallationThe new guidelines for the installation of towers were discussed at length with representatives of firms and it was decided that a standard operating process may be formulated to process and dispose of the applications for installation of towers in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telecom-firms-told-to-improve-connectivity-283728
16-07-2021||---||Two in police net for killing Chandigarh woman||Ambala, July 15The Ambala police have arrested a woman and her alleged beau for allegedly killing her mother-in-law, whose body was recovered beneath a flyover, near Ambala Central Jail, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Sushma Chauhan (55), a resident of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. The suspects have been identified as Rajni of Kharar, and Swaran, a taxi driver from Ropar. The suspects will be produced before a court tomorrow.Body found in ambalaIn his complaint to the police Sumit Chauhan, son of deceased, had stated that on July 13, his mother left her house for some work, but didn’t return. On July 14, they got information that body, some documents, clothes and Aadhaar card of his mother were recovered in Ambala. She was strangulated.A case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC at Baldev Nagar police station.The Baldev Nagar police station SHO, Balbir Singh, said, “Rajni and Swaran have been arrested in connection with the murder case. The deceased woman, a widow, had two sons – Amit, who was settled in Kharar, and Sumit, who was settled at Ram Darbar in Chandigarh, but they all were living independently.”“Amit was out of station when Sushma visited his house on July 13. Sushma was aware of Rajni’s relationship with Swaran following which the suspect hatched a plan to kill her. They dumped her body in Ambala. The car used in crime has also been recovered,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-in-police-net-for-killing-chandigarh-woman-283731
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cash-For-Judge Scam: CBI court issues summons to three witnesses||The hearing in “cash-for-judge” scam has resumed after a year with the CBI special court summoning three witnesses in the case to appear on the next date of hearing — July 30.The hearings were postponed for approximately a year due to the lockdown. When the hearing of the case began, Sukhpal Singh and Bhavnik Mehta, advocates, proxy counsel for Special Public Prosecutor for the CBI, made a request for adjournment. The CBI court stated in the order that the request for adjournment was allowed for today only and the proxy counsels were directed to inform the Special Public Prosecutor to appear on the adjourned date and continue the trial.The court has again issued the summons to witnesses Arun Rawat, SC Dandriyal and Vipin Kumar after they failed to appear today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cash-for-judge-scam-cbi-court-issues-summons-to-three-witnesses-283732
16-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board seeks public advice on reforms||Chandigarh, July 15A day after UT Adviser Dharam Pal kicked off governance reforms, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today invited suggestions or comments from the general public regarding minimising or reducing regulatory compliance burden in the services of the board.The UT Administration has initiated an exercise for minimising regulatory compliance burden to simplify, rationalise and digitise the interfaces with citizens.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the board had already reduced many compliance burdens and it was continuously taking steps for minimising the requirement of physical touchpoints with citizens and providing hassle-free services to the people of Chandigarh.“For the board to make the citizens interfaces simple, transparent and time-bound, there is a need for examining the existing Acts, rules, regulations, notifications, schemes, policies and processes,” he said.Garg said the suggestions or comments could be submitted through an email at legal.chb@gmail.com or can be sent by post at the address of the CHB in Sector 9 by July 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-seeks-public-advice-on-reforms-283737
16-07-2021||---||UT Adviser Dharam Pal for use of technology to curb liquor smuggling||Chandigarh, July 15To curb interstate smuggling of liquor, UT Adviser Dharam Pal has suggested the use of technology such as bar coding to strengthen enforcement measures.A meeting, chaired by Dharam Pal, was held today regarding the issue.Issues related to interstate smuggling of liquor in Haryana, Punjab and the UT and the excise duty structure of the two states and the UT were discussed at the meeting.It was decided that close coordination and sharing of information among the two states and the UT would help curb interstate smuggling.The meeting was attended by Anurag Rastogi, ACS (Excise and Taxation), Haryana, A Venu Prasad, ACS (Excise and Taxation), Punjab, and Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Finance Secretary-cum-Secretary (Excise and Taxation), Chandigarh.Mandip Singh Brar, Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT, Rajat Agarwal, Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Punjab, Shekhar Vidyarthi, Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, Kuldip Singh Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh, Smiti Chaudhary, SP, (L and O), Punjab, Manish Chawla, Punjab, Rakesh Kumar Popli, Collector (Excise), UT, and Sorabh Kumar Arora, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT, were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-adviser-dharam-pal-for-use-of-technology-to-curb-liquor-smuggling-283739
16-07-2021||---||Cholera outbreak in Panchkula villages, 179 ill||Panchkula, July 15The local Health Department today declared that vibrio cholerae bacteria was found in 16 of the 18 stool samples taken from Abheypur and Budhanpur villages where more and more patients continue to fell ill due to consumption of contaminated water. Confirming the same, Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said the results of water samples sent to a laboratory at Ramgarh were awaited.Meanwhile, the number of suspected cases reported from the two affected villages has gone up significantly and reached 179. At least 56 cases were reported at a health camp organised by the Health Department in the affected areas. Health officials said they were managed on site and sent home with medication.Special ward at Civil HospitalThey added that so far, at least 123 persons had sought treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Of these patients, as many as 65 had to be hospitalised and 46 were children. A nine-year-old boy from Abheypur, identified as Arpit, is the lone fatality so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar, who addressed a press conference on the matter today, said she inspected the affected areas and found the outbreak to be a result of poor housing and sanitary conditions.“There are pits filled with dirty water everywhere in the affected areas. I found sewers open and water storage tanks built at ground level with no regular disinfection. Dirty water from overflowing sewer lines goes into the ground and eventually reaches the drinking water pipeline,” she said. The Health Department is conducting a door-to-door survey in the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cholera-outbreak-in-panchkula-villages-179-ill-283740
16-07-2021||---||Panjab University clears the air on governance reforms||Chandigarh, July 15The Panjab University authorities have finally broke their silence on the reforms in the governing body.The university today issued a clarification to dispel the “factually incorrect” claims being made through discussions at different platforms.On the allegation that the stake of Punjab was being diluted, the PU said: “In the present PU Act, Punjab is represented in the Senate/Syndicate through various ex-officio positions of the state government. In the report, all these ex-officio positions of Punjab have been kept intact, and therefore, there is no dilution so far as the participation of the state (is concerned).”On the claims that the territorial jurisdiction of the university was being restricted to Mohali and Roopnagar only, the PU said: “The committee has recommended the realignment of the territorial jurisdiction of the PU in such a way so that the colleges falling in the immediate vicinity of campus can be affiliated to it.”“This recommendation has been made only for the convenience and benefits of the students and research scholars studying/working in the colleges situated in Mohali and Roopnagar,” said the university.“Similarly, the students in the colleges, which are situated at far off places (more than 200 to 250 km away) may get better services from a university located in their proximity. This recommendation is not at all restricting or de-affiliating colleges situated in Ludhiana, Khanna, Moga, Balachaur, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and others,” it added.The university authorities also negated the claims that the Vice-Chancellor had been given the power to nominate members of the Senate and Syndicate.“In the proposed structure of the Senate and the Syndicate, the power to nominate members of the Senate vests with the Chancellor. However, the committee has unanimously recommended curtailing the number of nominated members to 18 from the present 36, so as to have a lean and efficient governance structure,” the PU stated.“The committee has recommended the existing structure, with all three components, as such but only downsizing for enhancing efficiency. Downsizing has been recommended without compromising the democratic spirit of the functioning of the PU as the proposed Senate and Syndicate also have representation of elected principals and teachers of affiliated colleges of Punjab as well as Chandigarh, besides elected representatives of teachers from PU campus,” it added.Regarding ‘registered graduates constituency’, the university said: “It may be relevant to mention that in none of the universities of Punjab, the ‘registered graduates constituency’ exists.”“The election process of this constituency is a very complex and cost intensive exercise for any educational institution. In PU, it involves more than 3.5 lakh voters spread over five states and two union territories,” read the PU statement.“The concept of having ‘registered graduates constituency’ was relevant only till 1960s when the PU was conducting matriculation and intermediate examinations. Hence, it was recommended to have ‘eminent alumni’ of the PU on the governing bodies of PU instead of ‘registered graduates constituency,” it added.PEC recasts boardChandigarh: Punjab Engineering College on Thursday reconstituted the Board of Governors. Rajinder Gupta, chairman, Trident Group, will continue to head the board. The reconstitution of the board has been approved by the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. TNS Westwood for RGPFCChandigarh: Ashley Westwood, the former technical director of Atlético de Kolkata, has been appointed head coach of the first team of RoundGlass Punjab Football Club (RGPFC). “RGPFC has the potential to become a leading club and I’m excited to be a part of this journey," said Westwood. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-clears-the-air-on-governance-reforms-283741
16-07-2021||Mohali||After 14 months, just 2 Covid cases in Mohali||After over 14 months, the fresh case tally in the district touched a low of two, taking the overall case count to 68,389. On April 29 last year, the district had reported two cases. On Wednesday, the district saw eight positive cases. While no fresh death was reported from the district, five more patients recovered from the virus. One case each was reported from Mohali and Dera Bassi. — TNSNo death, 6 cases in Panchkula districtpanchkula: The district on Thursday reported six fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,625. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 375. While 30,230 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-14-months-just-2-covid-cases-in-mohali-283742
16-07-2021||---||TVIS dues: Chandigarh cops to visit offenders on doorstep||Chandigarh, July 15City residents, who have been issued the traffic violation information slips (TVIS) or postal challans and have not paid the same, will be made to pay the fine as the UT traffic police have started visiting their houses to collect the fine.Palak Goel, DSP Traffic (Administration), said to clear the pending challans, the traffic police would be visiting the offenders on their doorstep. “The fine will be collected through the e-challan machine only,” the DSP added.Two teams of two members each have been constituted to visit the offenders. The police will be equipped with body cameras to record their visits.The DSP said the police would visit the offenders within Chandigarh.A TVIS challan is issued on the basis of violations caught on CCTV cameras installed at various light points in the city or pictures of violations sent by citizens to the police. A TVIS challan is sent on the registered address of the vehicle owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tvis-dues-chandigarh-cops-to-visit-offenders-on-doorstep-283747
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Delink DA from Punjab pattern: Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delink-da-from-punjab-pattern-chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-283748
16-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Nursing homes in residential areas: Chandigarh plans comprehensive policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15The UT Administration is planning to bring in a comprehensive policy to run private nursing homes in residential areas.Local MP Kirron Kher had last year sent a proposal to the Administration to allow opening of nursing homes in the residential areas. In 2005, the Administration had discontinued the provision allowing new nursing homes in the residential areas.In March this year, the Standing Committee on Health, a sub-committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council, had unanimously recommended the opening of nursing homes in residential areas, but with certain conditions. However, the final decision in this regard will be taken by the UT Administration.The meeting, which was chaired by former minister Harmohan Dhawan, was attended by Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, and the local president of the Indian Medical Association, Dr Vanita Gupta, among others.A senior UT officer said a comprehensive policy was required to regulate private nursing homes in the residential areas.In her proposal, the MP had stated that allowing nursing homes in residential areas would certainly reduce the burden on government health institutions and people would get health facilities close to their homes as was being done in neighbouring states.However, the Standing Committee on Urban Infrastructure and Planning had, in July last year, rejected the proposal. Members of the committee were of the opinion that private nursing homes would undertake commercial activities and provide expensive healthcare facilities. It would also create problems such as parking and traffic in the residential areas, said the members.Later, the Advisory Council asked the Standing Committee on Health to examine the issue.The proposalThe MP had proposed that allowing nursing homes in residential areas would certainly reduce the burden on government health institutions and people would get health facilities close to their homes. However, it was rejected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nursing-homes-in-residential-areas-chandigarh-plans-comprehensive-policy-283749
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Boy reunited with kin||Parents of a 12-year-old boy were traced by the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of the Chandigarh Police and he was reunited with the family.The boy was staying at Snehalaya, a shelter home, and was unable to provide information about his parents and their address.ASI Rishilal interacted with the boy earlier this month. However, the boy could share no information following which he was counselled twice. The police said the boy told them that his parents’ occupation was giving new cooking utensils to people in exchange of old clothes.On July 12, ASI Rishilal proceeded on causal leave and while going to his native village in Haryana, the ASI saw people selling utensils in exchange of clothes at the Pipli bus stand. He interacted with those persons and inquired if they knew about the parents of the boy.The police said those persons shared the information about the child on a WhatsApp group of the community which helped them in tracing the boy’s parents in Ludhiana. The police then contacted the boy’s parents and asked them to visit Chandigarh. The boy was reunited with his parents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-reunited-with-kin-283750
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man arrested with sand boa snake||A Pathankot resident has been arrested for allegedly possessing a sand boa.The police said they got a tip-off that a man was trying to sell a snake for Rs15 lakh in Sector 23. Cops reached the spot and sent a decoy customer to strike a deal with the suspect, Ravi Kumar.The police said the suspect agreed to sell the snake to the decoy customer after which they nabbed him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-arrested-with-sand-boa-snake-283751
16-07-2021||Amit Sharma||Burail Jail extortion racket getting bigger; another inmate paid Rs 20K||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15Inmates of Model Jail, Burail, who have been accused of extorting Rs2 lakh from another inmate, seem to have been running an extortion racket from within the jail as the suspects had also allegedly extorted Rs20,000 from another inmate, who was lodged in the same barracks. Earlier, the police had received a complaint from Philip Jacob, who was who was among six persons arrested by the UT police in April for allegedly dealing illegally in remdesivir, a Covid-19 treatment drug, who was lodged in barrack number 9, along with other co-accused in the case Prabhat Tyagi.Jacob had alleged that Tyagi and another inmate Ankit Narwal, who is an accused in double murder case, extorted Rs2 lakh from him.In another complaint submitted to the police, a Delhi-based businessman, who is also an accused in the remdesivir case and recently came out on bail, has reported that inmate Ankit Narwal had threatened him and demanded an extortion of Rs10 lakh. Earlier, the complainant was in barrack number 8. However, later he was shifted to barrack number 9. “Ankit was in the same barracks and he was friendly with me for a few days. However, he later started threatening me and demanded an extortion of Rs10 lakh. He had all information about my business,” the complainant said.The complainant further mentioned that to intimidate him, a few persons used to follow him to the washroom. Ankit had provided a mobile number of Vikas to him.“There was a threat to my life following which I asked my brother to contact Vikas and pay him Rs20,000,” he said.The complainant’s brother paid the money through Google Pay. However, Ankit kept demanding more money following which the complainant got his barracks changed, citing health issues.A police official said accused Ankit Narwal was being questioned about any more such extortions being made from within the jail.Delhi bizman’s complaintIn a complaint submitted to the police, a Delhi-based businessman, who is also an accused in the remdesivir case and recently came out on bail, has reported that inmate Ankit Narwal had threatened him and demanded an extortion of Rs10 lakh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burail-jail-extortion-racket-getting-bigger-another-inmate-paid-rs-20k-283752
16-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Bir Devinder Singh flays govt over inflation||Sukhbir Singh Badal and Capt Amrinder Singh should volunteer for a Narco test to detect corruption, especially regarding the power purchase agreement, as both have amassed thousands of crores from private companies and ruined the state, said Bir Devinder Singh, former Deputy Speaker.He said: “Punjab is on ventilator and it is the last chance for the people of the state to save it by voting out both the Badals and the Congress.”On possible alliance with AAP, he said the next government would be formed and led by the Panthic party SAD (United) and the talk to form alliance with like-minded parties was on the cards. He flayed Modi and Congress government for high inflation and fuel prices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bir-devinder-singh-flays-govt-over-inflation-283754
16-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Cholera outbreak: At Panchkula's Abheypur village, sewer lines run parallel to water pipes||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 15Sewer pipelines run parallel to or cross water pipelines at Abheypur village, leading to contamination of water in case of a leakage, the area councillor told Chandigarh Tribune. Rajesh Kumar, councillor from ward number 9, said the pipelines, which were laid around 25-30 years ago, were too old and needed replacement. He said, “I had written to the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradikaran (HSVP), which is responsible for the water supply in the area, to get the pipelines replaced. Acting on my letter, they had started work on laying new pipelines in the area after floating a tender. However, it came to a halt as the contractor had not acquired the requisite permission.”Many cases cropped up in a street (house number 31 to 34) where the HSVP claimed to have rectified leakage in five connections recently.An HSVP official said considering the gravity of the situation and panic among people, efforts were on to ensure there was no leakage in the water pipeline.Abheypur is one of the two affected villages from where most suspected cholera cases have been reported since yesterday. It has a population of around 35,000, mostly migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Amit Rathee, Executive Engineer, HSVP, said, “According to their assessment, Abheypur village has a cluster of houses and people live in crowded conditions in each house (in some cases up to 20 families). An unusual increase in water connections aggravates the already complex water supply system in such areas.”“It makes it difficult to detect a fault and maintain the potable water supply system,” he said.He said people in such densely populated areas did not disinfect water storage tanks at their houses.“The bacteria level generally rises in the rainy season, which leads to contamination of water,” the HSVP official said.The HSVP has stopped the water supply in the “most-affected area” and it is being disinfected.“Our team, including and SDO and a JE, were on the spot. The supply will be restored after doing the needful,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cholera-outbreak-at-panchkulas-abheypur-village-sewer-lines-run-parallel-to-water-pipes-283756
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Expect heavy rain in Punjab, Haryana from July 17, says IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) today predicted enhanced rainfall activity over plains of the northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19.It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall “is likely to continue over HP and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy rainfall till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy rain on July 17 and 18”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-heavy-rain-in-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-says-imd-283906
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Back to normal self, says Punjab cop, whose hand severed in Patiala attack last year||Punjab police officer Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped off in a brutal attack and then reattached by PGIMER doctors last year, on Thursday said he was back to his normal self.Singh, who was later promoted to Sub-Inspector rank from ASI, was present here on the occasion of ‘Replantation Helpline’, launched by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here.Read also“There are no words to thank PGIMER team for what they have done and I feel deeply indebted to them. It is because of the PGIMER team that I am back to my normal self, gaining full function of my amputated part.” Singh’s hand was chopped off with a sword by a group of people at a vegetable market in Patiala district in April last year.He was attacked after the accused were asked to produce curfew passes outside the market.His hand was reattached after a long and complicated surgery at PGIMER.Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, who joined the event virtually, expressed his gratitude to the department of Plastic Surgery for successfully replanting Singh’s chopped hand last year.“One of the key enablers in case of successful replantation of the chopped hand of Harjit Singh was the timely reporting at PGIMER. In view of the same, my department will extend all the support for speedy transportation of amputated body parts,” he said.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said: “The basic intent of Replantation Helpline is to help streamline the flow of patients with such injuries so that the part can be stored properly and the patient can be provided the care at the earliest without losing precious time.”R K Sharma, Head, Department of Plastic Surgery said the department has also been in the forefront of replantation services and have successfully replanted amputated hands, forearms, thumbs, fingers, scalp, penis-scrotum, etc., in the last 30 years.He said the department of Plastic Surgery, which was established at PGI in 1966, has been at the forefront of providing quality care to the people and has been actively managing the correction of congenital and acquired deformities and defects.The burns unit of the department treats about 300 to 400 patients every year.The department also manages the trauma to the limbs and maxillofacial region, neuro-vascular injuries, maxillofacial trauma, and major skin losses, he stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/back-to-normal-self-says-punjab-cop-whose-hand-severed-in-patiala-attack-last-year-283708
