18-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh records six Covid cases||Chandigarh, July 18Chandigarh reported six cases while the death toll stood at 809 with no death reported in the past 24 hours in the union territory.The infection tally in the city stood at 61,889. The count also includes 13 cases, which were not reported earlier.A total of 22 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines.Coronvirus has killed 809 people in the UT.The number of active cases was 50, as per the bulletin.With 22 patients having been discharged after recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 61,030.A total of 5,95,449 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 5,32,278 tested negative while reports of three samples were awaited, the bulletin said. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-six-covid-cases-285060
18-07-2021||---||3 detained for attack on BJP leaders' vehicles||Chandigarh, July 18The Chandigarh Police have detained three people in connection with the Saturday incident where the vehicles of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and BJP co-incharge for Himachal Pradesh Sanjay Tandon were vandalised by some "anti-social elements" during a protest held in support of farmers outside the motor market in Sector 48.Also read: Cars of Mayor, Tandon attacked during protestThe three people have been taken to a police station at Sector 49.While pro-farmer organisations, including Chandigarh's Naujawan Kisan Ekta, have repeatedly said that none of their volunteers attacked the BJP leaders’ vehicles, they have been arrested and allegedly beaten by the UT Police.When contacted, SP City Ketan Bansal said, "We have not made any arrests today and are only trying to identify vandalisers."On pro-farmer WhatsApp groups, picture of a man, who has been allegedly missing since yesterday's protest, is doing the rounds.Advocate Ravinder Singh, former president District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said, "Some of the people were rounded up at 1 am. Our organisation Lawyers for Humanity will provide free legal aid to the arrested people."Meanwhile, the three arrested people are being taken to the District Courts at Sector 43.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-detained-for-attack-on-bjp-leaders-vehicles-285008
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||20 farm activists held, let off later||The police arrested nearly 20 farm activists at the motor market in Sector 48 when they blocked the market’s entrance in protest against the BJP’s programme which was attended by the party’s leader Sanjay Tandon and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma among others. They were later released in the evening when members of various pro-farmer organisations started gathering at Japanese Garden in Sector 31.Also read:President of Naujawan Kisan Ekta Kirpal Singh said: “We had blocked gate 2 and 3, which were barricaded by the police. When the BJP leaders arrived, we showed them black flags and they drove inside the market. When they came back, we again showed black flags, but all of a sudden, we saw stones being hurled at the cars. None of our volunteers did that, the police must have the videos of people who did so.”However, one of the protesters said all exits of the market were blocked by farmers to gherao the BJP leaders. “When Tandon’s car drove out of the market, his car’s windshield was already broken. None of the protesters were inside the market,” said Amarinder Kaur.Kirpal added, “After the BJP leaders came out, the police asked us to either get arrested or vacate the area in five minutes. Just when we started vacating the area peacefully, the police started lathicharge and rounded us up.”A video of a 13-year-old being taken by the police in the riot-control vehicle has gone viral on social media. “The kid was later let off,” Kirpal shared.Activist Rajwinder Kaur, who was the first to protest at the Matka Chowk, too was taken to the police station from GMCH-32. “She stood in front of Tandon’s car and was hurt. So, we took her to the hospital. She hadn’t gotten the complete medical treatment when the police took her,” Kirpal added.Meanwhile, the protesters reached the Sector 31 police station and demand the release of their volunteers. “Even at the police station, the protesters were lathicharged and detained,” said Sukhchain Singh, an elderly Sikh man.He added: “The SSP said give us the names of people who pelted stones, but we were only peacefully protesting. It’s their job to find out. They asked us to leave and I was about to go, but the police slapped me and removed my pagri.”Aman of PSU Lalkaar said: “When more people started gathering at Japanese garden, the SP (City) visited the spot and proposed a talk with the representatives. About eight of us went to the police station and spoke with the police, including the SSP and the ASP (South). We asked them to investigate the matter as pro-farmer activists have been protesting peacefully in the city for eight months now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-farm-activists-held-let-off-later-284785
18-07-2021||---||Cars of Mayor, Tandon attacked during protest||Chandigarh, July 17Vehicles of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and BJP co-incharge for Himachal Pradesh Sanjay Tandon were allegedly vandalised by agitators during a protest held in support of farmers outside the motor market in Sector 48 here today.Their moving vehicles were allegedly smashed with rods and sticks. Stones were also hurled on their cars. Front and back windscreens of the cars were broken. However, both leaders, who were sitting inside, escaped unhurt.Also read:The Mayor’s driver suffered minor bruises.Case registeredAccording to the Mayor and Tandon, they had gone to attend a programme at the motor market. While they were returning after attending the event, the protesters gheraoed their vehicles. Some of them came right in front of their cars.Some hurled stones and the others allegedly attacked the vehicles with rods and sticks. “They seemed to be in a mood to kill us. One of them carrying a rod even managed to open the door of my car before we could shut the door,” said the Mayor. A video was circulated yesterday by a group of men who asked people to reach the venue in large numbers on Saturday to protest against the BJP leaders.Tandon, a former city BJP chief, had informed the police about it last night and was assured of security. “The arrangement by the police was poor. They should not have allowed people, most of whom were outsiders, to attack our vehicles. Those sitting on junctions should be removed,” he said.The BJP leaders, who reached the venue little after 11 am, saw people raising slogans in favour of farmers and against the BJP on their route. They were attacked when they came out of the venue an hour later.Tandon said there seemed to be some anti-social elements who came as part of the farmers’ protest. “My request to all workers of the party is to maintain peace in the city,” he added.Meanwhile, the BJP leaders, led by Tandon, met SSP Kuldeep Chahal at the Sector 34 police station. The police assured them of strict action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cars-of-mayor-tandon-attacked-during-protest-284786
18-07-2021||---||Tally 364, 74 under treatment||Panchkula, July 17Even though the Civil Surgeon yesterday claimed that the rate of new cholera cases had declined in Abheypur, the tally of patients infected due to bacterial disease reached 364 today.At least 74 patients (36 children and 38 adults) are still under treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. On the first day (Wednesday) of the outbreak, the infection tally stood at 24.It rose to 179 on the second day (Thursday). The tally eventually reached 250 on the third day (Friday) before settling at 364 today. One fatality — of a 9-year-old boy from Abheypur — has been recorded so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar reiterated that the cholera infection rate has come down.She said: “Even though we continue to get serious patients at the Civil Hospital, we have so far managed to stabilise the condition of such patients.”She said the results of water samples sent to the Ramgarh laboratory for testing were still awaited and were expected by Monday.Meanwhile, the local Health Department continued to offer on-site medical services to the non-serious patients through a camp at Abheypur.A round-the-clock ambulance service has been dedicated for transporting patients needing emergency care at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tally-364-74-under-treatment-284789
18-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court allows renewal of  Punjab cop’s passport||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI court, Chandigarh, has directed the passport authorities to renew/reissue the passport of Raka Ghirra, the accused in an alleged graft case.Raka Ghirra, a Punjab police official, had filed an application through advocate SPS Bhullar for the renewal of her passport.The accused had sought the directions to the Regional Passport Officer to renew her passport, which expired on December 20, 2020. Bhullar submitted that the passport was not renewed on the grounds that the court case was pending and as such court, the permission from the court was required.Public Prosecutor PK Dogra opposed the application by claiming that if the passport of the accused was renewed, she might flee the country and might not be available to face the trial.After hearing the arguments, the CBI court stated that during the pendency of the case, nothing came on record that the accused at any stage tried to misuse her passport or tried to flee the country and, therefore, this apprehension of the CBI seemed to be misfounded. The court, while relying on the judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Harjinder Singh Bajwa vs. Union of India and other cases, stated that mere pendency of a criminal case was no ground to disallow such a prayer.The court stated in the order that similar were the circumstances in the present case and there being no past history of the accused of any misuse of the passport, her application was allowed and the passport authorities were directed to renew/reissue the passport as per the rules on completion of all formalities by the accused.The court further stated that to dispel the apprehension of the CBI that the case was at the final stage and that accused might misuse the passport if renewed, the accused is directed to deposit the passport, after renewal, with the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-allows-renewal-of-punjab-cops-passport-284790
18-07-2021||Amit Bathla
||Residents forced to buy water||Tribune News Service Panchkula, July 17 With water supply yet to be restored by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) after a cholera outbreak, Abheypur residents are forced to buy water from private tankers for daily consumption. The water being supplied through tankers pressed into service by the authorities is not sufficient, say residents. This is taking a toll on villagers, who belong to the lower income strata and struggle to make their both ends meet.  Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta yesterday directed HSVP officials to ensure arrangement of adequate number of water tankers for Abhyepur residents. On a random visit to the village this afternoon, it was found that a group of youths had arranged four water tankers for locals by contributing from their own pockets so that residents don’t suffer in the scorching summer. Each tanker costs them Rs500 “Only four-five government tankers have been deployed in the village. They are certainly not enough to fulfil the demand of the village and people are struggling. We had to arrange four water tankers at our own cost,” said one of them. He said they would place order for more tankers if the demand went up. He said: “Leakages of pipes have been occurring time and time again. However, the officials concerned have failed to find a permanent solution so far. I urge the authorities to address the issue as soon as possible.” However, HSVP officials said they were putting in all efforts to ensure the village did not face the shortage of water. Amit Rathee, Executive Engineer of the HSVP, said enough tankers had been deployed to meet the daily water demands of Abheypur residents. “We can’t restore supply without addressing the problem as cases have risen significantly. We can’t let the situation go out of control. We had found three leakages at three places and those water connections were cut,” he said. He said hopefully, they would restore the water supply by tomorrow evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-forced-to-buy-water-284791
18-07-2021||---||89 jabbed at Rock Garden||Chandigarh, July 17 The Tourism Department, UT, in coordination with the Health Department, today organised a vaccination camp at Rock Garden with on-the-spot registration for tourists above 18 years from 10 am to 5 pm with an ambulance facility.  Proper arrangement for sitting after vaccination was made at Rock Garden and the vaccinated tourists were also offered water and packed juice after vaccination. Total 89 visitors were vaccinated at Rock Garden. Outstation tourists appreciated the efforts by the department.  The UT Adviser has directed the department to explore ways to ensure Covid-safe tourism in the city. Nitika Pawar, Special Secretary-cum-Director Tourism, UT, said the department also organised awareness activities for tourists visiting various places — Capitol Complex, Rock Garden, Sukhna Lake, museums, Sector 17 Plaza. Free mask distribution drives were also organised at tourist places. The UT Administration has opened up tourist places such as Rock Garden and museums. Various steps have been taken by the Administration to ensure adherence to the Covid-19 protocol to be followed by visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/89-jabbed-at-rock-garden-284792
18-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula residents allege mismanagement||Residents here have alleged that they were facing difficulty in depositing property tax at the Municipal Corporation’s office in Sector 4 here due to “mismanagement”.The chaos at the MC office is also making it difficult to follow the Covid guidelines as huge crowds gather to deposit property tax, they said.Urging the civic body to introduce a token system, Bharat Hiteshi, chairman, House Owners Welfare Association, Sector 10, Panchkula, said special counters should be set up for the convenience of the senior citizens.Hiteshi claimed that the company entrusted with the responsibility of collecting property tax was unable to maintain the records resulting in “harassment” of general public.“The employees of the company ask people to bring their old bills, while the system itself should know when the previous property tax was deposited by the owner. A private worker has been placed in the MC office who takes Rs 50 from people to help them pay the bills online and does not offer receipts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-allege-mismanagement-284793
18-07-2021||---||City Congress protests rising fuel prices||Chandigarh, jULY 17 The Chandigarh Congress held a protest demonstration against rising prices at Sector 22 here today. Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Pawan Bansal attacked the Centre, saying the government was burdening people with tax on petroleum products. “It seems that the government has exhausted all the means of income and wants to run the affairs by collecting money from the tax on petroleum products,” said Bansal.  Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said the government had failed to stop the rising inflation. “The last 15 months have pushed 3.20 crore middle income group people into the low income group, while 7.30 crore people slipped below the poverty line,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-congress-protests-rising-fuel-prices-284794
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Welfare Dept seeks suggestions||The Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development has invited suggestions or comments from the general public with regard to minimising or reducing the regulatory compliance burden in the services provided by the department.The Chandigarh Administration has initiated an exercise regarding minimising regulatory compliance burden with to simplify, rationalise and digitise the interfaces with citizens. The main objective is to decrease the time and cost burden, improve ease of living for citizens and ease of doing business for industrialists.The suggestions/comments can be submitted through email at dirswd-chd@nic.in or by post at Department of Social Welfare Women & Child Development, Town Hall Extension Building, III Floor, Sector 17, by July 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-welfare-dept-seeks-suggestions-284795
18-07-2021||---||30K saplings planted||Chandigarh, July 17A plantation drive was held at the Chandimandir Military Station as part of the week-long initiative by the Western Command. About 30,000 saplings of various varieties were planted.The plantation drive involved close coordination with the Forest Department of Haryana. The saplings that were planted included varieties of timber, ornamental, fruit-bearing, flower-bearing and medicinal trees.Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, and VS Tanwar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Haryana, were present at the event.The Army Commander spoke about the Indian Army’s efforts to supplement India’s commitment to the world on reducing carbon footprint and making the eco system healthy for future generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30k-saplings-planted-284796
18-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Collect 2 lakh HCQ pills, Centre tells UT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Even as hydrochloroquine (HCQ) did not prove to be useful in fight against the Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry is keen on clearing the stock lying untouched at the Government Medical Stores Depot in New Delhi.The Ministry, in this regard, has also asked Chandigarh to collect two lakh HCQ tablets, however, the union territory is yet to claim the stock.Interestingly, the Health Ministry in its new guidelines released on June 7 had dropped the use of ivermectin, HCQ and anti-viral favipiravir for Covid-19 treatmentIn a letter sent by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to various states and UTs, directions have been issued to the officials concerned to help mobilise the allocated stocks of HCQ and utilise the same for providing prophylaxis to asymptomatic healthcare workers, other frontline workers engaged in Covid-19 related duties as well as for treatment of mild cases of Covid-19.On June 16, the Ministry in a letter to the states, a copy of which lies with The Tribune, had mentioned that a total of 1.855 crore tablets of HCQ allocated till date had not been collected by some states, UTs (including Chandigarh) and central government institutions (including the PGI, Chandigarh).Official sources said already 1.5 lakh tablets of HCQ were lying in stock with the Chandigarh Health Department.Doctors dealing with Covid-19 in Chandigarh hospitals also claim that they do not use HCQ tablets for treatment as the drug was not found to be useful.Dr Sanjay D Cruz from the Department of Internal Medicine, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, said, “We do not use HCQ on Covid patients as the drug was not found to be useful. There is no point using a drug which is less efficient.”Last year, the Health Ministry had issued advisories on the use of hydrochloroquine as prophylaxis for Covid-19 infection and managing of mild cases. It was also decided that HCQ will be procured by the Health Ministry and distributed to the states.According to World Health Organisation (WHO), clinical trials confirm that hydroxychloroquine does not prevent illness or death from Covid-19.Hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine, a common treatment for malaria and certain autoimmune diseases, had been studied as a preventative treatment for Covid-19. However, evidence from these studies shows that HCQ has little or no impact on illness, hospitalisation, or death.“The stock of HCQ will be collected in a day or two,” said UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta. “We have the stock, but the additional allocation, as desired by the GOI, will be procured.”HCQ Conundrum||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/collect-2-lakh-hcq-pills-centre-tells-ut-284797
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Shanti adjudged best boxer||Shanti of Sector 56 Boxing Coaching Centre was adjudged the best boxer at the 41st Junior Boys and 17th Junior Girls Chandigarh State Boxing Championship. Sanya of The British School, Sector 44, won the best looser title.  Sector 56 Boxing Coaching Centre girls amassed 28 points to claim the overall title. The team of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 32, finished a distant second with six points. In the boys’ category, Sumit Dhull of The British School was adjudged as the best boxer and Aryan of PML SD School, Sector 32, was named as the best loser.  Sector 56 centre also topped boys’ competition with 22 points. The British School team scored 15 points finish second. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shanti-adjudged-best-boxer-284798
18-07-2021||Mohali||‘Over 600 Covid patients treated at Grecian Hospital during 2nd wave’||The doctors at Grecian Super Speciality Hospital provided treatment to over 600 critical patients during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the hospital revealed while sharing facts regarding the ‘Critical Care, Covid Care and Ventilation’.Dr Preeti Sharma, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care, said, “Since critical or intensive care involves the diagnosis or management of life-threatening health conditions, the facilities in these units are considered to be the best that a hospital can offer.”“Round the clock availability of the specialised doctors and heathcare staff besides the best medical equipment ensured the highest level of patient care at the hospital,” she said.Dr Maninderjit Kaur, senior consultant and head of the critical care unit, said, “To ensure low fatality rate, the ICU beds need to be increased to at least 10 per cent of total beds in all hospitals; and even up to 15-20 per cent in some leading public as well as private tertiary care centres.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-600-covid-patients-treated-at-grecian-hospital-during-2nd-wave-284799
18-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula sees zero case, no death||Gangster held with weaponsChandigarh: The police have arrested a proclaimed offender involved in supplying illegal arms and seized a pistol, four cartridges, an air pistol, an empty magazine and a knife from his possession in Sector 23 here on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Mullanpur, a resident of Shiv Charan, alias Shibbi. The suspect, who is a postgraduate, has already been booked under different sections, including 302, 307, 506 and 379 of the Arms Act in six cases. TNSThieves make off with 2 vehiclesChandigarh: Two vehicles have reportedly stolen from the city. In a complaint to the police, Charanjit Singh of Sector 38 stated that his jeep was stolen from near his house between July 12 and 14. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Maloya police station. In another case, Sector 22 resident Jagmit Singh reported that unknown person stole his motorcycle from near his house on the night of July 15. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-zero-case-no-death-284811
18-07-2021||---||Hookah served, three booked||Chandigarh, July 17The police have booked Jatin Chaudhary of Mani Majra, Raj Kumar of Panchkula and Akash Nagpal of Karnal for serving hookah to their customers at a club in Sector 7 on July 16 and violating the orders of the District Magistrate.A case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-served-three-booked-284814
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Parvarish’ for kids who lost parent(s) to Covid||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has approved a scheme for the holistic development of children affected or orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The benefits of the scheme, ‘Parvarish’, will be extended to Covid-orphaned or children who have lost one parent. The virus has left many kids vulnerable and orphaned due to loss of their parent(s) or breadwinner of the family.Among those covered under the scheme are kids who have lost one parent and the surviving parent has surrendered the child or orphaned children living with extended familiesThe Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development will bear the educational, medical and nutritional expenses of children who have lost one or both parents and have been kept in child care institutions. A fixed deposit of Rs3 lakh will also be created in the child’s name. The amount can be withdrawn by him/her on attaining the age of 21. Further, the eligible beneficiaries, on turning 18, will be provided financial support if they pursue short-term diploma course, graduation, an equivalent three-year degree course or a professional degree.The beneficiaries under the scheme can avail themselves of the scheme benefits with effect from March last year.Survey to identify kidsThe District Child Protection Unit is conducting a survey to identify children who have lost their parent(s) due to Covid. Eligible beneficiaries can contact the unit at 0172-2643654.Scheme benefits||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parvarish-for-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-284815
18-07-2021||---||Vehicles of Chandigarh mayor, BJP leader Sanjay Tandon ‘attacked’ in Sector 48||Chandigarh, July 17Some protesters on Saturday allegedly attacked vehicles of Sanjay Tandon, co-incharge, BJP Himachal and Chandigarh, and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma in Sector 48 here.They had gone there to attend a function. The front and rear windshields of their cars were reportedly broken.Five people who were detained as they gathered at Sector 31 police station to protest against the arrest of farm activists were released in the evening.However, activists have denied the role of farmers in the attack. They alleged that activists had only shown black flags to the leaders and police had detained them `unlawfully'.More people, in Sector 49, who were arrested in the afternoon are also expected to be released.But Tandon claimed they were returning after attending the event they were attacked with rods and sticks. They were also allegedly pelted with stones.According to information, the BJP leaders had to attend an event at 11 am at the motor market in Sector 48.But, a video was circulated on Friday night by a group of men who asked people to reach the venue in large numbers on Saturday to protest against the BJP leaders and Tandon. The former city BJP chief had informed the police about it on Friday night. "The arrangement by the police was poor. They should not have allowed people, most of whom were outsiders, to attack our vehicles," Tandon said.The BJP leaders, who reached the venue after 11 am, saw people raising slogans in favour of farmers on their route. But, after an hour when the event was over, they came out, and were allegedly attacked."They tried as if they wanted to kill us. They came in front of our vehicles. They attacked our vehicles with sticks and rods and pelted them with stones. They were trying to enter inside the cars. Luckily, we remained unhurt, but our vehicles were damaged," Tandon said.He said they seemed to be anti-social elements who had joined the farmers’ protest.Meanwhile, the BJP leaders led by Tandon met the SSP at Sector 34 police station. The police have assured them strict action. Some of the attackers have been rounded up as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicles-of-chandigarh-mayor-bjp-leader-sanjay-tandon-attacked-in-sector-48-284601
