19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Organs of 13-year-old brain dead girl give new lease of life to 4 patients in Chandigarh, Mumbai||The family of a 13-year-old girl, who suffered cerebral oedema and was subsequently declared brain dead at a hospital here, donated her organs, helping four patients suffering from end-stage organ failure in Chandigarh and Mumbai, the hospital said in a statement on Monday.On July 8, the girl from Chandigarh became unconscious due to cerebral oedema and was rushed to the Government Multi Speciality Hospital in Sector 16. However, due to worsening prognosis, she was shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in an extremely critical condition the next day.“But all the efforts of the family and friends could not deter the dark tragedy as the little girl’s ten days’ struggle between life and death came to a halt as she could not be revived and subsequently...was declared brain dead on July 18,” according to the PGIMER statement.It further said the transplant coordinators at PGIMER approached the grief-stricken father to request if he could consider organ donation.“The resolute and brave heart father showcased immense grit and consented for organ donation,” it said.Prof Ashok Kumar, Additional Medical Superintendent, PGIMER and acting nodal officer, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (North), while giving details of the case, said, “As the donor family wanted their daughter to relive in others, it became our moral duty as well to respect their wish.”“Following the family’s consent, we secured her heart, liver, kidneys and corneas. Once the donor organs became available, everyone swiftly got into action.... As the cross-matching indicated no matching recipient for heart in PGIMER, we immediately got in touch with other transplant hospitals to explore options for matching recipients and finally, heart was allocated to Sir H N Reliance Hospital, Mumbai with the intervention of NOTTO (National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation).”     Kumar said, “To ensure safe and speedy transport of the harvested organs, a green corridor was created...from PGIMER to airport at Chandigarh at around 6.35 am...for the onward flight to Mumbai.”The remaining organs were transplanted on patients at PGIMER, Chandigarh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/organs-of-13-year-old-brain-dead-girl-give-new-lease-of-life-to-4-patients-in-chandigarh-mumbai-285458
19-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh records four new Covid cases||Chandigarh, July 19Chandigarh on Monday reported four new cases of Covid-19 as the total number of cases reached 61,893.The death toll in the City remains 809. With eight patients having been discharged after recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons in the Union Territory reached 61,038, As many as 1,197 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a positivity rate of 0.33 per cent was recorded.The number of active cases has reduced to 46, as per the health bulletin.The number of people who have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine is 5,47,862, while 1,445,72 have received both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-four-new-covid-cases-285428
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 42 man duped of Rs 50 lakh by two||Woman’s modesty outraged, man heldChandigarh: A Faidan resident has been arrested for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman. The complainant alleged that Balkar Singh allegedly entered her house and abused her on July 16. He also damaged her household items. The police have registered a case under Sections 452, 354 and 427 of the IPC at Sector 31 police station. TNSClub flouts DM’s order, 2 bookedChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case after a club, Terminal-7, in Sector 7 was found open beyond the permissible time in violation of the District Magistrate's order. The police have booked Avtar Singh and Subham under section 188 of the IPC. TNSMan nabbed with charasChandigarh: A resident of Sector 21 has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police with 1.50 kg of charas. He has been identified as Raj Kumar, alias Summy (52). He was arrested near the petrol pump in Sector 21. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act. TNSVaccination camps heldChandigarh: A vaccination camp for those in the 18 plus age group was held at Lions VTC centre in Sector 30 on Sunday. A total of 91 persons were vaccinated among whom 55 received their first dose. A free dental and sugar check-up camp was also held alongside, said Lion Baldev Narang. Meanwhile, Rotary Club, Chandigarh Central, organised a free vaccination camp at Kishangarh village in collaboration with the UT National Health Mission. A total of 450 persons were vaccinated. TNSDSOI management panel re-electedChandigarh: Major-Gen DJ Singh (retd) has been reelected vice-chairman of the Defence Services Officer's Institute, Sector 36, here. The institute's chairman is a senior serving officer nominated by the Headquarters, Western Command. All other sitting members of the management committee, who are retired officers, have also been re-elected. They include Capt Himmat Singh (finance), Col Rajeev Arora (housing and development), Col Jaswinder Singh (sports, entertainment and library), Lt Col NS Sihota (bar, screening and appointment) and Major RS Virk (catering and general services). TNSOffice-bearers of Rifle AssnChandigarh: Rajiv Atma Ram was elected president by the executive committee of the Chandigarh Rifle Association (CRA) on Sunday. The other office-bearers are Subhjot Singh Chadda, general secretary; Shalesh Sarwaria, treasure; Vijay Pal Singh, senior vice-president; Iqbal S Dhillon, Parminder Singh, Bhai Gurinder Singh and DK Tayal, all vice-presidents. Mainash Jain (joint secretary), Waheguru Singh, Amandeep Kansal, Ram Sarup, Sandeep Sarai, Bhomik Sharma, Prashant Dutt, Jaswinder S Dekhi, Navjot Sidhu, Holinder Kumar (executive members), Bhagwant S Rair (vice-president, administration), PS Gill (patron), PS Mangat and BC Gupta (coordinators) were alsoelected. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-42-man-duped-of-rs-50-lakh-by-two-285250
19-07-2021||---||‘Make Hindi, Punjabi official languages of HC’||Chandigarh, July 18Satya Pal Jain, former BJP MP and Additional Solicitor-General of India, has said time has come when in addition to English, Hindi and Punjabi should be made the official languages of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the subordinate judiciary.He said as a matter of fact, in all High Courts, the regional languages of that areas should also be official languages.Jain was speaking as a chief guest at the inaugural function of Chandigarh Law College at Jhanjheri village near Chandigarh yesterday.He said poor litigants would be able to put up their cases and make submissions in their respective mother tongue or regional language, rather than in English.Jain said he was not opposed to English as a court language which might be allowed to continue, but the sentiments and point of view could be expressed by a common man in his mother tongue and regional language more effectively than in any other language.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-hindi-punjabi-official-languages-of-hc-285248
19-07-2021||---||Krish, Parineeta win boxing gold||Chandigarh, July 18Krish Pal won gold medal in the 44-46kg category by defeating Aryan on the concluding day of the 41st Junior Boys and 17th Junior Girls Chandigarh State Boxing Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex today.Rohit Chamoli also claimed the pole position in the 46-48kg by defeating Garav. Shushant Kapoor won the 48-50kg title by defeating Mohit, Sukhjeet Singh defeated Sonu Chahal to win the 50-52kg final and Sahil overpowered Parminder to win the final of the 52-54kg category. Dhull won the 54-57kg title by defeating Deepak and Sohit won the 60-63kg category by defeating Sumit.In the 63-66kg final, Ankit Kundu defeated Tushar and Parmapreet bagged the title of 66-70kg category by registering a convincing win over Susheel Singh. In the 70-75kg category, Bhaviya Saini defeated Aditya Tiwari and in the 75-80kg final, Ragav overpowered Bikramjeet Singh. Ankush won the 80+kg final by defeating Paramveer Singh.In the girls’ category, Parineeta Sheroan won the 44-46kg category title by defeating Shikha Negi. Sapna won the 46-48kg final by defeating Priyanshi Mishra, Shanti defeated Sanya in the 50-52kg final and Neha won the 52-54kg title by defeating Tansi. Yashvi won the 57-60kg title by defeating Tanya Goutam and Nishita Joon defeated Tanya to win the 60-63kg final.In the 63-66kg title clash, Shinaya Guklia got the better of Himani Yadav and in the 66-70kg final, Loveleen Kaur defeated Diksha Kalyan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/krish-parineeta-win-boxing-gold-285247
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Adda Cricket XI register victory||Adda Cricket XI, Dera Bassi, defeated Maple Housing Cricket Club, Zirakpur, by 30 runs in the ongoing My Country My Love T20 Tournament. Batting first, Adda Cricket scored 184/5 in 20 overs with the help of Harvinder Singh (62), Sahil Rana (36), Dr Luthra (25), Kamal (22) and Shubham (14). Rishabh, Manish, Ankush and Rajesh claimed one wicket each for the bowling side.Maple Housing Cricket Club scored 154 runs before getting all-out in 19.3 overs. Ateet (48), Ravinder Pandey (30) and Ranjan (20)mainly contributed to the total.Shubham (3/20) was the main wicket-taker while Ankush and Anand claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adda-cricket-xi-register-victory-285246
19-07-2021||---||‘Put Panjab University senate election schedule in public domain’||Chandigarh, July 18Amid no official announcement on the Panjab University senate elections, especially after the authorities submitted a detailed report before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the contestants are wondering whether to start canvassing or not.The PU authorities submitted a detailed schedule of the senate elections last Friday. According to the revised schedule submitted before the High Court, polling will start on August 3 with the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held on August 23.Sources said while the Punjab Government and the UT Administration had given their consent to the setting up of polling booths for conducting elections, the other states are yet to send their consent.“As the revised schedule has been submitted to the court, the authorities should also announce it on a public platform so that the contestants should start canvassing. There are more than 3 lakh voters in the graduate constituency and the time is less,” said one of the contestants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/put-panjab-university-senate-election-schedule-in-public-domain-285245
19-07-2021||---||Motivate people to get jabbed, sarpanches told||Mohali, July 18The district health authorities today urged sarpanches to motivate villagers to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said there was no shortage of vaccine in the district and all those above 18 years of age should not hesitate from getting vaccinated and ignore rumours about ill-effects of the vaccine.As many as 6,11,337 persons have been inoculated in the district so far. Divulging details, the Civil Surgeon said health workers had administered 5,31,139 shots of Covishield and 80,198 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motivate-people-to-get-jabbed-sarpanches-told-285243
19-07-2021||---||AAP holds Covid awareness drive at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, July 18Volunteers of the Aam Aadmi Party today held an awareness campaign at Sukhna Lake here sensitising people to the importance of wearing masks.For about two hours, 101 volunteers had formed a human chain at the lake. Party’s election in-charge Chander Mukhi Sharma said: “Even though the second wave of Covid is over, according to reports by TV channels, we need to be more careful. In the second wave of Covid, more than 4 lakh people were hit and the BJP government had failed to deal with it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-holds-covid-awareness-drive-at-sukhna-lake-285242
19-07-2021||---||Day on, three more farm activists held in Chandigarh for attacking BJP leaders||Chandigarh, July 18Three more arrests, two at 1.30 am, were made today in connection with vandalisation of the BJP leaders’ cars during a protest by farm activists at the motor market in Sector 48 on Saturday. Malwinder Pal Singh, Harpreet Singh and Rajinder Singh were presented before court from where they were remanded in judicial custody.They have been charged with sections 147, 148, 149, 269, 270, 341, 427, 506, 332, 353, IPC. The Lawyers Defence Committee for Farmers is fighting their case free of cost.“A bail application has been filed and the hearing has been fixed for tomorrow,” said Vipin Kumar, an advocate. “New sections, 427, 332 and 353 have been added. Harpreet and Rajinder were picked at 1:30 am and Malwinder was picked up by the police around 8 am today. In fact, Malwinder was released yesterday and was re-arrested today,” said Ramandeep Singh Gill, an advocate.Advocate Satbir Walia said Rajinder worked at the motor market and didn’t have anything to do with the incident. “He has a shop in the motor market. He didn’t even come outside. Maybe all this is being done for the MC elections and his arrest is politically motivated,” he said.Walia added: “The charges against protesters were changed overnight after Kirron Kher tweeted about the ‘City Beautiful’, tagging PMO and Amit Shah. .”Bhaag Singh Suhaag, president, District Bar Association, said: “As per news, Sood informed the DGP that an attack was anticipated. Yet, the police weren’t prepared.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-on-three-more-farm-activists-held-in-chandigarh-for-attacking-bjp-leaders-285240
19-07-2021||---||SKM, Oppn condemn Chandigarh police action on farm activists||Chandigarh, July 18The events of yesterday’s protest by farm activists at the motor market in Secor 48 have evoked strong reactions from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and local parties. While the morcha and BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni condemned police action on protesters, Opposition parties questioned MP Kirron Kher’s sudden wakening after about two years of absence from the city. No call for blocking roads: SKMA statement about several organisations holding a meeting with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in connection with “blocking entry roads to Chandigarh if false charges on protesters aren’t dropped,” was issued by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta), Punjab. However, the morcha said it held no such meeting and it had nothing to do with the notice. The SKM shared this information through “Tractor 2 Twitter”.In their collective statement, SKM leaders said: “Yesterday, the Chandigarh police unleashed violence on peacefully protesting farmers who gathered to protest against BJP’s Sanjay Tandon and Ravikant Sharma (Mayor of Chandigarh).”They added: “Worse, they even picked up and arrested a child! When video clips of the eight-year-old arrested boy went viral, the police put out a flimsy explanation that cut no ice with anyone. There is a lot of visual evidence to show that the police, indeed, picked up and arrested the boy. The SKM condemns the Chandigarh police’s application for judicial custody of three protesters for 14 days today.”Former city MP Pawan Kumar Bansal, too, tweeted about the incident: “Farmers are protesting peacefully against three black laws for over 10 months now but government remains obdurate and slaps criminal charges against them, last week in Haryana and now in Chandigarh. Has the BJP forgotten that dharnas, gherao, rasta roko were the means it deployed in the past?”Harmohan Dhawan, city’s AAP representative, said: “I support farmers’ agitation. Unnecessarily, the BJP is instigating these people (farm activists); they have been sitting there for eight months, peacefully. The BJP should avoid going to places where farm activists are protesting so as to not instigate them.”Commenting on Kirron Kher’s tweet, Dhawan said: “The police should not come under Kirron Kher’s or any person’s political pressure and stay impartial in their line of duty.”Meanwhile, in a video message, Chaduni said: “If the Chandigarh police don’t stop its witch-hunt, going to various villages in Punjab, we will intensify protests. Some BJP people are saying farm activists are not farmers, well, this fight is that of anyone who eats food. They bought potato from us at Rs5 per kg and sold it at Rs40 per kg in Chandigarh. Similarly, onions bought at Rs8 a kg were sold at Rs80 a kg, so it should concern the city folk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/skm-oppn-condemn-chandigarh-police-action-on-farm-activists-285155
19-07-2021||---||Man shot at for saying no to friend’s booze offer||Panchkula, July 18A 35-year-old man was allegedly shot at by his friend on Saturday when the former refused to take alcohol with him in Kalka. The victim, who has been admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, was out of danger and stable.The victim has been identified as Rajiv Kumar Yadav, a native of Bihar who has been employed as skilled labour at a senior secondary school in Sector 35, Chandigarh, for the past one year.According to the FIR, the victim was a close friend of the suspect, Nandan Kumar, who at present resides at Sagarpur Colony of Kalka, and both hailed from the same village.‘’The victim frequently visited the suspect at his place in Kalka. On Saturday, he went there but found Nandan was not at home. So he decided to wait with his neighbour Amit. Upon arrival, Nandan had a bottle of liquor in his hand and he subsequently insisted the victim to drink with him. When he refused, Nandan started abusing him and an argument broke out between the two which later turned into a scuffle. The victim went inside the room and locked it from inside to cool the things down. Then Nandan took out his country-made pistol and fired through the door which hit the victim in the right arm,” the FIR said, quoting the victim.The victim was first rushed to Kalka Sub-Divisional Hospital from where he was referred to the GMCH in Sector 32 and later the PGI.The police have registered a case under section 25 of the Arms Act and section 307 (shoot with intention to kill) of the Indian Penal Code.Inspector Mahabir Singh, SHO of Kalka, said: “We have examined the scene of crime through forensics and a medical report has also been taken from various hospitals.’’ He added the suspect had absconded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-at-for-saying-no-to-friends-booze-offer-285156
19-07-2021||---||Chandigarh BJP protests attack on Mayor, former party chief||Chandigarh, July 18The local BJP today held a protest rally against the attack on vehicles of the city Mayor and former party chief Sanjay Tandon. Starting from the party office in Sector 33, they marched up to Labour Chowk. A delegation submitted a memorandum to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.Arun Sood, city party president, said: “It is negligence on the part of the police that our leaders were attacked despite the fact they had informed the cops in advance about the video which had asked the people to come together outside the motor market in Sector 48 to protest against the BJP leaders.”He said: “We have demanded three things from the Governor. First, action against the policemen who failed to do the needful. Second, action against those involved in violence and third, set the deterioating law and order siutation right in the city.”The Mayor and Tandon also took part in the rally. A meeting of senior officers of the UT Administration was fixed for tomorrow in this regard.Yesterday, the vehicles of the BJP leaders were allegedly attacked with rods and sticks. Stones were also hurled on their cars. Front and back windscreens of their cars were smashed as both leaders were sitting inside. While both escaped unhurt, the Mayor’s driver suffered minor bruises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-protests-attack-on-mayor-former-party-chief-285157
19-07-2021||Inoculate students before reopening campuses as the pandemic has already affected the quality of education ||Open colleges with care; shun complacency, don’t lower guard||It’s better to waitThe UT Administration has decided to reopen colleges when Delta plus variant of coronavirus has been detected in Chandigarh. To our dismay, third wave of Covid is knocking at our doors. The old adage prevention is better than cure holds good for this situation. Still many beneficiaries are yet to be vaccinated. People least bothered about taking precautions. They wear face mask as per their own will. All will agree that it’s never easy to control students. Human life is precious. So, better to wait and defer opening of colleges in Chandigarh. Colleges should open for only those, who received both doses of vaccine.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTake experts’ opinionTo prevent the impending third Covid wave, the UT Administration must not open colleges. Colleges should open after three months and that too after taking experts opinion on the prevalent situation. We cannot put lives of students at risk as many have already lost near and dear ones to the virus.Palak, Chandigarh QUESTIONopenhouse@tribunemail.comEliminate fear of third waveLet the fear of third Covid wave be eliminated completely before opening colleges in Chandigarh. Now, students and teachers are comfortable with virtual teaching platforms. Let’s not risk life of youths. We have take more precautious and follow Covid protocol to prevent the third coronavirus wave.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhHow many variants will emerge?There is fear of ongoing epidemic in society. How many variants of virus are going to come only Almighty knows? Leaders are taking political mileage of the pandemic. The Administration must start opening up educational institutions with precautions. The authorities concerned must shed fear and open colleges in Chandigarh.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliStudents aware of protocolThe Administration must first vaccinate every student with both doses and gauge its impact. Students in the 18 plus category are aware of Covid appropriate behaviour and protocol. So, the authorities must consider reopening colleges in Chandigarh for now.Amanpreet Kaur Dhot, ChandigarhAdmn has taken logical decisionUT Administration till date has taken logical decision and positive steps to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Students are future of the nation. At this time if colleges reopen, their conduct must be such that they don’t risk their and others lives by following Covid appropriate behaviour and accepting the new normal. Like responsible citizens they must get themselves vaccinated.Garv bhupesh, PanchkulaOpen colleges with operating proceduresAlready cinemas, hotels and other public places have opened for the public at large. Students have suffered academically as well as professionally. Students are foundation the of country and must not be ignored. They are already bearing mental and physical stress due to the ongoing pandemic. It’s right time to open colleges and other educational institutions in Chandigarh, but with a rider to follow preventive guidelines issued to fight Covid-19 epidemic.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliVaccinate students on a priority basisAs danger of the third Covid -19 wave is lurking large on every one’s mind, it will certainly be risky for students to attend classes where rubbing of shoulders with each other is inevitable. In such a situation infection will easily pass on to the nearest contact. But, opening of colleges cannot be delayed further keeping in view students future. So, the UT Administration must give atleast one vaccine dose to all students before opening colleges. This will give students and their parents some mental satisfaction of having some immunity against coronavirus.SC Luthra, ChandigarhNo substitute for classroom teachingIt’s time to open colleges as positivity rate, CFR and number of active cases have declined in Chandigarh. Though there is likelihood of third wave in coming months, online teaching is no substitute to classroom teaching especially for science subjects. Most activities have already started. Colleges can open initially for science students and gradually for everyone. However, managements of respective colleges must ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour is strictly followed by students and teaching faculty. Besides, classrooms and laboratories must be properly sanitised.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaWait till July-endKeeping in view threat of third Covid-19 pandemic wave the UT Administration must wait till July end for opening colleges. The Health Department must achieve the target of vaccinating 75 per cent population till the end of this month. Only then colleges should open in Chandigarh.AK Jindal, PatialaJab a necessity for staff, studentsThe fear of the third Covid-19 wave is looming large. The UT Administration must wait for opening colleges till all students, teachers and staff gets at least first jab of Covid vaccine. Students must get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. The Administration should reopen colleges with those staff members and students, who are already vaccinated.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhMove fraught with implicationsAlthough Covid cases are declining, the UT Administration should be in no hurry to reopen colleges as the move is fraught with several implications for students, parents and society. Going by the experience of the past year-and-a-half, the impact of the third wave could be disastrous. Hence, it is much better to wait for a while to see how the coronavirus pandemic pans out before taking a decision on reopening higher educational institutions. Meanwhile, managements of colleges must start vaccination drives for their students. This way, colleges can reopen safely in near future.Akash Kumar, ChandigarhNo substitute for physical classesAlthough the fear of the impending third pandemic wave looms large, yet it’s high time that colleges reopen as they have remain closed for long enough. There can be no substitute for the education imparted through physical classes. Students, who still fear attending physical classes, can be given an option of online mode. Both, teachers and students, must be jabbed with at least one dose of the vaccine before attending physical classes. One-jab rule must also be enforced on outstation students. The Administration can set up vaccination centres in colleges.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhVaccination a mustAs Covid has become a part of our lives, it’s necessary to get vaccinated to develop immunity against coronavirus. Even colleges are emphasising that students must get themselves vaccinated. But, second dose of vaccine is not available. As the third Covid wave is going to hit country, it’s not the right time to open higher education institutions in Chandigarh.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDon’t ignore students’ education, futureChildren are the future of the nation. They cannot get proper education through online mode in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Administration should reopen colleges in Chandigarh as students’ education and future cannot be ignored. Managements should ensure all safety precautions before opening colleges. Gatherings should be banned in colleges. Students must follow Covid appropriate behaviour in colleges.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliListen to expertsAccording to experts the third Covid wave began on July 4. Opening of colleges can prove disastrous as infection could spread faster among students. Even if colleges take all precautions, but how will their managements deal with gatherings outside educational institutions? Experts are warning about younger generation likely to get infected during the third coronavirus wave. This may ultimately spread infection among their families too. The political leadership must listen to experts and not risk lives of the next generation.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhHold classes in phased mannerThe government has issued warning of impending third Covid wave. R factor is rising fast. In view of the above colleges should open only for students, who have got themselves’ vaccinated. Also, students can study online and can be called to attend classes in a phased manner to clear doubts and for practical. Reopening colleges means opening hostels, libraries, canteens and other services. Hence, colleges should reopen in a staggered way.Paramjeet Singh, ChandigarhPhysical classes not mandatoryThe Covid graph is on the decline these days. So, colleges in Chandigarh are expected to resume physical classes for students with preventive measures. The college staff and students must get at least one dose of the vaccination. Initially, attending physical classes must not be mandatory. Preference must be given to online classes. No doubt, the third Covid wave is likely to affect children so the government is emphasising on taking safety measures. Maintaining physical distance in classroom, use of face masks, sanitisers and washing hands must be compulsory for students.Anita Tandon, KhararAdmn must give second thoughtThe UT Administration should wait for some time more before taking any decision regarding opening colleges. Also, opening colleges and continuing online teaching is not justified. Most parents are aware of the WHO warning that third Covid wave will affect mostly children. So, the Administration must give a second thought before reopening colleges in Chandigarh.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhEducation standards will plummetColleges should open without any further delay. Students will be more disciplined in colleges as authorities can enforce Covid norms. Youngsters roam in malls and go to hotels. They are at risk of contracting infection. Already their education has received a setback. If colleges don’t reopen their education standards will plummet further.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhWait for two monthsIt’s good that coronavirus cases have declined in the UT. Opening colleges is not advisable because the pandemic has not subsided. Let the Administration wait for two more months for opening colleges in Chandigarh. Parents must be sure that their wards are safe in colleges. Only then the Administration can open colleges.MR Bhateja, NayagaonMany students yet to be vaccinatedCovid cases are declining in Chandigarh. According to new research 96 per cent of Covid cases in the city have tested positive for the delta variant. Therefore, the Administration should reconsider its decision of reopening colleges and schools in the UT. Moreover, not all people in Chandigarh are vaccinated. This means a large number of college-going students are also not vaccinated against Covid and are at the risk of contracting virus.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDon’t linger on the decisionWhen the Centre and state governments are opening various economic activities then why linger on the decision to open colleges? It’s been almost over 16 months since colleges closed. This is jeopardising students’ career. Online education platforms can’t be total replacement for classroom teaching. Many students particularly those residing in the remote areas can’t afford high speed Internet services. So, they couldn’t attend online classes. With the present standards of online teaching complete students’ satisfaction is ruled out. Colleges must reopen with staggered classes and less students per classroom. Periodical sanitisation of infrastructure, wearing of face masks and social distancing norm should be compulsory in colleges. Managements of colleges should be accountable for ensuring safety of students. Students must follow all Covid-related guidelines as responsible citizens.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPhysical classes play a major roleThere various ways in which city colleges can function even after the onset of the third Covid wave Students, who have received first or both doses of vaccine can be allowed to attend physical classes. Colleges can be run in shifts or with 50 per cent students’ capacity to reduce the chances of spreading infection. Physical classes play major role in the life of students. Already one-and-a-half-year of education has been lost since colleges closed. Colleges should reopen in a staggered manner. Vaccination of the teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges must be ensured.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliPrevention is better than cureThe Chandigarh Administration should not open colleges keeping in view the upcoming third Covid wave. Delta and delta plus virus mutant cases have reported in the country, which indicates impending dangers. If citizens don’t follow restrictions religiously, then third wave might be more deadly than the second one. It is important to abide by the proverb “Prevention is better than cure”. Till the situation becomes better, lockdown should not be lifted.Adish Sood, AmlohConsider teachers’ point of viewAs there is sharp decline in Covid cases the UT Administration should reopen college without wasting time. The Administration should ensure that all students and staff of respective colleges has been vaccinated. The Health Department should hold special vaccination camp for students and teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges. Students can’t be deprived of education. When other all economic activities are allowed then why can’t colleges reopen. Most teachers are not in favour conducting both online and offline classes. The Administration should also consider their views before going ahead with its decision of reopening colleges.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLoss of studiesThe UT Administration should not wait to open colleges because students’ education is suffering with each passing day. This is not right for students’ future. Taking the third Covid wave into account, the UT Administration should open colleges with precautions. Entry in colleges without face mask should be banned. Students should sit at a distance of three feet from each other in classroom. It’s necessary for all students and the teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges to be fully vaccinated.Antara Rakheja, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-colleges-with-care-shun-complacency-dont-lower-guard-285226
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chhatbir zoo all set to reopen tomorrow||The Chhatbir zoo will reopen on July 20 with a rider of a limited number of daily visitors and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Adults above 65 years and children below five years of age have been requested not to visit the zoo.What you need to knowThe Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, announced the reopening of the Chhatbir zoo and four small zoos at Ludhiana, Bathinda, Patiala and Neelon from July 20.The Chhatbir zoo will remain open to the public six days a week (Monday closed). Entry for visitors will be allowed from 9.30 am to 4:30 pm (instead of 9 am to 5 pm). To ensure staggered entry and social distancing, visitors will be allowed in three slots — 9.30 am-11:30 ( a maximum of 1,800 visitors can enter), 11.30 am-noon (break for sanitisation). From noon to 2 pm, again a maximum of 1,800 visitors can enter the zoo. From 2 pm to 2.30 pm, there will be a break for sanitisation and from 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm, a maximum of 1,800 visitors can enter. Only a limited number of tickets will be available in different slots till normalcy returns.The entry tickets will be valid only for two hours after the entry. Tickets for entry to the zoo and other facilities can be booked virtually, the link for which has been provided on the zoo website (chhatbirzoo.gov.in). Besides, the QR code system and POS machine facility will also be available at the zoo booking counter for those who are unable to book tickets through the web link.Free Wi-Fi hotspot facility is available in the entry area of the zoo for hassle-free online booking of entry tickets.Tickets for battery-operated trolleys will be available at the site. It will be allowed only for group visitors/family members, who may reserve a full trolley at the prescribed rate with strict social distancing norms and safety measures.To ensure the safety of visitors, some facilities such as wildlife safari (lion safari and deer safari), reptile house and nocturnal house of the zoo will be closed for visitors till normalcy returns.Facility was closed on May 6A couple of days after eight Asiatic lions tested positive for Covid-19 at Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad, the authorities had ordered the closure of the Chhatbir zoo on May 6. Last year, the zoo was closed due to the pandemic on March 17 and it was reopened in December, causing a revenue loss of Rs5-crore. The zoo, which is spread over 505 acres, is home to around 1,500 animals and birds. Around nine lakh people visit it every year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-all-set-to-reopen-tomorrow-285217
19-07-2021||Panchkula||Cholera outbreak: Water supply to Abheypur village restored, but not for drinking||The tally of cholera patients from Abheypur reached 409 today. As many as 66 of them (47 children and 19 adults) are still receiving treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. A nine-year-old boy from Abheypur is the only fatality so far. An HSVP official said they had restored the water supply in the village, but not for drinking.Confirming the development, Amit Rathee, Executive Engineeer, HSVP, said they had restored the supply after rectifying all faults that led to the contamination of water.He, however, said for now, residents would continue to receive drinking water through tankers.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mukta Kumar, had yesterday stated that reports of water samples sent to the Ramgarh laboratory for testing were expected by Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cholera-outbreak-water-supply-to-abheypur-village-restored-but-not-for-drinking-285213
19-07-2021||Panchkula||Thieves’ gang busted, jeweller among 4 held||The Sector 26 crime branch of the Panchkula police has busted a gang of thieves with the arrest of four persons, including a jeweller and a woman. The police claimed to have solved around 35 cases of house theft in the district with their arrest.Those arrested have been identified as Sagar (32) and Bhola (32), who live in Bangla Basti near Shahzadpur in Ambala, and Naresh (42) and Rajesha (45), residents of Karnal. The gang admitted to having committed thefts in the Raipur Rani, Chandimandir, Shehzadpur and Naraingarh areas, the police said.“The suspects had stolen cash and gold and silver items to the tune of Rs23.72 lakh,” the police said.However, the police have so far recovered just Rs9,000 and gold earrings weighing 3.4 gm from them.The police said efforts were on to arrest other members of the gang. According to the police, Sagar and Bhola, two members of the gang, used to conduct a recce in villages during the day and break into houses at night and steal cash, gold and silver items.The duo would later sell the stolen items to Naresh, a jeweller in Karnal, and other jewellers in Shahzadpur and Karnal through Rajesha, sister-in-law of Sagar,They would distribute the money collected by selling jewellery among themselves.Inspector Aman Kumar of the Sector 26 crime branch said alarmed by the increasing number of thefts in villages in the district, the police had asked sarpanches to deploy youths on patrolling during night and inform the police in case of witnessing a suspicious activity or person.On July 14, Sagar had gone to commit a theft at Mauli village where local residents alerted the police about his presence.The police arrested him from the spot. During interrogation, he revealed the involvement of other suspects in the thefts. Based on information provided by him, the police arrested the other suspects.Had invested in real estateThe police said the suspects revealed they had also invested in real estate and their properties would be sealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-gang-busted-jeweller-among-4-held-285212
19-07-2021||Mohali||9 land in police net for betting in Mohali; Rs 6.50 lakh, equipment recovered||The police arrested nine suspects for their alleged involvement in betting and online gambling activities, and recovered Rs 6.50 lakh, 20 mobile phones, a laptop, a mini-telephone exchange and other gambling equipment from the first floor of a house in Phase 3A today.The suspects have been identified as Abohar resident Avinash Chander, Karnal rice dealer Ishan Goel, Baltana resident Pitambar Bhatt, Gambhir Kumar, Surjit Singh, Sanjeev, Sunil, Amar Singh and Shankar. The main suspect of the gang is absconding. The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC and under the Gambling Act at the Mataur police station. SP (City) Harvinder Virk said, ‘’More arrests are likely to be made after further questioning of the suspects.’’ The police said the three suspects, Avinash Chander, Ishan Goel and Pitambhar Bhatt, were also involved in a case related to the arrest of 70 persons, including 10 women, from a marriage palace on the outskirts of Banur on January 31. The police had seized Rs8.42 lakh, 47 vehicles, 40 liquor bottles and laptops from the spot.In another case, the police nabbed three suspects with a country-made pistol and intoxicant tablets. The suspects have been identified as Manpreet Kaur, Ekant and Manjot Kaur. A case under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act has been registered against the suspects at the Mataur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-land-in-police-net-for-betting-in-mohali-rs-6-50-lakh-equipment-recovered-285210
19-07-2021||Mohali||Sanitation worker, labourer die of toxic gas buildup in sewer pit||A sanitation worker and a good Samaritan died due to toxic gas buildup in a sewer line in Sector 62 this evening. The deceased have been identified as contractual sanitation worker Harpal (22) and a construction labourer Harpal (30).Labourer wanted to rescue workerGagan, a construction labourer working nearby, volunteered to go down the pit with a water bottle and bring Harpal up. However, he too fell down the ladder.Deceased Harpal is a localite while Gagan hailed from Saharsa, Bihar. He is survived by his wife and two kids. The incident occurred around 6 pm when Harpal went down the sewer line to carry out cleaning work and fell unconscious. Gagan, a construction labourer working nearby, volunteered to go down with a water bottle and bring him up. However, as soon as he climbed down three-four steps through a ladder, he too fell down. Eyewitnesses said panic gripped the area and no one rescued the duo. An hour later, the police summoned a JCB machine that extricated the bodies. The duo was rushed to the hospital in an ambulance where they were declared brought dead. Phase 8 SHO Rajesh Kumar said: “The deceased fell unconscious inside a gutter due to toxic gas buildup.’’DSP (City-2) Deep Kamal said: “Kin of the deceased have been called to record their statement. Based on it, further action will be taken.’’Eyewitnesses said Harpal, a labourer working for a contractor employed by the Municipal Corporation, was wearing safety gear but fell unconscious after going down immediately after opening the lid of the pit. Gagan, on the other hand, went down without any safety gear despite being repeatedly dissuaded by bystanders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitation-worker-labourer-die-of-toxic-gas-buildup-in-sewer-pit-285208
19-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Lounges operate beyond fixed time, capacity; 4 held||Four persons were arrested after raids were conducted by a team of the Chief Minister’s flying squad at two lounges in the wee hours today for allegedly violating Covid guidelines.Both places — Coco Cafe and Lounge in Sector 11 and Purple Frog in Sector 9 — were found to be overcrowded.The raids lasted four-five hours. Those arrested have been identified as Gurkirtan (manager) and Ashish (cashier) of Coco Cafe and Lounge; and Prabhat Saini (owner) and Vikram (manager) of Purple Frog.The police also seized 162 bottles of illegal liquor from Coco Cafe and Lounge.Sidharth Dhanda, DSP CM flying squad, Ambala Range, said: “We had received a tip-off that the two places were operating beyond midnight with large crowds while the guidelines clearly state that bars and restaurants can operate till 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity,” he said.“After a recce, the flying squad officials called in the local police teams to join them. The raids lasted until 5 am in the morning,” DSP Dhanda added.Hookah also servedOfficials said hookah was being served to customers at both places. The raiding party also collected samples of hookah flavours to ascertain their nicotine content. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-lounges-operate-beyond-fixed-time-capacity-4-held-285206
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclist hit by truck, dies||A 58-year-old man was killed after the cycle he was riding was hit by a rashly driven truck. The victim has been identified as Bhawani Parsad, a resident of Mauli Jagran. He was on his way to work when the truck hit his cycle at Daria village.He was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where he later succumbed to the injuries. The truck driver, Deepak, was arrested from the spot. The police have registered a case against the driver at the Industrial Area police station. He was later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-hit-by-truck-dies-285204
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Veggie vendor dies, 3 hurt as auto overturns||A vegetable vendor was killed while three others were injured after the auto-rickshaw they were travelling in overturned on the road separating Sector 19 and 20 this morning.The victim has been identified as Vinod (50), a resident of EWS colony, Dhanas. The victims were going to the grain market in Sector 26 when the accident took place.Auto driver Pervez and two other persons were injured. All victims were rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where Vinod was declared brought dead. The police said speeding and rash driving led to the accident. A case against Parvez was registered at the Sector 19 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggie-vendor-dies-3-hurt-as-auto-overturns-285203
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 Covid cases||Three infected, no death in MohaliMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,402. No death due to the virus was reported, while 11 patients were cured of the disease. There are now 50 active cases, while the toll stants at 1,056. — TNSJust one case in Panchkula, no fatalityPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported just one fresh Covid-19 case, taking the overall tally to 30,630. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 375. While 30,235 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-covid-cases-285199
19-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh may achieve vax target by August 6||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18The city is likely to achieve its Covid vaccination target of above 18 years by August 6 at the ongoing vaccination rate.As many as 1,66,172 beneficiaries are yet to be jabbed to achieve the 100 per cent vaccination target. The total eligible population of the city for vaccination is 7,09,180 and the UT has vaccinated 5,43,008 beneficiaries with the first dose till date, which accounts for 76.57 per cent of this population.The UT Administration has set a target of completing the vaccination by August 15. It needs to inoculate 5,730 persons daily to achieve the 100 per cent target by August 15.However, the present seven-day average is over 8,919 doses. Going by the current rate, the city can achieve the vaccination target in just 19 days by inoculating 1,69,461 more persons. In the last week (between July 10 and July 16), the highest number of 59,734 doses were given ever since the vaccination drive started on January 16.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “Our efforts are finally paying off as we have scaled up the vaccination in the past few days. Earlier, we were vaccinating over 7,000 and now we have escalated it to around 8,900. We will be able to achieve the target earlier than August 15. Our efforts will be to vaccinate each and everyone by August 15.”To give an impetus to the drive, Chandigarh has also launched an initiative to provide the vaccination facility on the doorstep to all eligible beneficiaries. The UT Health Department, in collaboration with NGOs, has undertaken door-to-door Covid vaccination at Kishangarh and Dadu Majra so far. Around 3,500 houses in Kishangarh were covered in the ongoing drive along with jhuggis today.A similar door-to-door drive will be undertaken at Dhanas on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-achieve-vax-target-by-august-6-285197
19-07-2021||Mohali||Chhatbir Zoo reopens from July 20||The Chhatbir Zoo will reopen from July 20 with the rider of a limited number of daily visitors and adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour.Adults above 65 years and children below 5 years of age are not allowed to visit the zoo.The Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, announced the reopening of Chhatbir Zoo and four small zoos at Ludhiana, Bathinda, Patiala and Neelon from July 20.Chhatbir Zoo will be opened for public 6 days a week (Monday closed). Entry for visitors will be allowed from 9:30 am to 4:30 pm (instead of 9 am to 5 pm) to ensure optimal carrying capacity, staggered entry and social distancing.Following number of visitors will be allowed entry in three slots: Zoo entry opens: 09:30 am-11:30 am maximum 1800 visitors can enter11:30 am-12:00 pm: Break for sanitisationFrom 12 noon to 2 pm, a maximum of 1800 visitors can enter the zooFrom 2 pm to 2:30 pm: Break for sanitisation2:30 pm-4:30 pm: Maximum 1800 visitors can enterZoo entry to be restricted at 4:30 pm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-reopens-from-july-20-285041
