20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt sends panel of 3 IAS officers for post of Chandigarh DC||The Haryana Government has sent a panel of three IAS officers to the Chandigarh Administration for the post of Deputy Commissioner (DC).The post is reserved for a Haryana cadre IAS officer. Incumbent Mandip Singh Brar's tenure, who has held the post for three terms, will end in October.The panel received by UT Administration includes the names of Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-govt-sends-panel-of-3-ias-officers-for-post-of-chandigarh-dc-285893
20-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Panjab University, colleges allowed to open from August: Chandigarh Admn||The Chandigarh Administration's Covid 'war-room' on Tuesday announced a slew of new directions as the city has begun to open up after a devastating second wave of coronavirus.   The new measures are: (i) Strict action be taken by the Chandigarh Police against the violators of the covid protocol, particularly for non-wearing of masks at Sukhna Lake and public places. (ii) All institutions of higher learning including University, Colleges etc. shall be allowed to open for the next academic session starting from the month of August, 2021, subject to the condition that all teaching and non-teaching staff and students must have received at least one dose of vaccination, minimum two weeks ago and adherence to all covid appropriate behavior.  It will be reviewed again in coming days considering the covid prevalent pandemic situation.(iii) Commercial events like exhibitions, shows etc. shall be allowed only after prior permission from the SDM concerned.  There would be a limit of 200 persons/50% of available space and strict adherence to the covid protocol.(iv) Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh to tackle water-logging in the city during the monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-colleges-allowed-to-open-from-august-chandigarh-admn-285884
20-07-2021||New Delhi||Maximum cases under NDPS Act reported from Maharashtra, followed by Punjab: MHA||The government on Tuesday informed Lok Sabha that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registered 1,99,716 cases related to drug trafficking between 2017 and 2019 with the maximum reported from Maharashtra (40,987), followed by Punjab (35,546).Responding to a written question in the House Minister of State (MoS), Home Nityanand Rai said, “Sharp vigil, effective surveillance, public cooperation, source-based intelligence, sensitisation of field officials for better enforcement etc have resulted in gradual increase in registration of number of drug trafficking-related cases in the country.”He said that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) is the central agency, which compiles the data on crimes, as reported by States and Union Territories (UTs), and publishes the same in its annual publication “Crime in India”.Rai said that the latest published report is for the year 2019. “The State/UT-wise details of cases registered under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act-1985 for the year 2017, 2018 and 2019 are 63,800, 63,137 and 72,779 respectively,” he said.As per the NCRB data among the top five states, besides Maharashtra and Punjab, Kerala registered 27,913 cases, Uttar Pradesh 26,458 and Tamil Nadu 11,858.Among the northern states after Punjab, it was Haryana, which recorded the highest with 7,464 followed by Himachal Pradesh with 3,791 and Jammu & Kashmir 3,102.Delhi, among the UTs, registered the highest number of 1,595 of such cases in the three years followed by Chandigarh with 648.The Minister said that the government has taken various steps for the prevention of drug trafficking in the country. He said for coordination among various Central and State agencies, the Narco Coordination Centre (NCORD) mechanism was set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the year 2016 for effective Drug Law Enforcement.“This NCORD system has been restructured into a four-tier scheme up to district level by MHA on July 29, 2019, for better coordination. For monitoring the investigation of large seizure cases, a Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) with Director General (DG), NCB as its Chairman was set up by the government on July 19, 2019,” he said.He also said that for digitisation of pan-India drug seizure data, MHA has launched an e-portal called 'SIMS' (Seizure Information Management System) in the year 2019 for all the drug law enforcement agencies under the mandate of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. He said that financial assistance under the scheme “Assistance to States for Narcotics Control” is provided by MHA to eligible States for strengthening their narcotic units.Rai also said that Border Security Force (BSF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Indian Coast Guard, Railway Protection Force and National Investigation Agency (NIA) have been empowered under the NDPSA Act for making interdiction of narcotic drugs in remotest and far-flung areas of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maximum-cases-under-ndps-act-reported-from-maharashtra-followed-by-punjab-mha-285880
20-07-2021||runs which included 4 sixes and 7 hits over the fence while Gitansh remained unbeaten on 17 off 11 balls with the help of one boundary and one six.||Ludhiana rout Mohali by 9 wkts||With this win, Ludhiana had eight points from two matches. They had scripted an easy 10-wicket victory against Fatehgarh Sahib in the first league match, played at Ludhiana on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-rout-mohali-by-9-wkts-285524
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, BJP workers join AAP in Faidan||Hundreds of workers left the BJP and the Congress to join the AAP in the presence of Anmol Gagan Mann, co-head of the party’s youth wing from Punjab, during a public meeting at Faidan village.Mewa Ram Mandal, president of ward 23 of the BJP; Dharampal, chairman of the Faida village Congress; Jaswinder, general secretary of the Bajigar Association Congress; Lakhwinder, youth president, ward 23, Faida Congress; Bablu Birla of the BJP; and Lakhmir Chand of the Youth Congress Schedule Caste Wing were among those who joined the AAP.The new members said their old parties had cheated them and they were joining the AAP after being impressed by the works of Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi.AAP’s Joint Secretary Jasbir Singh Laddi from Faida said: “Our village has always been given a step-motherly treatment.” Party convener Prem Garg welcomed all new members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-bjp-workers-join-aap-in-faidan-285562
20-07-2021||---||BDPOs on strike against ‘apathy’ of Punjab Government||Mohali, July 19A state-level protest was organised by BDPOs from across Punjab, along with senior officers, to express resentment against the “indifferent attitude” of the state government towards the plight the BDPO cadre, whose pay scales have been reduced.Spokesperson for the BDPO association said they had been demanding the restoration of parity in pay scales and benefit of the dynamic assured career progression (DACP) granted to them by the then Congress Government in 1993, but were withdrawn arbitrarily by the 4th Pay Commission.He said the association had highlighted the fact that the reduction in pay scales and withdrawal of the DACP of only the BDPO cadre was done despite the judgment of the High Court in favour of giving higher pay scales to the BDPOs.He said the BDPOs, who were the frontrunners of the development work in the villages, were on a strike since July 8. He said the sarpanches, zila parishads and block samitis are coming forward to support the valid demands of the rural development officers, given their immense workload.The association had decided to continue the indefinite strike till their demands were met by the government, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bdpos-on-strike-against-apathy-of-punjab-government-285565
20-07-2021||---||Will strengthen party, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Mohali, July 19Newly appointed PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu met working president and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA, Kuljit Singh Nagra, at the latter’s residence in Mohali today.Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was accompanied by MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Madan Lal Jalalpur and Raja Waring, was given a warm welcome.Sidhu said his father had left the house and took part in the freedom struggle as a Congress worker. He said his father was sentenced to death for his acts of patriotism, which was later overturned by the King’s Amnesty on Queen’s birthday. His father then served as the president of the District Congress Committee for decades, he added.He said his mission was to fulfill his father’s dream and work tirelessly to strengthen this invincible fort of AICC. He said being a humble worker of the Congress, he would try to fulfil the ‘Misson win Punjab’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-strengthen-party-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-285566
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Court denies bail to murder accused||Rajeev K Beri, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has dismissed the bail application of a person, Ram Kumar, who was arrested for allegedly murdering his brother-in-law on April 2018.Ram Kumar was arrested after the body of the victim, Dharminder, was found in a park of Sector 52-D. Dharminder’s wife and accomplice of Ram Kumar were also arrested. As per the prosecution, the alleged murder was the result of an illicit relationship between Ram Kumar and Dharminder’s wife.The prosecution claimed that on the disclosure statement of the accused, blood-stained clothes were recovered from the house of the deceased.However, the counsel for the accused argued that the accused was falsely implicated in this case.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-murder-accused-285564
20-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Pawan Kumar Bansal targets BJP, Sanjay Tandon hits back in Chandigarh||Tribune News SeviceChandigarh, July 19While former Congress MP Pawan Kumar Bansal critcised the BJP on Twitter over the recent farmers protest episode, former city BJP chief Sanjay Tandon slammed his statement.Referring to yesterday’s protest by the ruling party, the former Union minister, tweeted: “Amused to see the BJP taking to the streets against @ssptfcchd (city police) regarding the farmers’ protest at a BJP function. Tactful handling, not rulers’ arrogance, could have prevented the incident. The police are targeted though it did their bidding to book the farmers in non-bailable cases.”“Farmers are protesting peacefully against three black laws for over 10 months, but government slaps serious criminal charges against them?” he posted.Replying to Bansal, the Himachal BJP co-head, Tandon, wrote: “Maybe the @INCIndia (Congress) has forgotten the meaning of peaceful protest. Mr @pawanbansal_chd isn’t aware what is happening in the city, in the name of farmers, goons are operating their agendas, I was attacked with lathis, rods, stones and videos are also available.”“Nobody is against dharna or agitation but taking law in own hand is highly deplorable,” he added. Earlier, even MP Kirron Kher had sought strictest action from the PMO against the “brutal attack.”The BJP had yesterday took out a protest march against the violence demanding action against the police for negligence against those involved in violence.It was on Saturday that vehicles of city Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Tandon were attacked during a protest held in support of farmers near the Sector 48 motor market.Their vehicles were allegedly attacked with rods and sticks. The duo escaped unhurt.However, the Mayor’s driver received minor bruises. A day before the attack, a group of men had posted a video asking people to come to the BJP’s event in the motor market to protest against Sanjay Tandon. A complaint was also filed by Tandon in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-kumar-bansal-targets-bjp-sanjay-tandon-hits-back-in-chandigarh-285571
20-07-2021||---||Shops closed, Chandigarh Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma’s visit rattles locals||Chandigarh, July 19As city Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today visited Sector 45 to inaugurate a couple of civic projects, the road starting from Government Model School of Sector 45, right next to the traffic light point of Sector 44-45, was blocked and barricaded by the Chandigarh Police.Not just the road, but also 40-odd shops of Ekta Market in the sector were shut down for at least three hours.Heavy police force was also deployed along the road leading to the T-point of Sector 45 Community Centre. A ‘car-checking naka’ was laid near the entrance of Civil Hospital of Sector 45.Though the shopkeepers criticised the shutting down of shops, they “feared a backlash if they came out in public about their opinions”.Bharat Bhushan, president, Ekta Market Association, said, “People have been bothered as the shops were closed even during Covid. This isn’t justified, even though it has been done for security reasons. Business has suffered.”Some farm activists gathered in small numbers to stage a symbolic protest in Burail on a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to protest at BJP's programmes, but they were stopped using barricades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-closed-chandigarh-mayor-ravi-kant-sharmas-visit-rattles-locals-285567
20-07-2021||---||Farmer organisations: Chandigarh Police assured us of no more arrests||Chandigarh, July 19Following the arrests of farm activists, who participated in the recent Sector 48 motor market protests, a seven-member committee of pro-farmer organisations held a meeting today with Chandigarh SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal.Three farm activists get bail in ChandigarhThe committee said the police assured them of no further arrests. The farm activists apprised Chahal of the situation on Saturday, wherein, as per the police’s version, cars of BJP leaders were vandalised by protesters.“In many words, the police and city’s administration have been warned to stop arresting farm activists, raiding them and creating an atmosphere of fear in the city,” said Bhangu, president, All-India Kisan Federation.On Saturday, 25 farm activists were rounded up and later released in the evening when farmers assembled at Sector 31 Japanese Garden. After that, the police arrested three more farm activists and raided a number of villages in the periphery of Chandigarh.The committee statement read: “The committee withdrew its call for blocking the roads of Chandigarh to oppose the police terror after the SSP assured that no further arrest will be made and none of the villages will be raided. He also assured that cases registered against the farmers will also be re-considered. It was also assured by the SSP that the bail of the arrested farmers will not be opposed.”SP City Ketan Bansal said: “Yes, a meeting was held with the farmer’s committee and they have issued a statement in this regards. We are still trying to identify those responsible for the Saturday incident and will catch them soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmer-organisations-chandigarh-police-assured-us-of-no-more-arrests-285568
20-07-2021||---||Three farm activists get bail in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 19The three farm activists, who were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday in connection with the alleged vandalism of BJP leaders’ cars during a protest by pro-farmer organisations on Saturday, were today granted bail on the surety of Rs1 lakh each by the magistrate court of Chandigarh.Vipin Kumar, AdvocateThe hearing of the bail plea started at 11.30 am and around 4.30 pm, rehearing of the case was done in the presence of the investigating officer, who came along with a video footage of the protest to show the involvement of the accused. However, he failed to show any direct involvement of the three accused.The three, Malwinder Pal Singh, Harpreet Singh and Rajinder Singh, were booked under Sections 147, 148, 149, 269, 270, 341, 427, 506, 332 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code.“The hearing of the bail plea started at 11.30 am and at about 4.30 pm, rehearing of the case was done in the presence of the investigating officer (IO), who came along with a video footing of the protest to show the involvement of the accused. However, he failed to show any direct involvement of the three accused,” said advocate Vipin Kumar.Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association, said: “Initially, the IO didn’t get even bring his file containing the records of the incident that transpired on Saturday. The court had called the IO at 2 pm, but he came with all records around 5 pm.”Suhag said: “We argued the case on many grounds such as why some FIRs were filed in the Sector 49 police station, the jurisdiction of which falls in the area where the incident happened, but those arrested were sent to the Sector 31 police station. Also, we questioned the re-arrest of Malwinder Pal Singh, who was released on bail on Saturday. In fact, we also argued on the last-minute additional charges that were slapped on the protesters.”Suhag added, “The investigating officer and SHO failed to show any direct involvement of the three accused in Saturday’s incident.”Suhag said the lawyers would now apply for a certified copy of the bail. “We will also file a petition for quashing of the FIRs against the accused at the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” he added.The case against the three is being fought for free by eight lawyers, including Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the city’s District Bar Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-farm-activists-get-bail-in-chandigarh-285569
20-07-2021||---||ODOP scheme: Chandigarh invites applications for setting up bakery units||Chandigarh, July 19The Department of Industries, UT, has invited applications from individuals and groups for the setting up of bakery product units under the ‘one district one product’ (ODOP) scheme for Chandigarh.The applications are invited under the Prime Minister’s Formalization of Micro Food Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme launched by the Ministry of Food Processing Industries.A credit-linked grant of 35% with a maximum limit of Rs10 lakh will be provided to a beneficiary. The minimum contribution for a beneficiary would be 10% of the total project cost.The last date for the submission of application(s) offline as well as online to the office of District Industries Centre, Plot No. 39, Industrial Area, Phase-II, Chandigarh, is August 20. For more details, applicant may visit https://pmfme.mofpi.gov.in/pmfme/#/Login.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odop-scheme-chandigarh-invites-applications-for-setting-up-bakery-units-285570
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Ajay Sharma appointed Principal of GGDSD College||Dr Ajay Sharma was appointed Principal of GGD SD College, Sector 32, today in the presence of president of GGDSD College Society Upkar K Sharma and its members.Sharma is a recipient of prestigious state and national awards of excellence such as Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Best Teacher Award. He has authored a number of books and research papers with national and international publications.He specialises in GST, Finance and Taxation. Sharma has held eminent positions as Principal of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Ludhiana; education consultant to Embassy of Republic of Djibouti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-ajay-sharma-appointed-principal-of-ggdsd-college-285573
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ultra cyclist and coach Chaitanya Velhal in Chandigarh to give tips||Ultra cyclist and coach Chaitanya Velhal reached here this evening. He will be interacting with city-based international cyclists during a two-day Power Peaks Chandigarh Cycling Camp.Velhal is an ultra endurance cyclist, triathlete, a certified Ironman coach and a three-time Ironman (3.86 km swim + 180 km cycling+42 km run) professional. “The region has a lot of potential but needs to have proper guidance. Many cyclists have been shaping up their career for events like Ironman. I will be hosting such cyclists and, moreover, we will try to set up a system here so that the professionals get good guidance,” said Velhal.The camp activities include a three-hour bike ride, initial assessment, a classroom session on trigger points for bad technique and pain, power profile test, strength and conditioning, positioning, recovery methods, motor pacing and others. Velhal claims to have travelled on a bicycle around 15,000 km to cover entire America.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ultra-cyclist-and-coach-chaitanya-velhal-in-chandigarh-to-give-tips-285580
20-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bribery Case: Central Bureau of Investigation files chargesheet against Uttarakhand sub-inspector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against Hemant Khanduri, a Sub-Inspector of the Uttarakhand police who was arrested while allegedly taking a bribe in Chandigarh in March 2021.The CBI has registered a case against Khanduri on a complaint of a taxi driver of Chandigarh who alleged that Khanduri was allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh for not taking action against him whose name had allegedly cropped up in a case of cheating lodged in Dehradun. Khanduri was posted at the Police Station Cantt, Dehradun.The taxi driver alleged that Khanduri approached him and even reached Chandigarh for receiving the alleged bribe money. He alleged that after negotiations, Khanduri agreed to receive an instalment of Rs1 lakh out of bribe money in Chandigarh.On getting the complaint, the CBI registered a case against the accused under different sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and laid a trap. He was arrested while allegedly taking the bribe money from the complainant in Sector 52, Chandigarh. After his arrest, the CBI searched the residence of the police officer in Uttarakhand.The complainant said the police arrested travel agents for allegedly cheating people and a case was registered against them in Dehradun. He said the Sub-Inspector was threatening him with implication in the case and demanding the bribe while he had nothing to do with the agents. The complainant also submitted the audio recording of the alleged conversation he had with the SI to the CBI.Meanwhile, the CBI is yet to get the prosecution sanction against the accused from the Government of Uttarakhand. The case was adjourned for July 28 for awaiting the sanction order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bribery-case-central-bureau-of-investigation-files-chargesheet-against-uttarakhand-sub-inspector-285581
20-07-2021||Zirakpur||Quack held for duping man in Zirakpur||The police have booked two quacks and arrested one for duping a Dhakoli resident of Rs10 lakh on the pretext of treating the complainant’s mother through occult practices.The suspects have been identified as residents of Zirakpur Shakib and Dilshad who run a shop near the lottery market in Zirakpur.On a complaint of Salamuddin, a Dhakoli resident, a case of cheating has been registered. The police said Shakib had been arrested while the main suspect, Dilshad, had absconded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quack-held-for-duping-man-in-zirakpur-285572
20-07-2021||---||Panchkula police to crack down on hookah bars||Panchkula, July 19A day after the Chief Minister’s flying squad conducted raids on two hookah bars and found them violating Covid norms, Commissioner of Police (CP) Saurabh Singh today ordered strict action against hookah bars violating the norms in the city.Menace of beggingAt a law-and-order review meeting, Saurabh Singh instructed the ACP (Panchkula) and in-charge of police stations and police posts to intensify patrolling and inspection of bars, restaurants and clubs in their respective areas to tighten noose on the hookah bar operators.He said if any place was found violating the Covid norms, its officials should be booked under section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.In the post-midnight raid that lasted for around 4 hours, the raiding party had also arrested four employees of two hookah bars. The team collected the samples of hookah flavours to ascertain their nicotine content.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-to-crack-down-on-hookah-bars-285578
20-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Will Chandigarh Sports Department get a second woman JDS?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The UT Sports Department is likely to get its second woman Joint Director, Sports, (JDS), after Nirmal Milkha Singh, who was the first JDS, as sources claimed only a handful of candidates had applied for the post.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT‘Final call on appointment soon’We have received four or five applications. The process is still under consideration and the designated committee will take the final call on the appointment soon.According to the sources, one application has been rejected, one applicant has already served (last tenure) on the same post for a period of nearly two years, a few are from Punjab and one is woman applicant, who is already serving in a Chandigarh-based government college, making her a front runner for the post.The department was formed in September 1984 and Nirmal Milkha Singh, who died last month due to Covid, was the first and only woman officer who served as the JDS as also Director, Sports, (additional charge) till 1993.Thereafter, the post is looked after by men officers. The post has been lying vacant since November 2019.After getting no response from the UPSC (for promoting local coaches to the post or fixing a set criteria for filling this vacancy), the department had advertised the post in March. The circular was sent to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and all heads of the UT Administration.“Considering the number of applicants, it may be expected that the new JDS will be a woman officer. The appointment will be made as per the rule book. One application has been already rejected, the other person, who is a senior official, has already served as JDS. The two are from Punjab. This has make only one front runner for this post. The female candidate is currently posted at a local college. If this happens, this will be for the second time in the history of this department. The appointment has been delayed due to the reshuffling of senior officials. We are expecting to get the final outcome somewhere near next month,” said the sources.The appointment is important in terms of no effort being made to promote coaches, even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.“It’s been over 19 months now that the department is functioning without a JDS. The Secretary (Sports) recently got an extension and has other departments to handle too. This leaves only the Director Sports to look after everything in the city. The JDS is a crucial post which acts as a bridge between the department and the UT Administration in promoting sports,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-chandigarh-sports-department-get-a-second-woman-jds-285574
20-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser visits site of new Secretariat building||Chandigarh, July 19The UT Adviser today visited new secretariat building site in Sector 9 along with the Finance Secretary-cum-Secretary Engineering, the Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary (Engineering) and the Chief Architect, and issued direction to complete the building on a priority basis.The Adviser, Dharam Pal, reviewed the progress of work. It was explained during the visit that the building was proposed to be constructed having a Five Star Griha Rating with plot area 2.63 acre and a total covered area of 2,14,816 sqft. The building has G+6 floors having various offices, a multipurpose hall, conference hall, gym, post office, a Sampark Centre, including a parking lot for 78 cars and 76 two-wheelers.The building is planned as an energy-efficient structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-visits-site-of-new-secretariat-building-285575
20-07-2021||---||Unknown persons booked for deaths in Mohali sewer||Mohali, July 19A day after two persons died due to gas buildup inside a sewer pit in Phase 8, the police are yet to identify the person whose negligence led to the loss of earning heads of two families.The police have now registered a case of death by negligence against unknown persons. SHO Rajesh Arora said: “We are investigating the matter. If the role of any person, private company, GMADA officials or sewerage department officials surfaces, we will take action.”One of the deceased, Harpal Singh (52), a resident of Phase-11, died due to gaseous buildup inside the 10-foot-deep sewer line on the slip road near HLP Galleria in Phase 8 on Sunday evening. Gagan Rai (26), a labourer from Saharsa, Bihar, volunteered to rescue the trapped worker, but he too fell down and died.A post-mortem of the duo was conducted at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital today.The police claimed that Harpal Singh, a contractual labourer with the Municipal Corporation, was working in his individual capacity on Sunday and did not have any saftey gear. Gagan, a construction labourer from Saharsa, was a Good Samaritan who tried to rescue the trapped worker without safety gear. Eyewitnesses said the person supervising the cleaning work fled the spot, leaving behind his two-wheeler.Former municipal councillor Satbir Singh Dhanoa demanded compensation to the heirs of the deceased and said strict action should be taken against the persons responsible for the deaths.Sewer pit proved a death trap for twoOne of the deceased, Harpal Singh (52), a resident of Phase 11, died due to gaseous buildup inside the 10-foot-deep sewer line on the slip road near HLP Galleria in Phase 8 on Sunday evening. Gagan Rai (26), a labourer from Saharsa, Bihar, volunteered to rescue the trapped worker, but he too fell down and died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unknown-persons-booked-for-deaths-in-mohali-sewer-285576
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports four fresh Covid cases||No fatality, 2 found infected in MohaliMohali: Two more persons were found infected with the virus in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 68,404. No fresh death was reported, while five patients recovered from the virus. One case was reported from Mohali (urban) and the other from Dhakoli. Of the 68,404 positive cases reported so far, 67,304 patients have been cured. There are now 44 active cases. — TNSPanchkula logs 2 cases, no deathPanchkula: The district on Monday logged just two fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,632. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 375. While 30,237 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-four-fresh-covid-cases-285577
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 thieves held, five vehicles recovered in Chandigarh||Two vehicle thieves have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police and five vehicles recovered.The suspects have been identified as Ramjeet Singh, alias Ram (27), and Maninder Singh (28), a resident of Amritsar. The police said a Honda City, a Swift Dzire and three Innova cars were recovered from them. The police said both suspects had a tainted past. Ramjeet Singh was a habitual offender and had been earlier arrested by the UT police in five cases, by the Punjab Police in four cases and the Haryana Police in seven cases of vehicle theft.Maninder has also been arrested by the Punjab Police in five cases of vehicle theft.The duo was produced in a court today and remanded in judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-thieves-held-five-vehicles-recovered-in-chandigarh-285579
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Travel cashless on Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses with smart card||Providing a cashless facility, the UT Transport Department has launched a smart card-based pass for travel on Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses.To promote the use of smart cards among commuters, initially 10,000 smart cards will be issued free of cost, but printing charges will be levied. Thereafter, charges of Rs100 for smart cards (to be revised from time to time by the CTU) and printing charges will have to be be paid by the commuters.According to an order issued by the Transport Department, in case of a personalised smart card issued under any of the categories mentioned in the fare notification, dated January 15, 2020, the amount in it will not be refunded.However, in case of the return of an anonymous smart card, transaction charges will be paid by the user, as applicable, and his balance in the card will be refunded.In case an anonymous smart card is lost, the user will have to pay the requisite fee for the smart card along with printing charges, as applicable, and his balance will be transferred to the new card after authentication.A commuter has to recharge the smart card with a minimum of Rs100 and a maximum of Rs4,900. The smart card will have a minimum amount of Rs100 at any point of time as the security fee. — TNS10K cards to be issued||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travel-cashless-on-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-buses-with-smart-card-285582
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 18.6-mm rainfall||Sec 26 Restaurant flouts time normChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case after The Great Bear restaurant in Sector 26 was found open after the permissible time in violation of the District Magistrate’s order. A case against manager Pawan Kumar, supervisor Jaswant Singh, bar manager Naveen Kumar and owners Amritanshu Aggarwal and Devdeep Chaterji was registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. The police arrested Pawan, Jaswant and Naveen, who were later released on bail. TNSMan loses Rs6.8L to online fraudChandigarh: A Sector 22 resident fell prey to an online fraud and lost Rs6.80 lakh. The police said complainant Sunil Saran reported that he had received an SMS on his mobile regarding deactivation of his SIM card. He made a call on that number and the fraudster introduced himself as Deepak Verma, an Airtel executive. The fraudster advised Sunil to install an application on his mobile and got its access from the complainant. The fraudster then made transaction of a total of Rs6.80 lakh from the complainant’s account. TNSPlantation drive held on PU campusChandigarh: A plantation drive-cum-Teej celebration was organised jointly by the girls' hostel 3 (Sarojini Hall) and working women hostel of Panjab University. The guests of honour for the event were Dr Chandra Trikha, Director of Haryana Sahitya Akademi, Panchkula, and Madhav Kaushik, Vice-President of National Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi. Prof SK Tomar (Dean, Student Welfare), Prof Meena Sharma (Dean, Student Welfare, Women), Prof Ashok Kumar (Associate Dean of Student Welfare) and wardens of various hostels attended the event. A virtual competition was also organised at Sarojini Hall. Simran, Sukhwant and Manju bagged first three positions, respectively. TNSCleanliness & plantation eventChandigarh: A cleanliness-cum-plantation drive was launched at the park between girls' hostel 1 and 2 by the Department of NSS in collaboration with the girls' hostel 5 and the horticulture division of Panjab University. Dr Naveen Kumar, programme coordinator, launched the event. He said the pandemic had made us all learn that cleanliness and hygiene was very crucial. TNSTrials to select karate teamsMohali: The Karate Association of Mohali, affiliated to the Punjab Karate Association, will organise trials to select sub-junior, junior and senior teams for the Punjab State Karate Championship. The trials will be held at Martial Arts Academy, Zirakpur, at 3 pm on July 21. TNSScholarship helplineChandigarh: Chandigarh Mayor Ravikant Sharma and councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali launched a free "One Place Canada Scholarship Helpline @ 6280430544". For the first time in Chandigarh and Punjab, cash scholarships for 100 meritorious students as well as help from admission to placement will be available absolutely free of cost. TNSTwo arrested with heroinFatehgarh Sahib: The Sirhind police have arrested two car-borne youths and seized 15-gm heroin from their custody. They have been identified as Amanpreet Singh and Gurinder Singh, residents of Lataur village. Gurmeet Kumar, in-charge of the anti-narcotics cell, said the police had received a tip-off that the two peddlers were carrying heroin in their car for supplying it to the rural area of the district. He said the police had erected a naka near Jalbehra village and stopped an Alto car for checking. During the search, the police seized 15-gm heroin from the two. He said they had been booked under NDPS Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-18-6-mm-rainfall-285584
20-07-2021||Panchkula||Cholera outbreak: 16 of 24 water samples found non-potable in Panchkula||Of the 24 water samples collected from Abheypur and Budhanpur villages, 16 were found to have coliform bacteria, meaning “non-potable”.The samples were analysed at a government laboratory in Ramgarh. Four other samples collected from Sector 16 (one sample), Rajiv Colony (two) and Indira Colony (one) were found to be fit for drinking. So far, 55 samples have been collected and sent to the Ramgarh laboratory for analysis.Of the 55 water samples, the report of 28 (16 found non-potable and 12 potable) have been received, while that of 27 is still awaited. Of the 35 stool samples, 23 have been found positive for vibrio cholera. Meanwhile, the number of patients infected with cholera reached 440 today. As many as 72 (30 adults and 42 children) are still under treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Only one fatality — that of a nine-year-old boy from Abheypur — has been reported so far.The Health Department today continued its door-to-door survey at Abheypur village.So far, 4,553 households have been visited and over one lakh packets of ORS, 8,206 tablets of chlorine and 1,911 of zinc have been distributed among residents.People have been told to drink only boiled water.According to epidemiological observations, leakage and mixing of dirty water with that meant for drinking, open drainages and poor sanitary conditions are behind the cholera outbreak. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cholera-outbreak-16-of-24-water-samples-found-non-potable-in-panchkula-285585
20-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Waste collection: People in Chandigarh billed for charges already paid, livid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19Waste collection charges continue to confuse residents as even those who have paid the charges through POS machines to the Municipal Corporation (MC) staff are getting the bill.The collection charges, which were added to the water bill, do not mention the time period or the area of a house. The bills only mention that the charges are up to June 15.VK Saini, a resident of Sector 46I have already paid the waste collection charges for May. Still, they sent me a bill for Rs300. All residents have issues and how can so many people go to the MC office for each and every grievance?“We have already paid Rs100 for March to the MC staff through a POS machine. However, the MC has added Rs1,550 in the water bills. All residents are shocked that how can a two-month bill be this huge? There is no clarity on anything. It is nothing but harassment to ask people to go to the office for getting the bills rectified,” said Shreya, a resident of Sector 22.“What’s the basic logic behind the project. They collected the money online, but have no data on whether to charge the money according to the size of the house or kitchen,” lamented Rakesh, a resident of Sector 22, who received Rs2,129 as waste collection bill.Arun, a resident of Sector 38, said: “I received Rs800 in bill as the garbage collection charges and even the months are not mentioned. I have already paid for March and April through POS machines. They should have consulted people before sending such bills,” said a Sector 33 resident, Dr Pankaj Malhotra.The Aam Adami Party (AAP), the Congress, the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) and RWAs have held demonstrations against the issue in the past.Avtar Singh, president of the Residents’ Welfare Society, Dhanas, said: “The garbage policy of the corporation is useless and a nuisance. It is requested that the garbage collection service through vehicles in our area be stopped immediately and the charges paid till date be adjusted in the upcoming water bills.” Avtar Singh received Rs8,400 as the bill for water, sewerage and waste collection.Meanwhile, the MC has formed a committee to cater to the issues of residents.Dr Amrit Pal Warring, Medical Officer of Health, who is heading the panel, said: “We received 300 complaints and we are resolving the problem of people in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collection-people-in-chandigarh-billed-for-charges-already-paid-livid-285586
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to hold meeting of tricity police chiefs||For effective maintenance of law and order, the UT Administration will soon convene a joint meeting of the police chiefs of the tricity to ensure better coordination and action against those disturbing public peace.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today reviewed the prevailing situation in Chandigarh with senior civil and police officers. They discussed effective steps required to ensure public safety and order in view of an incident that took place on Saturday wherein farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws attacked the vehicles of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. The two BJP leaders were returning from a function in Sector 48 when the protesters turned violent and damaged their vehicles. In the meeting, it was decided that Chandigarh being the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, it was the joint responsibility of the Punjab Police and the Haryana Police to contain such protests, rallies, demonstrations, etc. In this regard, a joint meeting of the tricity police chiefs would be convened shortly to prevent such incidents in Chandigarh and its satellite towns, and to ensure better coordinated action against those who indulge in disturbing public peace.It was observed that in democracy, every citizen has a right to lawful and peaceful protest, but no unlawful activity would be tolerated except for peaceful protests, rallies or demonstration only at the designated place, Rally Ground in Sector 25, Chandigarh.It was decided that strict action as per law will be taken against those indulging in violence.In addition to strict enforcement of a notification dated January 20, 2020, of the Transport Department, UT, no tractor-trolley, etc, will be permitted in any rally, protest or demonstration in the city and the police are directed to ensure that such vehicles are not allowed to join any protest.In the meeting, the Administrator was informed that the cases registered in the recent past are being investigated thoroughly and expeditiously. Strict action as per law will be taken against those found involved in unlawful/violent activities.The Administrator directed the police to ensure better coordination of all stakeholders.The meeting was attended by Adviser Dharam Pal, Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home, DGP Sanjay Beniwal, DIG Omvir Singh, Deputy Commissioner Mandeep Singh Brar, SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal and SSP Traffic and Security) Manisha Chaudhary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-hold-meeting-of-tricity-police-chiefs-285587
20-07-2021||---||4K show up as govt schools reopen in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 19After nearly five months, local government schools reopened with a thin attendance this morning. The UT Administration had announced to open schools for offline classes. Students were allowed to attend offline classes only after getting an approval letter from their parents. “Around 4,000 students, nearly 10 per cent of the total enrolled, of Class IX to XII attended school today,” said the DPI (Schools). The students attended the offline classes while following the Covid protocol.Pvt schools stick to online modePrivate schools, meanwhile, continue to teach students online. The Independent Schools Association, Chandigarh, had decided that schools would reopen only if over 50 per cent of the parents were willing to send their wards for offline classes. Sources said not many parents were interested in this for fear of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4k-show-up-as-govt-schools-reopen-in-chandigarh-285588
20-07-2021||---||Protests barred in Chandigarh except at Rally Ground||Chandigarh, July 19As an emergency measure, the UT Administration has prohibited people from taking out a procession or rally, holding a protest or strike, making speeches and raising slogans in gathering/assembly of five or more persons under Section 144 of the CrPC within the territory of the UT other than at the Rally Ground in Sector 25.The UT Administration has earmarked the Rally Ground for processions, rallies and dharnas and no permission has been granted to organise these elsewhere in the city to avoid traffic congestion.An order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that certain groups planned to organise processions, rallies and dharnas, and resort to other agitation modes in the city other than at the earmarked/designated place and there was an apprehension that such groups/organisations/unions might cause obstruction, annoyance or injury to the persons lawfully employed or other general public and endanger human life and property, disturb public peace and tranquility and cause riots.Therefore, the public in general or any member thereof is prohibited from taking out a procession or holding a rally or protest within the city other than at the Rally Ground for a period of 60 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protests-barred-in-chandigarh-except-at-rally-ground-285563
20-07-2021||---||Pictures: Heavy rain leads to waterlogging, traffic snarls in Delhi, Gurugram; brings respite to people in Punjab, Chandigarh||Chandigarh/ Gurugram, July 19  Early morning rain brought much respite to the residents of Chandigarh and Punjab after sultry weather conditions persisted for long. It, however, disrupted life in Gurugram and Delhi, Reports regarding waterlogging, traffic snarls, overflow of water in some unplanned residential colonies started to emerge as rain continued in several parts.In South Delhi, where light showers started late on Sunday and continued through Monday, several areas reported waterlogging and traffic snarls.The road from Sangam Vihar to Ambedkar Nagar was overflowing with rain water which obstructed vehicular movement.According to the Delhi Traffic Police, PWD work was underway to clear congestion after a DTC bus broke down at Kanjhawala Chowk. Also, there have been reports of some roads caving in due to the continuous rain.Also read: Pictures: Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to massive landslide near Pandoh in Mandi; hundreds of people strandedMost areas of Gurugram heavily waterlogged entered low-lying houses in DLF phases 1 and 3, and Suncity Township.At least three underpasses at Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and IFFCO Chowk were closed due to waterlogging.Rescue operation is under way at Khawaspur village in Farrukhnagar, where two bodies have been recovered so far by the NDRF.Power supply was snapped at various parts of the city.  As incessant rain pummelled the NCR region, waterlogging and traffic congestion were reported across Gurugram.The Traffic Wing of the Gurgaon Police remained busy clearing traffic on submerged roads and underpasses. Moderate to intense spell of rainfall was witnessed over parts of Jhajjar, Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Gurugram, Jind, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Kaithal districts and adjoining areas. Light to moderate spell was witnessed in Palwal, Nuh, Ambala, Panchkula , Karnal and Bhiwani districts.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pictures-heavy-rain-leads-to-waterlogging-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-gurugram-brings-respite-to-people-in-punjab-chandigarh-285354
