21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fire at under-renovation restaurant in Chandigarh||A fire broke out at a restaurant under renovation in Section 7 Madhya Marg on Wednesday evening, fire officials said.The fire broke out at the back of an SCO. Fire officials said they received a call at 6:45 pm.There was no damage to the front of the restaurant, and about 6-7 workers were safely evacuated, officials said.No injuries were reported, officials said.The cause of the fire is still unknown, a senior fire officer said.  Operation is still ongoing, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-under-renovation-restaurant-in-chandigarh-286332
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 5 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported five new cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the administration said on Wednesday.Active cases now stand at41The UT has reported no new deaths since July 5. Some 1,551 swab samples were taken for testing over the last 24 hours. Chandigarh’s average positivity rate over the last seven days stands at 0.24 per cent.  Meanwhile, 7,09,180 people over 18 have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Of this number, 1,52,730 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-5-new-covid-19-cases-286317
21-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||DRDO’s Dehradun lab to develop coastal and harbour surveillance system||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21As part of the ongoing efforts to beef up maritime security, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is developing a new electro-optical system for coastal and harbour surveillance.The system, being worked upon by Instruments Research and Development Establishment, Dehradun, will comprise thermal imagers and optical cameras to detect and track targets and provide requisite inputs for decision-making.The all weather, day and night capable system will be installed at strategic locations along the coastline, including vicinity to harbours and ports, to monitor shipping traffic as well as other sea-faring vessels. It will be controlled remotely and will be operated by the Indian Coast Guard.According to DRDO sources, the electro-optical system’s detection range is expected to be up to 25 kilometers or more and it should be able to identify a target at a distance of at least eight kilometers, besides being able to auto-track multiple targets as small as a 5-meter long boat.India has a coastline of 7,516 km along the mainland and islands covering 13 states and union territories. Besides major densely populated cities, a large number of strategic and commercially vital installations as naval bases, nuclear plants, missile and satellite launch centers, ship building docks, oil refineries, industrial units and harbours are located on or adjacent to the coast. There are 13 major and over 200 minor ports in India that handle 90 per cent of the trade.India’s coastline have always been vulnerable to anti-national activities like smuggling of weapons, explosives, contraband and narcotics as well as infiltration of terrorists. In 1993, the sea route was reportedly used to smuggle explosives for the blasts in Mumbai wile in 2008, it was used to infiltrate terrorists for the terror attacks in the same city.After the 2008 attacks, coastal security was reviewed by the central government and several new measures were recommended that were to be implemented in a phased manner. Some of them are still hanging fire due to administrative, technical or financial issues.Peacetime coastal security within Indian territorial waters is the responsibility of the Indian Coast Guard. A surveillance mechanism, called Coastal Surveillance Network (CSN), comprising of a chain of static sensors having radars, automatic identification system, day/night cameras and weather sensors at 46 locations along the coastline and Islands has been established. In addition there are 34 radar stations for surveillance.The Indian Navy has established four Joint Operations Centres (JOC) at Mumbai, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Port Blair, from which all coastal security operations are coordinated. These are manned round the clock by naval and coast guard teams and are also networked with state police and other agencies such as the Intelligence Bureau, Customs and ports authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drdos-dehradun-lab-to-develop-coastal-and-harbour-surveillance-system-286299
21-07-2021||---||Panjab University releases schedule for Senate elections||Chandigarh, July 20Putting end to speculations, Panjab University announced the Senate elections schedule today.As per the announced schedule, the Senate elections will start from the voting for constituency of principals of the technical and professional colleges and elections for members of the staff of technical and professional colleges on August 3. The counting for both will be held on August 5.Voting for professors on the staff of the teaching departments of the university and associate professors and assistant professors on the staff of the teaching departments of the university will be held on August 8, followed by counting of votes on August 12.On August 18, voting will be held for the heads of affiliated arts colleges and professors, associate professors and assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. The counting of votes will be held on August 20. The elections for registered graduates will also be held on August 18, followed by counting on August 20. Elections for members of various faculties will be held on August 23, followed by counting of votes on the same day.Total number of seatsThere are three seats for principals of the technical and professional colleges and five candidates are in the fray. The constituency has 52 registered voters.The category of members of the staff of technical and professional colleges has three seats, four candidates and 789 voters, while the professors on the staff of the teaching departments of the university has two seats, six candidates and 279 voters.The category of the associate professors and assistant professors on the staff of the teaching departments of the university has two seats, seven contesting candidates and 439 voters. Heads of affiliated arts colleges have eight seats, 11 candidates and 58 voters, professors, associate professors and assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges have eight seats, 15 candidates and 2,423 voters.The category of the registered graduates has 15 seats, 43 candidates and 3,61,869 voters and members of various faculties has six seats, 12 candidates and 755 voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-schedule-for-senate-elections-285928
21-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||BJP will win Chandigarh municipal elections, claims Shahnawaz Hussain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20National BJP spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain today claimed that the BJP will win the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections and come up with “surprising result” in the Punjab elections.Hussain, who was in BJP office for an event, said: “I will visit the city again during the MC elections. We will win the poll.”On BJP’s prospects in Punjab elections in the light of farmer protests, he said: “We will surprise people and perform well,” he replied.City party chief Arun Sood added: “Several big names from Punjab have been joining the party. People will gradually realise that the farm laws will uplift the life of farmers and are meant to raise their income.”Hussain criticised the recent attack on the city Mayor and ex-chief Sanjay Tandon during a farmers protest in Sector 48 here. “This is not right. Everybody has a right to protest, but violence is condemnable. Modiji’s aim is to increase the farmers’ income.”On Punjab Congress crises, he said: “Sidhu he has been elected the Punjab Congress president, I congratulate him, but how will the crises get resolved? There is a fight between the Punjab Congress and Amarinder Congress.”Hussain, who is also the Minister of Industries in the Bihar Government, criticised the opposition for not letting the monsoon session operate. He earlier held a meeting with BJP’s minority cell members at Kamalam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-will-win-chandigarh-municipal-elections-claims-shahnawaz-hussain-285929
21-07-2021||---||Get schools sanitised, DEO of Mohali told||Mohali, July 20Schools for Classes X to XII will be reopened from July 26 and the district administration has given directions to the District Education Officer (DEO) to get the school buildings sanitised.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the orders for reopening of schools for Class X, XI and XII were issued by the Punjab Chief Minister today. He said only the fully vaccinated teachers and staff would be allowed to be physically present at schools.He said physical presence of the students should be purely at the consent of parents and the option of virtual classes would be continued. The DEO should submit an undertaking to this effect to his office, he added.Dayalan said the reopening of the schools will be monitored closely by him and the DEO would ensure that all protocols are in place. “Parents have to give consent in writing and submit it to the DC’s office before sending children to school,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-schools-sanitised-deo-of-mohali-told-285930
21-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chargesheet filed against liquor baron Arvind Singla||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 20The UT police have filed a chargesheet against liquor baron Arvind Singla and another accused Vikas in an alleged cheating case that was filed on a complaint of Sweta Singla, wife of Arvind’s cousin Deepak Singla.A case was registered against Singla and other accused — Tejinder Singh, Raman Puri and Vikas — under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station. So far, Singla and Vikas have been arrested.Shweta Singla told the police that Deepak and Arvind Singla formed a firm named Bell Enterprises in 2015 in which Arvind Singla was a partner of 60 per cent holding while 40 per cent partnership was in the name of Deepak.The company started the distribution business of mobile phones and other related things. She said when the company started facing the loss in 2016, Arvind allegedly got himself separated to avoid liability and made her a partner in the firm. She claimed that Deepak Singla was under great stress.He was accidently hit by a gun shot at home on June 15, 2016, and was admitted to Fortis Hospital. She alleged that during the hospitalisation of Deepak, Arvind Singla allegedly made a forged partnership deed and got her husband to sign it when he was in the ICU and not in a condition to sign it. She alleged that Arvind put the liability of crores on Arvind fraudulently.Bail deniedA local court has denied the bail of the accused Vikas in the case. The court has also denied the anticipatory bail application of Raman Puri. Shweta had named both of them in her complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-against-liquor-baron-arvind-singla-285931
21-07-2021||---||CRPF Inspector-General meets Chandigarh Administrator||Chandigarh, July 20MC Panwar, Inspector-General, Central Reserve Police Force, today called on VP Singh Badnore, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator. He has recently taken charge of the CRPF’s North Western Sector.Panwar briefed the Governor about various duties and activities of the CRPF in this sector, which looks after the states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UT.He also assured the governor that officers and jawans of the CRPF would continue to perform their duties with dedication and were ready to meet all challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-inspector-general-meets-chandigarh-administrator-285932
21-07-2021||Mohali||Diploma engineers want hike in pay||The Council of Diploma Engineers from Punjab today threatened to stop the development works being carried out by various authorities and departments across Punjab if their demands were not fulfilled. Members of the Council of Diploma Engineers from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Haryana and Jammu&Kashmir had gathered at the Community Centre, Phase 7, and held a protest against the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission Report. Heads of the council said they were working on a very low pay scale and demanded restoration of pay scale of 3.01, restoration of old pension scheme and implementation of cashless medical scheme. They also demanded the restoration of the travel allowance and confirmation of the services of temporary employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diploma-engineers-want-hike-in-pay-285933
21-07-2021||---||888 turn up as Chhatbir zoo reopens||Zirakpur, July 20As many as 888 visitors showed up as the Chhatbir zoo reopened after more than two months today.Rain, lack of awareness and Covid-19 could be the reasons for less than normal footfall, said officials.“When weather clears up in few days, we hope good number of people would visit the zoo,” said Harpal Singh, Range Officer-cum-Zoo Education Officer.Minister of Forests and Social Welfare Sadhu Singh Dharamsot made an unscheduled visit to the zoo in the morning and interacted with the staff.The authorities had ordered the closure of the zoo on May 6 as a precautionary measure after eight Asiatic lions tested positive for Covid-19 at Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad. Earlier, the zoo was closed in view of the pandemic on March 17 last year and reopened in December, causing a revenue loss of Rs5 crore.The zoo reopened on conditions that a limited number of visitors will be allowed entry and they will follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Those aged above 65 and children below five years of age are not allowed entry to the zoo.The zoo will remain open to public six days a week (Monday closed). Visitors will be allowed entry from 9.30 am to 4.30 pm, instead of 9 am to 5 pm. To ensure staggered entry and social distancing, entry will be allowed in three slots — 9.30 am to 11:30 am, noon to 2 pm and 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm. The maximum 1,800 visitors will be allowed in each slot. There will be no entry for visitors during breaks for sanitisation — 11.30 am to noon and 2 pm to 2.30 pm.Only a limited number of tickets will be available in different slots till normalcy returns. The entry tickets will be valid only for two hours after the entry. Tickets for entry to the zoo and other facilities can be booked virtually, the link for which has been provided on the zoo website (chhatbirzoo.gov.in).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/888-turn-up-as-chhatbir-zoo-reopens-285934
21-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula police yet to reach conclusion in case of girl’s murder, suicide by father||The Panchkula police are yet to reach any conclusion in a case related to the murder of a girl child and suicide by her father. The police are still trying to find out the cause behind the crime.They are trying to get the call details of the girl’s father to know as to whom he spoke to in the past few days. The police will also interrogate people with whom father interacted before committing the suicide.According to information, the police have already taken the fingerprints of father. They were likely to take fingerprints of other people also.Meanwhile, the Railway police handed over the body to his family members. The Panchkula police would now take the mobile phone, a bag and other articles of father from the Mubarikpur police into their possession. The police would send the mobile phone to the cyber cell for further investigations.It is pertinent to mention here that on July 18, the body of 10-year-old girl was found in Bandarghati, Panchkula. Later, the girl’s father went missing. On July 19, the father committed suicide by jumping in front of Shatabdi Express near Ghazipur in Zirakpur. A bag and a mobile phone were recovered from his possession at the incident site.The police are also questioning the family members. Samples of the girl collected by the forensic team have been sent to Madhuban.Samples will also be sent to Madhuban for further investigation. The police said the murder case would be investigated from several angles.Chandimandir SHO Arvind Kamboj said the police were investigating both cases from various angles. Strict action would be taken against the accused. He said father’s body had been handed over to his family members after the autopsy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-yet-to-reach-conclusion-in-case-of-girls-murder-suicide-by-father-285935
21-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration put on notice over air pollution||Chandigarh, July 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the UT Administration on notice on a petition claiming that people living in the vicinity of the Dadu Majra garbage dump were more prone to severe Covid problems.The petitioner, Amit Sharma, contended that Dadu Majra and Dhanas had 107 per cent more cases of pneumonia in 2020 compared to all other colonies in Chandigarh. A study shared by the GMCH-32 in response to an RTI plea suggested that people with lung diseases and respiratory issues were more susceptible to severe Covid-19, he submitted.Taking up the petition filed by Sharma in person, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli also fixed the case for further hearing on November 26.Claiming “gross violation of the fundamental rights of over 50,000 citizens living in the dump’s vicinity”, Sharma sought issuance of directions to the Municipal Corporation and other state authorities to ensure an end to air pollution.Directions were also sought to end unbearable stench and frequent fires that released toxins in the air. Sharma also called for directions to the corporation and other respondents to address health issues faced by people living in the dump’s vicinity.Sharma further asked for inquiry/probe into the MC’s failure to follow the directions given by the NGT on waste management and processing, and also on flouting of environmental laws and outcome of “crores of taxpayers’ money spent on study tours for waste management”.The wretched quality of air and life in the area was further aggravated by the frequent toxic fires in the “mountain of garbage” turning higher by the day. The MC was able to process a mere 13.36 per cent of the waste dumped here last year, and only 16.09 per cent from January to May in 2021.Not only was the problem of unprocessed garbage threatening to swamp the Dadu Majra area, it was also leading to increased incidents of fire in the dump. The Medical Officer of Health (MOH) was neither able to prevent nor explain. The fire in March this year lasted a week and covered the entire city in a haze, hindering visibility and causing respiratory issues among people in the vicinity.The Medical Officer of Health, MC, has wilfully failed to manage the waste, fires and the health of the people in the area…. Innumerable appeals by the beleaguered residents living in hellish conditions to the highest authorities, local and Central, RTI applications and personal meetings with the Administration have not yielded any positive result,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-put-on-notice-over-air-pollution-285936
21-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Ban on protests in Chandigarh: AAP calls it draconian, Cong says overreaction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has questioned the rationale behind imposing “draconian” Section 144 across Chandigarh “on the pretext of an incidence of violence in the Motor Market, Sector 48”, the Congress termed UT’s blanket ban on protests and demonstration in the city, other than at the Sector 25 Rally Ground, as an “overreaction to the incident”.Prem Garg, AAP convener, said: “We condemn the violence with BJP leaders and demand that real culprits should be identified. However, imposition of Section 144 is uncalled-for. Political parties and other organisations have the right to protest, hold peaceful meetings and rallies, particularly in view of the forthcoming MC elections in December.”He shared that such blanket ban might have been imposed by the Administration to muzzle the voice of Opposition parties and various organisations that keep highlighting the failures of the Administration and the MC, on almost all fronts.Garg said: “It is illogical to ask us to hold small meetings or protests at the rally ground, which is meant for huge gatherings. The right to hold meetings can’t be denied to the public under the guise of law and order issue, which is the responsibility of the Administration and the police. Holding any protest or rally on the outskirts of the city has no meaning.”Meanwhile, Pawan Banal, former city MP from the Congress, said: “There are occasions when employees, traders, residents or other sections of society have to come out of their houses and establishments in a spontaneous protest against a decision of the authorities. If they were to be slapped with criminal cases for such speech and expression of thought, guaranteed by the Constitution, it would tantamount to promulgation of a totalitarian, police state.”Bansal said: “This omnibus ban can lead to action if women were to come out of their houses to protest against turbid water supply, overflowing sewers or garbage piling up in their locality. What if members of a trade union were to strike work and voice their indignation against some haughty and insulting behaviour of a senior? Must they go to the rally ground for the purpose?”Advising the Administration to not be oversensitive and de facto extend Section 144 of the CrPC to the entire UT, Bansal recalled that recognising the unsuitability of the Sector 25 Rally Ground, the Administration itself had permitted political rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Sector 34 and 38, respectively, during the last elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-protests-in-chandigarh-aap-calls-it-draconian-cong-says-overreaction-285937
21-07-2021||---||19 more cholera cases reported from Panchkula villages||Panchkula, July 20Nineteen more cases of cholera surfaced in Abheypur and Budhanpur villages today, taking the total number of cases in the district to 459.A total of 53 patients, including 34 children, are admitted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mukta Kumar, said keeping in view the number of cholera patients, they had opened a ward reserved for Covid patients.The Civil Surgeon said no more fatality due to cholera was reported from the district.Earlier, a nine-year-old boy from Abheypur had died of cholera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-more-cholera-cases-reported-from-panchkula-villages-285938
21-07-2021||Panchkula||Rain exposes Panchkula civic body’s claims||Rain today exposed the tall claims of the Municipal Corporation, which said there would be no waterlogging in any part of the city during the monsoon, as most roads were submerged in water.Main roads as well as internal roads in sectors and villages were in 2 to 3 ft deep water. However, water did not enter houses in any part of the city or villages as was witnessed during the past couple of years.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal took stock of the situation. He asked officials to provide relief to people from waterlogging by pumping out water.People in Sector 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 19, Kishangarh and Abheypur villages, the Industrial Area, Phase 1 and Phase 2, faced inconvenience due to waterlogging.MC officials had claimed that streets and road gullies had been cleaned at a cost of around Rs1 crore. However, the waterlogging has exposed these claims. There were reports of many cars getting stuck on roads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-exposes-panchkula-civic-bodys-claims-285939
21-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Kajehri village locked down for Chandigarh Mayor’s visit, locals irked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20A significant section of Kajehri village was cordoned off here today for securing an event attended by Mayor Ravikant Sharma. While the road dividing Sector 52 and 53 was entirely barricaded, the main parking lot of the village was out of bounds for the general public. The only metalled approach road in the village was off-limits too.Locals claimed that 50 per cent of the shops were shut down by the police. These roads and shops remained shut from 10 am to 4:45 pm.While shop owners lost business, regular commuters were harrowed too. One of the meat shop owners, Mohmmad Jameel, said: “I have lost about Rs3,000 worth of earnings. Sale was down. Abruptly, without any prior intimation, our shops were shut down. This should not be done in future.”Kamal Singh, another shopkeeper, said: “My dhaba has been shut since 10 am. More than half the shops here were shut. Now, we can’t argue with the police if they ask us to shut the shops. I have lost Rs500 dehadi (daily wage).”Komal Singh, a resident of the village, said: “They are trying to make this city like Kashmir. About 500 cops were deployed today. There was a curfew-like situation.”When contacted, Ravikant Sharma said: “I wasn’t aware of the police arrangements, but I am sure it was done because of what happened on Saturday in the motor market. People may have threatened to protest.”10 persons rounded up, let offJoga Singh of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee said, “Around 10 persons from different points of the village, who wanted to stage a symbolic protest, were rounded up and later let off.” He said: “None of us were allowed to even go near the barricades.” The SHO of the Sector 36 police station said: “Only four-five persons, who had lost their way, were rounded up and then let off.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kajehri-village-locked-down-for-chandigarh-mayors-visit-locals-irked-285940
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two departments of Chandigarh seek ideas from public to simplify processes||Two more departments of the UT Administration have invited suggestions from the public for simplification of processes and minimising regulatory compliance burdens in services.The suggestions have been solicited by the Excise and Taxation Department and the Department of Technical Education.The Administration has initiated an exercise of minimising regulatory compliance burden with an aim of simplifying, rationalising and digitising interfaces with citizens/industrialists/licensees. The main objective is to decrease time cost burden and improve ease of living for citizens and ease of doing business. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-departments-of-chandigarh-seek-ideas-from-public-to-simplify-processes-285941
21-07-2021||---||Farm activists, lawyers term Section 144 in Chandigarh attack on democracy||Chandigarh, July 20Besides farm activists, lawyers, intellectuals and members of civil society have sharply criticised the UT Administration’s order that earmarks the rally ground in Sector 25 as the only protest site (with permission) in the city while imposing Section 144 ‘as a measure of emergency’. The order was last issued in March this year, according to the Administration’s website.Issued two days after the Saturday’s Motor Market protest by pro-farmer organisations, where windshields of BJP leaders’ cars were broken allegedly by the protesters, the order is being viewed as “an attack on democracy” and “people’s right to dissent peacefully”.Prem Singh Bhangu, convener, Legal Cell, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said: “In entire Chandigarh, there is no apprehension of peace being disturbed. This order has been passed with an intension to debar people who are raising their voice against the farm laws. They want to sabotage this peaceful protest and quell our voice.”Bhangu said: “Farm activists at roundabouts are creating a public opinion and the city’s response has been overwhelming. This order is undemocratic as even the Supreme Court allows peaceful protest. About four people will continue to stand on roundabouts and protest. If anyone intervenes, then the SKM will oppose it.”Daljeet Singh Palsora and Gurpreet Singh Somal from the city’s Pendu Sangarsh Committee said: “This order is undemocratic. We condemn it. The UT Administration is under political pressure. Therefore, it is making anti-farmer decisions.”Advocate RS Bains of the Punjab and Haryana High Court said: “Section 144 is for emergency use only. It is never to dilute the fundamental rights of peaceful protesters. This order is not as per law as only 10-20 people protest at the Plaza or chowks. You can regulate protests, not ban them. Section 144 was never to be a limitation on constitutional rights.”Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association, said: “Has this order been implemented in the city only for farmers? BJP people have been organising public functions. This has been done to harass farm activists and register cases against them.”Vinod Kumar Verma, former vice-president of the District Bar Association, said: “This is just to frustrate the claim of farmers although there is no threat to the public peace. Farm activists have been protesting peacefully for months now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-lawyers-term-section-144-in-chandigarh-attack-on-democracy-285943
21-07-2021||Naina Mishra||79.4% adults in Chandigarh have antibodies to Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Around 79.4 per cent of the adult population above 18 years in Chandigarh has antibodies to coronavirus, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, stated today as it announced the preliminary results of a sero survey.The study involves collection of 1,200 samples from 30 randomly selected clusters in the UT, including population-based representation of urban, rural and rehabilitation colonies.Of the 132 participants from rural areas tested so far, 91 (68.8 per cent) came out positive for the presence of IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2.Similarly, in eight clusters from urban sectors and five in colonies tested so far, the seroprevalence has been found to be 83.5 per cent and 79.8 per cent, respectively. The seropositivity indicates the presence of IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, developed naturally following the Covid infection or after vaccination.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, said, “The complete results of the study will provide a more accurate reflection of the true extent of SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence amongst the adult population of Chandigarh. It will help understand the prevalence of the disease as well as the immune response to the Covid vaccine.”Dr Kaur added, “Serological testing for SARS-CoV-2 in the general population can be utilised for epidemiological purposes in identifying the prevalence and transmission dynamics of the disease. It will indicate the extent of the spread of infection in the population which forms the basis for strengthening public health mitigation measures. The results of the study will enable the health authorities to work out public health strategies which in future may help in the prevention and control of the disease. It will also help in prioritising the at-risk population.”The sero survey is being conducted by the departments of biochemistry, pulmonary medicine and community medicine at the GMCH.The electoral population of Chandigarh in different wards comprising of sectors, villages and resettlement colonies has been used to draw a representative sample of 30 clusters. Four locations were randomly identified in each cluster and from each location, randomly selected 10 consecutive houses were chosen for sampling.The sero survey for cases in 6-18 years age group conducted by the PGI also indicated that 67.4 per cent children in sector areas, 74.3 per cent in rural and 73.2 per cent in colony areas have antibodies.Chandigarh sees 4 casesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported four new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of 18 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNS5 more infected in Mohali, no deathMohali: Five more persons were found infected in the district during the past 24 hours. No death was reported, while eight patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, one was reported from Kharar, while two cases each surfaced in Mohali (urban) and Gharuan. — TNSPanchkula logs one case, no deathPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported one fresh case of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality. A total of 5,972 persons were vaccinated at 22 government and three private vaccination centres across the district on Tuesday and 2,929 had got the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/79-4-adults-in-chandigarh-have-antibodies-to-covid-19-285945
21-07-2021||---||Ex-Chief Justice moves HC against 'surveillance cameras' at CJ's house||Chandigarh, July 20In virtually a Chief Justice-versus-Chief Justice case, a former Chief Justice and Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice NK Sodhi, today moved the HC against the installation of “surveillance cameras” at the residence of the present Chief Justice.Living opposite the official residence of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha in Sector 4, Karnataka High Court’s former Chief Justice Sodhi claimed that the high-resolution, infra-red cameras installed on the “tall poles” violated his right to privacy.His counsel Rajiv Atma Ram, Arjun Partap Atma Ram and Brijesh Khosla contended: “The cameras can record persons and cars and other vehicles coming to, leaving, going in, and going out of the petitioner's residence; they can look into the front and the side portion of the petitioner's built-up house. Thus, there is an invasion of privacy of all residents of (his) house number 36, Sector 4, Chandigarh….”The petition against the Union of India, UT, Chandigarh, Adviser to the UT Administrator, the Chandigarh Police, the High Court and the CRPF Director-General was placed before the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash this morning. The matter has been disposed of but detailed order was not yet available.UT additional standing counsel Namit Kumar, during the course of the hearing, placed before the Bench an “inquiry report” in a sealed cover. A communication by HC Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry to Justice Sodhi was also placed before the Bench. It said spot inspection was carried out after Justice Sodhi’s letter was sent to the UT DGP for information and necessary action. The DGP's office subsequently said the cameras were installed to "secure the protected persons from all possible apprehensions of threats in accordance with the provisions of the Yellow Book”. These cameras did not cover the houses on the opposite side of the street and only covered area up to the road berm of house number 34 and 36. There was no trespass or breach into privacy of house number 36.Justice NK Sodhi’s plea||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-chief-justice-moves-hc-against-surveillance-cameras-at-cjs-house-285948
21-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Administration sanctions Rs 125-crore second quarter grant to MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20In a boost to the broke Municipal Corporation in the city, the UT Administration has sanctioned its full second quarter grant-in-aid (GIA) of Rs125 crore. “We will receive the entire Rs125 crore grant in two days. There is no cut imposed in the grant for this quarter and there is no information of any cut even in the grant for the next quarter,” confirmed a senior MC official.This amount will be mainly used to pay salaries for the months of July, August and September. “There will be nothing left for development works out of this little fund,” said an official concerned.The civic body spends about Rs45 crore per month on salaries and other unavoidable expenses. It desperately waits for the grant every month as it is left with little money, not enough even for salaries. The corporation had in May received Rs125 crore as the first installment of the GIA and additional Rs2 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission.The civic body is to receive annual Rs502-crore GIA in four quarters from the Administration. The corporation had passed a Rs670-crore deficit Budget for the fiscal 2021-22 in its anticipation of getting GIA as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. However, only Rs502 crore has been approved for it.About six months are left for the five-year term of the ruling BJP to complete, but the party could not get the funds which it had claimed to obtain from the Centre. This had stalled several works like road recarpeting, renovation of community centres, public toilets and others.Amount to be used to pay salariesThe amount will mainly be used by the MC to pay salaries for the months of July, August and September. “There will be nothing left for development works out of this little fund,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-sanctions-rs-125-crore-second-quarter-grant-to-mc-285951
21-07-2021||---||Four touts held in Mohali, 100 licences, RCs seized||Mohali, July 20A joint team of the SDM, Mohali, Jagdeep Sehgal, and the DSP, Cyber Crime, today raided the office of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) and the Sector 82 driving test track and arrested four touts, who used to allegedly take money from people to get their work done.The four suspects have been identified as Taranjit Singh, Manish Kumar, Harjinder Singh and Yashpal Sharma. Nearly 100 licences, registration certificates (RCs), files, mobiles and a laptop were recovered from them and legal proceedings initiated.Disclosing this, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Komal Mittal said the district administration was receiving complaints that some people were using the RTA office and the Sector 82 track and were taking money from people for getting their work done.She said on the directions of Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, a team was formed and four persons were arrested by raiding the compound near the RTA office and Sector 82 track.Mittal said the government was committed to providing a "clean and transparent service environment" to people and if any government employee took bribe for work or any person took money from people for getting work done, strict action would be taken.Legal proceedings initiatedThe four suspects have been identified as Taranjit Singh, Manish Kumar, Harjinder Singh and Yashpal Sharma. Nearly 100 licences, registration certificates, files, mobiles and a laptop were recovered from them and legal proceedings have been initiated against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-touts-held-in-mohali-100-licences-rcs-seized-285959
21-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration to reopen colleges next month with riders||Chandigarh, July 20With a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has decided to reopen institutions of higher education from next month.The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.According to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, all institutions of higher learning, including universities and colleges, will be allowed to open for the next academic session from August, subject to the condition that all teaching and non-teaching staff and students must have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine a minimum of two weeks ago. However, it will be reviewed again in the coming days considering the pandemic situation.To give a boost to economic activities, the Administration has also allowed commercial events such as exhibitions and shows only with prior permission from the SDM concerned. The Administration has put a limit of 200 persons or 50 per cent of available space and strict adherence to the Covid protocol for such events.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation has been directed to tackle waterlogging in the city during the monsoon.Over violation of Covid norms, the Administrator directed the police to take strict action against the violators, particularly those not wearing masks at Sukhna Lake and public places.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said almost all OPDs had opened in the PGI.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said 7,09,180 doses of the vaccine had been administered in Chandigarh so far. As many as 77.25 per cent of the eligible population had been given the first dose and 20.4 per cent the second dose. She said vaccination had been scaled up in the city during the last week and about 8,800 persons were being inoculated daily. Currently, about 38,000 doses were available in government hospitals and 46,700 doses of the vaccine were yet to be received from the Centre this month.She said a door-to-door survey-cum-vaccination drive at Dadu Majra, Dhanas and Kishangarh for left-out eligible population had already been carried out and 3,000 people were vaccinated during this drive with the help of NGOs and councillors. The same exercise would continue in other parts of the city, she said, adding that two CTU buses had been converted into vaccination facilities for the purpose of vaccination.Staff, students must have received one jabAccording to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, all institutions of higher learning, including universities and colleges, will be allowed to open for the next academic session from August, subject to the condition that all teaching and non-teaching staff and students must have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine a minimum of two weeks ago. However, it will be reviewed again in the coming days considering the pandemic situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-reopen-colleges-next-month-with-riders-285960
21-07-2021||---||18.6 mm rainfall in Chandigarh||Eid mubarak!Haryana sends panel to Chandigarh Administration for post of DCChandigarh: The Haryana Government has sent a panel of three IAS officers to the UT Administration for the post of Deputy Commissioner (DC). The post is reserved for an IAS officer of the Haryana cadre. The panel has the names of Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar. The three-year deputation of incumbent DC Mandip Singh Brar, a 2005-batch officer, will end in October. He had joined the UT Administration on October 30, 2018. TNSVaccination drive at PGGC-42Chandigarh: A Covid-19 vaccination drive started at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 42, for students above 18 years of age from all colleges of Chandigarh, members of the staff and general public. It was organised by the NSS Department of the college, in collaboration with the Health Department. The drive was inaugurated by Surinder Dahiya, Deputy Director, Department of Higher Education. and Dr Dalip Kumar, Mission Coordinator, RUSA. On the first day, more than 100 vaccines were administered to students. TNSPU schedules CET for Aug 14Chandigarh: Panjab University has announced the schedule to conduct the PU CET (UG) on August 14, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations. The prospectus for the test was already available online. Detailed schedule would also be available on the website — cetug.puchd.ac.in. TNSEvening studies dept webinarChandigarh: The Department of Evening Studies- Multi-disciplinary Research Centre organised a webinar to celebrate India's 75 Years of Independence – "Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav". It was held under the guidance of Professor Mahesh Sharma, Chairperson of the department. A total of 14 research papers were presented by participants from various parts of the country. tnsTwo booked for attacking realtorMohali: The police have booked two suspects for attacking and injuring a property dealer, Rajeev Bedi, in Kharar. The suspects have been identified as Rajesh Sharma and his brother, residents of Kharar City. A case under Sections 325, 323 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Kharar City police station on July 17. In his complaint to the police, Sharma stated that the incident took place on the evening of July 8. He received serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at a hospital. TNSLocal pugilist beats JK playerChandigarh: Local pugilist Kavi defeated Mayank Chetteri from Jammu & Kashmir in the pre-quarterfinals of the 51-kg weight category during the ongoing Indian Youth National Championship, in Sonepat. Ankit defeated Anmol from Haryana to enter the 54-kg weight category quarterfinals. In the women’s category, local contender Neha defeated Tingmila from Manipur in the 48-kg pre-quarters, while Kajal defeated Aiyana Menezes of Goa in the 50-kg weight category. Nandani defeated Tulsi Padmaja Kethah of Andhra Pradesh in the 52-kg weight category in the pre-quarters. TNSJP Atray Cricket meet from September 1Chandigarh: The 26th edition of the All-India JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament will be held from September 1 to 12 at PCA Stadium, Mullanpur, IS Bindra Cricket Stadium, Mohali, Sector 16 Cricket Stadium, Chandigarh, and GMSS, Sector 26, Chandigarh. According to Sushil Kapoor, organising secretary, PCC, PCA Colts, MPCA, Baroda, HPCA, UPCA, UTCA, RBI Mumbai, ONGC Delhi, Indian Oil Corporation, Delhi, CAG Delhi, India Cements, FCI Delhi & Minerva Cricket Academy have been invited. The 12 teams will be divided into four pools and the tournament is being played on a league-cum-knock out basis. The matches will be of 50 overs each side. After the league stage, the top two teams of each group will play the quarterfinals. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-6-mm-rainfall-in-chandigarh-285963
21-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Ex-CJ moves HC against installation of ‘surveillance cameras’ at Chief Justice's residence||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20In virtually a Chief Justice-versus-Chief Justice case, a former Chief Justice and a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice N.K. Sodhi, on Tuesday moved the HC against the installation of “surveillance cameras” at the residence of the present Chief Justice.Living opposite the official residence of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha in Sector 4, Karnataka High Court’s former Chief Justice Sodhi claimed that the high-resolution, infra-red, cameras installed on the “tall poles” violated his right to privacy.Justice Sodhi’s pleaHis counsel Rajiv Atma Ram, Arjun Partap Atma Ram and Brijesh Khosla contended: “The cameras can record persons and cars and other vehicles coming to, leaving, going in, and going out of the petitioner’s residence; they can look into the front and the side portion of the petitioner’s built-up house. Thus, there is an invasion of privacy of all the residents of (his) house number 36, Sector 4, Chandigarh….”The petition against the Union of India, UT Chandigarh, Adviser to the UT Administrator, the Chandigarh Police, the High Court and CRPF Director-General was placed before Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash this morning.  The matter has been disposed of but detailed order was not yet available.UT additional standing counsel Namit Kumar, during the course of hearing, placed before the Bench an “inquiry report” in a sealed cover. A communication by HC Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry to Justice Sodhi was also placed before the Bench. It said spot inspection was carried out after Justice Sodhi’s letter was sent to UT DGP for information and necessary action.The DGP’s office subsequently said the cameras were installed to “secure the protected persons from all possible apprehensions of threats in accordance with the provisions of the Yellow Book”. These cameras did not cover the houses on the opposite side of the street and only covered area up to the road-berm of house number 34 and 36. There was no trespass or breach into privacy of house number 36.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-cj-moves-hc-against-installation-of-surveillance-cameras-at-chief-justices-residence-285912
21-07-2021||Zirakpur||Day after girl’s murder in Panchkula, father found dead on railway line||A day after the police found the body of a minor girl in the forest area at the Bandar Ghati stretch near the Sector 23 dumping ground in Panchkula, her father was found dead at Gazipur on the Ambala-Kalka railway line today. The police suspect that he committed a suicide by jumping in front of a moving train.The deceased has been identified as a resident of Sector 19, Panchkula. The Railway police have taken the body into their custody and are investigating the matter.Railway police incharge Rajinder Singh Dhillon said, “We got information around 1 pm today that a person had committed suicide near Gazipur village. No suicide note has been recovered from the deceased.”The police said a hand bag with Aadhaar card, a purse, personal belongings, a half-filled liquor bottle, water bottles and snacks were found near the body.A Shatabdi driver had informed the railway police about the body, which was found cut in two pieces, the police said. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital.Meanwhile, Chandimandir (Panchkula) SHO Inspector Arvind Kumar said a report of the autopsy was still awaited. “It is expected to become available by tomorrow,” he said. Panchkula DCP Mohit Handa had yesterday said the police had been able to identify the prime suspect on the basis of on-ground evidence and technical investigation and he would be rounded up soon. Citing prima facie evidence, Handa had ruled out the girl was sexually assaulted. A case of murder and destruction of evidence was registered at the Chandimandir police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-girls-murder-in-panchkula-father-found-dead-on-railway-line-285583
21-07-2021||---||Panchkula: Body of minor girl found in forest area, father missing||Panchkula, July 18The body of a minor girl was found in the forest area at the Bandar Ghati stretch near the Sector 23 dumping ground around 9 am today.The victim, who is believed to be 10-12 years old, was a resident of Power Colony, Sector 19. The girl had left her home with her father last afternoon, but both of them did not return, the police said.The father of the girl had also gone “missing”. The police were now trying to trace him. ASI Harender Singh, who is an investigating officer in the case, said they had gone to the victim’s house, but her father wasn’t present there.“The victim’s mother told the police her daughter had left the house with her husband last afternoon, but they didn’t come back,” he said.Deputy Commisioner of Police Mohit Handa said: “We have been able to identify the prime suspect on the basis of on-ground evidence and technical investigation. We will round him up soon.”He said the identity of the suspect was not being revealed as it might alert him. “On the basis of the prima facie evidence, it does not appear to be a case of sexual assault. However, we will wait for medical examination for confirmation,” the DCP said, adding that they were probing the case from all angles.A police patrolling party spotted the body stuck in bushes down the hills while on their way towards the Ramgarh main road.Senior police officials, including DCP Mohit Handa, reached the spot. A forensic team of the local police, too, visited the spot.According to police officials, there were blood stains around victim’s nose and mouth and her skin appeared blue and yellow in colour. However, there were no visible fatal injuries on the victim’s body.“I, along with a colleague, was patrolling in the area when we spotted the body. I passed the information to the Chandimandir police station. It seemed to be case of murder and that the killers wanted to destroy evidence,’’ said ASI Bharmanand in the FIR.A case under section 302 (murder) and section 201 (destruction of evidence) has been registered against unknown persons at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-body-of-minor-girl-found-in-forest-area-father-missing-285200
