22-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 new Covid cases; 80 pc adults have got 1st dose of vaccine: Health Dept||Chandigarh reported two new Covid cases on Thursday, taking the city's tally of active cases to 34, according to a Health Department bulletin.The city continued to report no deaths due to the virus-having reported the last Covid fatality on July 5.So far, Chandigarh has recorded a total of 61,916 cases and 809 deaths due to the contagion.Nearly 80 per cent of adults have received the first shot of the Covid vaccine in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-new-covid-cases-80-pc-adults-have-got-1st-dose-of-vaccine-health-dept-286790
22-07-2021||---||Robbers hold family hostage in Zirakpur; decamp with cash, jewellery worth lakhs||Mohali, July 22In a broad daylight robbery, four unidentified persons looted cash and jewellery worth several lakhs from a house in Sharma Enclave at Lohgarh in Zirakpur on Thursday after keeping the family of an assistant manager in Mathooth Finance hostage.After receiving information SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal, DSP Zirakpur Sub Division Amroz Singh, SHO Zirakpur Police Station Inspector Omkar Singh Brar immediately reached the site. The forensic team also reached the site to take the possible finger prints of the accused.  According to information, four robbers arrived on two bikes at around 11.30 am and after keeping the family members and the maid hostage searched the house for about two and half hours and fled after looing cash, silver and gold jewellery from house.Talking to media, Jaidev Goyal said he has retired from the post of DGM of Union Bank and is currently working as an Assistant Manager at Muthoot Finance in Sector 35, Chandigarh. He said at the time of the incident he was on his way to his office and his 60-year-old wife Naresh Rani, 40-year-old son Kapil Goyal and a maid were present in the house. One of the robbers first took the housemaid as hostage and Naresh Rani thought the suspect was the husband of the maid and took their fighting for a domestic quarrel her, he added.Jaidev Goyal said after this the other three robbers entered the house one by one and disconnected the internet connection and tied up Jaideep Goyal’s son Kapil Goyal and put a sword around his neck.He said the accused threatened Naresh Rani that if she does not hand over all the cash and gold in the house, her son will be killed. Jaidev Goyal said frightened over this his wife handed over the gold, silver and cash lying in the house. After his the robbers also tied her and searched the house for about two and a half hours and fled on their two bikes, he added.SP Dr Ravjot Kaur Grewal said that manhunt has been launched to nab the accused with the help of the forensic team. She said investigations are under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robbers-hold-family-hostage-in-zirakpur-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-worth-lakhs-286781
22-07-2021||New Delhi||Badshah, Amardeep Phogat come together for song shot in Chandigarh||Actor Amardeep Phogat and singer Badshah have come together for an upcoming untitled song. The actor and singer shot in Chandigarh for the track.The song had a set of a basketball court. The actor played a few matches for their rehearsals but ended up playing real matches on the sets and enjoyed five rounds of the game before starting the real shoot.Amardeep has teamed up with singer Bali for the track's complete album, whereas Badshah features in one of the tracks."It was an enthralling experience to shoot with Badshah. To see him play with full enthusiasm gave us so much more joy on sets. We played a real game of five rounds and ended up winning. Would love to work with Badshah again for his sheer energy on the sets," Amardeeep told IANS.In the past Amardeep has collaborated with the artists like Kamal Khan for "Teri ho ke", Jubin Nautiyal for "Bewafa tera masoom chehra", Nacchhatar Gill for "Rooh uthe vaar" and Miss Pooja for "Ek number di cheez kudi".Amardeep has also acted in the TV series, "Savdhan India". The actor who hails from an Army family has been an active sportsperson before being an actor. Amardeep shares how he at one point in time played national-level hockey and was determined to continue in sports until he was discovered by the entertainment industry.Amardeep has five new songs lined up to be released."I have been offered films and TV both and I am extremely grateful to everyone for thinking of me. I have always believed in patience and hard work. The one thing that I follow is taking small steps, smaller the step bigger the landing," signed off Amardeep.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badshah-amardeep-phogat-come-together-for-song-shot-in-chandigarh-286771
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||16 Chandigarh departments ready with list of 33 projects||Aimed at fast-tracking development projects, the 100-day job list of 16 departments with 33 projects is ready.Under fire for tardy pace of work, the departments had been directed by UT Adviser Dharam Pal to draw up a 100-day action plan with an idea to speed up development in the city.CHB’s priority projectsUnder the proposal, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has set a target to complete five projects within the stipulated period.Under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme, 2,195 EWS houses were earmarked and the CHB has already allotted 1,707 houses and plans to allot the remaining houses in the next 100 days. Similarly, the CHB has proposed to dispose of 250 vacant commercial and residential properties in a time-bound manner.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the e-tendering process had been adopted for the sale of these properties and efforts would be made to sell all these vacant properties through a transparent e-bidding process in the next 100 days.On other depts’ mindGarg said a green building was being constructed within the premises of the CHB to accommodate its offices. “The project has been delayed due to disruption of work because of Covid-19. Efforts are being made to complete the construction work in the next 100 days,” he said.The CHB has implemented e-Office and has provided the online payment facility for all its services. “The allottees of small flats and commercial units can see their dues status by visiting the website of the CHB, but the same facility is yet to be provided to allottees of residential units. The work is going on and efforts are being made to provide a similar facility to the allottees of the residential units in the next 100 days,” he said.The CHB is going to launch a self-financing general housing scheme at IT Park for 728 flats. “The building plans have been submitted to the Plan Approval Committee. Subject to sanction of the building plans and getting environment clearance, the scheme will be launched in the next 100 days,” said the CEO.The other projects include completion of the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system for recycled water distribution network pan-city at a cost of Rs4.78 crore, engagement of agency for the public bike sharing system at a cost of Rs20 crore by Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, upgrade and digitisation of land records by the DC office; and making four schools — government model senior secondary schools at Raipur Kalan and Maloya Pocket No. 1 and government model high schools at Makhan Majra and Sector 12 — during the current academic session (2021-22) by the Education Department.Similarly, the Engineering Department plans to complete construction of community centres in Sector 20, 21, 30-B, 35, 38 and Mauli Jagran at a cost Rs13.28 crore, establishment of a bird park for exotic birds at Nagar Van by the Forest and Wildlife Department, upgrade and strengthening of oxygen-related infrastructure such as a new oxygen pipeline to be laid at the GMCH, Sector 32, installation of two PSA plants — one at the GMCH, Sector 32, and the other at the GMCH South Campus hospital in Sector 48, expansion of the ICU at the GMSH, and the Covid paediatric hospital at the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, for a possible third wave of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-chandigarh-departments-ready-with-list-of-33-projects-286454
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Big relief — No Covid-19 death in Chandigarh since July 5||No Covid death has been reported from Chandigarh from over two weeks now. The last fatality due to the virus occurred on July 5.This month so far, only one patient, who had comorbidities, succumbed to the virus. The deaths due to Covid-19 in June declined by 80 per cent from May with the city reporting 55 fatalities last month.Five more found infected in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported five new cases of Covid and no death. A total of eight patients were discharged. TNSMay remained the worst month for the city with 275 Covid deaths. Patients died waiting for ICU beds at emergency wards in city hospitals. The hospitals ran out of ventilator beds even after expanding their capacity.Just one case in Panchkula, no deathPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported just one fresh coronavirus case, taking the overall tally to 30,634. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 375. While 30,238 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 21 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.70 per cent. TNSNow, ICU beds, including those with ventilators, are vacant at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, as Covid-19 patients have not progressed to severe disease in a long time. At the PGI, only three Covid patients are occupying ventilator beds.5 new cases in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: Five new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. There was no fresh death, while three patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, two each were reported from Mohali (urban) and Dhakoli, and one from Kharar. Of the 68,414 positive cases reported so far, 67,315 have been cured. The active case count is 43. The death toll stands at 1,056 in the district. TNSIn the past one week, only 0.2 per cent of the samples tested came back positive. There are only 41 active cases of Covid- in the city, while 99 per cent of the patients have recovered. The average number of cases in the past seven days stands at four.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have been able to control the spread and reduce fatalities due to massive vaccination coverage. So far, 78.6 per cent of the city population has beem vaccinated with the first dose, while 21.54 per cent of the population has got two doses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-relief-%E2%80%94-no-covid-19-death-in-chandigarh-since-july-5-286455
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||16K kids in Chandigarh sans study device||Around 16,000 children in Chandigarh do not have access to digital devices for online education, revealed the data tabled in Lok Sabha on Monday.The data was presented by the Ministry of Education on a query whether the government has conducted any study on the impact of Covid-induced disruption on the education level of the country and if so, the state-wise details, along with the manner in which different learning outcomes have been impacted, were sought.According to the reply of the ministry, the states and union territories were advised to conduct a survey of children with and without access to digital devices. The data revealed that as many as 16,032 children in Chandigarh were without digital devices.Rubinderjit Brar, Director, School Education, said: “The data tabled in the ministry is not in my knowledge. However, we had identified 3,000 such children without digital devices and provided smartphones to 1,000 of them. We had also sought additional funds from the ministry under ‘Samagra Siksha Abhiyan’ for digital devices for children.”“If a third wave does not hit the country, it is expected that offline classes will pick up pace and children will shift to the offline mode,” added Brar.After nearly five months, the government schools in Chandigarh reopened on Monday. Students were allowed to attend offline classes only after getting an approval letter from their parents. Around 4,000 students, nearly 10 per cent of the total enrolled, in Class IX to XII attended the schools.Where the Internet is not available, the Ministry of Education has taken several initiatives such as ‘One Class, One Channel’ of Swayam Prabha is being used to impart education through TV and a DTH channel is being operated specifically for hearing impaired students in sign language. Community radio stations and a podcast called Shiksha Vani of the CBSE are also being used.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16k-kids-in-chandigarh-sans-study-device-286456
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||25-year-old falls from terrace in Sector 27, dies||A 25-year-old labourer died after falling from the terrace of a house in Sector 27.The victim has been identified as Inderjeet, a native of Bihar. He was working with other laborers when he fell down from the terrace of the house. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.An investigation has been initiated at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-year-old-falls-from-terrace-in-sector-27-dies-286458
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out at Sector 7 SCO in Chandigarh, no one injured||A fire broke out in an under-renovation SCO in Sector 7 on Madhya Marg this evening. According to officials, the fire broke out on the rear side of the SCO No. 15-A, where the renovation for a restaurant was in progress. The front side of the building was not damaged and only the rear end caught fire.The Fire Department received a call at 6.45 pm. During the time, six to eight workers were present in the SCO and all of them came out safely. Four fire vehicles were pressed into service. Two of them were sent from the Sector 17 fire station and one each from the Mani Majra and Industrial Area, Phase 1, station.“No one was hurt in the incident and the loss of property will be assessed later. So far, the cause of fire is unknown. We are assessing it,” said a senior fire officer.Meanwhile, many passers-by were seen shooting the incident on their mobile phones. Some even tried to rush near the site, putting their lives at risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-sector-7-sco-in-chandigarh-no-one-injured-286459
22-07-2021||Mohali||Vigilance Bureau nabs Education Department official for Rs 1L graft in Mohali||The Vigilance Bureau arrested Pritpal Singh, Junior Assistant, District Education Officer (Elementary), while taking a bribe of Rs1 lakh at Phase 11 last night.The action was taken on the complaint of ETT teacher Karamjit Singh, a resident of Phase 11. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the suspect at the Vigilance Police Station.The suspect was produced in a local court which remanded him in three-day police custody. Sources said the suspect was seeking a bribe to clear the arrears of complainant’s salary. Karamjit Singh had lodged a complaint against him and the suspect was arrested near the victim’s house in Phase 11 in the presence of two witnesses.In November 2015, Karamajit Singh was arrested under the NDPS Act. He was suspended by the Education Department after his arrest, but in 2019, he was acquitted. Arrears from the suspension period were pending. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vigilance-bureau-nabs-education-department-official-for-rs-1l-graft-in-mohali-286460
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Watch out! Cyber fraudsters on the prowl in Chandigarh||There is no let-up in cyber fraud incidents in the city as the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police has so far received 3,306 complaints this year.While 518 complaints regarding debit or credit card cloning and money withdrawal from ATMs have been received, 351 complaints of people getting duped by fraudsters by using their card details have been received by the police.23 FIRs registeredA total of 3,306 complaints of cyber fraud have been received by the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police till July 18 this year. As many as 23 FIRs have been registered by the police.Similarly, the police have also received 106 complaints of people losing their money to fraud transactions through UPI (unified payments interface).Seventy people also got duped after clicking on fake links sent on their mobile phones.The lockdown due to Covid-19 led to job losses and financial hardships to a large number of people. Many such people fell prey to online fraud on the pretext of getting a job or loan.Data of the police reveals that 116 complaints of getting duped on the pretext of job or work permit visa have been received, besides 79 complaints of online cheating in lieu of providing loan.A police official said despite awareness campaigns to educate people about cyber fraud, people still fell victim to cyber fraud.Many Internet users, who either wanted to sell or purchase products through social media sites such as OLX, have also lost their money to online fraud.A total of 568 such complaints had been received by the police so far of which 376 were of those who were trading through social media and 192 who were trading through OLX.As many as 17 people have lost their money to frauds in the garb of LIC policies or insurances. Meanwhile, 73 cheating complaints from victims who were befooled by being told that they had won a lottery or free gifts, have also been received. Social media accounts continue to be on the target list of fraudsters as a total of 446 complaints of hacking or creating fake social media accounts, including Facebook, Instagram and email, have also been received by the cyber cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-out-cyber-fraudsters-on-the-prowl-in-chandigarh-286464
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Youth loses Rs 1.67 lakh to online fraud||A 20-year-old youth fell prey to an online fraud and lost Rs1.67 lakh.According to the police, complainant Angad Sharma of Sector 37 reported that he had received a phone call from a person claiming to be his neighbour. The suspect demanded a financial help of Rs20,000 for paying the hospital bill of his relative admitted to an ICU.The victim transferred the money to the suspect. The victim then called on the same mobile number after a few days and demanded his money following which the suspect sent a QR code to the victim and asked him to scan the same.The victim scanned the QR code following which money got deducted from his account. The suspect then further befooled the victim and made him share his card details and managed to siphon off money from his account. The victim lost a total of Rs1.67 lakh to the fraud.The police have registered a cheating case at the Sector 39 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-loses-rs-1-67-lakh-to-online-fraud-286465
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 950-cr billing scam busted, two arrested||With the arrest of two persons, the Directorate General of GST (Goods and Services Tax) Intelligence (DGGI), Chandigarh zone, busted a racket of fake billing involving Rs950-crore invoices.Acting upon a tip-off that two persons — Parteek Garg and Akshat Bansal — were generating fake invoices on the basis of registrations acquired in the name of daily wagers. A team from the Chandigarh zonal unit conducted searches at different locations in Delhi and Himachal Pradesh yesterday and nabbed both Delhi-based accused today.According to the information revealed by the accused, they were an integral part of the Hawala transactions. Further investigation in the scam is under progress.The same team had last month busted another huge racket of fake billing amounting to Rs750 crore in which kingpin Sahil Garg was arrested and put behind the bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rs-950-cr-billing-scam-busted-two-arrested-286466
22-07-2021||Panchkula||Girl’s murder: Panchkula cops consider father prime suspect||Finding it difficult to reach a conclusion in the case pertaining to the murder of a minor girl, the police are still considering her father as the prime suspect who allegedly murdered and sexually assaulted her before committing suicide.The police had recovered the girl’s body from near the dumping ground in Sector 23 on Sunday while her father was found dead at the railway tracks in Zirakpur on Monday.The post-mortem report of the girl has confirmed sexual assault before murder by strangulation.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Raj Kumar said as per their inquiry involving the wife of the deceased and close family members, along with other circumstantial evidence, they still considered him the prime suspect.“The girl’s body had 12 injuries. The child also had injuries on private parts. However, it is subject to confirmation of samples from a forensic lab in Madhuban,” a source in the Health Department said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa couldn’t be reached for a comment.A police officer said they would examine call details of the girl’s father.On July 18, the police recovered the body of the girl stuck in the bushes on the Bander Ghati stretch. On a complaint filed by a police official who first spotted the body, the police registered an FIR under section 302 (murder) and 201 (destroying) at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girls-murder-panchkula-cops-consider-father-prime-suspect-286469
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lad Sandesh Jhingan declared AIFF Men’s Footballer of the Year||In a proud moment for the city, local lad Sandesh Jhingan was named the AIFF Men’s Footballer of the Year 2020-21. It’s the first time that the towering central defender has received the Player of the Year Award, having won the Emerging Player of the Year Award in 2014.Jhingan made his senior national team debut in 2015 in Guwahati and has since gone on to make 40 appearances for the Indian team, scoring four goals. He was part of the Indian side that lifted the Hero Intercontinental Cup in 2018 and played a memorable draw at the home of the Asian champions Qatar in 2019.A perfect birthday gift“Being voted by club coaches of the Hero ISL and the Hero I-League as the AIFF Men’s Footballer of the Year 2020-21 is a huge honour for me. I take this award as a motivation to do better, and inspire others to follow their passion for the sport,” said Sandesh Jhingan. He was named for the award on his birthday.For 19-year-old Manisha Kalyan, there was a time when her sole aim of playing football was to visit the Panjab University campus. Little did she know she would end up playing for India and would be declared the AIFF Women’s Emerging Footballer of the Year 2020-21.In her early days, she played in Chandigarh and participated in local school-level tourneys, besides playing championships at Panjab University.Manisha hails from Muggowal village (Hoshiarpur district), one of major contributors to the region’s and nation’s football. The ace striker has also represented India at U-17 and U-19 levels. She is honoured to share the spotlight with none other than Bala Devi, who won the AIFF Women’s Footballer of the Year 2020-21 award.“My family’s plan was also to guide me towards studies and help me settle down. However, I started going to Paldi Academy (near Mahilpur). I was lucky to be guided by a good group of coaches. The turning point of my life was playing in the Oorja Talent Hunt Cup. Based on my performance, I was offered to play for a club and thereafter, I moved to Mumbai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-sandesh-jhingan-declared-aiff-mens-footballer-of-the-year-286470
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Truck gets stuck in pit dug up by telecom firm in Chandigarh||A truck got stuck in a pit allegedly dug up by a telecom company in Sector 21-D today.Local residents said this part of the road was dug up by a private telecom company two months ago. There are several such spots in this sector which pose a danger to the lives of people, especially kids.“Digging was carried out in front of my house. The pit was not filled with mud and it grew in size over the period. The truck remained stuck there for about two hours. There are a number of such pits but no one cares to fill them,” said Shaman Jain, a local resident.His neighbour, Divanshu Jain, said: “The MC and local councillor just don’t bother. If somebody’s child fell in the pit, then they would feel the pain. A number of complaints and grievance messages were sent to the officials concerned. The matter has also been highlighted in newspapers, but in vain. It is a very sad and disappointing situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truck-gets-stuck-in-pit-dug-up-by-telecom-firm-in-chandigarh-286471
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress asks Admn to withdraw order banning protests in Chandigarh||Holding the city BJP responsible, the Congress today asked the UT Administration to take back its order of not allowing protests in the city except at Sector 25. It demanded the decision on imposition of the prohibitory orders on assembly under Section 144 across the city should be withdrawn.At a press conference, councillors of the Congress alleged it was an attempt to muzzle their voice a few months before the MC elections. “The BJP-ruled administration has got scared due to our agitations,” said HS Lucky, chief spokesperson.City Congress chief Subhash Chawla alleged: “The BJP is making all efforts to stop us from raising people’s issues. Earlier, they got cases registered against us during our protest against rising prices. Now, before polls, they got two-month prohibitory orders imposed in the city.”The Opposition party also blamed the BJP for the attack on Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon in Sector 48 on July 17.“It was the BJP which perpetrated these attacks to justify the imposition of Section 144 prohibitory orders in the entire city,” alleged Chawla.Congress councillor and leader of the Opposition in MC House Devinder Singh Babla said: “People are still getting water bills based on hiked rates and high garbage collection bills. If such bills are issued next month too, then I will sit on a fast.”“Instead of 100 people at one spot to protest, we will have five people in 20 spots. From August 1, we have planned new protests on city issues. We have prepared a chargesheet kind of document against the BJP-ruled MC,” said Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-asks-admn-to-withdraw-order-banning-protests-in-chandigarh-286475
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Murder case accused denied bail||Saying that long custody does not make the accused entitled to the concession of bail, a local court has rejected the bail application of accused Amandeep who was arrested in a one-year-old alleged murder case.The police registered the FIR on a complaint of a Maloya resident, Jugnu, who alleged that some persons killed his son Sandeep. He alleged that his son was attacked on August 23, 2020, in colony number 4, Chandigarh. The police arrested Amandeep along with other accused after registering the FIR under sections 323, 302, 34, 120-B of the IPC at the Industrial Area police station.The counsel for the applicant argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. The only allegations against the applicant are that he was present at the alleged place of occurrence and he thrashed the victim with kicks and fist blows. There was no enmity between the victim and the applicant. The trial will take a long time to conclude.The additional public prosecutor opposed the bail on the grounds of gravity of the offence. After hearing the arguments, the court said it was the settled law that mere long custody did not make the accused entitled to the concession of bail. Accordingly, finding no merit in the application in hand, the bail application is dismissed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-case-accused-denied-bail-286505
22-07-2021||Mohali||Police stop agitating teachers from entering Chandigarh||Elementary teachers staged a sit-in at the Majra T-point here today. The protesting teachers tried to block the road leading to the Punjab CM’s house in Siswan.The teachers are demanding reinstatement of their pension scheme, regularisation of temporary teachers’ services and restoration of their dearness allowance.They raised slogans against the CM, the Finance Minister and the Congress government.In Mohali, members of the Temporary Teachers Unions, including ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers, broke the police barricading near the YPS chowk and moved towards the Chandigarh border where the UT police stopped them with barricades. This is the third time protesting teachers have tried to break the barricades and enter Chandigarh.The police, in the presence of UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, were seen holding a banner, cautioning the violators of legal action in case they tried to enter Chandigarh. Later, the protesting teachers resumed their dharna outside the PSEB building in Phase-8.Sources said a high-level meeting is scheduled tomorrow to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-stop-agitating-teachers-from-entering-chandigarh-286510
22-07-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Placement agency owner arrested for duping youth on pretext of jobs||The police arrested a placement agency owner, Gaurav Arora, and booked nine others for cheating unemployed youth on the pretext of providing jobs.The suspect had opened six offices in the tricity to dupe innocent people on the pretext of providing jobs in government institutions, banks and private companies.A case under Sections 420, 406 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against Gaurav Arora and nine others at the Zirakpur police station today.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said the suspect operated under three names and had given different addresses of Dhakoli, Panchkula and Sirsa to the victims. A sum of Rs 30,000 has been recovered from him. He was today produced in a Dera Bassi court, which sent him to three-day police remand.Complainants Kishan Kumar and Ashok Kumar, residents of Mahmudpur village in Ambala, stated that they had paid Rs 6.42 lakh to the suspect after he promised to provide them jobs in the PGI or a bank or a private firm. The suspect had given them appointment letters of a private company too, which later turned out to be fake.The complainants said when they tried to contact the suspect, his offices were found locked on July 17. Later, they approached the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-placement-agency-owner-arrested-for-duping-youth-on-pretext-of-jobs-286512
22-07-2021||Panchkula||Rs 3,000 crore Ponzi scam accused denied bail||A Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court of Panchkula yesterday cancelled the bail of an accused in the Rs 3,000 crore Ponzi scam case over forging a fake Covid report to avoid appearing before the court.Non-bailable warrants were issued against him. The next date of hearing is August 25.Ram Singh had moved an application before the court seeking exemption from appearing before the court, citing Covid infection. However, the special public prosecutor for the Enforcement Directorate opposed the move.The ED said they had issued summons to Ram Singh, in response to which he shared a Covid report issued by Manglam Diagnostics, Jindal Hospital Road, Hisar, reflecting that he has been tested positive for Covid-19.“On inquiry from the authorities of the diagnostic centre, it was revealed that the accused Ram Singh was never tested positive for Covid, rather they had issued a negative test report to him,” the agency said.“It appears to the court that accused Ram Singh has forged his medical report issued by Manglam Diagnostics, Jindal Hospital Road, Hisar, only to avoid interrogation by the ED,” the court ordered after hearing both parties.The court also directed the reader to lodge an FIR against accused Ram Singh under relevant provisions in accordance with the law at the Sector 5 police station.Bansi Lal and Radhe Shyam, directors of the Future Maker Life Care Private Limited, are among other accused in the case.In January this year, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a chargesheet against the accused, attaching assets worth Rs261.35 crore consisting of properties across Chandigarh, Delhi, Hisar, Adampur and Kulam, along with bank balance and cash.The ED, in its statement during the filing of the chargesheet, had stated that Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal, both residents of Haryana, had floated companies in the name of Future Maker Life Care Pvt Ltd and FMLC Global Marketing Pvt Ltd.The case had caught ED’s attention when multiple FIRs had been registered against the accused in Haryana as well as Telangana under sections of cheating, criminal conspiracy and sections of prize chit and money circulation for cheating lakhs of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-3-000-crore-ponzi-scam-accused-denied-bail-286514
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chamber of Industries submits suggestions||On the instructions of UT Adviser Dharam Pal to various departments for simplification of cumbersome procedures, the Chamber of Chandigarh Industries has submitted suggestions pertaining to the Estate Office.The Administration has initiated an exercise of minimising regulatory compliance burden with an aim of simplifying, rationalising and digitising interfaces with citizens and industrialists. The main objective is to decrease time cost burden and improve ease of living for citizens and ease of doing business.Drawing the attention of the UT Administration, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries president Naveen Manglani and general secretary Ashok Goel highlighted various procedures that need to be simplified and rectified by the Estate Office.They stated that the Estate Office had no system to issue any GST invoice for lease money or any other charges, which is mandatory (as per the GST rules) to claim GST from allottees or property holders.“This violation of GST rules has been brought to the notice of the Estate Office as well as the GST Department, but nothing has been done so far,” they said.They suggested that bills or notices needed to be issued by the Estate Office for annual lease money before the respective due date. At present, there was no procedure to seek annual lease money from property holders and they have to visit the Estate Office and deposit the amount on their own.They say there is a need to bring in an online system to deposit the dues. At present, property owners have to visit the Estate Office to deposit the lease money. Two separate bank drafts are required to be deposited for lease money as well as the GST amount. This is an age-old system, which needs to be done away with.Property details need to be put on the Estate Office portal for easy access by property owners. They requested the Administration to take the action to address the issues as it would go a long way in the ease of doing business in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chamber-of-industries-submits-suggestions-286516
22-07-2021||Panchkula||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta questions BJP MP Maneka Gandhi over sacrifice of animals on festival||As the Muslim community across the globe celebrated Bakrid or Eid al-Adha on Wednesday, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta questioned large-scale animal sacrifice on the festival.In a tweet this afternoon, the BJP leader even questioned animal rights activist and his own party MP Maneka Gandhi on the matter, asking “if this was not cruel to animals”.“On the occasion of Bakrid today, lakhs of goat are being killed. Isn’t it cruel to animals? What steps are being taken by Maneka Gandhi-run organisation to stop the slaughter of voiceless creatures,” he said in the tweet that titles “Please answer Mrs Maneka Gandhi”.Gandhi is the founder and chairperson of “People for Animals”, which works for animal welfare and their rights. Interestingly, Gandhi had earlier this year opposed the Panchkula Municipal Corporation’s plan to confine dogs at Sukhdarshanpur kennel to fulfil its objective of making the city free of strays.After her intervention, the local civic body had formed a committee to treat dogs in a humane manner.The committee then decided that captured stray dogs will be brought to the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound only for treatment, vaccination and sterilisation purpose and would be returned to their original locations thereafter.Relocating dogs was illegal as per the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001, enacted under the Indian Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and rulings of the Supreme Court and other courts and guidelines of the state government, the MC itself in a statement had said.Before the Assembly elections in October 2019, Gupta had promised to address the menace of stray dogs. Establishment of a dog kennel in Sukhdarshanpur had been his pet project to solve the stray dog menace.In January this year, the General House of the MC in its first meeting had resolved to make Panchkula free of stray dogs by June 23, 2021. However, it remains a distant dream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-questions-bjp-mp-maneka-gandhi-over-sacrifice-of-animals-on-festival-286517
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali-Patiala title tie from today||Mohali defeated Amritsar by eight wickets, while Patiala overpowered Hoshiarpur by an innings and 152 runs to face each other in the Dhruv Pandove Trophy’s final.In the first semifinal, Amritsar won the toss and opted to bat.The side scored 267 runs in 68.1 overs. Dhruv Verma shined with bat as he scored 105 runs off 90 balls, studded with 14 boundaries and three sixes. His innings was supported by Taranveer Singh (51) and Manpreet Sandhu (37). Raghuveer Narang and Harshdeep Singh claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Mohali posted 322 runs before getting all out in 133.5 overs. Harshdeep Singh hogged the limelight by scoring 129 runs off 100 balls, with 17 boundaries and one six. Himanshu (47) and Sehaj Khanna (45) were the other main scorers for the side. Sandeep Nishad took a five-wicket haul, while Akshh claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In their second innings, Amritsar lads bundled out for 124 runs in 52 overs. Harshdeep Singh claimed 5/36 and Himanshu took 4/47 for the bowling side.Chasing the 70-run target, Mohali lads scored 71/2 in 13 overs.In the second semis, Hoshiarpur won the toss and chose to bat. Batting first, Hoshiarpur scored 140 runs in 66 overs. Shubam Kumar (62) was the sole run scorer for the side. Emanjot Singh Chahal claimed four wickets, while Harjas Singh took three for the bowling side.In reply, Patiala scored 349 runs for all in 86.3 overs. Jaskirat Singh scored a quick fire 181 runs off 99 balls, studded with 22 boundaries. Jatin Yadav (51) was the other notable scorer. Sahil Sethi claimed four wickets and Kultar Singh took two for the bowling side.In their second innings, Hoshiarpur bundled out for 57 runs in 33 overs. Emanjot Singh Chahal (6/14) and Harjas Singh (4/17) were the two highest wicket takers for the bowling side.Patiala won the match by an innings and 152 runs. The final between Patiala and Mohali will be played at IS Bindra PCAStadium, Mohali, from July 22 to 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-patiala-title-tie-from-today-286519
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Need for diversifying crop pattern in Punjab: Official||National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) celebrated its 40th foundation day by organising a webinar on “enhancing farmers’ income with collectivisation of produce through FPOs and integrated farming”.Anirudh Tewari, Additional Chief Secretary (Development)-cum-Financial Commissioner, Punjab, graced the occasion as the chief guest.Tewari appreciated the unique role of NABARD as financial as well as developmental institution. He recognised the support provided by NABARD for creation of irrigation and rural connectivity in Punjab. He said the support provided to milk processing plant at Bassi Pathana was going to benefit the farmers involved in dairy farming. He felt the need to diversify crop pattern in the state from monoculture of wheat and paddy to horticulture crops and commercialise seed production.In his welcome address, Dr Rajiv Siwach, CGM, NABARD, Punjab Regional Office, discussed about immense human suffering on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, in spite of the disruptions in the agricultural value chain, the positive aspect has been that the agriculture sector had shown positive growth during 2020-21. Punjab, being the grain bowl of the country, made a record procurement of paddy and wheat during the year. He said NABARD had doubled infrastructure support in the state to the tune of Rs600 crore during last financial year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-for-diversifying-crop-pattern-in-punjab-official-286520
22-07-2021||Mohali||Woman’s gold chain snatched from housing society in Sector 126, Mohali||A masked man entered a house in a housing society in Sector 126 and snatched a gold chain from a woman this afternoon. The suspect entered the house on the pretext of asking for an address. He snatched the chain from the woman before fleeing with his accomplice who was waiting on a motorcycle outside the house around 2:28 pm.The victim’s husband tried to chase the suspects, but they managed to flee. The police combed the area, but failed to nab the snatchers. The incident has been captured on a CCTV camera. The police are now trying to nab the suspects with the help of the motorcycle’s registration number.Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said: “A case was registered at the Kharar City police station. The police are scanning the CCTV footage to get clue about the snatchers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womans-gold-chain-snatched-from-housing-society-in-sector-126-mohali-286521
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala log 10-wkt win in opening tie||Patiala defeated Bathinda by 10 wickets in the opening match of the Punjab Senior Inter-District T20 Tournament today.Batting first, Bathinda scored 102/6 in 20 overs with the help of Uday Partap Saharan (39) and Kamaljit Singh (20). Paras Jaidka and Sanvir Singh claimed two wickets each.In reply, Patiala achieved the target in 9.2 overs. Prabhsimran scored 85 off 35 balls and Jiwnajot Singh contributed 17 off 21 balls to help Patiala gain four points.In the second match, Moga defeated Mohali by five wickets. Due to wet outfield, the match was reduced to 18 overs.Batting first, Mohali scored 131/6 in 18 overs. Ramandeep Singh (60) remained the major contributor in the total with the support of Anil Yadav (23). Manpreet Singh claimed four wickets for the bowling side. In reply, Moga scored 133/5 in 16.2 overs to record victory over Mohali.Manpreet Singh (59) and Kohinoor Sidhu (38) ensured Moga’s win. Armaan claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In other matches, Ropar beat Ludhiana by 12 runs, Nawanshahr overpowered Gurdaspur by 49 runs, Ferozepur bagged four points against Fazilka by registering a 29-run win, Jalandhar defeated Hoshiarpur by 11 runs and Amritsar blanked Muktsar by 44 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-log-10-wkt-win-in-opening-tie-286522
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three take away scooter, booked||Girl snatches mobile phoneChandigarh: A girl escaped after allegedly snatching a mobile phone from a man in Sector 22. According to the sources, Sombir (50) reported that a girl aged around 20 snatched his mobile phone near the police beat box in Sector 22.The suspect fled the spot. The police was informed about the incident. However, the victim did not lodge a complaint with the police. TNSWoman’s body found in riverPanchkula: The body of a 48-year-old woman was found floating in the Ghaggar near Sector 24 late on Tuesday. The woman, identified as Baljeet Kaur, was a resident of Sector 15. The police said it appeared to be a case of suicide. “Mentally disturbed, the woman was missing since Sunday. On Monday, her husband had filed a missing complaint,” a police official said. TNSCity girl selected for world meetChandigarh: Raiza Dhillon of St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, has claimed first and second positions in the trials 1 and 2, respectively, during the Junior Women Skeet Shooting trials in New Delhi. She has been selected to represent India in the Junior World Cup and Junior World Championship to be held at Almaty and Peru this year. "It is a proud moment for the school as Raiza registered her name at the international level," said Gurpreet S Bakshi, Administrator, St Kabir Public School. TNSWorkshop on IPR organisedChandigarh: Technology Enabling Centre (TEC) organised an online workshop on intellectual property rights (IPR) and patent filing on Wednesday. Kompal Bansal, a registered patent and trademark agent, shared her valuable experiences and knowledge. TNSLecture held at varsity deptChandigarh: The Department of Biophysics organised a distinguished lecture by Prof Sunil K Lal from the School of Science, Monash University, Australia (Sunway Campus, Malaysia) on Wednesday under the aegis of the Indian Science Congress Association (Chandigarh Chapter) and the Chandigarh Forum for Sciences and Technology Communication. Professor Lal talked on "Environmental Changes and Emerging Zoonotic Diseases". The webinar enlightened the attendees about various viral diseases, their occurrence, emergence and re-emergence. TNSTwo vehicle thieves arrestedChandigarh: The UT police have arrested two vehicle lifters and recovered five two-wheelers and an auto from their possession. The accused have been identified as Dhanush, alias Totla (19), and Suraj Pal, alias Sahil (19), both residents of EWS Colony, Dhanas. They were arrested by a team of the Maloya police station near the Maloya bus stand. TNSTwo Lucknow-city trains cancelledChandigarh: Two trains shuttling between Chandigarh and Lucknow have been cancelled, reads a notification issued by the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways. Chandigarh to Lucknow Jn Special (05012) has been cancelled from July 25 to July 28. The train departs from the Chandigarh Railway Station at 5:15 pm and reaches Lucknow Jn Station at 9:10 am. Lucknow Jn Chandigarh Special (05011) also has been cancelled from July 24 to July 27. It departs from Lucknow Jn Station at 11:55 pm and reaches Chandigarh Railway Station at 3 pm. TNSTree plantation drive by CRPFChandigarh: The Central Reserve Police Force’s 5th Signals Battalion carried out a tree plantation drive near Punjab Engineering College here. Around 4,000 saplings of different varieties were planted during the drive. Besides CRPF officers, Chief Conservator of Forests Debendra Dalai and Deputy Conservator of Forests Dr Abdul Quayum were among those present. The CRPF is undertaking such drives in various parts of the country. TNSOne nabbed with liquor, 2 bookedMohali: The police arrested a suspect and booked two persons, including a woman, for selling four cartons of illicit country-made liquor near Phase 6 here on Wednesday. The arrested person has been identified as Aneesh Kumar, while Benna Devi and Sonu fled from the spot. The suspects are residents of Chandigarh. A case under the Excise Act has been registered at the Phase 1 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-take-away-scooter-booked-286524
22-07-2021||---||Landslip disrupts traffic on Kalka-Shimla road||Solan, July 21The traffic on the Solan-Kandaghat section of the Kalka-Shimla National Highway (NH)-05 was disrupted for about an hour around 9 am with huge boulders and debris flowing down the hill.The excavation of the hill is been undertaken as the highway is being four-laned. This has made the highway vulnerable to landslips at several spots.“A landslide at Dedghrat on the Solan-Kandaghat blocked the road this morning. The traffic was restored within an hour. The machinery was rushed to the site by the private company engaged in four-laning the section of the highway to clear the debris,” said SDM Ajay Yadav.No excavation work, however, was under way at Dedghrat where the landslide occurred. Such disruptions have become a routine affair on the highway in the rains as four-laning work was in an advanced stage.To ensure speedier restoration of traffic during such eventualities, officials of the NHAI as well as the PWD have been directed by the DC to map such vulnerable spots and keep machinery ready. Directions to educate the commuters by erecting signage at vulnerable spots has also been issued.The SDM said arterial routes had been mapped between Saproon and Chambaghat as well as between Chambaghat and Kandaghat to divert traffic in case of any eventuality. The delay in completing the Solan bypass has added to the woes of the commuters. The road would have helped in bypassing a major chunk of the traffic from Solan and would have specially been helpful in diverting traffic during four-laning of the highway.Work to construct the 5.14 km bypass, which began in December 2016, was yet to be completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/landslip-disrupts-traffic-on-kalka-shimla-road-286349
