23-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh records one new Covid case||Chandigarh, July 23Chandigarh on Friday reported one new case of covid-19 and no deaths as the total number of cases reached 61917.The number of active cases has come down to 33.The death toll in the city remains 809.As many as 1,393 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, while 61,075 people have been cured till date.The number of people who have got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the city is 5,68,285while 1,62,008 people have received both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-one-new-covid-case-287196
23-07-2021||---||Zirakpur: 4 take family hostage, loot cash, jewellery worth lakhs||Mohali, July 22In a broad daylight robbery, four unidentified persons allegedly looted cash and jewellery worth several lakhs from a house at Sharma Enclave in Lohgarh, Zirakpur, today after taking the family of an assistant manager of Muthoot Finance hostage.Were at house for over 2 hoursThe four robbers arrived on two bikes around 11.30 am. After taking the family members and the maid hostage, they searched the house for about two and a half hours and fled after looting cash, silver and gold jewellery.After receiving information, the SP (Rural), Ravjot Kaur Grewal, the DSP, Zirakpur Subdivision, Amroz Singh, and the SHO, Zirakpur police station, Inspector Omkar Singh Brar, reached the spot. A forensic team also reached the spot to collect fingerprints.The four robbers arrived on two bikes around 11.30 am and after taking the family members and the maid hostage, searched the house for about two and a half hours and fled after looting cash, silver and gold jewellery.The victim, Jaidev Goyal, said he had retired from the post of DGM of Union Bank and was now working as an assistant manager at Muthoot Finance in Sector 35, Chandigarh. He said at the time of the incident, he was on his way to his office and his 60-year-old wife Naresh Rani, 40-year-old son Kapil Goyal and a maid were present in the house.One of the robbers first took the housemaid hostage. His wife Naresh Rani thought the suspect was the husband of the maid and was fighting with her, he added.He said after this, the other three robbers entered the house one by one and snapped the Internet connection in the house and tied up Kapil Goyal and put a sword around his neck.He said they threatened Naresh Rani that if she did not hand over all cash and gold in the house, her son would be killed. He said frightened, his wife handed over the gold, silver and cash lying in the house. After this, the robbers also tied her up and searched the house for about two and a half hours and fled on their bikes, he added.The SP said a manhunt had been launched to nab the suspects with the help of the forensic team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-4-take-family-hostage-loot-cash-jewellery-worth-lakhs-286978
23-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh power consumption in first quarter up over 13%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The demand for power supply increased by over 13 per cent at the onset of the summer season this year.Power consumption in UTApril-June 2021 400 MUApril-June 2020 352MUApril 2020-March 2021 1,523 MUApril 2019-March 2020 1,732 MUApril 2018-March 2019 1,571 MUApril 2017-March 2018 1,601 MUApril 2016-March 2017 1,645 MUApril 2015-March 2016 1,607 MUIn reply a question in the Lok Sabha today, RK Singh, Minister of Power and New and Renewable Energy, stated that the peak power demand in the country during the financial year 2020-21 had increased by 3.5 per cent as compared to the previous financial year i.e. 2019-20.The lockdown in the country had led to a decline in the peak demand. However, as the lockdown norms were gradually relaxed, the peak demand of the country started growing.The Minister said in Chandigarh, the demand of 352 million units (MU) of electricity was recorded from April to June 2020. This, however, increased to 400 MU during the same period this year.A senior official of the UT Electricity Department said the demand for electricity had reached its peak at 426 MW on July 8.With a focus on privatisation, the UT Engineering Department has not purchased new equipment for improving the quality of power supply in the city.It is worth mentioning that at present, there are 2.47 lakh electricity consumers in the city. Of these, 2.14 lakh people are using domestic connections, while others have commercial, small power, public lighting and agriculture connections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-power-consumption-in-first-quarter-up-over-13-286982
23-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Covid deaths dip 83.72% in 22 days||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 22In a major relief to the Health Department, no Covid-related death has surfaced in the district since July 12.3 cases surface in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported, while seven patients were cured of the disease. While one case surfaced in Dhakoli, two were reported from the Mohali area. TNSChandigarh reports 2 casesChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported two fresh Covid cases, taking the overall UT tally to 61,916. The Covid toll remained at 809. With nine more recoveries, the number of recovered patients reached 61,073. TNSNo new case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: No Covid case was reported from the district on Thursday, keeping the overall tally at 30,634. With no fresh death, the toll also remained at 375. While 30,244 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 98.72 per cent. TNSWith a decline in Covid cases, the district has also witnessed 83.72 per cent fall in death cases as only seven deaths occurred during the past 22 days, while 46 persons had died in the similar period ending June 30.The district has noticed a sharp decline in the number of Covid-related deaths in 22 days of July, offering relief to the people and the district administration. Health officials said the second wave was on the wane due to which the number of deaths and new cases were dropping.The district has also witnessed a sharp decline of 75 per cent in new cases during the same period. The district had recorded 680 cases from June 9 to June 30 while in the corresponding period (from July 1 to July 22), a total of 170 cases were reported in the district. On June 30, there were 68,247 positive cases while on July 22 the total number of cases reported was 68,417.During the same period, the district also witnessed more than 84.27 per cent drop in active cases. On June 30, there were 248 active cases, which has now come down to 39. The recovery rate in the district has also marginally increased from 98.09 per cent on June 30 to 98.39 per cent on July 19, thus showing an increase by 0.30 per cent. The number of persons cured of the disease has gone up from 66,950 to 67,322.It is pertinent to mention here that a record number of 1,382 cases had surfaced in the district on May 10.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the second wave of the pandemic was about to end. However, people should not take the decline in Covid cases lightly and continue to wear mask and maintain social distance. She appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated. They should get tested for Covid in case of mild cough, fever and sore throat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-covid-deaths-dip-83-72-in-22-days-286986
23-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Framing rules for third-eye surveillance Chandigarh discretion||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that framing rules for third-eye surveillance in the city would be the discretion of the Chandigarh Administration.What high court said on ex-CJ’s pleaAs far as prayer by the petitioner — Karnataka HC’s ex-CJ NK Sodhi — for framing of rules is concerned, we feel that at this stage no such direction is needed. We leave it to the discretion of the UT to take a decision as and when the situation in the city warrants. - Bench“As far as prayer made by the petitioner — Karnataka High Court’s former Chief Justice NK Sodhi — for framing of rules is concerned, we are of the opinion that at this stage no such direction is required to be given. We leave it to the discretion of the Chandigarh Administration to take a decision as and when the situation in the city warrants,” the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash ruled.The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Justice Sodhi against the installation of “surveillance cameras” at the residence of the present Chief Justice. Directions were also sought for framing rules for regulating the installation of CCTV cameras in Chandigarh. Living opposite the official residence of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha in Sector 4, Chief Justice Sodhi had claimed that the high-resolution, infra-red, cameras installed on “tall poles” violated his right to privacy.During the course of the hearing, Justice Sodhi’s counsel pointed out that a letter written by the High Court Registrar-General did satisfy the apprehension raised by the petitioner. But the security agencies were required to be bound down in such a manner that in future as well there was no misuse of the CCTV cameras installed at the Chief Justice’s residence so as to invade the petitioner’s privacy.The Bench asserted it had perused a sealed cover report by the UT DGP to quell any doubts about alleged future misuse by any security agency. It showed that security agencies had balanced the privacy of area residents with the threat perception of the “protected person” by permanently adjusting the cameras in a manner to maintain the privacy of not only the petitioner’s house, but other houses in the vicinity as well. “We are, thus, satisfied that the discomfort shown by the petitioner on installation of cameras is misplaced,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/framing-rules-for-third-eye-surveillance-chandigarh-discretion-286993
23-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||It’s not a smooth ride anymore on Chandigarh cycle tracks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22A huge amount of money has been spent on cycle tracks and their maintenance, but riders face many hiccups on the tracks of the well-planned city.‘A clear divide’In northern sectors, there are less cyclists, but the tracks are in a good condition. However, in places such as the road separating Sector 45 and 46 and the Industrial Area, Phase 2, where users are more, the tracks are in bad shape. - Harman Singh Sidhu, President, Arrive SAFEPotholes, overhead cables, uneven tracks, encroachments by some residents and issues at the exit-entry of junctions discourage riders from using the tracks. Tracks in southern sectors are particularly in bad shape.Many people can be spotted riding on the main road rather than using the cycle tracks. This puts their lives at risk.Sector 21 resident Harman Singh Sidhu, president of ArriveSAFE, said there was a clear divide in the matter of maintenance of tracks in northern and southern sectors.“In northern sectors, there are less cyclists, but the tracks are in a good condition. You can even spot flower pots and railing to segregate the tracks. However, in places such as the road separating Sector 45 and 46 and the Industrial Area, Phase 2, where users are more, the tracks are in bad shape,” he said.“Sincere efforts are lacking in providing proper service to people despite the fact that huge money has been spent on these. A proper survey and audit is needed in this regard,” said the road safety activist.Manmeet Kumar, a cycling enthusiast, said, “The authorities must get barbed wires or cables removed from cycle tracks. It may injure riders. Action should be taken against violators behind these. At many junctions where tracks and paver blocks connect each other, there is some gap, forcing riders to get down from the bicycle and then ride again. Under such a scenario, they take to the main road, putting their life in danger amid speeding vehicles.”Some tracks such as the ones in Sector 52 are badly littered and have no proper connectivity. UT Chief Engineer CB Ojha said, “A meeting of the review committee, comprising Smart City, MC and Administration officials, is held once a month. It resolves such issues. Besides, whenever we get any complaint regarding cycle tracks, we repair these. People can reach us by mail or Twitter regarding any such problems. We also request the public not to throw garbage or debris on tracks as it may injure riders if they fail to spot it during late evening hours.”Framing rules for third-eye surveillance UT discretion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-not-a-smooth-ride-anymore-on-chandigarh-cycle-tracks-286994
23-07-2021||Mohali||Dhakoli community health centre all set for upgrade||In view of the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the community health centre (CHC) in Dhakoli near Zirakpur is being upgraded to a Level-2 facility by setting up a medical oxygen plant there.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur stated this after reviewing the work for a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant at the CHC. She said in view of the concerns expressed by the top health experts about the third wave, preparations were on in full swing in the government health institutions across the district.The Civil Surgeon said the machinery required for setting up an oxygen plant was donated by a firm, while the department was getting it installed. The plant would start functioning within a month or so, she added. The official asserted that after this plant became functional, there would be no shortage of medical oxygen for patients admitted in hospitals.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said with the centre becoming a Level 2 facility, critically ill patients of the area could be treated at the CHC only and they would not have to travel far. Nodal officer for the plant Dr Harleen Kaur and other health officials were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-community-health-centre-all-set-for-upgrade-286995
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||CH01-CF: e-auction of fancy numbers from July 31-Aug 2||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will e-auction the fancy registration numbers of a new series, ‘CH01-CF’, along with leftover special registration numbers of various previous series, from July 31 to August 2.The registration for participation in the e-auction will start at 10 am on July 29 and will continue till 5 pm on July 30. The e-auction will start at 10 am on July 31 and end at 5 pm on August 2.The e-auction of the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of various previous series, CH01-CE, CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS, will also be held along with that of the new series.Those who purchased vehicles on Chandigarh address are eligible to participate in the e-auction. The owner of the vehicle can register himself/herself on the national transport website, https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy, and the link of the same is available on the UT Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.The details of fee for registration, the list of reserve price for each special number, the details of leftover registration number of previous series and terms and conditions for e-auction is available on the UT Transport Department website.For any further information, applicants can contact at 0172-2700341 or the enquiry counter located at the RLA office in Sector 17 here. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ch01-cf-e-auction-of-fancy-numbers-from-july-31-aug-2-286996
23-07-2021||---||Chandigarh police issue traffic advisory in view of installation of new PCCC team at Congress Bhawan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The UT traffic police have decided to impose traffic restrictions on July 23 in view of the installation of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committe (PCCC) team at Congress Bhawan in Sector 15.Anticipating a huge rush, which may lead to traffic snarls, the road from the Sector 16 GMSH chowk to the PGI chowk will be closed during morning hours and traffic will be diverted from both roundabouts. Commuters have been advised to take alternative routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-issue-traffic-advisory-in-view-of-installation-of-new-pccc-team-at-congress-bhawan-286997
23-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Alleged medical negligence in cholera case: Clean chit to Panchkula Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 22A three-member committee of doctors that carried out an investigation into the allegations of medical negligence by the father of a nine-year-old boy, who died of cholera, has given a clean chit to the Civil Hospital.Just an advisory has been issued by the Civil Surgeon’s Office for handling such cases in future so that similar incidents can be avoided. The report submitted by the committee found no negligence on the part of doctors or staff.The victim, Arpit Kumar from Abheypur, had died of cholera on July 14, following which his father Anil Kumar had alleged medical negligence on the part of Civil Hospital doctors. He had alleged that doctors discharged his son even when his condition was unstable.Two days later, on July 16, Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar ordered an inquiry into the matter, seeking a report by July 20.“The members of the committee came to the conclusion that the victim’s father insisted to take his son home on July 14 morning. Also, after his examination in the OPD before discharge from the hospital, the father had been prescribed to give his son a certain amount of ORS after watery stool. He was also told that if his son’s condition deteriorates, he should be rushed to the hospital,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar, adding that they didn’t have some records regarding the patient’s discharge from the hospital.Dr Kumar added she had issued an advisory to the Principal Medical Officer (PMO) of the Civil Hospital for laying down specific guidelines for doctors in handling such cases in future.She said no further probe would be conducted in the case.“As per the guidelines, no doctor in the emergency will send a patient to the OPD without he/she being completely stable. Patient from the emergency ward will be either shifted to the designated ward or discharged,” the CMO said.Other instructions include mandatory short-stay file for every patient given IV line/IV fluid, all patients admitted to the emergency be examined by specialist, specialist’s round in emergency to be held between 8 am and 10 am, all files to be maintained properly in reference to entries, in case of “discharge on request’’, written consent of the patient is must.Meanwhile, Anil Kumar, the father of the deceased, has alleged his view was not taken into the consideration by the committee.“Nobody tried to contact me. I didn’t receive any call from any official,” he said.He said: “I didn’t insist on discharging my son. In the emergency ward, a sanitation worker had asked me to take my son to the OPD. Then, I took my son to the OPD where he couldn’t stand properly. I had specifically asked the doctor if there was a need for further hospitalisation? However, the doctor still discharged him.”The Civil Surgeon said: “The committee tried to record the boy’s father version, but couldn’t do so as he was not present in the town.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alleged-medical-negligence-in-cholera-case-clean-chit-to-panchkula-civil-hospital-287001
23-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Overcharging Covid patients: Panchkula hospitals propose to refund Rs 21 lakh more||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 22After refunding Rs 35.43 lakh in all cases of inflated bills pursued by the district-level Covid bill monitoring committee during random scrutiny, private hospitals have agreed to return an additional amount of Rs21.46 lakh that was overcharged from patients — a fact that came to the fore during self-audit by hospitals.So far, Rs56.89 lakh have been reported to be overcharged from patients for treatment by Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital (including Ojas Hospital as it is owned by the same company) and Wings Hospital.BB Singhal, member, Haryana State Pharmacy Council, and a member of the Covid bill monitoring committee, said the hospitals had proposed refunding Rs21.46 lakh after identifying excess charges in 33 Covid bills issued from April 1 to April 30 during the self-audit process.“Of these, 33 Covid bills, six were from Alchemist Hospital, 10 Ojas Hospital and 17 were from Paras Hospital,’’ he said.However, the self-audit is still underway and the last date for the submission of a report before the bill monitoring committee is July 31.‘’The committee will cross check the self-audit report submitted before us by hospitals to ensure it was done correctly,’’ he said.After random scrutiny of Covid bills, the panel, led by ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, had directed private hospitals to conduct a self-audit of Covid bills issued from April 1 to May 15 (as during this period, the Covid second wave was on its peak).At a review meeting today presided by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, his office also issued appreciation letter to all panel members for their efforts to provide relief to the Covid victims.Gupta, while appreciating all members on the panel, said they had executed their responsibility in an appreciable manner.After receiving several complaints of overcharging patients by private hospitals for the Covid treatment, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had directed formulating a district-level panel to oversee such complaints.Gupta had also written to state Health Minister Anil Vij in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overcharging-covid-patients-panchkula-hospitals-propose-to-refund-rs-21-lakh-more-287013
23-07-2021||Mohali||Man injured as O2 cylinder explodes at Mohali hospital||A person suffered injuries after an oxygen cylinder exploded at a private hospital here this evening.The impact of the blast was so intense that windowpanes of the hospital building were also shattered. The cylinder exploded due to gas leakage.According to information, Satwinder Singh, a resident of Kharar and supervisor of the hospital, suffered injuries. His limbs suffered a fracture in the blast. He is undergoing treatment at the hospital.The police and fire brigade officials said they had no information about the incident. According to information, Satwinder was sitting near the security guard area. He had already reported the gas leakage to the department concerned of the hospital. No case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-injured-as-o2-cylinder-explodes-at-mohali-hospital-287018
23-07-2021||---||Congress flays Admn over BJP ‘banner’ on CTU vaccination bus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22Chandigarh Congress SC cell chairman Dharamveer today flayed the UT Administration over a bus in Sector 22, which was being used for Covid vaccination allegedly with a BJP banner on the front and BJP activists with ‘gamcha’ inside the bus.HS Lucky, spokesperson for the Congress, termed it “wrong and unethical as vaccination was being conducted with the taxpayers money and not on the BJP expense.”“By putting banners on government buses, the BJP is trying to claim undue credit and misuse the government machinery to further its political interests,” he added.Lucky demanded that the BJP activists should be immediately restrained from such activities otherwise it will be construed that the Chandigarh Administration was working hand in glove with the BJP and allowing undue favours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-flays-admn-over-bjp-banner-on-ctu-vaccination-bus-287022
23-07-2021||---||Make new schools functional soon, UT Adviser directs officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22UT Adviser Dharam Pal today visited two newly constructed schools at Raipur Kalan, Phase III, and Makhan Majra, along with the Secretary, Education, Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary (Engineering), Director, School Education, and other officials of the Administration.It was explained during the site visit that to meet the demands of residents of Raipur Kalan and surrounding areas, two new government high schools have been constructed in Raipur Kalan and Makhan Majra to facilitate schoolchildren.The school at Raipur Kalan, Phase III, is being upgraded to the senior-secondary level for the benefit of children of nearby areas. Each new school building has G+3 floors, a provision for 48 classrooms, principal office, staff room, office room, mid-day meal room, girls and boys toilets, water station, library, activity room, chemistry, physics and biology laboratories.Dharam Pal directed the officials concerned to make the schools functional from the upcoming academic session by providing various required infrastructure.The new school in Makhan Majra will operate as a high school and the other school in Raipur Kalan, Phase III, will function as a senior secondary school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-new-schools-functional-soon-ut-adviser-directs-officials-287026
23-07-2021||---||Panchkula MC failed to clean road gullies: Residents||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 22Local residents have accused the Panchkula Municipal Corporation of not cleaning road gullies, drains and sewer lines that leads to waterlogging on roads and in residential sectors across the city whenever it rains.“Whenever it rains, a flood-likesituation is witnessed in various sectors 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12A, 15, 16, Industrial Area Phase 1 and 2 and Abheypur and Indira Colony. It was only because of the non-cleaning of road gullies on time. The accumulated water enters into houses that send residents into a tizzy. The situation is worse in areas such as Sector 19 and Abheypur where water gets stagnant leading to foul smell that stays for days,” stated the Citizens Welfare Association (CWA).“In view of the safety and health of residents, we would like to remind the MC to go ahead with cleaning and repairing of road gullies so that stormwater can be discharged quickly. It should have been done much earlier before the arrival of the monsoon. However, the civic body failed miserably to address the issue this time again. Now, people are facing the consequences of lackadaisical attitude of the civic authorities,” the press release stated.Members of the CWA urged Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, Mayor Kulbhushan Goel, and Deputy Municipal Commissioner Deepak Sura to address the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-failed-to-clean-road-gullies-residents-287035
23-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fire at PG accommodation: Sector 32 house owner moves court for de-sealing property||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 22Gourav Aneja, the owner of the Sector 32 house in which three girls had died following a fire incident last year, has moved court for the de-sealing of the property.The girls were staying in the house as paying guests and the property was sealed soon after the mishap.As per the prosecution, Aneja had given the house on lease to another accused in the case Nitesh Bansal, who was operating a PG accommodation there.The fire had engulfed the house in Sector 32-D here on February 22, 2020.The prosecution alleged that Bansal had illegally raised temporary fibre and wooden partition/structures in the house to accommodate maximum number of students, leaving narrow space for stairs and improper ventilation. The house was also not equipped with fire extinguisher and emergency exit.The prosecution alleged that when the fire broke out, the girls got trapped and three of them died while few others got injured.The fire had broken out on the first floor of the house.Muskan Mehta, Riya and Pakshi Grover, all aged between 19 and 21 years, died in the incident.At the time of the incident, 17 girls were present in the house.The prosecution had alleged that the PG accommodation was being run in violation of bye-laws.The police had registered the case against the accused under Sections 304, 336,188 and 34 of the IPC. A chargesheet has also been filed in the case.Meanwhile, the police have filed a reply on Aneja’s application for de-sealing of the house.The police informed the court that it was the Estate Office of the Administration which had sealed the house. The court has deferred the hearing to July 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-pg-accommodation-sector-32-house-owner-moves-court-for-de-sealing-property-287039
23-07-2021||Mohali||Vets condemn govt’s attitude over demands||The Senior Vets Association condemned the “nonchalant” attitude of the state government towards the demands of government medical, veterinary, dental, homoeopathic and ayurvedic doctors, who had been protesting against the reduction in the non-practising allowance from 25 to 20 per cent.Dr Gurinder Singh Walia, former Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, Punjab, and member of the Punjab State Veterinary Council, said it was unfortunate that an elite class of doctors was compelled to take the protest to the roads to wake up the government, which had failed to fulfil the aspirations of the people. He said while every government employee expected an increase in salary upon the implementation of 6th Punjab Pay Commission recommendations, but it had belied their belief. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vets-condemn-govts-attitude-over-demands-287041
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fee relaxation for night food street||The Finance and Contract Committee of the MC today approved relaxation in the monthly licence fee for kiosk No. 1 to 4 at the night food street in Sector 14.The committee also discussed the agenda item regarding a contract for animal birth programme and decided that re-tender may be invited. It also decided that a cleanliness drive will be carried out to remove horticulture waste and garbage from vulnerable points. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fee-relaxation-for-night-food-street-287042
23-07-2021||---||Constable suspended||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22A constable posted at the India Reserve Battalion was today suspended by the Chandigarh Police Department.Sources said Mohit allegedly entered into an altercation with another constable and then he also misbehaved with the Line Officer.The matter was reported to the DSP, India Reserve Battalion, who sent a report to senior officers following which, the constable was suspended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/constable-suspended-287043
23-07-2021||---||Guv opens city’s second garbage transfer station||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22Governor Punjab and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore inaugurated the second material recovery facility (MRF)-cum-garbage transfer station in the Industrial Area, Phase I, here today.While addressing the gathering, the Governor appreciated the efforts of Chandigarh Smart City Limited and the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) for strengthening solid waste management in the city. He said with the availability of these MRF stations, the MC can reduce the rush of garbage collection at single point, i.e. in Dadu Majra. With the MRF facility, the segregation system of dry and wet waste will be strengthened.The Governor said the MC had planned to set up a waste-to-energy plant in Dadu Majra, which seems to be a good step in processing the garbage generated in the city. These facility stations aim at reducing the time and cost involved in collection and transfer of waste too, besides generating income by recovering the reusable and recyclable waste.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said door-to-door waste collection vehicles would bring segregated waste (dry & wet) in different compartments to the facility, which had a dedicated space for sorting out dry waste into different categories like paper, card, recyclable plastics, glass bottles, metal, etc. Dry waste left after the recovery of recyclable materials would be compacted in huge compactors to the compost plant located in Sector 25, Dadu Majra. Weighbridges have been provided for measurement of dry and wet waste within the facility.He said the MRF facility was equipped with hopper-tippers and compactor capsules for transfer of waste from smaller (3.2 cum) vehicles to capsules where the waste will be compacted to one fifth of the original volume. The volume reduction would save the cost of transportation of waste and space required for the disposal of waste.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, said waste from Sector 1, 2, 3,4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, Part 61 will be brought to the MRF-cum-garbage transfer station in the Industrial Area, Phase I.He said MRF stations would further be equipped with parking and vehicle washing facilities. These will be monitored through 20 CCTV cameras. Each transfer station would have material recovery facility-cum-transfer stations with two conveyer belts for each station, industrial shed, three weighbridge, one wash system, CCTV, mechanical equipment for volume reduction of waste to one fifth of original volumes and nine truck loaded capsules to carry compacted waste to the processing/composting plant site. The total project is being implemented through two contract packages - one for civil and another one for mechanical works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guv-opens-citys-second-garbage-transfer-station-287045
23-07-2021||---||‘Harassed’ by in-laws, man commits suicide||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 22Allegedly harassed by his in-laws, a 33-year-old man committed suicide by inhaling nitrogen gas through a pipe at a rented house in Sunny Enclave, Kharar, here yesterday.The deceased has been identified as Abhishek Khurana, a native of Gobindgarh.According to information, the victim also uploaded a video on the social media before committing the suicide. In the video, he blamed his wife and in-laws for his financial loss and mental harassment.In the video, he said his wife, along with their minor son, was staying at her parental house in Gobindgarh and he was living alone in a rented house for the past seven months.Harsh, in-charge of the Sunny Enclave police post, Kharar, said they had arrested his wife and booked his father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law for abetment to suicide. The body was handed over to his family members after the postmortem examination.Abhishek, who was giving online coaching for Common Admission Test, stated that he got married around eight years ago. After few months, he invested some money in the business of his in-laws and they cheated him of Rs1 crore. In the video, he further stated that they harassed him mentally and even his wife stole all gold jewellery and cash from his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harassed-by-in-laws-man-commits-suicide-287046
23-07-2021||---||8 booked for trespassing into flat in Panchkula, threatening man||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 22The police have registered an FIR against two Kaithal residents and six unknown persons for allegedly trespassing into a flat of a Sector 27 resident posing as cops of the Crime Branch and threatening him.The two suspects have been identified as Om Prakash, alias Budhu, and Hardeep.Though the incident took place on the intervening night of May 21 and 22, the FIR was registered on July 21.The police said the FIR was registered after the victim approached them with a complaint that he had been receiving threats from the suspects since May.The complainant first approached the DCP office, which in turn directed the Chandimandir police station to register an FIR into the incident.“The key suspect, Om Prakash, owes my parents around Rs65 lakh and they had filed a recovery suit against him. Due to this, Om Prakash keeps animosity towards us. He had even threatened my parents to withdraw the case against him. On the intervening night of May 21 and 22, the suspects entered our society posing as cops of the Rohtak Crime Branch. Upon being inquired by the society guard, they told him that they were looking for my father (Tarsem), saying he was an absconder in a murder case. They broke open the gate of my flat and tried to enter inside. When the security guard told him that nobody was at home, they left the spot,” Manish Goyal told the police. The complainant further alleged that the suspects were history-sheeters.A case was registered under Sections 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-booked-for-trespassing-into-flat-in-panchkula-threatening-man-287047
23-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bar Council Election Tribunal imposes Rs50K cost on DBA chief Bhag Singh Suhag||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The Election Tribunal of the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council has imposed a cost of Rs50,000 on Bhag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association (DBA), Chandigarh, for setting aside ex parte proceedings against him.The Tribunal directed Suhag to pay the amount in the Covid-19 fund of the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council in a week, failing which the order proceeded ex parte against him on July 1, 2021, will become operative.The Tribunal has passed the order on a petition challenging the election process of the DBA held last year. The Tribunal, in the order, says “the approach of the respondent number seven (Bhag Singh Suhag) from the beginning is of casual nature and he took the present proceedings lightly.”The Tribunal, in the order passed on July 1, decided to proceed ex parte against the respondent number seven after none from his side was present during the hearing.Suhag filed the reply on July 16 before the Tribunal and said his absence was not intentional and wilful. However, the counsel for the petitioner strongly opposed the setting aside of ex parte proceedings and demanded that at least Rs1 lakh cost should be imposed on the respondent number seven for setting aside ex parte proceedings.The Tribunal in the order says the respondent number seven wanted to kill time as much as he can so that the present election petition may become infructuous in the month of November, 2021.“We are aware of this fact that due to the pandemic the matter could not be decided within two months and hearing was not possible also due to the lockdown. When proceedings were again started, the respondent number seven was again not serious in defending this case,” says the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-election-tribunal-imposes-rs50k-cost-on-dba-chief-bhag-singh-suhag-287049
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Artwork of seven Chitkara varsity artists makes it to Tokyo Olympics||Artwork of seven artists, including scholars, students and faculty members, of Chitkara University has been selected for the virtual art show, “Olympia”, initiated by the Indian Contemporary Artist Association. The works will be exhibited during Tokyo Olympics 2021.The art show’s reel video will be displayed at the Tokyo Olympics Memorial Gallery, Chuo-ku, Japan, from July 23 to August 8. Of the total 52 selected participants, seven are from Chitkara University.Piyush Anand and Diksha Raghav from BFA, Painting, painted “The Winner” and “Moods of Glory”, respectively, in mixed media. Alisha Sharma, a PhD research scholar, Art & Design, painted “Olympic” using watercolour. Abhijit Kumar Mohanty and Rakesh Kumar Chaudhary, also PhD research scholars, Art & Design, made “Light of Hope” and “Running for Glory” using the digital medium. Faculty member Dr Arjun Kumar Singh painted “The Runner” using charcoal as the medium.Creation of Prof Ranjan Kumar Malik, Dean of Chitkara Design School, “Me & My Olympic 2021”, was also selected. It was made on digital medium.“The artworks are humble contribution from Chitkara University to motivate athletes who will be participating in the Olympics,” said Malik.Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, congratulated the students and faculty members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/artwork-of-seven-chitkara-varsity-artists-makes-it-to-tokyo-olympics-287050
23-07-2021||---||Fake cop travelling sans ticket held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22A Panchkula man posing as a constable of Haryana Police for travelling free in trains was arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) today.The suspect has been identified as Puti Lal, a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula district.Raj Kumar, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh, said during checking, the cops questioned him but he couldn’t show a valid identity card.On questioning, the suspect said he had worked as an special police officer SPO with Haryana Police and used to disguise as a police official for travelling free in trains.A case was registered under Section 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by the public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and 137 of the Railway Act (travelling without ticket).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-cop-travelling-sans-ticket-held-287051
23-07-2021||---||Provide services to consumer for lockdown period, gym told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a gym to provide services to a consumer for the period during which the gym remained closed due to the Covid-induced lockdown.Puneet Chhabra, a resident of Sector 43, Chandigarh, approached the commission after Athelonics Hybrid Gym, Sector 43, allegedly refused to refund the fees for the period during which it remained closed.In his complaint, Chhabra said he enrolled for the membership on March 3, 2020, by paying Rs8,000 and Rs5,000 in two instalments. Due to the Covid pandemic, the UT Administration directed closure of various services, including gyms, on March 24, 2020 due to the nationwide lockdown. The gym was allowed to open on August 5, 2020. He said the gym remained closed for 142 days.Chhabra alleged that despite repeated requests, the gym management was not ready to adjust 142 days in the membership. Alleging the acts of the gym as deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, he filed the complaint.Nobody from the gym management appeared before the commission to place its version.After hearing the arguments and examining the records placed by the complainant, the commission said: “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown was imposed across the country on the evening of March 24, 2020, by the Government of India as a preventive measure and curb the spread of coronavirus. Due to this, the gym remained closed till August 4, 2020. Under these circumstances, it cannot be said that the opposite party (gym) has committed any sort of deficiency in service or indulged in unfair trade practice by not rendering the promised services to the complainant during that period”.“However, we are of the considered view that the ends of justice would be met if the complaint is disposed of with a direction to the gym to render the services to the complainant for the remaining 142 days,” the commission said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-services-to-consumer-for-lockdown-period-gym-told-287052
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dhruv Pandove Trophy: Rushil, Aryan give Mohali a good start||A fine century by Rushil Shrivastava (109) and 60-run contribution by Aryan Bhatia helped Mohali post 231 runs against Patiala on the opening day of the four-day final of Dhruv Pandove Trophy at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today.After winning the toss, Mohali opted to bat. Batting first, Mohali lads posted 231/4 in 78 overs. Sehaj Khanna and Shrivastava opened the innings. The duo added 35 runs for the first-wicket partnership before Khanna (20 off 43 balls) fell prey to Emanjot Singh. Thereafter, Jovanpreet Singh joined Shrivastava and the duo raised 78-run partnership to take the total to 113 runs. Jovan was playing at 35 off 69 balls, with nine boundaries, when he was caught by Jatin Yadav off Abhinav Rao. Later, Bhatia joined the crease with Shrivastava and both batsmen raised 108-run partnership for the third wicket.The partnership was broken by Rao as he claimed Shrivastava for 109 off 207 balls, studded with 15 boundaries.Bhatia soon followed the suit after scoring 60 off 125 balls, studded with nine boundaries. He was the last wicket of the day as Mohali posted 231/4. Rao claimed 2/43 to remain the pick of the bowlers, while Emanjot and Harjas took one wicket each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhruv-pandove-trophy-rushil-aryan-give-mohali-a-good-start-287054
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclist killed in hit-and-run||Vax camp at Rock Garden TomorrowChandigarh: To fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Tourism Department will again hold a vaccination for visitors at Rock Garden on Saturday from 10 am to 5 pm. In wake of the tremendous response to vaccination drive at Rock Garden last Saturday and on the request of the Health Department, the Tourism Department had decided to again organise a vaccination drive at Rock Garden on Saturday, said an official. As many as 89 visitors were inoculated during the last drive, he added. TNSOPDs at P'kula PolyclinicPanchkula: The Health Department has started specialist OPD services at the Sector 26 Polyclinic. Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said it would benefit patients who earlier had to come to the Civil Hospital for "non-serious diseases". The facility will offer gynae OPD every day; medicine OPD every Monday, Wednesday and Friday; eye OPD every Wednesday and Friday; ortho OPD every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday; and pathology and biochemistry OPD on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. TNSKarate Assn selects squadMohali: The Karate Association of Mohali selected teams of sub-junior, junior and senior categories to participate in the Punjab State Karate Championship to be held in Khanna, Ludhiana. The squad members are (boys) Jap Sahib, Rudraksh, Anirav, Sameer, Bharambir, Sautrik, Nitish, Ankit, Sunny, Harsh, Roshan Parsad, Kanhaiya Lal, Sandeep Raj and Ujjawal Gupta (girls) Palkin, Anu, Annie Sharma and Meenakshi. TNST20 tourney begins todayChandigarh: Punjab State Inter-District Senior T20 Tournament will begin from July 23 at different venues. Matches between Sangrur-Bathinda will be played at Bathinda, Barnala-Mansa at Mansa, Moga-Ropar at Ropar, Mohali-Fatehgarh Sahib in Mohali, Nawanshahr-Hoshiarpur at Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur-Kapurthala at Kapurthala, Fazilka-Muktsar Sahib at Muktsar and Ferozepur-Faridkot at Faridkot on Friday. TNS2nd vax camp held at RBUMohali: Rayat Bahra University organised its second Covid-19 vaccination camp on the campus here on Thursday. The camp was organised in association with a vaccination team of the Civil Hospital, Mohali. Speaking during the inauguration of the camp, Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of Rayat Bahra University, gave a clarion call to all eligible faculty members, employees and students to get vaccinated as this was the only way to keep oneself protected against the deadly coronavirus. Bahra said sincere efforts were being made to keep people safe from Covid-19. He said: “Though Covid cases had started to ebb, there is a greater need to be vigilant as the virus is still among us and we have to be cautious”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-killed-in-hit-and-run-287061
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Planning protest, Kumari Selja, Cong MLAs held in Chandigarh||The Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja, along with state in charge Vivek Bansal and party MLAs, tried to take out a protest march over the Pegasus controversy here today, but as soon they came out of the office, the police stopped them.Twentyfour MLAs took part in the protest which included Deputy Leader of Congress Legislative Party (CLP) Aftab Ahmed, party’s chief whip BB Batra and former ministers, Dr Raghuvir Kadiyan and Geeta Bhukkal.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi and former deputy CM Chander Mohan also participated in the protest.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and former minister Kiran Choudhry were absent on the occasion. Selja, Bansal and MLAs were kept in preventive custody for about two to three hours at the Sector 3 police station and were released around 3 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/planning-protest-kumari-selja-cong-mlas-held-in-chandigarh-286950
