24-07-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four Covid-19 cases, a medical bulletin from the Union Territory's administration said on Saturday.The infection tally stood at 61,922 for the Union Territory, according to the medical bulletin.The Covid count also includes one case which was not reported earlier, it said.The fatality figure stood at 809.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh is 32, the bulletin said.With six patients being discharged after recovery, the number of cured persons reached 61,081 in the Union Territory, it said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-287723
24-07-2021||Amit Sharma||Covid norms go for a toss at Navjot Sidhu’s installation ceremony in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Covid norms went for a toss at the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, where thousands of party supporters reached from different parts of Punjab to witness the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief.Traffic snarls in vicinity of venueTraffic snarls were witnessed in Sector 15 and neighbouring sectors, causing inconvenience to commuters. The situation turned normal almost two hours after the function concluded.FIR lodged against unknown personsA case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against unknown persons. - DSP Ram Gopal, spokesperson, UT PoliceCars on cycle trackDriving or parking a vehicle on a cycle track is an offence in the UT. However, Congress men were seemingly given a special privilege by allowing them to park their vehicles on the cycle track.No permission was sought from the SDM (Central) for the function, which was held in violation of Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC.While around 4,000 persons were present inside the bhawan, thousands stood outside to mark their presence.Harjeet Singh Sandhu, SDM (Central), said no permission was taken from his office to hold the event.These days, permission for a gathering is given for 200 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue, whichever is less.A UT official, not wishing to be named, said this was a breach of the DM’s order and invited action under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC.The Covid protocol was blatantly violated by a large number of people, who were not wearing a mask. Social distancing was also given a miss. The police, who are responsible for getting Covid norms complied with, remained a mute spectator. Not even a single challan was issued for not wearing a mask.The police also allowed parking of vehicles on cycle tracks, which was yet another offence.A police official said everyone was busy managing the crowd following which no challan could be issued. In the evening, the police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, at the Sector 11 police station.The event also led to traffic snarls in Sector 15 and surrounding sectors. Traffic diversions at the PGI and the GMSH, Sector 16, roundabouts led to traffic jams in neighbouring sectors, including the dividing roads of Sector 10, 11, 14, 16, 17 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-navjot-sidhus-installation-ceremony-in-chandigarh-287447
24-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh first dose coverage 80%, Centre puts figure at only 33%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Even as the UT Administration has claimed that it has inoculated 80 per cent of the city population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has put the first dose coverage in the City Beautiful at only 33 per cent.The data pertaining to Covid-19 vaccination coverage (as of July 15) was tabled in the Lok Sabha by the Ministry on Tuesday.Figure this outAccording to the ministry, the city’s target population is 15,75,709, and with 5,20,502 doses given, the coverage of the first dose stands at 33 per cent, while the coverage for the second dose is 8 per cent only (1,26,141 doses). As per the UT Health Department, the second dose coverage is 22.84 per cent. As per the records of the UT Administration, the target population of the city is 7,09,180.City sees one new caseChandigarh: The city on Friday reported one new case of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality due to the virus. A total of two patients were cured of the disease during the past 24 hours. TNS1 dies in Mohali, 5 +veMohali: Five fresh cases of Covid were reported from the district during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 68,422. Meanwhile, one more patient succumbed to the virus while seven patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Mohali, Dhakoli, Kharar, Boothgarh and Banur. No case was reported from Gharuan, Dera Bassi and Kurali. TNSAccording to the Ministry, the target population of the city is 15,75,709, and by administering 5,20,502 doses, the coverage of the first dose stands at 33 per cent, while the coverage for the second dose was 8 per cent only (1,26,141 doses). The correct representation of the second dose coverage is 22.84 per cent as per the UT Health Department. As per the official records of the UT Administration, the target population of the city is 7,09,180. UT Adviser Dharam Pal had taken up the matter with the Ministry to correct the population target of the UT, but the correction has not been made so far.With this discrepancy, Chandigarh now stands amongst the states with poor vaccination coverage of the first dose according to the Ministry’s database.As per the Ministry, only two states come in the bracket of over 80 per cent vaccination coverage of first dose – Ladakh (83 per cent) and Lakshadweep (81 per cent).The vaccination coverage of the city has increased in the recent past with over 9,000 beneficiaries taking the jab daily. Chandigarh is aiming for a 100 per cent vaccination coverage, for which house-to-house vaccination drive has been started. Going by the current rate of vaccination, the vaccination drive can reach the target in 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-first-dose-coverage-80-centre-puts-figure-at-only-33-287452
24-07-2021||Panchkula||Ist Covid death in Panchkula since July 4||“The negligence led to a deterioration in her health. She tested positive for Covid posthumously,” she said.The Health Department added the case to the infection tally – the only case reported today in the Covid bulletin.The Covid toll has now reached 376. On July 4, the district had reported its 375th Covid death.The overall case tally has reached 30,635. While 30,250 patients have recovered from the disease, nine cases are still active.The recovery rate is 98.74 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ist-covid-death-in-panchkula-since-july-4-287455
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-serviceman gets disability pension after over 50 years||It has taken over 50 years of legal wrangling and crossing administrative hurdles for a visually impaired ex-serviceman residing in Mohali to finally get his disability pension. Mohinder Singh, who is now 100 per cent visually impaired, had been discharged from the Sikh regiment in June 1970 on medical grounds. During a night training exercise, he fell on his head and lost his eyesight.He was initially sanctioned 40 per cent disability pension by the Army, which was rejected by the Medical Adviser on Pension (MAP) in the office of the Controller of Defence Accounts (Pension). The post of MAP was abolished in 2005.He approached the Ex-Servicemen Grievance Cell, Mohali, for taking up his matter for the release of the pension. A case was filed before the Armed Forces Tribunal, which, in August 2018, ordered the release of the pension as sanctioned by the Army earlier, but the Army contested the order of the tribunal.The cell filed a case of contempt for non-implementation of the order of the tribunal and in June 2019, pension payment orders were issued for Rs265 per month for 40 per cent disability with effect from June 1970 along with arrears as well as instruction for holding a review medical board within two years.The medical board took place in February 2020, where Mohinder’s disability for visual impairment was reassessed at 100 per cent. Besides increase in pension to Rs33,500 per month, he also got arrears regarding the new pension for the past 16 months with interest last week. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-serviceman-gets-disability-pension-after-over-50-years-287460
24-07-2021||---||Chandigarh: RLA increases booking slots||Chandigarh, July 23In view of a decline in Covid cases, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has decided to increase the number of appointments for the services of registration certificates (RCs) and driving licences (DLs).The authority has also decided that the appointments for regular driving test will also be opened for booking for a period of one month. The portal for booking appointment will be made operational on July 25, at 8 am. Due to frequent cancellation of old appointments because of the pandemic, the authorities had decided to allow advance booking of appointments only for seven days.RLA incharge Pradhuman Singh said now 300 appointments each for RC and DL-related cases and 100 appointments for driving test would be given every day.The applicants who desire to book an appointment for the said services can visit the official website, www.chdtransport.gov.in, or call on 1860-180-2067. In case of query, applicants can dial 0172-2700341.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rla-increases-booking-slots-287461
24-07-2021||---||Zirakpur robbery: Cops say Rs 20,000, jewellery worth Rs 11.80 lakh looted||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 23The police today claimed in the daylight robbery that took place yesterday at Sharma Enclave in Lohgarh, Zirakpur, the robbers took away jewellery worth Rs11.80 lakh and Rs20,000 in cash only.‘Suspects will be arrested soon’A majority of the loot is that of jewellery and the cash is only Rs20,000. We have formed teams and the police are actively pursuing the case. The suspects will be arrested soon. -  Ravjot Grewal, SP (Rural)Sources, however, said more than 300 gram of family jewellery of an assistant manager of Muthoot Finance was looted after taking three persons hostage.In the CCTV footage, one of the robbers is seen coming out of the house with a bag in hand, reportedly containing the looted items. The sources said the masked youths appeared to be from UP as could be made out through their conversation with the victims.The SP (Rural), Dr Ravjot Grewal, said: “A majority of the loot has been that of jewellery and the cash is only Rs20,000. We have formed teams and the police are actively pursuing the case. The suspects will be arrested soon.”The police officials investigating the case did not confirm or deny whether any arrest had been made in the case but sources said a few individuals were rounded up yesterday. The CCTV footage of the house and nearby areas has captured the incident and the sources said the registration numbers of the two motorcycles used in the crime had been traced.The four robbers, armed with swords and guns, arrived on two bikes around 11.30 am yesterday and after taking the family members and the maid hostage, searched the house for about two and a half hours. They fled with cash, silver and gold jewellery. The victim, Jaidev Goyal, said he had retired from the post of DGM of Union Bank and was now working as an assistant manager at Muthoot Finance in Sector 35, Chandigarh. He said at the time of the incident, he was on his way to his office and his 60-year-old wife Naresh Rani, 40-year-old son Kapil Goyal and a maid were present in the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-robbery-cops-say-rs-20-000-jewellery-worth-rs-11-80-lakh-looted-287466
24-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh: Rally ground in Sec 25 a picture of neglect||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Behold the ugly sight of the official protest site of the City Beautiful — a broken boundary wall, dirty toilets and the overgrowth of congress grass around the elevated, bricked stage structure. The rally ground of Sector 25 is a haunt for horses, goats, cows and “some anti-social elements who have apparently stolen the iron fences that make for the stage’s boundary”, says Ram Bahadur Mishra of the local Hindu Sanskriti Raksha Sangathan.Section 144, protest ban order ‘backdated’: AAPMishra often wanders around the rally ground to keep an eye on the government property. He’s quick to point towards rusty iron sheets, which cover a section of the ground. “This shed was to last long, at least for a period of 20 years, said those who made it maybe five years ago. Now, it’s in ruins. The addicts have stolen the pillars of this shed and even some iron sheets,” he says.The worst awaited us a few metre away from the fallen shed, the filthy toilets sans doors and windows. Floors with rags, mud, garbage and faeces greet you at the entrance. “All the lights, taps and even the doors have been taken away. At night, this place is a nightmare. It’s a haven for these addicts,” Mishra adds.The UT Administration has earmarked the rally ground of Sector 25 as the official site for protests, processions and rallies (with permission) in its recent order. When contacted, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said: “We will fix the ground if the protesters go there. We can make all other arrangements as well if required, for drinking water etc.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rally-ground-in-sec-25-a-picture-of-neglect-287470
24-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh extracts 5,671 more vaccine doses in 75 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The Chandigarh vaccination team extracted 5,671 more doses of the Covid-19 vaccine between May 1 and July 13.Doses extracted“Doses wasted and maximum possible doses extracted beyond the labeled quantity are taken into account to arrive at vaccine wastage figures for a state,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in response to a question in the Lok Sabha today.“Between May 1 and July 13, a total of 2.49 lakh doses have been wasted, while 41.12 lakh extra doses have been extracted beyond the labeled quantity,” said the ministry.No vaccine wastage was recorded in Chandigarh during the 75-day period.Punjab, on the other hand, failed to extract extra doses of Covid-19 and wasted 13,613 vaccine doses. Haryana extracted 1,27,521 more doses in the same duration.The data on Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted and extra doses extracted between May 1 and July 13 was tabled in the Lok Sabha by the Health Ministry.The ministry stated that while there had been instances of vaccine wastage in states and union territories, extra doses had also been extracted from a given vial as per the information on the CoWin portal.Till July 20, Chandigarh had been supplied 5,96,940 doses of free Covid-19 vaccine.A covishield vial constitutes of 10 doses of 0.5 ml. However, each vial has an extra dose to account for spillage. The healthcare workers in Chandigarh have been able to save that extra dose by administering the vaccine judiciously.The syringe has a capacity to hold 0.5 ml medicine, which helps in the accurate measurement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extracts-5-671-more-vaccine-doses-in-75-days-287475
24-07-2021||---||3 Mohali RTA officials suspended||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 23Amarpal Singh, State Transport Commissioner, Punjab, today suspended three employees of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office for alleged negligence of duty and their connivance with four touts arrested three days ago. The caseOn July 20, a joint team of Mohali Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime) raided the office of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) in Sector 76 and the driving test track in Sector 82. The team arrested four touts and recovered around 100 licences, registration certificates, files, mobile phones and a laptop from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Taranjit Singh, Manish Kumar, Harjinder Singh and Yashpal Sharma.The suspended employees are Kuldeep Singh, clerk at the driving test track in Sector 82, Kamaljit Singh, steno at the track, Sector 82, and Gurmail Singh, clerk at the RTA office in Sector 76.According to sources, the touts were dealing with these officials and taking money from people to get their work done. Even, officials were being paid money.On July 20, a joint team of Mohali Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime) raided the office of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) in Sector 76 and the driving test track in Sector 82. The team arrested four touts and recovered around 100 licences, registration certificates, files, mobile phones and a laptop from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Taranjit Singh, Manish Kumar, Harjinder Singh and Yashpal Sharma.Regional Transport Officer Sukhwinder Kumar said they would not spare anyone. If more officials were found guilty strict during inquiry, action would be taken against them too.He said they wanted to provide a clean and transparent service environment to people. He appealed to the people to immediately lodge a complaint with officials of the District Administration if any government employee demands bribe from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-mohali-rta-officials-suspended-287477
24-07-2021||Ramkrishan  Upadhyay  ||Commission tells builder to pay Rs 50K relief to consumer||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, July 23  State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for not delivering the possession of a plot in the fixed time. The commission has also directed for the refund of the paid amount of Rs24 lakh  to the complainant, with  interest at the rate of 12  per cent per annum within a period of 30 days. Varinder Kumar, a resident of Panchkula, approached the  commission after the builder allegedly failed to hand over the possession of a plot to him in the fixed  time and sought the refund of the amount of  Rs 24 lakh paid by him towards the purchase of the plot. In the complaint filed before the commission, he said he bought the plot in the project named, ‘Emerging Valley’, on the Landran-Banur road, Mohali district, in resale from Ajit Singh. He alleged that after making payment, neither agreement was executed nor possession of the plot delivered to him. After a long period, the builder offered relocation to a new plot in some other project at a much higher rate than the original rate of the plot initially purchased by him. Not satisfied with the offer, he sought a refund of the amount paid, but to no avail. The counsel for the complainant alleged that the project had been launched in complete violation of relevant rules and regulations and the project stood abandoned. It is not feasible to get legal possession of the plot in near future also. The builder, however, denied the charges and prayed for the dismissal of the complaint. After hearing the arguments, the commission held the builder guilty of deficiency in providing service and adoption of unfair trade practice. It said “despite obtaining substantial amount equal to about 25 per cent of the total sale consideration, neither agreement was executed nor thereafter, possession offered to the complainant. We cannot make the complainant wait for an indefinite period for getting possession of the plot or the relocated flat, which, in fact, is not even feasible.’ In view of this, the commission has directed the builder  to refund Rs24 lakh to the complainant, along with interest at the rate 12% per annum and to pay Rs50,000  towards compensation for causing mental agony and harassment, and cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-tells-builder-to-pay-rs-50k-relief-to-consumer-287480
24-07-2021||---||HC puts Haryana on notice on plea of ‘rape victim’||Chandigarh, July 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice to the Haryana Chief Secretary, the State DGP and the Ambala SP on a plea by a minor “rape victim” seeking the constitution of a special investigation team for probing her complaint. Directions were also sought to probe the role of a women police station, including the SHO, for her alleged attempts to shield the accusedThe Bench was told that the minor was raped by the accused several times and had to even terminate her pregnancy. But the women police station did not mention the facts narrated by her in her complaint to mitigate the gravity of allegations.The Bench was also told that the SHO had been booked for her role in the matter. But the entire case was required to be probed by an SIT. Taking up the plea, Justice Arun Monga of the High Court also fixed September 2 as the next date of hearing in the matter.The petitioner added the officers not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police under the direct supervision of some senior police officer were required to constitute the SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-puts-haryana-on-notice-on-plea-of-rape-victim-287482
24-07-2021||---||Bank officers organise mega health camp||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Celebrating 52nd year of bank nationalisation, the tricity unit of the All-India Bank Officers Confederation organised a mega health check-up camp at Chandigarh and at Panchkula in collaboration with Panchkula-based Alchemist Hospital.More than 450 officers, employees and members of their families were screened at the camp. Specialist doctors in the fields of ENT, medicine, dentistry and cardiology rendered their services. Blood tests and ECG were also conducted.Sanjay Kumar, DGM, SBI; Vinay Kumar, Vikas Gupta, TS Saggu, Ashok Gupta, Naresh Pal, Harvinder Singh and Vishal Gupta were also present at the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-officers-organise-mega-health-camp-287483
24-07-2021||---||Mani Majra kidnapping: Court denies bail to accused||Chandigarh, July 23A local court has rejected the bail application of a Panchkula resident, Rohit Sharma, whose car was allegedly used in one-month-old alleged kidnapping of a boy.The police had arrested 21-year-old Rohit Sharma on June 22 after finding that he was the registered owner of a white car which was allegedly used in the kidnapping of a boy. Two days after the incident, the police arrested four accused for kidnapping a 15-year-old boy for a ransom of Rs50 lakh.As per the prosecution, the boy was kidnapped near the Mani Majra level crossing on the morning of June 15 by the accused at gunpoint in a white Maruti Brezza car bearing a fake Haryana registration number. They made a call to his family, demanding Rs50 lakh for his release using his phone.When the police intensified their effort, the accused got scared and fled after abandoning the boy at Baltana, Zirakpur.The counsel for Rohit Sharma argued that the accused had no connection whatsoever with the commission of alleged offence as claimed by the complainant in the FIR. He has been falsely implicated in this case. The accused is not named in the FIR also. The white Brezza Car which was recovered from the petitioner on June 22, 2021, was taken by his brother namely Ajay Sharma. Nothing is to be recovered from him. The petitioner has been languishing in custody since June 22 without any fault on his part.The Public Prosecutor strongly opposed the bail application. He argued that Rohit was the registered owner of a white Brezza which he provided to his real brother Ajay Sharma who was the main accused in the present case. The Public Prosecutor claimed that the petitioner had given the car to his brother having knowledge of the fact that his brother would use it in the incident so that he could also get the share in ransom money.The petitioner had committed the heinous crime. He said the petitioner could hamper the investigation and threaten the victim as well as the complainant of this case in case granted bail.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application without commenting anything upon the merits of the case but considering the arguments advanced by the Public Prosecutor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-kidnapping-court-denies-bail-to-accused-287485
24-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Industrial plot allotment case: ‘Absconding’ accused Dagar Katyal declared PO||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 23A special ED court here today declared accused Dagar Katyal a proclaimed offender in the industrial plot allotment case for “intentionally avoiding the process of the court”. Katyal didn’t appear before the court despite repeated non-bailable warrants issued against him.The caseThe case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of 14 industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s acquaintances in Panchkula in 2013.The court in its order said, “Accused Dagar Katyal is intentionally and deliberately avoiding the process of law and thus, is absconding and that his presence can’t be secured through ordinary means of the process.”The court also separated the trial of Katyal from the trial of other accused in the case.As the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda is also an accused in the case, the court emphasised on expeditious disposal of the case.“It would be expedient and in the largest interest of the justice to separate the proceedings of the case qua accused Dagar Katyal and to regulate the further course of proceedings in respect of remaining appearing accused in accordance with the law. Hence, to sub-serve the best interests of justice, it is hereby ordered to separate the case proceedings in respect of accused Dagar Katyal,” the court ordered.The case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of 14 industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s acquaintances in Panchkula in 2013.To probe the alleged irregularities, the Haryana Vigilance Bureau had registered an FIR in 2015. Later, the case was transferred to the CBI, following which the CBI and the ED registered their respective cases.As per the provisions of the PMLA, all 14 plots were attached.In February this year, the ED had filed a chargesheet against 22 people, including Hooda, four retired IAS officers, and some others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industrial-plot-allotment-case-absconding-accused-dagar-katyal-declared-po-287495
24-07-2021||---||Illegal mining, overloading: Haryana Minister suspends Panchkula District Mining Officer||Panchkula, July 23Taking a serious cognisance of large-scale illegal mining and overloading in the district, Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh today ordered the suspension of District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma and transfer of District Transport Officer-cum-Secretary of the RTA Amarinder Singh for their failure to address both issues and fix the responsibility of those working under them.He was presiding over the second meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 here today.During its first meeting on June 28, the minister had sought a detailed report on illegal mining to fix the responsibility of senior officials in the Mining Department.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had also ordered an inquiry into overloading of trucks with mined stones.Apart from this, Gupta had also asked the District Transport Officer to actively penalise truckers for overloading mined stones in their trucks and dumpers.According to a press release by the District Information & Public Relations Officer (DIPRO), both officials failed to satisfy the committee with the action taken by them as per the instructions issued during the first meeting.Suspended District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma couldn’t be reached for a comment. ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, DCP Mohit Handa, Panchkula SDM Richa Rathee and Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-mining-overloading-haryana-minister-suspends-panchkula-district-mining-officer-287509
24-07-2021||Amit Bathla||4 FIRs registered at Raipur Rani in one week||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 23The extent of illegal mining in the district can be gauged from the fact that of the eight FIRs filed at the Raipur Rani police station between July 14 and July 21, four were related to the mining activities in the area. 40 cases since April 2020As per the data available with the mining department, 40 cases of illegal mining have been filed since April 2020. The data revealed that 211 vehicles involved in illegal mining activities were seized during inspection and a fine of Rs 3 crore 89 lakh was deposited in the government treasury.All four FIRs have been filed on the complaint of suspended District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma.The local mining department though said the cases were filed on individual complaints and insisted that there were no reports of large scale illegal mining in the district.Presiding over the first meeting of the district public relations and grievance redressal committee on June 28, Sports Minister Sandeep Singh had taken a stern view on the matter.The minister had sought a detailed report on illegal mining in the district with a view to fix accountability of the mining guard.During the second meeting of the committee today, the minister suspended the District Mining Officer for lack of action.“We are putting in our efforts despite a shortage of staff and lack of machinery,” said an official in the mining department, who didn’t wish to be named.The official said they had written to the head office seeking a redressal but to no avail.According to the official, the shortage of staff and lack of infrastructure had hit the operations against illegal mining in the district.“Currently, the mining department has two inspectors, nine guards and one driver. Apart from this, there is only one vehicle for transportation. We need two times of the current staff strength to carry on the anti-mining operations in the district. We also require two vehicles for the field work,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-firs-registered-at-raipur-rani-in-one-week-287510
24-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal seeks time-bound schedule for completion of ongoing projects||Chandigarh, July 23Chairman-cum-UT Adviser Dharam Pal today directed officials to give a time-bound schedule for the completion of ongoing conservation and preservation projects.Chairing the 19th meeting of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee (CHCC), the Adviser told the officials to present the status of all such important projects to the committee in its next meeting.The meeting was attended by the Finance Secretary-cum-Secretary, Urban Planning, Vijay Namdeorao Zade; MC Commissioner KK Yadav; Estate Officer, UT, Mandip Singh Brar; architect SD Sharma; Dr BN Goswamy, art historian; Prof Rajnish Wattas, former principal, CCA; Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary, CB Ojha; Dilmeet Singh Grewal, architect; Dr Pawan Kumar, associate planner; and other officers of the Administration.A welcome address was delivered by the Chief Architect-cum-Member Convener.A detailed presentation highlighting the enlisted heritage of the city, background of the constitution of the CHCC and the works taken up till date was made by the Member Convener.Thereafter, general discussions were held on the heritage matters of the city.In order to make people aware about the heritage of the city, the chairman directed the officials to disseminate the heritage values to the citizens, urging them to be active stakeholders in line with the edict of Chandigarh.He also told the officials to install detailed informative signboards in all the heritage buildings of the city.Meanwhile, some members raised the issue that the committee was ignored in some major decisions taken by the department with regard to the preservation of heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-seeks-time-bound-schedule-for-completion-of-ongoing-projects-287511
24-07-2021||---||Doctors protest Punjab Govt’s 6th Pay Commission||Mohali, July 23Hundreds of doctors from across the state held a protest dharna against the 6th Pay Commission notified by the Punjab Government, here today. Protesters march towards CM’s houseLater, the protesters started marching towards the Chief Minister’s house in Chandigarh after breaking the barricades installed by the police outside the hospital complex. Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu reached the protest site and received a memorandum on behalf of the Punjab Government.The protesters included veterinary, dental rural medical officers, ayurvedic and homeopathic practitioners, besides officials of the Health Department.Doctors from every district of Punjab wearing aprons raised slogans against the state government.The protest was led by president of the PCMSA Dr Gagandeep Singh, president of the Veterinary Officers Association Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa, president of the Dental Association Dr Pawanpreet Kaur and president of the Ayurvedic Association Dr Sanjeev Pathak.Dr Inderveer Singh Gill, convener, Coordination Committee, and Dr Manohar Singh, general secretary, PCMS Association, said the doctors’ strike was to save the public healthcare and veterinary healthcare system.They said the Coordination Committee strongly opposes the ongoing privatisation policy under which the 6th Pay Commission has slashed the non-practicing allowance being paid to the doctors.Later, the protesters started marching towards the Chief Minister’s house in Chandigarh after breaking the barricades installed by the police outside the hospital complex. Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu reached the protest site and received a memorandum on behalf of the Punjab Government.Sidhu assured the protesters that their demand regarding non-practicing allowance would definitely be met within a week’s time.After the assurance given by the minister, the leaders of the Coordination Committee agreed to suspend the agitation for a week.The committee though said their struggle would continue until a final solution is reached.They said the roadmap of the struggle would be decided during a virtual meeting of the committee tomorrow.President of the Homeopathic Association Dr Balwinder Singh, president of the Rural Medical Officers Association Dr Jagjit Singh Bajwa, and Dr Darshan Kheri, general secretary, Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, also addressed the protesting doctors.CM shown black flagsThe ETT and TET pass teachers protesting at the PSEB building in Phase-7 here tried to stop the carcade of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Airport road when he was going to attend the installation ceremony of the PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. A group of teachers carrying black flags tried to stop the CM’s convoy but the police thwarted their attempt. A few protesting teachers were detained and they were not released till late evening. Various temporary teachers’ union members have been protesting for more than a month outside the PSEB building demanding regularisation of their service and enhancement in their salary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-protest-punjab-govts-6th-pay-commission-287512
24-07-2021||---||Rs 402-cr loan for water supply project: Chandigarh Civic body to sign pact with French firm on August 20||Chandigarh, July 23To get a loan of nearly Rs402 crore for 24x7 water supply project, the Municipal Corporation (MC) will sign an agreement with French company Agence Française de Développement (AFD) on August 20.The loan will be repaid in 15 years with six-year moratorium period. Apart from this, the European Union (EU) will provide a grant of nearly Rs96 crore for the project.After signing the agreement, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will start the tendering process for the project. The work on the project is likely to start early next year. The project aims at providing 24/7 water supply across the city. The project is likely to cost more than Rs 590 crore.A official of the Municipal Corporation said in addition to providing 24/7 water supply, the project aims at improving the quality of water supply in terms of pressure. He said the entire water network would also be modernised and latest devices would be installed with the launch of the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-402-cr-loan-for-water-supply-project-chandigarh-civic-body-to-sign-pact-with-french-firm-on-august-20-287514
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Video of Haryana Roadways bus conductor being thrashed by couple goes viral||The video of a Haryana Roadways bus conductor being thrashed by a couple in the bus went viral. The incident reportedly took place at Tribune Chowk a few days ago.Sources said the conductor, Anil, had an argument with the couple, including a Sub-Inspector of the Haryana Roadways, over some issue. The SI and his wife then thrashed the conductor. The bus driver made the video of the incident.The conductor has submitted a complaint with the Chandigarh Police, following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-of-haryana-roadways-bus-conductor-being-thrashed-by-couple-goes-viral-287515
24-07-2021||Ambala||Ambala Cantt: Haryana Democratic Front protests rising fuel prices||Activists of the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF), led by its general secretary Chitra Sarwara, today staged a dharna at the Sadar Bazaar in Ambala Cantonment against the rising fuel prices. They slammed the Centre and state governments for not extending any relief to the general public.Sarwara said: “Rising fuel and gas prices are the result of wrong economic policies of the Central Government. Prices of essential commodities have been increasing continuously, but the government has failed to provide any relief to the common man. The rising prices have been affecting all sections of society. The government has left no stone unturned to empty the pockets of common man and people are forced to use their savings and fixed deposits to manage their expenses. We demand that the government should reduce the excise tax and VAT on petrol and diesel to give some relief to common man. We also demand that fuel must be brought under GST. We have to raise our voice collectively against the wrong policies of the government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-cantt-haryana-democratic-front-protests-rising-fuel-prices-287516
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo Games: Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore extends best wishes to Indian contingent||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today congratulated the Indian contingent which went to Tokyo to participate in the Olympics. Badnore also extended his best wishes to the contingent, which includes five athletes from the city.Dharam Pal, Adviser to the Administrator; KK Yadav, Secretary Sports and MC Commissioner; and Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini were also present on the occasion and extended their best wishes to the entire Indian contingent and the athletes from Chandigarh.Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi cheers up Indian athletesMohali: Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Friday cheered up the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics. Accompanied by Sports Secretary Raj Kamal Chaudhary and Joint Secretary, Sports, Kartar Singh, Sodhi through a videoconference from Sector 78 Sports Stadium here urged people to create messages and videos to boost the morale of the Indian athletes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tokyo-games-chandigarh-administrator-vp-singh-badnore-extends-best-wishes-to-indian-contingent-287519
24-07-2021||---||Chandigarh allows sports talent scholarship||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The UT Sports Department has decided to allow sports talent scholarship to outstanding players who have represented Chandigarh during 2020-21 (April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021).The scholarship would be given to sportspersons who have attained first, second and third positions in recognised games such as archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing, baseball, cricket, canoeing/kayaking, cycling, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, hockey, handball, judo, kabaddi, kho-kho, lawn tennis, rifle shooting, rowing, skating, swimming, softball, table tennis, taekwondo, volleyball, weightlifting and wrestling.Scholarship form will be filled online on website http://sportsdept.chd gov.in from August 1 to August 31 till 5 pm.The hard copy of the form completed in all respects will be submitted to the office of the Director Sports at the hockey stadium in Sector 42, Chandigarh, up to September 15, failing which the application will be rejected.Candidates are advised to read the instructions carefully before filling up the scholarship form which are given on above website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-allows-sports-talent-scholarship-287527
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Motorcyclist dies in hit-&-run||UT hikes DA to 28% for Central staffChandigarh: The UT Administration has revised the rates of the dearness allowance (DA) for Central Government employees. An order issued by the UT Finance Department states that the Administration has decided to increase the DA for Central Government employees to 28 per cent from the existing 17 per cent of the basic pay. The DA will be applicable from July 1 and the expenditure involved will be met from within the sanctioned Budget grant for the financial year 2021-22. TNSLabourer hangs self to deathZirakpur: A labourer from Singhpura village here hanged himself to death due to financial constraints. The deceased has been identified as 25-year-old Suraj, a native of Singhpura village in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh. He is survived by his wife and parents. According to the police, Suraj was not able to earn a living for the past several days. So, he was mentally disturbed. TNSInspector joins Vigilance DeptChandigarh: Inspector Ram Dayal on Friday joined the UT Vigilance Department on three-year deputation after getting relieved from the Chandigarh Police. His relieving order was issued by DGP Sanjay Baniwal. TNSPatiala close Day 2 on 89/3Mohali: Patiala reached 89/3 in 35 overs in reply to Mohali’s total of 390 on Day 2 of the Punjab State Inter District Tournament for U-19 at the PCA Stadium here on Friday. At stumps, Jatin Yadav (34) and Jaskirat Singh (7) were holding the fort for the visitors. Raghuvar Narang, Harshdeep Singh and Himanshu scalped one wicket each for the hosts. Earlier, Mohali were bowled out for 390 in 152.1 overs. Dushyant Singh scored 80 runs while Jashanot contributed 45 runs to the total. Emanjot Singh Chahal claimed 4/100, while Abhinav Rao (2/61) and Harjas Singh (2/116) took two wickets each for Patiala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorcyclist-dies-in-hit-run-287541
24-07-2021||---||Withdraw panel report on Panjab University, Akali Dal urges Venkaiah Naidu||New Delhi, July 23A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MPs led by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged Vice-President and Panjab University (PU) Chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu to ensure the unique character of the PU as a symbol of Punjabi pride was not tinkered with in any manner and called for the withdrawal of the report of the Chancellor’s high-level committee on governance reforms.Adjournment notice moved by AAP, SADSAD and AAP leaders on Friday again moved adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss issues arising out of the passage of farm laws. Inside the Lok Sabha, Harsimrat Badal repeated her adjournment notice on the issue as did AAP's Sangrur MP Bhagwant MannBadal claimed Naidu had assured the SAD delegation that he had already looked into the matter and that all contentious issues were being resolved.The delegation, which comprised former Union Minister Harsimarat Kaur Badal, Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Naresh Gujral, called for withdrawal of all recommendations made by the committee, including disaffiliation of colleges of Punjab by drastically reducing the territorial jurisdiction of Panjab University. The delegation claimed the committee set up for reforms had been hijacked by “anti-Punjab forces” seeking to change the very character of the university in the name of reforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withdraw-panel-report-on-panjab-university-akali-dal-urges-venkaiah-naidu-287271
