26-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Monday reported four new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 61,931.The number of active cases has fallen down to 36 as one person was discharged as per Ministry of Health guidelines.  The death toll in the city remains 809.As many as 1,440 samples were tested in the last 24 hours while a positivity rate of 0.28 per cent was recorded.The number of cured people in the city so far is 61,086.The number of people who have received the first dose of the vaccine is 5,86,336 while 1,74,877 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-cases-of-covid-19-288578
26-07-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Panchkula: Maintain supply lines & ensure sanitation to contain disease||Potable water for villagesCholera is spreading fast. Best solution is to supply potable drinking water to residents. Besides residents should also be exhorted to drink boiled water only. The Municipal Coporation should take all necessary steps to curb the disease.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhLay emphasis on cleanlinessCholera outbreak is wreaking havoc in people’s lives. The Administration should emphasise on personal and community cleanliness. Water should not be allowed to stagnate in and around houses. Moreover, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department should have impeccable filtration system to lessen the chance of spreading the cholera.Gaurav Kumar, ChandigarhShows admn’s apathy towards outbreaksPeople getting affected by cholera in villages of Panchkula district reflects poor functioning of the civic administration and its apathy in preventing such outbreaks, which have become an annual feature during the monsoon season. Provision of safe drinking water is responsibility of the Administration. It’s of paramount importance that public health authorities conduct regular surveys and hold awareness camps on preventive measures in areas susceptible to waterborne disease outbreaks. Besides, the Administration should ensure that safe drinking water is available for all residents.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaKeep a check on illegal connectionsThe reason of cholera outbreak is contamination of drinking water through damaged sewer lines. Illegal water connections taken by villagers by puncturing supply lines is also the reason of water contamination. The Administration is responsible for the maintenance and repair of damaged and leaking sewer and water supply lines. Routine check-up of sewer and water lines and monitoring of illegal connections can curb such outbreaks.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliRegularly wash hands with soapThe 250-plus cholera cases in Panchkula’s Abheypur village is a matter of concern for the Administration amid the ongoing pandemic. Cholera, an acute diarrhoeal disease, spreads quickly in inadequate living spaces. It can be controlled by providing universal access to safe drinking water, following good hygiene practices and maintaining adequate sanitation. Even handwashing with soap can significantly limit the transmission of disease. Other measures include proper disposal of human waste, drinking boiled, effective warning systems and community-level participation to contain spread of the waterborne diseases.Akash Kumar, ChandigarhA wake-up call for administrationMany persons fell ill due Cholera outbreak in villages of Panchkula district because potable water got contaminated by sewage flowing from leaking sewer lines. This clearly shows negligence of the supervisory staff in not repairing leaking joints. The Municipal Corporation keeps hiking water tariff without realising that consumers are paying it for getting safe and not polluted drinking water. This outbreak must act as a wake-up call for the authorities concerned to prevent outbreak water-borne diseases.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCompensate people who got infectedThe outbreak of cholera in two villages of Panchkula district is attributable to improperly planned and casual water pipeline connections laid by the department concerned. In order to cut costs and ensure minimum usage of land for providing basic facilities the Administration lays sewer line and water supply pipelines parallel to each other without ensuring enough gap in between the two. This increases chances of water contamination in case of leakage of joints. There is no systemic inspection of pipelines. Consequently, if any sewer line is damaged there is high probability of spreading infection. The Panchkula Municipal Corporation must take responsibility for this outbreak and compensate people, who contracted the disease.Group Captain Samaresh Kumar Goswami (retd), ChandigarhRegularise illegal water connectionsIn most cities illegal colonies have mushroomed where residents draw water through illegal connections, which is unsafe. The authorities must check leakages in water supply and sewer lines regularly. All leakages in water supply and sewer lines should be plugged and if necessary all pipelines be replaced immediately. The authorities concerned don’t have old drawings plans of the existing water supply and sewer lines in many areas. They just dig holes at various locations to locate leakage points. Mapping of all underground pipelines should be done with the latest technology available and records made available. All illegal water supply or sewer connections should be disconnected or properly regularised.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhKeep houses, their surroundings cleanPeople get infected with cholera on consumption of contaminated food or water. It can spread further due to unhygienic conditions and unclean surroundings. The Administration should provide immediate medical to those, who have contracted the disease. Besides, the civic body should ensure supply of safe drinking water to residents. Creating awareness on keeping houses and surroundings cleanliness is of paramount importance to prevent the spread of infection.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliAwareness on causes, prevention of diseaseCholera is a dangerous disease and spreads fast. Clean drinking water should be supplied to residents. Water supply and sewer lines should be checked regularly for leakages. The Administration should make people aware about causes and prevention of Cholera.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliRepair leaking water supply pipesThe monsoon season brings a number of waterborne diseases. Cholera is one of them. Its outbreak is due to supply of contaminated drinking water. So, people, especially the poor must be guided to boil water before drinking. Besides, residents must be vaccinated against disease. Leaking water pipes and sewer lines should be repaired at the earliest. Water tanks need to be cleaned regularly. Utmost care must be taken to maintain personal hygiene. Avoid the outside food and prefer home cooked fresh food during the monsoon season.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurKeep Check on food, drinks sold by vendorsThe Administration should exhort people to cover their overhead water tanks in houses and keep them clean. Chlorine should be added to drinking water. Resident can be apprised about keeping cholera at bay through advertisements in newspapers. The Administration should keep a check on the quality of food and drinks sold by street vendors. Besides, the Administration should ensure that sewer water is not used for growing vegetables. The commercially sold ice should be made from safe water. Sale of open fruits and food must be banned during the rainy season.Antara Rakheja, ChandigarhChlorination method for disinfectionPrevention of cholera is clearly dependent on access to safe drinking water, adequate sanitation and maintaining basic hygiene. Chlorination is method, which the Administration can use to disinfect water and make it safe for drinking. Campaigns to create awareness on water-borne diseases can be launched. Cholera treatment should be free in government hospitals and dispensaries. The must intensify efforts to prevent the spread of cholera.Anita Tandon, KhararWater supply not up to standardsIt is known fact water supplied by the Municipal Corporation is not up to standards and muddy. It is harmful for health and spreads waterborne diseases like cholera. The Administration should test water regularly to ensure that it has got right ph value range and is safe for consumption. Old and defective external water supply pipelines must be replaced/repaired to ensure purity of water. There will be no need of having water purifiers/RO’s if the MC authorities ensure clean and safe filtered water supply for the public at large.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliAction plan need of the hourCholera outbreak at villages in Panchkula district claimed life of a nine-year-old boy and affected many others. Villagers say they brought the water contamination matter to the notice of the authorities concerned, but no steps were taken to solve issue. The main cause of spreading cholera is mixing of sewage in water supplied. Residents want action against erring officials for negligence. The Administration should check all pipelines, organise health check-up camps in colonies and slums and distribute ORS and chlorine tablets. An action plan is need to prevent the outbreak of cholera in the future. It is Administration’s responsibility to provide safe drinking water to residents.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaImplore residents to maintain hygieneCholera is an acute diarrhoea disease that can kill people within hours. People can use ORS or Zinc to cure themselves. The Administration should provide safe drinking water and implore residents to maintain hygiene to prevent the spread of cholera and other waterborne diseases. Otherwise, good health will be a distant dream for all residents.Disha Sachdeva, ChandigarhBook erring officialsIt’s sad to know many people got infected with cholera in Panchkula district just because of the negligence of the water and sanitation authorities. The Administration is yet to fix responsibility of officials for the outbreak of the disease in Abheypur village. Villagers have demanded registration of criminal case against erring officials for negligence, which points out they had warned them of water contamination outbreak of the disease. This proves the fact officials chose to do nothing resulting in many people falling ill. There is a need for a roadmap for the prevention and control of cholera. Besides, there is a need to sensitise people about the ramifications of puncturing water supply line.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliInstall One RO plant in each villageEvery citizen has right to get safe drinking water. Also, its duty of the Administration to provide potable water to the public. There should be at least one RO plant in every village otherwise department concerned must ensure good quality drinking water. The Water Supply and Sanitation Department can use potassium permanganate at regular intervals to disinfect water and prevent outbreak of cholera in villages. It’s the cheapest and easiest way to disinfect water.AK Jindal, PatialaPlug leakage, stop wastageWater is supplied through pipelines. Sometimes there can be leakage in supply lines, which should be plugged immediately. Otherwise, it leads to wastage of water and its contamination. This is the reason behind sudden outbreak of cholera at villages in Panchkula district. The Administration should direct the department concerned first to investigate the cause of the cholera outbreak and resolve it as soon as possible.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhRegular checking of supply linesThe Administration must curb wastage of water. It should remove illegal and unauthorised water connections. Regular checking of supply lines to prevent blockage, leakage and unauthorised tapping of water is a must. Water tanks and pipes should be cleaned at regular intervals. Also, chemical treatment of water to make it fit for drinking is must during the monsoon season.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhProvide separate looOne of the best methods to prevent the outbreak of cholera is to provide separate loo for each family living in slums. These should be numbered so that no other family can use others loo. Also, the Administration should provide water connection to every family and remove hand pumps. People should be made aware of the importance of washing hands before preparing food and proper cooking. People defecating in the open should be fined or punished.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhCook food properlyThe cholera outbreak at villages in Panchkula has affected several people. The Administration should ensure safe drinking water for all. People should cook food properly, keep it covered and eat it hot. Rehydration, intravenous fluids, antibiotics and zinc supplements help in recovering from the cholera. The Administration should distribute antibiotics in villages affected by cholera. Awareness campaigns to make people aware of symptoms, transmission and prevention of cholera can be launched. Print and electronic media can be roped in to spread awareness on waterborne diseases.Adish Sood, AmlohRamp up medical facilitiesThe cholera outbreak at villages in Panchkula district has exposed the Administration’s lack of preparedness to deal with waterborne diseases. The cholera outbreak took villagers by surprise and left the Administration jittery. What rankles most is that even the HSVP functionaries claimed that the snag had been rectified and water supply restored. They admitted that water being supplied was not fit for human consumption. A million dollar question is “Why is water being supplied to people if it is not fit for consumption?” This is double whammy for hapless villagers, who are fear the impending third Covid wave. The ruling dispensation needs to take an urgent call to ensure that clean potable water is available maybe through tankers or other modes of transport. The authorities concerned need to go the whole hog and ramp up medical facilities to pre-empt chances of any such outbreaks.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhDistribute medicines in slums, coloniesThe Administration should distribute free medicines in the slum areas to contain Cholera infection. The Administration can also rope in NGOs to distribute free potable water among residents during the rainy season. Water tanks should be cleaned at regular intervals.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCheck quality of water regularlyThe cholera outbreak in Panchkula villages is a cause of concern. Residents must be advised to drink chlorinated and boiled water only. The department concerned should keep a check on contamination of water. Leakages in water supply lines must be immediately plugged. People drawing water by puncturing pipelines must be dealt with strictly. Open drains must be covered. Sanitation must improve in villages. The quality of water must be tested from time to time.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhDetect source of contaminationThe cholera outbreak at villages of Panchkula district is a matter of concern. The source of such outbreak is contamination of drinking water. Drinking water must be chlorinated. Leaking water pipelines must be repaired. Water tanks must also be cleaned. Advisories must be issued for residents to check their water tanks for any contamination and leakages around the area. The Health Department should check water for any contamination.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliTesting of water at source, supply pointsThe recent cholera outbreak at Panchkula villages is a warning bell that all is not well with the water supply system. The authorities concerned should ensure that citizens get water fit for consumption. The Administration should find the cause of contamination and eliminate it by testing at source and at supply points. Some intermediate points should be provided on water supply pipelines for regular testing. The results should be documented and displayed on the department website.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhUpgrade water supply infrastructureThe cholera outbreak at villages in Panchkula district due to contaminated water supplied by the Municipal Corporation has shocked residents. There is certainly no dearth of funds or manpower to maintain amenities. The problem is not giving priority to civic issues. The authorities must ensure timely maintenance of supply lines rather than giving lame justification. The corporation doesn’t have mechanism to check underground pipe leakages owing to old infrastructure. So, the water supply infrastructure must be upgraded with latest technology. Illegal connections damage supply lines and contaminate water. All such connections must be identified and strict action should be taken against culprits. Responsibility of officials concerned should be fixed and suitable punishment be given for laxity.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhChange plan to lay sewer, water linesSadly, the mixing of sewage with drinking water has once again spread cholera in Panchkula villages. This calls for change in the strategy to lay sewer lines and water supply lines.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaAn eye opener for officialsThe recent cholera outbreak in some Panchkula villages is an eye opener for officials responsible for providing safe potable water to the people. Even if supply source is safe, water can easily get contaminated during collection, transportation and storage in household. However, the quality of water at the source cannot be guaranteed. So, treatment process is needed to disinfect water at the point of use such as taps, vessels or storage containers. Proper selection of water treatment methods such as filtration, disinfection and chlorination is also of prime importance to contain waterborne diseases. The authorities should monitor facilities that provide safe water.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhAdmn wakes up after outbreak of diseaseA sense of fear has gripped residents after a large number of cholera cases were reported from Abheypur village in Panchkula district. This has happened due to the lethargic attitude of the Administration and inept handling of the situation well before hand. Tall claims of the authorities for improving cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan have altogether failed to justify the situation. To check the spread of cholera only medicines will serve no purpose. The Administration needs to make every effort for providing clean water, unadulterated food, remove heaps of garbage and construction material and clean sewerage systems. Besides, create awareness to improve sanitation in villages is the need of the hour.SK Khosla, ChandigarhCheck all water supply sourcesThe recent cholera outbreak in Panchkula district is a cause of concern. The district cannot face two epidemics simultaneously. To control the cholera outbreak, every source of water must be checked for contamination. The authorities must launch a door-to-door survey to check quality of drinking water. The authorities must install water purifiers in villages of Panchkula district. Awareness about waterborne diseases must be spread through street plays and memes.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONIn view of negligible Covid cases in Chandigarh and 79% population found with antibodies in a sero survey, should the PGIMER and the GMCH, Sector 32, open walk-in OPDs for the general public?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-maintain-supply-lines-ensure-sanitation-to-contain-disease-288301
26-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Nominations filed for Panjab University Senate poll before cut-off date valid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25With the Panjab University (PU) Senate elections round the corner, curiosity over the status of allotting constituencies to those faculty members, who were recently promoted, has risen among the fraternity.Though the PU authorities are yet to hear from neighbouring states for setting up polling booths, there is confusion regarding old nomination and recent promotions. As per the schedule, old nominations, filed last year, will be carried forward.“The promotions were held recently after filing nominations. The constituency for associate and assistant professors is same, but professors have different constituencies. So, the authorities should think over it,” said a faculty member. However, the authorities claim that as per the election rules, the nominations filed before the cut-off date are valid. “The nominations filed before the cut-off date are valid no matter what changes were made thereafter. The list is prepared once and as per the existing criteria,” said an official. Questions have been also raised on a faculty member on leave from the PU to join another university, who is contesting elections. However, the official claimed that the faculty member was still on-roll with the PU and filed nominations before the cut-off date.Haryana gives nodAfter Chandigarh and Punjab, the Haryana Government has given its approval for setting up polling booths in the state.ScheduleAs per the announced schedule, the Senate elections will start with voting for the constituency of principals and elections for members of the staff of technical and professional colleges on August 3. The counting for both will be held on August 5. Voting for PU professors, associate professors and assistant professors will be held on August 8, followed by counting of votes on August 12.On August 18, voting will be held for heads, professors, associate professors and assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. The counting of votes will be held on August 20. The elections for registered graduates will also be held on August 18, followed by counting on August 20. Elections for members of various faculties will be held on August 23, followed by counting of votes on the same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nominations-filed-for-panjab-university-senate-poll-before-cut-off-date-valid-288299
26-07-2021||Mohali||Kharar resident hurt in Himachal Pradesh landslide||A Kharar resident, Naveen Bhardwaj, was injured in a landslide near Batseri village on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh (HP) today.Nine persons were killed and three injured in the incident. The police said 37-year-old Naveen’s kin, who lived at Ranjit Nagar, was informed and the injured referred to the CHC, Sangla. The victims were on a sightseeing trip from Chitkul to Sangla.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-resident-hurt-in-himachal-pradesh-landslide-288297
26-07-2021||---||2 arrested with six stolen bikes in Lalru||Lalru, July 25The police arrested two Lalru residents and recovered six stolen motorcycles from their possession near Lehli on Saturday.The suspects have been identified as Pawanjot Singh, alias Nanak, and Vikram Singh, alias Vicky, both residents of Balopur village.A case under Sections 379, 411 and 473 of the IPC has been registered against them at the Lalru police station.The suspects were today produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-six-stolen-bikes-in-lalru-288298
26-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali lads walk away with Dhruv Pandove Trophy||A fine second innings performance by Jovanpreet Singh (65) and Aryan Bhatia (55) helped Mohali log an innings and 352-run win over Patiala to bag the Punjab Inter-District U-19 Cricket Tournament for Dhruv Pandove Trophy at IS Bindra Stadium here today.Resuming their second innings from 96/2, Mohali lads went on to score 260 runs. Jovanpreet and Bhatia were involved in a 94-run partnership for the second wicket. The partnership was broken by Abhinav Rao after he accounted for Jovanpreet (65 off 131 balls). Bhatia was the next to go as Emanjot Singh claimed his wicket for 55 off 129 balls. Thereafter, Sanraj Singh (30), Dushyant Singh (26) and Jashanjot Singh (12) and Harshdeep Singh (12) contributed to push the team’s second innings total to 260 runs.Patiala’s left arm spinner Emanjot Singh was the pick of the bowlers as he claimed 4/59, while Abhinav Rao remained the second best performer with the ball after claiming 3/48. Yash Karan, Harjas Singh and Baltej also contributed by claiming a wicket each.Chasing 386 runs for an outright win, Patiala lads posted 34/2 when the day’s play ended. Himanshu and Harshdeep Singh claimed one wicket each for the bowling side. Manraj and Emanjot remained unbeaten for Patiala, while Harjas (20) and Bhavya Sikka (14) were the two scorers for the side.Earlier in their first innings, Mohali posted 390 runs in 152.1 overs. In reply, Patiala made 264 runs in 108 overs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-lads-walk-away-with-dhruv-pandove-trophy-288302
26-07-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni announces Chandigarh unit of farmer union||Chandigarh, July 25Gurnam Singh Charuni, president, BKU (Charuni), today announced the expansion of his farmer union. At a function organised at a gurdwara in Sector 38, he announced the formation of the Chandigarh unit of the BKU (Charuni).“The new union is not a political party and has been formed to organise farmers in Tricity region,” he said.All members of the tricity Naujawan Kisan Ekta have joined hands to form the city’s BKU unit. While Kirpal Singh has been made the president of the unit, Sarbans Parteek will assume the role of its national core committee member and Parjinder Singh is the general secretary.Laddi Pannu aka Malwinder Pal Singh, who was arrested last Sunday after the Motor Market violence and then granted bail a day later, has been made the vice-president of the unit.Gurnam Singh Charuni said: “People in various parts of the country are protesting against the agro-market laws. When farm activists in Chandigarh protested, the police said they weren’t farmers. Anyway, I still maintain that the laws must not only be condemned by farmers but also those who eat and buy food. The reason why we made a unit here is so that no one feels left out or alone and to make the protests more organised.”Sarbans Parteek said: “More people will be recruited in the unit. We are organising in such a way that one representative or head is assigned to all light points in the city as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurnam-singh-charuni-announces-chandigarh-unit-of-farmer-union-288300
26-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Zirakpur: Builder told to refund over Rs 2.76 crore to Jaipuria Sunrise Greens Apartments Owners’ Welfare Association||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 25The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Punjab, has ordered a builder, SMV Agencies, New Delhi, to refund Rs 2,76,86,080, along with 18 per cent interest, to the Jaipuria Sunrise Greens Apartments Owners’ Welfare Association in Zirakpur.Commission president Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal further directed the opposite party (OP) to refund Rs20 lakh, along with interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from August 27, 2016, till realisation, to the complainant, which has been collected by the OP from the allottees for day-to-day/routine/miscellaneous operations of the complex.The OP was also directed to provide all certificates and complete statutory compliances regarding the complex to the welfare association; restore the common area to its original condition by cancelling the sale transaction at its own expenses and status quo with regard to further construction thereon, if any. The commission further ordered the OP to pay Rs2 lakh towards litigation costs and other expenses. The compliance of this order shall be made by the opposite party within a period of 30 days.Advocate Sanjay Kaushal, counsel for the complainant, averred there were a number of allottees of the Welfare Association who had taken possession of apartments and had paid interest-free maintenance security (IFMS), which comes out to be Rs2.81 crore approximately, to the builder. The builder also collected monthly maintenance charges from the allottees from year 2012 to 2018, varying from Rs2,000 to Rs2,500. After its formation, the complainant -Welfare Association - wrote a letter to the OP to hand over documents of various statutory compliances of the project. During the process of negotiations, the builder agreed to refund the IFMS, along with interest, to the Welfare Association in the presence of the SDM, Dera Bassi. However, it has not been refunded till the date of filing of the complaint.It is further averred that the OP owes a sum of Rs20,88,774 to the complainants for day-to-day operations as per the statement of accounts from April 2018 to October 2020. It has also not installed two more gen sets for backup to lifts, STP, street lights and above 1 kW load to be provided to each of 971 apartments.Advocate Anish Verma, counsel for the OP, said the complainant had not shown any basis of its claim for the refund of IFMS to the tune of approximately Rs2.81 crore and the builder had completed the project in year 2013 and applied for the completion certificate, which was received in year 2015.It is further pleaded that the completion certificate has been issued by the authorities after due inspection of the premises and the fire-fighting system has been duly checked and approved. It is denied that the school building was part of the common area as the school area was already demarcated in the final plan of the project. It was prayed that the complaint be dismissed with exemplary costs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-builder-told-to-refund-over-rs-2-76-crore-to-jaipuria-sunrise-greens-apartments-owners-welfare-association-288308
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two held with pistol, cartridges in Chandigarh||Cheating cases against buildersChandigarh: The UT police have registered two cheating cases against Pardeep Gupta, Satish Gupta and others who have their office, Gupta Builders and Promoters Private Limited, in Sector 34. According to the police, complainant Amit Kapoor reported that the persons allegedly cheated him of Rs47.57 lakh by selling five rooms at a hotel in their project Aeropolis City in Sector 66-A, Mohali, without having any legitimate right of ownership of the said land and approval from the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab. Another complainant Meesum Zaidi reported that he was allegedly duped of Rs70 lakh on the pretext of selling showrooms at a commercial complex in the project , Aeropolis City. Both cases are under investigation at the Sector 34 police station. TNSHallo Majra man duped of Rs 41,000Chandigarh: A Hallo Majra resident was duped of Rs41,000 by a fraudster. Complainant Nitish Kumar Sharma reported that an unknown person sent a text message on his mobile phone regarding the Jan Dhan Yojana and cheating him by getting Rs41,000 deposited in a bank account. The police have registered a case. TNSUT squad for boxing c’shipChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association selected junior men and women teams for participation in the Junior National Boxing Championship to be held in Sonepat, Haryana, from July 25 to 31. Dr Rajinder Singh Mann, secretary, congratulated the boxers. The squad members are (men) Krrish Pal, Rohit Chamoli, Sushant Kapoor, Sukhjit Singh, Sahil, Sumit Dhull, Navjot Singh, Sohit, Ankit Kundu, Paramjeet Singh, Bhavya Saini, Raghav Goel, Ankush, (coach) Vikas Dhaiya, (manager) Hardeep Singh; (women) Parneeta Shoeran, Sapna, Harshita, Shanti, Neha, Tanya Gautam, Yashvi, Nishita, Shinayu, Loveleen Kaur, (manager) Savita and (coach) Virender Singh Dangi. TNSTree plantation by BSF, CRPFChandigarh: As part of directives issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) carried out a tree plantation drive on their respective campuses here on Sunday. At the BSF’s Western Command headquarters, the drive was led by Special Director-General Surendra Panwar. Saplings of various fruit trees and neem were planted. He underscored the importance of maintaining a clean and green environment. About 4,000 saplings were planted by the CRPF’s 51st Battalion and the 5th Signals Battalion on their campuses. The battalions have a target of planting 6,800 saplings in and around their location during this season. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-with-pistol-cartridges-in-chandigarh-288311
26-07-2021||Amit Sharma||TVIS dues: Chandigarh Cops go door to door, collect Rs 1.59L fine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25The UT traffic police have so far collected around Rs1.59 lakh as fine by the visiting the residences of traffic offenders who were issued traffic violation information slips (TVIS) or postal challans but did not pay the penalty.High pendency of TVIS challans due to non-payment drove the police to launch a campaign to recover the fine from traffic violators.The police have recently started visiting the offenders at their address within Chandigarh to recover fine from them.Palak Goel, DSP, Traffic (Administration), said the initiative led to a payment of around Rs1.59 lakh till July 23.As per the police records, the cops have visited the houses of a total of 228 traffic violators.Meanwhile, efforts of cops to visit 87 addresses proved futile due to absence of complete information of vehicle owners, as either the traffic violator had shifted from the given address, sold the vehicle or had passed away.The police said 80 traffic violators, who had been traced, were unable to pay the fine due to some reason. However, they promised to pay it soon by visiting the Traffic Lines in Sector 29.Two teams, each having two members, have been constituted to visit the offenders’ residences. The cops are equipped with body cameras to record their visits.The police said the drive to recover the fine dues would continue.A TVIS challan is issued on the basis of violations caught on CCTV cameras installed at various light points in the city or pictures of violations sent by citizens to the police. A TVIS challan is sent on the registered address of the vehicle owner.A large number of people have been issued e-challans for speeding through automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system.The other most common violations captured on CCTVs include stopping vehicle on the zebra crossing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tvis-dues-chandigarh-cops-go-door-to-door-collect-rs-1-59l-fine-288304
26-07-2021||---||Homage paid to Kargil martyrs in Panchkula||Panchkula, July 25To commemorate Kargil Vijay Diwas, veterans from the tricity paid homage to soldiers who had laid down their lives in the line of duty during the 1999 conflict with Pakistan, at a solemn function held at the Major Sandeep Shankla war memorial here today.Among those who paid floral tributes at the memorial were Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana Speaker; Gen VP Malik (retd), who was the Army chief at the time of the conflict; Admiral Sunil Lanba, former navy chief, Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi (retd), Lt Gen Raj Sujlana and Lt Gen Harcharan Singh (retd).Keeping in view the Covid protocols, only a limited number of dignitaries and ex-servicemen were invited for the event organised by the local chapter of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/homage-paid-to-kargil-martyrs-in-panchkula-288306
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 PGI workers in Chandigarh ‘thrashed’ over mobile theft complaint||A UT constable was today transferred from the PGI police post to the Sector 11 police station and a report recommending action against him was sent to a senior police official following a protest by PGI employees who alleged that the cop thrashed three employees over a complaint of mobile theft.A doctor had reported a mobile theft on Saturday night following which three employees — a ward attendant and two safai karamcharis — were taken to the police post on the basis of suspicion. It was alleged that the employees were thrashed by the police staff, including Constable Sandeep.Sanjiv Kumar, president, Contractual Employees Union, said while the three employees were detained at the police post, the phone was found in the doctor’s bag only. It was alleged that the employees were released by the police after a few hours.In the morning, the employees gathered at the police post to stage a protest. The three employees also got their medical examination conducted. A police official said the constable had been transferred to the Sector 11 police station and a report recommending action against him has been sent to a senior official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-pgi-workers-in-chandigarh-thrashed-over-mobile-theft-complaint-288303
26-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Deep Complex Hallo Majra: MP lays stone ahead of 2019 poll, tile work yet to kick off||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, MP Kirron Kher had laid the foundation stone for laying paver blocks in Deep Complex, Hallo Majra, but even after two-and-a-half years, the work has not kicked off.The foundation stone for “left out area of streets” at Deep Complex was laid on February 23, 2019. The work was to be carried out with funds under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS).Residents of Deep Complex‘Dust flies as vehicles ply in area’Dust flies here. There is neither any metalled road nor a concrete path. Vehicles plying in the area get damaged. During monsoon, it all becomes muddy and water stagnates here.Earlier, on September 4, 2018, the MP had first laid the foundation stone for laying paver blocks in Deep Complex. This work was to be completed in three months, but it is still pending.“Before the elections, people raised the issue that why pavers were not being laid in their areas. In February 2019, the authorities got a separate foundation stone laid for the “left out area,” but the work could not be started,” lamented BS Rawat, former general secretary, Deep Complex Welfare Association.“Now, they are saying they will not be able to do the work in the left out area. But if they lay paver blocks in the front row and leave the end part, rainwater will accumulated there and create problems for us,” Rawat added.When contacted, area councillor Bharat Kumar said, “We have got paver blocks laid in major area of Deep Complex. In the left out area, the work cannot be done as we did not get MPLADS fund. Due to Covid, funds were not released in the years 2020 and 2021. Whenever we would get funds, the work would be done.”Rawat, who has been raising the issue with the authorities, countered, “The pandemic broke out in March 2020. Why funds were not used in 2019 then? It is just an excuse. The DC releases the funds under MPLADS and the MC carries out the work. The accountability needs to be fixed.” Meanwhile, residents said they had to bear with ‘kutcha raasta’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deep-complex-hallo-majra-mp-lays-stone-ahead-of-2019-poll-tile-work-yet-to-kick-off-288307
26-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||PM Modi praises Chandigarh vendor in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25It was a big day for a food vendor, as his act of offering free “chhole-bhature” to those getting vaccinated found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today.“I am thankful to the Prime Minister who mentioned me in his address. It was unexpected. It will encourage not only me but also others who are working like me,” said Sanjay Rana, who sells “chhole-bhature” on a bicycle at the market of Sector 29-C.Sanjay Rana ‘Doing this as desh seva’I have been doing it as ‘desh seva’. I started offering free ‘chhole-bhature’ around two months ago as I felt it was necessary for everyone to get vaccinated and I can do my bit by doing this.The PM said: “To eat Sanjay Rana ji’s ‘chhole-bhature’ for free, you have to show that you have got the vaccine administered on the very day. As soon as you show the vaccination message, he will give you delicious ‘chhole-bhature’.”“It is said that for the welfare of society, the spirit of service and duty is required more than money. Our Sanjay Bhai is proving this saying to be right,” added the PM. He also talked of Chandigarh, describing the UT as a vibrant city, inhabited by a society which throbs rich and exhilarating socio-cultural vein.Sanjay said about 25-30 persons get free food from him every day. “I have asked my wife to prepare 30 plates extra each day,” shared Sanjay, a resident of Ram Darbar, who hails from a village in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh.He has also asked a staff member at Seva Bharti in Sector 29, a vaccination centre, to tell people to have free “chhole-bhature” after getting jabbed.“I have been doing it as ‘desh seva’. I started offering free ‘chhole-bhature’ around two months ago as I felt it was necessary for everyone to get vaccinated and I can do my bit by doing this,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.His daughter, Riddhima, and niece, Riya, gave him this idea. “They saw somebody offering ‘one plus one free’ offer on TV and asked me why not I do something like this,” smiled Sanjay, who has also encouraged fellow vendors to get jabbed.After he was praised by the PM, his phone did not stop ringing. He kept getting calls from friends, relatives and media. City BJP president Arun Sood and councillors Bharat Kumar and Shakti Prakash Devshali also visited his house. He was home today being Sunday.His initiative was earlier lauded by VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator and Governor of Punjab. “Hats off to the spirit of #Chandigarh hawker! My heart filled with gratitude to see his bit of duty towards his country and the extent of awareness this man has favouring #vaccination and offering free #CholaeBhatura to all those who get vaccinated,” Badnore had tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pm-modi-praises-chandigarh-vendor-in-mann-ki-baat-288305
26-07-2021||---||Covid-19: 9 found infected in Mohali district||Mohali, July 25Nine more persons were found infected with coronavirus during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 68,437 in the district. No new fatality was reported till Sunday evening while five patients were cured of the disease.Among the new cases, five came from Mohali, one from Gharuan and three from the Kharar area. No case was reported from Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Lalru, Banur, Dera Bassi and Kurali.A total of 2,220 persons were administered the Covid jab at government and private vaccination centres across the district and 1,323 of them received the second dose.A total of 6,37,895 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far and 1,05,377 of them have completed their vaccination schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-9-found-infected-in-mohali-district-288312
26-07-2021||---||Covid-19: Panchkula reports no case for second consecutive day||Panchkula, July 25With the district reporting no fresh Covid case today, for the 5th time since May last year, it is on its way to becoming coronavirus-free. The district logged zero case yesterday also.The district reported no Covid case on June 21 (only an old untraced case was added to the tally that day), July 17, July 22, July 24 and July 25. The active caseload now stands at five.Of the 30,635 cases reported so far, as many as 30,254 patients have recovered from the infection, while 376 people have died of the deadly disease. The general public as well as the local Health Department are now feeling much relieved after the devastating second wave that put the health infrastructure under strain during the April-May period.On May 11 this year, 2,988 people in the district were battling the virus.Even though Covid cases have declined significantly, the Health Department has asked people to not become complacent and continue to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and frequently sanitising hands.Besides Covid-appropriate behaviour, doctors have strongly recommended vaccination as the only weapon to combat the infection.However, the pace of vaccination has been hit hard in the district due to irregular supply of doses.Three test positive in cityChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported three new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of four patients were cured in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-reports-no-case-for-second-consecutive-day-288313
26-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula Health Department fails to eliminate vaccine hesitancy among pregnant women||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 25The local Health Department has failed to eliminate Covid vaccine hesitancy among pregnant women since the programme opened up for them on July 12. In the first two weeks, only 414 expectant mothers have been given the first dose – at an average of just 29 per day.Moreover, it doesn’t look like the local health authorities have any concrete plan to improve the situation.Saying that husbands and in-laws mainly take decisions for pregnant women, senior officials of the Health Department said they could not do much in mobilising them for vaccination.The officials said they were hopeful that vaccine hesitancy among pregnant women would eventually fade away and the pace of vaccination for this group would pick up in the coming days.On a single day, a maximum of 93 pregnant women have got the vaccine dose. The worst single-day figure was 11 on the inauguration day.On three odd days (July 18, 19 and 25), the vaccination drive for pregnant women remained suspended in the district.District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan agreed that response from pregnant women for Covid vaccination had been lukewarm so far. However, she claimed that it would improve slowly.She said though instructions had been issued to staff at the PHC/CHC level to prioritise vaccine for pregnant women, not many were coming forward to take the jab.She said there was a huge gap between those who are counselled and those who actually receive dose.“Even if there is a shortage of doses for other categories, it won’t impact the drive for pregnant women,” Dr Sasan, adding that they had reserved the doses for women.She appealed to all pregnant women to get themselves vaccinated for their own safety as well as that of their unborn child.According to the Health Department, there are roughly 10,000 pregnant women in the district.Response will improve slowly: OfficialDistrict Immunisation Officer Meenu Sasan agreed that response from pregnant women for Covid vaccination had been lukewarm so far. However, she claimed that it would improve slowly. She said though instructions had been issued to staff at the PHC/CHC level to prioritise vaccine for pregnant women, not many were coming forward to take the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-health-department-fails-to-eliminate-vaccine-hesitancy-among-pregnant-women-288310
