27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the union territory’s administration showed on Tuesday.The UT’s active Covid-19 cases now stand at 37, with an average positivity rate of 0.24 per cent over the last week.  Some 1,420 swab samples were tested over 24 hours.The bulletin also showed six recoveries.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have been given at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine in the union territory, the bulletin showed. Of this number, 1,78,573 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-289034
27-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Class X-XII: Mohali schools reopen, see thin attendance||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 26The Education Department organised a parent-teacher meeting today to take the consent of parents as schools reopened for Class X to XII following the announcement of the state government.Thin attendance was witnessed in schools in Mohali district as only 30 per cent students of Class X to XII attended classes today. The schools opened after about four months. These were closed due to the second wave of the coronavirus in the state.As compared to students, the number of parents was more, who wanted to see the arrangements made by the school authorities. The schools had made elaborate arrangements to ensure social distancing in the classes. Sanitisers were also made available.Jasmeet Kaur, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Phase 3B1, Mohali, said the attendance was thin as only 30 per cent of the parents had given their consent for sending their wards to the school. She said many parents visited the school to meet teachers and to see the arrangements in view of Covid. She expressed the hope that the number of students would increase in the coming days.District Education Officer (Secondary) Jarnail Singh Kaleke said all 46 secondary schools and 63 high schools opened in the district. He said they decided to organise a parent-teacher meeting to seek the consent of parents and added that the meeting He said though online classes would continue, they were hopeful that the physical presence of students in schools would go up in the coming days as parents expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made by the schools.Gurdeep Kaur of Class XI said she was happy to attend the school after over four months, but was disappointed that her schoolmates were not in the school. She said opening of schools would help them in getting their doubts cleared, which was not possible while attending classes online. She hoped that her classmates would join her in the class soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-x-xii-mohali-schools-reopen-see-thin-attendance-288820
27-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||As pandemic raged, Chandigarh registered 762 new firms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26In the face of economic slowdown, as many as 762 new companies were registered in Chandigarh during the Covid-19 pandemic.New companies registered in ChandigarhIn reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today, Rao Inderjit Singh, Minister of State, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, stated that 762 new companies were registered in Chandigarh during April 2020 to June 2021. As many as 147 new companies were registered in the UT in the first quarter of 2021-22 between April and June.The registration of new companies had increased on an year-on-year basis in the city despite getting poor rating in ease of doing business.At least 615 new companies were registered in the city in 2020-21, 509 in 2019-20 and 498 in 2018-19.To start a new business, the incorporation of a company is important as it shows the intent of an entrepreneur to invest. However, it does not mean that the investment has been made on the ground, rather depends on the certain economic condition before the companies take a final call on the actual investment plans.Due to the pandemic, more than 100 companies from the city had either closed down or migrated to other states in the past one and a half years, said an industrialist.He said several industries had reduced their production by 20 to 40 per cent due to the pandemic. Except agriculture-based industries, others had to cut production due to inadequate order from clients, he added.Red tape had weakened the ease-of-doing-business rankings in the city. For the second year running, the UT was at the bottom of the latest ease-of-doing-business rankings announced in 2020. In 2017-18, the city was ranked 29th, and in 2020 it was at the same position. Chandigarh was at the 31st position in the 2016 rankings.Of the 187 reform points under the rankings, Chandigarh only implemented nine, while on the remaining 178 there was no action. As per the ranking report, the reforms were implemented in some points falling under reform heads - access to information, obtaining electricity connection and environment but even on these, the performance or quality of implementation was “not good”.To improve the governance process, UT Adviser Dharam Pal had recently asked the departments to simplifying the rules, laws, procedures and different sets of compliances. The main objective was to decrease time and cost burden and to improve ease of living for citizens and ease of doing business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-pandemic-raged-chandigarh-registered-762-new-firms-288844
27-07-2021||Panchkula||Haryana board exams: In a first, all Panchkula Class XII pupils pass||In a first, the district recorded an overall pass percentage of 100 per cent in the Class XII results of the Board of School Education, Haryana. The pass percentage remained 100 per cent across the state.No toppers’ listAs the exams were not conducted this year, the board hasn’t shared any toppers’ list with us. - OfficialThe exams of Class XII students, which were scheduled to be held in April, were cancelled in view of the second wave of the pandemic. A total of 2,775 students appeared for the exams and all of them passed.On the list of toppers, an official in the District Education Office said: “As the board exams were not conducted this year, the board hasn’t shared any toppers’ list with us.” Last year, Panchkula district had topped Haryana with a pass percentage of 90.01.This year, the results have been prepared on a 30:10:60 formula — students’ Class X and XI final results; Class XII internal assessment; and practical marks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-board-exams-in-a-first-all-panchkula-class-xii-pupils-pass-288859
27-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Rapid antigen failed to detect 3.7% asymptomatic patients: PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26Around 3.7 per cent asymptomatic patients who tested Covid negative in the rapid antigen test were found positive in the RT-PCR test, a study conducted by researchers at the PGI has found. The study was published in the Indian Journal of Medical Microbiology on July 20.PGI studyAntigen and RT-PCR methods were used for 484 samples to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the tests. The SARS-CoV-2 antigen was found positive in 28 per cent patients while the RT-PCR report was positive for 39 per cent patients. The RT-PCR could detect the 11 per cent, who were reported negative in the antigen test, resulting in a sensitivity of 71.96% for RAT.The PGI studied the utility of rapid antigen detection tests in a tertiary care hospital in both symptomatic subjects and their asymptomatic contacts.The nasopharyngeal swab samples were collected from symptomatic patients and their contacts. The diagnostic accuracy of the antigen kit was determined in comparison to RT-PCR tests.Antigen and RT-PCR detection was performed simultaneously for 484 samples to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the test. The SARS-CoV-2 antigen was found positive in 28 per cent of the patients while RT-PCR report was positive for 39 per cent patients. The RT-PCR could detect an additional 11 per cent of patients, who were reported negative by antigen test, resulting in a sensitivity of 71.96 per cent for RAT. Sensitivity is the ability of a test to correctly identify patients with a disease.According to the study, 60.5 per cent (293/484) patients tested negative by both methods. Therefore, the specificity (the ability to detect those not affected by a disease) of RAT was 99.32 per cent. However, the RAT was unable to detect 3.7 per cent of the asymptomatic patients who tested positive by RT-PCR.The PGI found that in comparison to the RT-PCR, the antigen test has a low sensitivity. The RT-PCR can amplify low viral load. Testing with RAT in patients suspected of SARS-CoV-2 infection can produce false negative results, researchers noted in the study.The study concluded: “The rapid antigen test was sensitive in symptomatic cases. Since a majority of the SARS-CoV-2 patients are asymptomatic and considering the huge population, the testing strategy formulated by the Indian Council of Medical Research at the national level was cost-effective. It can’t be used as a standalone test for diagnosis. Despite limitations, RAT has the ability to play a significant role in guiding patient management and surveillance during the pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rapid-antigen-failed-to-detect-3-7-asymptomatic-patients-pgi-study-288861
27-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Transport Department invites bids for display of ads at ISBTs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26To generate revenue, the UT Transport Department has invited bids for the display of advertisements at the ISBT in Sector 17 and Sector 43.After failing to fetch a good response twice, the department has again invited applications from the interested parties for the display of advertisements after making changes in the tender rules. The department has a lot of space lying vacant at both ISBTs where billboards could be installed. A senior official of the department said if they got a good response for the project, they were expected to generate good revenue. He said the efforts had been initiated only after the approval of the Administration. Interested firms can apply till August 12 with full document fee. After opening the technical bids, the companies will be informed separately for opening of the financial bids.He said some changes had been made to install LED screens to display advertisements as the cost of advertising was high in the previous conditions.At the ISBT-17, the selected firm will be allowed to display advertisements outside the Café wall and local route counters, footpath at the entry point of the local bus stand, wall near shops and AC waiting halls. At the Sector 43 ISBT, near the Volvo counter, near the entry of the food court Volvo buses, near washroom, via food court, in front of station supervisor room, ticket kiosks and workshop No. 4. Agencies which have been blacklisted by the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) and the Central and state governments will not be allowed to participate in the tender process.Meanwhile, the department has allotted the work of advertising on local CTU buses to a Delhi-based company. As per the CTU proposal, there are around 358 local buses on which permission has been granted for the installation of advertisements.The places where these buses will be allowed to install advertisements include left side panel, right side panel, back panel, middle off bus, driver back, grab handles and side upper branding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-department-invites-bids-for-display-of-ads-at-isbts-288863
27-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge intervenes to reunite estranged couple||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26When an estranged couple went to the Patiala Judicial Complex for legally parting ways during the National Lok Adalat, there was no way for them to realise that they would return home united.‘A large number of cases resolved’The active participation by Justice Ajay Tewari acted as a catalyst in resolving a large number of cases and brought back smiles on the faces of litigants. -  Arun Gupta, District And Sessions JudgeThey would have been divorced, but for the initiative taken by Justice Ajay Tewari, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and executive chairman of the Punjab State Legal Services Authority.The couple with a six-year-old child was living apart for the past one and a half years. Justice Tewari convinced them that couples with children were parents and not just husband and wife. It was their primary responsibility to accord priority to the task of bringing up the children by giving up their ego and differences.Justice Tewari was visiting Mohali and Patiala for participating in the process of resolving disputes between the parties during the National Lok Adalat. Justice Tewari was also of the view that ensuring the retention of matrimonial bonds and responsibilities of parenthood was one of the important functions of the Lok Adalats.Data gathered by the Legal Services Authority reveals this was not the only case that ended on a positive note during the Lok Adalat. In July alone, 62,538 cases were taken up by 341 Benches across Punjab. Out of the total, 24,813 matters involving Rs411,63,52,408 were disposed of . In April, 15,749 cases were disposed of.“The active participation by the executive chairman, Justice Ajay Tewari, acted as a catalyst in resolving a large number of cases and brought back the smiles and hopes on the faces of the litigants,” said District And Sessions Judge Arun Gupta.He urged the general public to settle their grievances amicably during the upcoming National Lok Adalats scheduled to be held on September 11 and December 11. He said the needy, particularly the marginalised segments, could dial the toll free number 1968 for any kind of legal assistance. The front offices set up at district and taluka-level in the court premises were also working to guide the litigants for obtaining free and effective legal aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-judge-intervenes-to-reunite-estranged-couple-288866
27-07-2021||Mohali||3 more found infected with coronavirus in Mohali, no death||A total of 5,411 persons were vaccinated at government and private centres across the district on Monday. Of them, 3,530 got the second dose. While 2,639 beneficiaries were aged between18 and 44, 1,688 were in the 45-59 age group and 836 above 60.A total of 6,46,836 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. While 5,37,929 persons have got the first dose, 1,08,907 persons have got the second dose too. — TNS4 fresh cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Monday reported four new Covid cases and no death. One patient was discharged. — TNSPanchkula sees two new Covid casesPanchkula: After no case for two consecutive days, Panchkula on Monday reported two fresh Covid cases. So far, the district case tally stands at 30,637. The number of active cases in the district is four. Of the cases reported so far, 30,257 have recovered and 376 died of the infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-found-infected-with-coronavirus-in-mohali-no-death-288869
27-07-2021||---||Dera Bassi: Elderly robbed of gold bangle by three women||Dera Bassi, July 26An elderly woman of Dera Bassi was robbed of a gold bangle by three car-borne women, who sought help from her on the pretext of giving water to an ailing co-passenger, yesterday.The incident happened around 6.30 am near Nagar Kheda Temple when the victim was out for a walk.Nirmala Rani (63), a resident of Sadhu Nagar, realised that she had been robbed after reaching home when she narrated the incident to her husband Krishan Lal Upneja. The victim said two women were sitting in the rear seat and one in the front seat of a white-coloured car that was being driven by a youth. The car came from the Tehsil road side, took a U-turn and halted near the temple.One of the women sought help and showed a disposable glass that needed to be filled from the temple. When the victim tried to get hold of the glass, the miscreants held her hand and gently dragged her while cutting the gold bangle weighing 25 gms on her wrist, she said. Soon, the car-borne occupants drove toward the bus stand side, leaving the victim perplexed.The Dera Bassi police have registered a complaint and the investigation has begun.On the Saturday morning, three women and a man allegedly robbed Dhakoli resident Balwinder Kaur (54) of her gold bangle after dragging her into their car near Bauli Sahib Gurdwara in Dhakoli around 7.30 am.On July 13, four unidentified women robbed a Noida resident of her gold bangles near Patiala Chowk in Zirakpur. Victim Amarjit, a resident of Noida, had come to visit her niece in Zirakpur. In her complaint to the police, the victim stated that she boarded an auto-rickshaw from Patiala Chowk. Four unidentified women also boarded the auto. After a while, the women deboarded the auto-rickshaw and started walking towards a car waiting for them. The victim later realised that her gold bangles had been stolen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-elderly-robbed-of-gold-bangle-by-three-women-288874
27-07-2021||Zirakpur||Dhakoli: Hit by SUV, scooterist dies, cart-puller hurt||A scooterist was killed, while a cart-puller was seriously injured when a speeding SUV hit them on the Panchkula road in Dhakoli last night.The deceased has been identified as 48-year-old Ganga Ram Sahu. The injured cart puller, Chhotu Ram, is undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital in Panchkula. The police have registered a ase against the unknown driver of the SUV on a statement of the deceased’s brother and have launched a search for him. Investigating officer Jagroop Singh said Kailash Sahu, a resident of Baltana, stated that his elder brother Ganga Ram Sahu worked as a security guard at a shop in Panchkula. He was on his way to Panchkula for duty around 10 pm last night. When he reached the Zirakpur-Panchkula railway overbridge, a speeding SUV hit his scooter from the rear side and Ganga Ram Sahu fell on the road. The vehicle dragged the victim and the scooter for some distance before fleeing the spot.Cart puller Chhotu Ram, a resident of Panchkula, was critically injured in the accident and was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-hit-by-suv-scooterist-dies-cart-puller-hurt-288875
27-07-2021||---||Residents inconvenienced as Chandigarh Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma opens supply line||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26Local residents were inconvenienced as the police barricaded Sector 48 area where Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had come for the inauguration of a water supply line today.Residents had to walk a long way as the road was closed. A huge police force was deployed there in view of the recent incident in which the Mayor’s vehicle was attacked during a farmers’ protest.Our society gate was locked from 4 pm to 6.30 pm by the police on Monday. Residents were not allowed to go out. Our society is 300 metres away from the venue where the inauguration of the water supply line took place. -  Davinder Gupta, president, RWA, Universal Society, Sector 48“Here is a surprising order and action by the Chandigarh police today when the police, under the Sector 49 SHO, closed the entrances to the societies in Sector 48 and locked their gates. They also took the keys of the gates and went away leaving the innocent residents confined to their flats,” said Congress leader Sandeep Bhardwaj, who also lives in this sector.“This is a dictatorial act of the police. After my failed requests to police officials, I urged SSP Kuldeep Chahal who responded well and ordered the SHO to open the gates of the societies and allow the movement of residents. The draconian orders of the local police are unbearable. We the residents of the societies of Sector 48 strongly condemn the police action,” he added.The police barricade a long stretch of area wherever the Mayor visits. It is causing trouble to communters in the city.Meanwhile, the Mayor inaugurated the water supply line, along with a pumping system and other allied works, from the booster tubewell in Sector 48-C to Kendriya Vihar Society, Sector 48-B. The project has been completed at an estimated cost of Rs 9.5 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-inconvenienced-as-chandigarh-mayor-ravi-kant-sharma-opens-supply-line-288877
27-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Registration on percentage basis the way to promote apartments, Punjab and Haryana High Court told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26The Chandigarh Administration may not be approving floor-wise building plans in the city, but the registration of property was being done in terms of percentage, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the counsel on behalf of petitioner Resident Welfare Association submitted the registration of property on the basis of percentage was also a way to promote apartments. Taking a note of the submissions, the Division Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri fixed the case for further hearing on the matter for July 27.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was also told that there was no provision for apartments as per the city’s master plan. But the buildings were being sold floor-wise as apartments after ignoring the master plan. As such, a three-storey house was being converted into three units putting unnecessary pressure on the city’s infrastructure.A reply filed in the High Court on behalf of the UT assistant state officer earlier said the administration was not permitting floor-wise building plan sanctions. But the plan for the entire building was being approved.Nearly five years after the rising of the apartments from the debris of bungalows came under the judicial scanner, the High Court on a previous date of hearing had asked the Chandigarh Administration to file a specific affidavit on the issue of approving floor-wise building plans.The direction came on a petition filed against the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents by the Resident’s Welfare Association and another petitioner through senior advocate Puneet Bali and counsel BS Patwalia.Appearing before the Bench, Bali placed heavy reliance on certain documents to contend that the UT was blatantly following the practice of sanctioning floor-wise building plans. The practice, he added, ran contrary to the statement by UT senior standing counsel on February 18, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-on-percentage-basis-the-way-to-promote-apartments-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-told-288878
27-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Criteria for opening of colleges & varsities: Final decision to be taken this weekend||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26Before opening colleges and universities, a survey is likely to be carried out by the authorities concerned to assess the number of students and staff members vaccinated with at least a single jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. A final decision on the survey and opening of colleges, however, will be taken this weekend, informed the authorities.With a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration had decided to reopen institutions of higher education from next month. But, no exact date has been issued so far.“We will be issuing the requisite orders by the weekend,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education.According to a previous order, issued by UT Advisor Dharam Pal, all institutions of higher learning, including universities and colleges, will be allowed to open for the next academic session from August subject to the condition that all teaching and non-teaching staff and students must have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine a minimum of two weeks ago.Panjab University, meanwhile, has already conducted a survey on vaccination.“A survey has been conducted among the hostellers. A majority of our students and staff members are vaccinated with at least one dose,” said Prof SK Tomar, Dean Student Welfare, PU.Sources though claimed that the survey had been only conducted among hostellers and resident staff members. The authorities are likely to conduct a similar survey among other students now.“During the survey, many students reportedly failed to fill the form and submit their vaccination status. The authorities are in no hurry. We will be waiting to hear instructions from the office of the Director, Higher Education, on reopening of the campus,” said a source.The management of local colleges have decided to hold a similar survey.“A report will be made and places before the authorities. Most of the students above 18 years have been vaccinated with a single dose. However, the instructions have to come from the higher authorities,” said a faculty member.“Other problems, including teaching in both online and offline mode, conducting physical examinations, opening of canteens, libraries and labs, will also be discussed with the higher ups,” the member added.Sources also claimed that the colleges would be open after August 15 and students would be given option of attending either online or offline classes. However, examinations will be conducted through a single mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/criteria-for-opening-of-colleges-varsities-final-decision-to-be-taken-this-weekend-288879
27-07-2021||Kharar||Kharar: Punjab Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra lays stone of projects||Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra laid foundation stones of projects worth Rs 22.74 crore here. The projects included a community centre at Jhungian village, a sports stadium, park and community centre at Santemajra village; four-laning of the Civil Hospital road. Member of Parliament Manish Tewari and senior Congress Leader Jagmohan Kang were also present on the occasion.Brahm Mohindra said the efforts of the Punjab Government for infrastructural growth had secured investments worth over Rs71,000 crore during the past four years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-punjab-local-bodies-minister-brahm-mohindra-lays-stone-of-projects-288880
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Armed miscreants attack family at Dadu Majra Colony in Chandigarh||Armed miscreants allegedly entered a house at Dadu Majra Colony and attacked the family.According to the police, complainant Sanjay alleged that in May, his neighbour Amit, alias Nandu, along with his accomplices, had attacked him and his son Sourabh following which they had got a case registered against Amit and his accomplices at the Maloya police station.Sanjay alleged that Amit, who was yet to be arrested in the case, was pressuring him to withdraw the case or give a statement in his favour in the court.On the night of July 24, Amit, Kaushik, Nikhil, Babrik and around 15 other persons allegedly entered Sanjay’s house after breaking the door. They attacked the complainant and his family with sticks and rods.The complainant said Amit threatened him and asked him to enter into a compromise with him. The suspects also looted artificial jewellery and documents from his house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/armed-miscreants-attack-family-at-dadu-majra-colony-in-chandigarh-288881
27-07-2021||---||Gurugram resident held for raping, blackmailing sister-in-law||Panchkula, July 26The police have arrested a man for allegedly extorting Rs 9 lakh from a woman by shooting an obscene video of her.The suspect, identified as Rajesh Kumar of Sector 27, Gurugram, is the brother-in-law of the woman.He was produced in a local court today, which sent him to two-day police custody.The victim, a resident of Abdullapur in Pinjore, had filed a complaint with Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Kalka, that her brother-in-law came to her petrol pump in Sector 3 to get his car refueled and subsequently drove away without paying the money.The victim woman had filed a complaint pertaining to the incident with the Sector 21 police post. According to the police, the suspect threatened the women to withdraw her complaint otherwise “he would ruin her sister’s life.’’“After visiting the complainant’s house once, the suspect raped her and made a video of the act. Using that video, the suspect blackmailed her and extorted Rs9 lakh from her. The suspect also threatened to keep her mouth shut else he will share the video with her husband,’’ the police said.A case was registered under Sections 376 (rape), 384 (extortion),386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and 67 and 67-A of the IT Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurugram-resident-held-for-raping-blackmailing-sister-in-law-288882
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nitin Yadav to be Chandigarh Home Secy||The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the names of Haryana cadre IAS officer Nitin Kumar Yadav and Punjab cadre IAS officer Anindita Mitra for the posts of UT Home Secretary and MC Commissioner, respectively. The names have now been sent to the Department of Personnel and Training for final approval.The three-year term of incumbent Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta , a 1992 batch officer, and MC Commissioner KK Yadav, a 2003 batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre, ended in May this year. However, due to resurgence of Covid-19 pandemic, both the officers were given three-month extension.The post of Home Secretary is reserved for Haryana cadre IAS officer, whereas the post of MC Commissioner is reserved for Punjab cadre IAS officer.The panel of three officers sent by the Haryana Government for the post of UT Home Secretary included the names of 2000 batch IAS officer Nitin Kumar Yadav, 2000 batch IAS officer Pankaj Agarwal and 2003 batch IAS offer Vinay Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nitin-yadav-to-be-chandigarh-home-secy-288883
27-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Health Ministry failed to supply enough tocilizumab doses to Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26A pregnant woman was battling for life in the Covid ICU ward at the PGI, Chandigarh, on April 20 when doctors prescribed tocilizumab, a lifesaving drug in severe Covid-19, for her.Fact fileOver 34,000 patients were found infected with Covid-19 during the second wave in Chandigarh and over 374 persons succumbed to the disease.3 lakh hydroxychloroquine tabletsOn the contrary, the Union Territory has been given 3 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug repurposed for Covid-19 but wasn’t proven beneficial in the fight against the virus. The data about the supply of medicine and equipment from the Centre to states till July 21 was tabled in the Lok Sabha recently.At a time when patients were failing to procure tocilizumab injection prescribed by doctors, the Union Health Ministry failed to supply adequate quantity of this drug to the Union Territory. According to the data presented by the Health Ministry in the Lok Sabha, Chandigarh has been given “only 155” doses of tocilizumab by the Centre till now.On the contrary, the Union Territory has been given 3 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug repurposed for Covid-19 but wasn’t proven beneficial in fight against coronavirus.The data about the supply of medicine and equipment from the Centre to states till July 21 was tabled in the Lower House of Parliament recently.Pertinently, over 34,000 patients were found infected with Covid-19 during the second wave in Chandigarh and over 374 succumbed to the disease.As the drug was short in supply, PGI doctors had asked the family of a pregnant woman to procure it from outside.“The situation of my sister was critical and the doctor had told us that tocilizumab was the only hope for her. She was nine-month pregnant and her life was in danger. I raised the request on the social media for the drug. After a day, a man approached me with the injection as it was spare with him. He had purchased the injection for his father, but it could not be used as he died,” said the woman’s brother.This is not the only case where relatives of critically-ill Covid patients had to scramble for tocilizumab. In the second wave, doctors were caught in a fix as the drug was in short supply. Later when the drug fell short for about a month and Covid was raging in the region, the health authorities started looking for alternatives to tocilizumab.The World Health Organisation (WHO) recently recommended life saving tocilizumab and sarilumab for critically-ill Covid patients.According to the WHO, severely or critically ill Covid-19 patients often suffer from an overreaction of the immune system, which can be harmful to the patient’s health. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) blocking drugs – tocilizumab and sarilumab – act to suppress this overreaction and were in high demand during India’s devastating second wave of Covid-19 that claimed thousands of lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-ministry-failed-to-supply-enough-tocilizumab-doses-to-chandigarh-288885
27-07-2021||---||MC to spend Rs 4.35 crore to make Mohali garbage-free||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 26In an attempt to make Mohali a garbage free city, the Municipal Corporation here would be spending Rs 4.35 crore on segregating of trash and levelling of the dumping ground at Phase 8B.Inaugurating the project, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said a large number industries and some residential houses were located in the vicinity of the dumping ground and all of them were in favour of moving it to some other place.He said the industrialists had been claiming that neither were they getting employees for their units nor the investors were encouraged to visit the area.Sidhu was accompanied by Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi.The Mayor said the contractor company would segregate the garbage through machines and the debris, bereft of plastic and other non-degradable waste, would be used to fill the low lying area, adding that the entire dumping ground would be leveled.Sidhu said at the same time the infrastructure in the industrial area was being strengthened and the entire area would be cleared of weeds and roads would be repaired. Also, new roads will be constructed wherever needed, he said.President, Mohali Industries Association, Yogesh Sagar thanked the Mayor and said the initiative would not only have a positive impact on the industries in Mohali but would also drastically improve the image of the industrial sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-to-spend-rs-4-35-crore-to-make-mohali-garbage-free-288886
27-07-2021||---||2 held for illegal mining in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 26A day after the suspension of District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma for his failure to act on rampant illegal mining in the district, the police arrested two people for illegal mining in Mandlai village in Raipur Rani on Sunday.The suspects were identified as Naresh Kumar, a resident of Mandlai village, and Ram Singh, a resident of Mauliwala village.During an inspection at Mandlai village, the Mining Department had found signs of illegal mining and tried to seize vehicles - a JCB machine and a tractor-trailer - involved in the act from the spot.However, some people had stopped the authorities from transporting these vehicles to the Raipur Rani police station. These people were able to take away the vehicles.Officials of the local Mining Department had then approached Raipur Rani police station SHO Yashdeep Singh with a complaint.Based on the complaint, the police had registered a case under Sections 186, 379, 34 and 21 (1) of the Mining Material (DR) Act.Acting on the FIR, the police launched an investigation and nabbed the suspects.Registration of FIRs pertaining to illegal mining activities is a regular affair at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-illegal-mining-in-panchkula-288887
27-07-2021||---||Haryana Democratic Front protests rising fuel prices, property tax||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 26Activists of the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF), led by the party’s founder Nirmal Singh, today staged a protest dharna against the rising fuel prices, property tax and problem in getting no-dues certificates, at Jagadhri gate in Ambala City.Despite rain, HDF activists staged the dharna, raised slogans against the BJP government and demanded rollback of increased fuel prices.Nirmal said: “Prices of essential commodities have been increasing continuously, but the Centre has failed to provide any relief to people who are already in distress due to the Covid pandemic. It seems the government has been paying complete attention towards the welfare of Ambani and Adani only. The BJP government has failed to fulfil its promises and resentment has prevailed among all sections of society due to wrong policies of the government.”“Corruption is rampant in the Municipal Corporation and residents are forced to make repeated rounds to get their petty works done. People are being harassed in the name of no-dues certificates. We have to raise our voice collectively against the corrupt practices and anti-people policies of the BJP,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-democratic-front-protests-rising-fuel-prices-property-tax-288888
27-07-2021||---||Property grab case: Notice to cops on anticipatory bail plea of accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26A local court here has issued notice to the police on the anticipatory bail application of Ashok Arora, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37.The police had registered a case against Sanjeev Mahajan, Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar, Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta and late Surjit Singh and others on the basis of an inquiry conducted by DSP Devinder Kumar Sharma.The accused were booked under Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of the IPC.As per the FIR, some of the accused allegedly sold the house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 here fraudulently.The police also claimed that Mehta had been confined to a room for a few days and the accused took his signatures after torturing him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-notice-to-cops-on-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-accused-288889
27-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court orders attachment of cars belonging to defaulting guests of CITCO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26A local court here has ordered attachment of cars belonging to the two defaulting guests of the CITCO.The Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) had moved the court for attachment of Audi and Chevrolet Cruze cars belonging to the two guests for the recovery of their pending bills worth over Rs 19 lakh, including interest.The CITCO alleged that two guests – Ashwani Kumar Chopra and Ramnik Bansal – stayed in Hotel Shivalikview in 2018 for months without paying the bills.Both the guests stayed in different suites of the hotel and enjoyed the hotel services like food, laundry, drinks, etc., claimed CITCO.Later, the guests gave three cheques to the hotel, each of Rs 6 lakh. However, all the cheques were allegedly dishonoured by the bank.When one of the guests was trying to flee the hotel without making the payment, the hotel security closed the exit gates of the hotel. The guest parked his car in the parking area of the hotel and asked the CITCO to keep the keys of his car Audi Q3 as security for the outstanding amount towards them.The police were also present at the time of taking over the keys of the said car, claimed the CITCO.Another guest also gave the keys of his Chevrolet Cruze car to the hotel staff and assured to clear the outstanding dues.The hotel authorities tried their best to recover the arrears through talks, but when all efforts failed they filed a case against the duo in the court.The court has also declared both the guests as proclaimed offenders in the cheque bounce case. The high-end cars – Audi and Chevrolet Cruze – belonging to the defaulters have been lying in front of Hotel Shivalikview for around three years now, said the CITCO.The corporation demanded that the vehicles be auctioned at the earliest so that the principal amount along with interest can be recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-orders-attachment-of-cars-belonging-to-defaulting-guests-of-citco-288890
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||BKU (Charuni) expands farmer union to Mohali||BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has announced the expansion of his farmer union in Mohali’s urban and rural areas.At a function organised at a gurdwara at Manak Majra near Sohana, he announced the formation of a Mohali unit of the BKU (Charuni). The new union is not a political party and has been formed to organise farmers in the Mohali region.While Sukhpreet Singh Gill has been made the president of Mohali’s sheri or urban unit, Jaswant Singh Punia will assume the role of the head of the BKU Charuni Mohali pendu (rural) unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bku-charuni-expands-farmer-union-to-mohali-288891
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Molestation’ case at CLTA: Court rejects plea to issue direction to cops for FIR against three officials||Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, has rejected the plea for issuing direction to the police for registration of an FIR against three office-bearers of the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) in an alleged molestation case.A Mohali resident had filed a complaint under Section 156 (3) of the CrPC before the court for issuing the direction to the police to register an FIR against three officials of the CLTA for allegedly shielding the alleged molesters of his daughter and abetting the crime. The court, in its order, says: “Perusal of the matter will reveal that the allegations levelled by the complainant in the present matter do not require any discovery of evidence”.“Evidence/documents are within the knowledge of the complainant, which can conveniently be summoned with the assistance of the court, during the course of evidence of the complainant. In such circumstances, the request for sending the complaint under Section 156 (3), CrPC, is declined. However, it is registered as a complaint. The matter is adjourned to September 7 for recording preliminary evidence of the complainant,” the court said.The court has also allowed the complainant to place on record the documents under Section 91 of the CrPC. The complainant said his daughter was a trainee at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) in year 2019 when she was allegedly molested and harassed by four-five trainees. He alleged that the three respondents, who are the office-bearers in various capacities in the CLTA in different times, failed to take appropriate action against the alleged molesters as per the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, particularly under Sections 16 and 19 of the Act.He said an FIR was registered against the alleged molesters on August 17, 2019, under Sections 354, 354-A, 354-D, 506 of the IPC and Section 10 and 12 of the POCSO Act at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh. He alleged that the respondents despite having the knowledge of the act and conduct of co-trainees (accused persons) did not take any action against them.He alleged that the victim was called in the office and threatened to withdraw the allegations against the accused. He demanded that an FIR be ordered to be registered against these office-bearers under Section 156 (3) of the CrPC for offences under Sections 499, 500, 506, 509, 166-A read with Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 16 of the POCSO Act. The victim’s father also claimed that the investigating officer, in her report, has also recorded that offences under the Section 21 of the POCSO Act, Sections 499, 500 and 506 of the IPC are prima facie made out against these officials. But the IO mentions that since the offences are non-cognisable, the complainant was suggested to file a complaint in the competent court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/molestation-case-at-clta-court-rejects-plea-to-issue-direction-to-cops-for-fir-against-three-officials-288892
27-07-2021||Zirakpur||Panic grips residents as sewer water enters parts of Baltana||Panic gripped residents of Baltana when sewage water from Sector 19, Panchkula, flooded roads and several other areas around 5 pm today.Residents alleged that Panchkula Municipal Corporation officials discharged sewage water in the open instead of sewage line, polluting the streets and several homes.Ward No. 5 councillor Neha Sharma had a heated debate with the Panchkula MC officials following which the police rushed to the spot.“The Panchkula MC officials are deliberately discharging the sewage water in the open, causing harassment to the residents of several housing societies,” alleged the Congress councillor.Eyewitnesses said several residents of Sector 19 and Zirakpur MC officials too gathered at the spot.Zirakpur MC officials, meanwhile, alleged that sewage water overflow from Sector 19 was diverted towards the Punjab area.Several ramps of coal tar have been made to check the menace in the area.Vehicular movement was disrupted as barricades had to be put up during the laying of ramps, claimed residents. No police complaint has been filed in this regard so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panic-grips-residents-as-sewer-water-enters-parts-of-baltana-288893
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Body found on railway track||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-on-railway-track-288894
27-07-2021||---||Chandigarh MC to spend Rs 4.40 crore more on cattle pound||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26The Municipal Corporation here will be spending an additional Rs 4.40 crore on under-construction gaushala and cattle pound at Raipur Kalan.As per the Municipal Corporation, after the work was carried out at the site there were some updates from the architect.Now, the provision for additional accommodation has also been done. There will be more space for parking lots and so on, the MC added.The Municipal Corporation is going to table the agenda in the House meeting on July 29 for approval. The cattle pound has already missed several deadlines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-spend-rs-4-40-crore-more-on-cattle-pound-288895
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 38 youth held with 44-gm heroin||Maid booked on theft chargeChandigarh: The police have booked a woman of Ram Darbar in a theft case. Complainant Parvinder Singh, a resident of Sector 20, alleged that his maid had stolen jewellery, a laptop and other items from his house. A case was registered. TNS Varsity allows re-evaluationChandigarh: Panjab University has allowed provision of re-evaluation for those candidates who appeared in online examinations held between January and March, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination. Those candidates whose results have been declared may apply for re-evaluation between July 27 and August 10, while those students, whose results are yet to be declared, can apply for re-evaluation within 15 days from the date of declaration of result, he said. TNSTandon couple makes VideosChandigarh: Senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon and his wife Priya Tandon have completed 100 motivational videos shot during the pandemic. "We started it when the first wave hit our city. We wanted to uplift the mood of people as much we could during the lockdown. We started it with a few followers, today the views have reached a big number on the social media," said Tandon, founder of Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. TNSRefresher course for SHOs in mohaliMohali: The District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, organised a refresher course for SHOs deployed in various police stations. Officials from the Airport, Phase 1, Phase 8, Phase 11, Sohana and Mataur police stations took part in the refresher course. During the training, Baljinder Singh, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, told the police officials that directions given by the Supreme Court in the case of “Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Others” are to be followed. A pilot project has been started in the town in this regard. TNSFire equipment donated to MCChandigarh: Omkar Foundation donated 65 fire blankets and 35 fire-extinguishers to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. The items were handed over to Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor, along with Sorabh Arora, Joint Commissioner-cum-Chief Fire Officer and Asha Jaswal, Councillor, at the Fire Station, Sector 17, here on Monday. The Mayor also paid tributes to the Kargil martyrs on their martyrdom day. TNSPU announces MSc resultsChandigarh: Panjab University announced the results of MSc (Chemistry) first semester, Post Graduate Diploma in Mass Communication, first semester, BSc (Fashion Designing), first semester, and Master of Arts (Economics), first semester, examinations. TNSPlantation drive at herbal parkChandigarh: The Department of NSS in association with the horticulture division organised a cleanliness-cum-plantation drive at Prof GP Sharma Herbal Park, Sector 14, under the guidance of Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Ashwani Kaul, coordinator, NSS. The organising committee included NSS programme officers Dr Navneet Kaur,Dr Vivek Kapoor and Dr Naveen Kumar. TNSKargil Vijay Diwas celebratedChandigarh: Residents and staff of Girls’ Hostel No. 4, Kasturba Hall, remembered the efforts and sacrifices of the Indian Armed Forces to mark Kargil Vijay Diwas. Boys’ Hostel No. 3 also celebrated Kargil Vijay Diwas to pay tributes to Kargil martyrs. Students present in the hostel along with staff members sang patriotic songs. A patriotic slogan-writing competition was conducted. TNSPU-MPhil/PhD entrance testChandigarh: Panjab University has announced to conduct PU-MPhil/PhD entrance test - 2021 on September 12. The prospectus, including application form, for the entrance test is available online from July 26 onwards. Detailed schedule will also be available on the website. Students can visit website https://phdadmissions.puchd.ac.in to apply for the test. TNSVirtual symposium held at PGIMERChandigarh: A one-day virtual symposium – 3rd BID Workshop: Role of Clinical Validation & Calibration Testing in Bringing Medical Devices to the Markets – was held at the PGI on Tuesday. The seminar was designed to decipher the role of calibration testing and clinical validation of medical equipment for the market use. The seminar was inaugurated by Prof Rajeev Ahuja, Director, IIT Ropar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-38-youth-held-with-44-gm-heroin-288896
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh pays homage to Kargil martyrs at Chandigarh War Memorial||On the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today paid homage to the martyrs of the war, and called upon the youth to join the Indian Armed Forces. He laid a wreath at the Chandigarh War Memorial, the Bougainvillea Garden.Remembering their sacrifice, the CM recalled the contribution of the Indian soldiers, who braved the harsh weather to give a befitting reply to the Pakistan forces that had intruded into Kargil, Drass and Batalik areas in July, 1999. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-pays-homage-to-kargil-martyrs-at-chandigarh-war-memorial-288649
27-07-2021||---||Virology centre to come up in New Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 26The Department of Medical Education and Research signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, at Punjab Bhawan here today.The institute will provide post-graduate courses/training and research in diseases such as influenza, encephalitis, dengue, chikungunya, ebola, H1N1, Covid, etc. This will be a regional centre from which Punjab and all the neighbouring states will benefit in medical services, education, opportunities and facilities.The agreement was signed by Director of Medical Education Dr Sujata Sharma and NIV Director Priya Abraham in the presence of Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni and Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, Alok Shekhar.Soni said the laboratories of government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot started daily 40 tests last year at the time of Covid-19 pandemic, which had now been ramped up to 10,000-15,000 daily in each lab. “Today is a historic day as another National Institute of Virology will be established in India at New Chandigarh, Mohali. The land is being provided for free by the government,” Soni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virology-centre-to-come-up-in-new-chandigarh-288650
27-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Chandigarh: Lift broken, specially abled interviewed in corridor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26A feted specially abled activist, who had applied for the post for Member, Child Welfare Committee, Jalandhar, had to undergo the ordeal of getting interviewed in the corridor, all because of a broken lift and the absence of a ramp to access the first floor office of the Social Security and Women and Child Development in Chandigarh.Vivek Joshi, Specially abledIt’s humiliatingInterviews aren’t held on roads. It’s humiliating. I was told arrangements will be made. I waited in an unkempt spot, while other candidates were sent upstairs.Vivek Joshi (40), with 100 per cent cerebral palsy, was interviewed in an open passage of the building outside shops amidst a slumbering stray dog and parked cycles.Joshi had to be lifted up by his 67-year-old mother and a student to the ground floor passage, as there was no other way to access it. He also had to relieve himself in his car (in a disposable urination pot) in the absence of a bathroom.On Friday, Joshi had sent an email to the department informing it about his condition and seeking “suitable arrangement”.Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Social SecurityWill have better infraWe have written countless letters to get the lift fixed. We are also shifting to a new office with better accessibility. We are improving the infrastructure.Vivek said: “It is all about dignity. Interviews aren’t conducted on roads, there’s a dog here. It’s humiliating. I was told arrangements will be made. My mother and a student had to lift me up to access the passage. I waited in an unkempt spot, while other candidates were sent upstairs. I was finally interviewed for about 5 to 7 minutes.”Amarjit Singh Anand, state disability activist, said: “It’s an irony, a social security office isn’t accessible to the disabled that it claims to represent. Joshi is an acclaimed fighter for the specially abled. At least a table could have been arranged.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lift-broken-specially-abled-interviewed-in-corridor-288619
