28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 5 new Covid cases||Chandigarh recorded five new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the Union territory’s administration said on Wednesday.The UT’s active cases now stand at 36, with an average positivity rate of 0.24 per cent over the last seven days.Chandigarh has reported no death since July 5. Its fatality stands at 809.Some 1,630 swabs were tested over 24 hours, the bulletin showed. Chandigarh recorded six recoveries on Wednesday.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have been given at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of that number, 1,82,518 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-5-new-covid-cases-289573
28-07-2021||New Delhi||Widespread rain in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal to continue till July 30: IMD||The current spell of widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh till July 30, the IMD said on Wednesday.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Himachal Pradesh today on 28th July and over Uttarakhand on 28th-29th July, it said.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar during 28th-30th July and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh during 28th-31st July.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Gangetic West Bengal on 28th & 29th July, over Jharkhand on 29th and 30th July and over Chhattisgarh on 30th July and over East Madhya Pradesh on 31st July.Meanwhile, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely to continue over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh from 28th July to 1 August.It is likely to increase from 30th July.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over West Madhya Pradesh on 1st August.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan and Goa, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra from 28th July to 1st August.Impact expected due to this includes*Localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpassesmainly in urban areas of the above region.*Occasional reduction in visibility due to heavy rainfall.*Disruption of traffic in major cities due to water logging in roads leading to increased travel time.*Minor damage to kutcha roads.*Possibilities of damage to vulnerable structure.* Localised landslides/mudslides*Damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation.*It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchmentsAction Suggested* Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination.* Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard.*Avoid going to areas that face the water logging problems often.*Avoid staying in vulnerable structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/widespread-rain-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-to-continue-till-july-30-imd-289488
28-07-2021||Solan||8 hurt as Haryana Roadways bus falls into nullah near Parwanoo||Eight persons, including the driver and the conductor of a Haryana Roadways bus (HR-68A-9619), were injured when it skidded into a nullah along the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of the highway near Parwanoo around 3.15 pm today. The bus was going from Shimla to Chandigarh.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said as per the preliminary probe, it appears that the bus was moving at a high speed and it skidded into a nullah along the road. The driver, conductor and six occupants had sustained injuries in the accident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-hurt-as-haryana-roadways-bus-falls-into-nullah-near-parwanoo-289184
28-07-2021||---||Punjab cancelled 2.87L ration cards in 3 yrs, Haryana 2.91L, Himachal 59K||New Delhi, July 27The Punjab Government deleted 2,87,474 bogus ration cards between 2018 and 2020 as part of a national exercise to weed out ineligible beneficiaries under the National Food Safety Act.Ineligible droppedIn a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said 92 per cent of all ration cards had already been verified across the country by way of seeding with Aadhaar numbers.Minister of State for Food Nitesh Ganga Deb said, 2,87,474 ration cards were cancelled in Punjab, 2,91,926 in Haryana, 59,435 in Himachal Pradesh and 30,521 in Jammu and Kashmir.Punjab deleted 34,972 ration cards in 2018, 94,031 in 2019 and 1,58,471 in 2020. Haryana deleted 2,91,926 ration cards in 2018 and none thereafter. Chandigarh did not cancel any ration card during that period.Himachal Pradesh cancelled 56,858 ration cards in 2018, 367 in 2019 and 2,210 in 2020. J&K cancelled 3,428 ration cards in 2018, 13,869 in 2019 and 13,224 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cancelled-2-87l-ration-cards-in-3-yrs-haryana-2-91l-himachal-59k-289271
28-07-2021||Panchkula||Two mobile snatchers land in police net||The Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested two out of the three mobile snatchers. The arrested accused have been identified as Rohit Kumar and Jaswinder, both residents of Bhabat in Mohali district. The accused were produced in a court, which remanded them to judicial custody. The police said Subhash Yadav, a native of Nagla village, Badayun district in Uttar Pradesh, presently living in Kundi village in Sector 20, in his complaint stated that he was returning home in Kundi when three motorcycle-borne youths came from behind and snatched his mobile phone on Monday. He stated that the accused fell on the road after their motorcycle collided with a car coming from the opposite direction. People present on the spot nabbed two of the accused and handed them over to the police. A case had been registered against the accused at the Sector 20 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-mobile-snatchers-land-in-police-net-289074
28-07-2021||---||Probe fleecing by Mohali colonisers: MP Manish Tewari||Mohali, July 27MP Manish Tewari today sought investigation into the malpractices and deficiency in service by big builders operating in Mohali.He sought a thorough investigation into the builders who have not fulfilled their commitments to the buyers and those who have not started projects after taking money from people.He called upon the Special Investigating Team (SIT), formed by Mohali SSP Satinder Singh on Monday, to put up a public notice inviting complaints from the aggrieved house/apartment owners.A special team under Superintendent of Police (Rural) Dr Ravjot Kaur Grewal will probe the matter and submit a report within 15 days.The development comes 11 days after the police booked 48 unauthorised colonisers involved in construction of housing societies, flats and commercial buildings on agricultural land under Sections 5 and 36 (1) of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act at the Balongi police station.Most of the colonisers, who have been booked, operate in Jhampur, Ballo Majra and Behlolpur areas. The case was registered after complaints from the GMADA Additional Chief Administrator.Tewari said non-provision of basic amenities, deficiency in service, delayed possessions, false promises and failure to complete projects in stipulated period are some of the violations by realtors, robbing the people of their hard-earned money.Tewari also urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take strict action against the real estate mafia in Mohali, Kharar and New Chandigarh areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-fleecing-by-mohali-colonisers-mp-manish-tewari-289075
28-07-2021||---||AAP seeks Chandigarh Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma’s resignation||Chandigarh, July 27The city AAP today criticised Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and sought his resignation over the inconvenience caused to public due to barricading of roads in the areas where he comes for inaugurations.The UT police have started barricading the areas after the vehicles of the Mayor and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon were attacked during a farmers protest in Sector 48.“If the BJP can’t govern Chandigarh without targeting the common man, they should resign. How can the police lock people in their own homes? Who will be responsible if there is a medical emergency? Why should residents have to show IDs to enter their own homes?” commented AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma.“The AAP condemns the brazen and shameful actions of the BJP inconveniencing the common man of Chandigarh wherever the Mayor holds any event. This practice must be reviewed,” said Chander Mukhi.“It is ironic that on one hand the BJP is inaugurating civil works supposedly for the benefit of the common man, while on the other they are curtailing the same civil society’s constitutionally guaranteed freedom of movement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-chandigarh-mayor-ravi-kant-sharmas-resignation-289076
28-07-2021||---||Mansa log win in U-19 tourney||Chandigarh, July 27 Mansa defeated Patiala by seven wickets in the Punjab State Inter District U-19 Tournament today. In a low-scoring match, Patiala won the toss and opted to bat. The side was restricted to 114 runs in 30.5 overs. Dhruv Rahul (47) was the top scorer for the side. Shubam Singla and Randeep Bhupender claimed four wickets each, while Kuldeep Singh took two wickets. In reply, Mansa scored 116/3. Randeep Bhupender (37), Abhishek Saharan (22) and Divyansh Garg (23) scored for the side. In other matches, Amritsar defeated Faridkot by three wickets, Muktsar Sahib defeated Ferozepur by six wickets and Bathinda thrashed Barnala by 90 runs. The match between Hoshiarpur- Gurdaspur and Kapurthala-Jalandhar was abandoned due to rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansa-log-win-in-u-19-tourney-289077
28-07-2021||---||J&K continue to lead in medal tally on Day 2||Mohali, July 27Jammu and Kashmir continue to lead with two gold medals and one bronze medal on the second day of the 2nd Senior National Sqay Martial Arts Championship, at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.Madhya Pradesh claimed second position, while Andaman and Nicobar stood third. Shivani Kushwaha of Madhya Pradesh won a gold medal in Khawankey Sangrai-2 category by scoring 42.6 points, while Pranali D Naik from Goa bagged silver with 40.7 points. Leena Santosh from Maharashtra and Papia Sarkar claimed the joint third position with 40 points.In the Aero Sqay category, Saniya Subash (45 points), Dhanashree Kundaikar (37.7 points) and Priyal Gogia (37.2 points) claimed top three positions, respectively.In the men’s category, Raja Younis Tak (45.4 points) won the Khawankey Sangrai-2 event, followed by Tarun Kumar (38.4 points). Rajat Arun and Arman Khan (37.5 points) claimed joint third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jk-continue-to-lead-in-medal-tally-on-day-2-289078
28-07-2021||---||Kapurthala beat Patiala by 7 wickets, enter final||Mohali, July 27Kapurthala lads beat Patiala by seven wickets to enter the final of the Punjab State Senior Inter-District T20 Tournament at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today.After winning the toss, Kapurthala skipper asked Patiala to bat. The match was reduced to 14 overs a side due to light showers and poor light.Patiala scored 116/4 in the stipulated overs. Jiwanjot Singh (29 off 17 balls, five fours) was the top scorer for the side. He was ably supported by Prabhsimran Singh (26) and Karan Kaila (20). Ujjwal (2/19) and Krishan Alang (1/15) shared three wickets between them.In reply, Kapurthala reached home in 13.2 overs with Bikramjit Singh scoring a brisk 31. Krishan Alang (30) and Himanshu Satyawan (23) also made useful contributions to the chase. Kaila, Mayank Markande and Ikjot Singh scalped one wicket each for Patiala.Brief scoresPatiala: 116/4 in 14 overs (Jiwnajot Singh 29, Prabhsimran Singh 26; Ujjwal 2/19) lost to Kapurthala: 117/3 in 13.2 overs (Krishan Alang 30, Himanshu Satywan 23).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kapurthala-beat-patiala-by-7-wickets-enter-final-289079
28-07-2021||---||Man found dead on railway track in Lalru||Lalru, July 27The body of an unidentified middle-aged man was found on the Ambala-Kalka railway line near Gholumajra village here today.Railway police post incharge Raspal Singh said around 4.15 pm today, he received information that the body of a man was lying near the railway line. The police took the body into their custody.The victim is about 35-40 years of age and 5’10” tall. The deceased has ‘AK Netvi’ tattooed on one arm.The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for 72 hours for identification purpose. The police have started an investigation into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-on-railway-track-in-lalru-289080
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||File report on delay in trial, Punjab and Haryan HC tells CBI Special Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought a report from the UT CBI Special Court for reasons behind a delay in concluding a trial in a decade-old case. The matter is connected to a former Chief Parliamentary Secretary.As the suo motu case, “In re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs for monitoring the progress of matters pending against MPs/MLAs” came up for resumed hearing, CBI senior standing counsel Sumeet Goel referred to the reply, dated July 27, filed by the CBI special crime branch, Chandigarh. He also made a particular reference to an FIR, dated May 4, 2011, registered under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh added that according to Goel, the trial in the case was pending in the Special Court, Chandigarh. However, it had not made any headway despite being at the stage of culmination. “A report be sought from the Special Court, CBI, Chandigarh, regarding the reasons for the delay in concluding the trial,” the Bench asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/file-report-on-delay-in-trial-punjab-and-haryan-hc-tells-cbi-special-court-289081
28-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo
||Mohali F&CC approves Rs 8-cr development works||Tribune News Service Mohali, July 27  The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Mohali Municipal Corporation today passed a resolution for development works worth Rs8 crore. The F&CC also allotted Rs8.5 crore for development works, the resolution for which was passed earlier.  Besides Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, MCCommissioner Kamal Garg and councillor Jasbir Singh Manku were present in the meeting. Sidhu said the resolution for paver block works in different areas of Mohali, repair of roads, maintenance of premix work on roads and installation of new number plates were passed in the meeting. The Mayor said the respective contractors were told about the works cleared. He said the allotted works would be started immediately. In the previous F&CC meeting held on July 9, development works worth Rs20 crore, including setting up of gyms in parks in Sectors 76 to 80, which were recently transferred to the MC by the Greater Area Mohali Development Authority, were approved. The development works of the Mohali Industrial Area, Phase 8A and 8B were also passed. Sidhu said the resolutions being brought to the meeting of the F&CC belong to all wards and there was full transparency in the works. Sidhu said he was not the councillor of any single ward but the Mayor of the entire city and that he and his team were working diligently for the development of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-fcc-approves-rs-8-cr-development-works-289082
28-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Tricity panel to deliberate on shorter route to Chandigarh International Airport||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27The much-awaited demand of the city residents to get a shorter route to the Chandigarh International Airport will come up for discussion during the Tricity Coordination Committee meeting to be held here tomorrow.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore will preside over the meeting, which will be attended by the UT Adviser and Chief Secretaries and DGPs of Haryana, Punjab and the UT.Adviser Dharam Pal said among other issues, a shorter route to the airport would be on the agenda of the meeting.Earlier, the road distance from the Tribune Chowk to the airport was 2.71 km, but people have to now cover extra distance to reach the airport through Mohali.To reduce the road distance, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had recently decided to conduct a feasibility study on the connectivity to the airport from the Purv Marg side near Sector 48. The road will run through the Jagatpura area. For this, land acquisition may be required in Punjab which would be done by the state government.In its earlier recommendations, the committee had stated that it was aware that a short approach road towards the airport was functional in the past. “But now, around 30 km extra need to be covered while travelling to the airport as the entry has been shifted to the other side and reaching it is time consuming,” said the panel.As a huge investment has been made in the international airport, the committee, therefore, recommended that the MHA should conduct a meeting with the UT Adviser, the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana and the Secretary, Civil Aviation, to resolve the issue.In response to the recommendations of the committee, the MHA submitted that three alternative approaches were suggested in the Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031. These alternatives were discussed at various meetings, but failed to reach a conclusion.People have been demanding an alternative route, which will make it easier and shorter for residents of Chandigarh and Haryana to reach the airport.The UT Administration had earlier proposed to construct a tunnel to the airport in Mohali, but the idea was dropped in the Northern Zonal Council meeting held in September 2019.The UT Administration had sought the support of the Centre and contributions from Haryana and Punjab to construct the Rs 1,200-crore underground tunnel, connecting Chandigarh to the new airport terminal in Mohali.The proposed route would have cut the distance to the airport from Chandigarh and Panchkula by 10 km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-panel-to-deliberate-on-shorter-route-to-chandigarh-international-airport-289084
28-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Police nab woman for house thefts||Chandigarh, July 27 The UT police have arrested a 26-year-old woman for house thefts. They claimed to have solved two cases with her arrest. The accused, identified as Kajal, alias Batheri, a resident of Sector 25 colony, was arrested by a team of the Sector 11 police station. In a case registered on June 11, complainant Raju Sharma had reported that he came to the house of a Kulwant Kalsan, who was undergoing treatment in Ambala, and found that an unknown person had stolen a gas stove, an LED and other belongings from Kalsan’s house in Sector 11. In another case, complainant Rajnish Tandon of Sector 15 had reported that on June 29 his caretaker Raj Kumar informed him that someone has broken the lock of his house and stolen a TV, utensils, sanitary ware, taps and a sink from the house. The police have recovered an LED, an LCD and other household goods from her possession. The woman was produced in a court, which sent her to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-nab-woman-for-house-thefts-289085
28-07-2021||Naina Mishra||Patients with black fungus deformities can approach plastic surgeons: PGI doc||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27A large number of patients had to undergo surgeries for mucormycosis – commonly known as black fungus – and a majority of them were left with deformities. Now, plastic surgeons at the PGI will be busy for the next six months, reconstructing the lost part/parts of patients who suffered from the fungal infection.Dr Sunil Gaba, a leading plastic surgeon from the PGI, Chandigarh, said, “(Mucormycosis) patients usually have maxilla defects (mid-face bone), palatal defects, eyeball defects, etc.”“It’s a fulminant disease, so patients may have very severe defects involving all these structures. Most of the patients require some kind of reconstruction,” said Dr Gaba.“We can use free tissue transfer from other parts of the body, especially legs, to reconstruct these facial defects,” he said, adding “we can reconstruct the bony component using leg bone,” said Dr Gaba.“In these types of surgeries, we take required tissue from other parts of the body, along with its blood vessel, and using micro surgical technique, put these tissues on the required areas. These surgeries usually take 6-10 hours, depending upon how much to reconstruct,” informed Dr Gaba.“Earlier, we used to have a few patients of mucormycosis or severe fungal infection which required reconstruction. But Covid-19 has increased such type of cases manifold… it will be a big task and will require expertise to reconstruct these defects to help patients live near normal life,” he said.“We have been handling such type of cases for a long time and the latest technology, like the 3D printing, has really improved the outcome of these reconstruction remarkably. With these 3D models, we can plan surgery in a better way and assess our results,” Dr Gaba added.A minimum of six-week disease-free period is required for reconstruction surgeries, but preferably three-six months after recovery is ideal for conducting plastic surgery on mucormycosis patients, he said.The surgeon also said during the waiting period, when the patient is disease free and waiting for reconstruction, no medication is advised.The Plastic Surgery Department of the PGI will operate upon such patients after they complete three-month post-recovery period, said Dr Gaba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patients-with-black-fungus-deformities-can-approach-plastic-surgeons-pgi-doc-289086
28-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Haryana seeks reaffiliation with Panjab University, Chandigarh, for its colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27Amid the ongoing controversy on governance reforms in Panjab University, the BJP-led Haryana Government has again submitted a request before the Vice-President of India and Panjab University Chancellor, M Venkaiah Naidu, regarding reaffiliating colleges of three districts — Panchkula, Ambala and Yamunanagar — with the Chandigarh-based university.According to Gian Chand Gupta, Speaker, Haryana Legislative Assembly, and Panchkula MLA, a letter in this regard has been written to the PU Chancellor. Gupta claimed to have even met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard. A letter was submitted by the Haryana Chief Minister to the PU Chancellor, said Gupta.“The matter was raised by members of a committee that was formed by the Chancellor for suggesting governance reforms in the PU. However, no further discussions were held as a majority of the committee members were from Punjab. The Haryana Chief Minister has already written to the Union Home Minister and to the Chancellor for affiliating colleges in the three districts to the PU. We are not demanding anything extra, just that the colleges, which were previously affiliated with the PU, should get back the status,” said Gupta.On reason behind withholding from giving grants to the university in 1976, Gupta said: “Whatever happened in the past belongs to the past. We are ready to grant our share to the PU.”Sources said back in 1976, the grant (jointly given by Punjab and Haryana) was discontinued. The Central Government had fixed the ratio of 60:40 between the Centre, Punjab and Haryana. However, the Haryana Government refused to pay the share and Punjab was burdened.Earlier, Shah had reportedly asked both Chief Ministers (Punjab and Haryana) to mutually come up with a solution.“It’s for the benefit of everyone, including students. I don’t understand why there’s a fuss about making Haryana a stakeholder in Panjab University. We have given representation at all levels and will continue striving for it,” said Gupta.Sources said there were over six to seven colleges in the three districts.For the past sometime, Panjab University had been a centre stage for state political parties to raise issues pertaining to changes in the governance reforms. Many political outfits have targeted the Centre and Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-seeks-reaffiliation-with-panjab-university-chandigarh-for-its-colleges-289087
28-07-2021||---||Haryana Assembly Speaker Gyan Chand Gupta for greener environment||Panchkula, July 27From birth till death, trees play a vital role in human life. That is why trees and plants hold a special importance in our country, said Panchkula legislator and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gyan Chand Gupta.Gupta was presiding over the Van Mahotsav celebrations at Government PG College, Sector 1, here today.He said the Covid-19 pandemic had also emphasised the need for a clean environment and every citizen should fulfill his duty towards humanity by planting more and more trees.Gupta planted trees like kadamba, putranjiva, maulshree, etc., in the college campus and also inspected the newly constructed gymnasium.Principal Dr Archana Mishra highlighted the benefits of various trees and urged everyone to plant at least one tree in their lifetime.A plantation drive was also held at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) Force complex in Sector 26. Gupta, accompanied by Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, also planted saplings at the ITBP complex.Vijay Deswal, Adjutant, 50th Vahini, ITBP, said last year, more than 10,000 saplings were planted in Panchkula and its adjoining areas.He said this year, they had a target of planting more than 8,000 trees. He said the trees would be planted in Sector 26, 26, 27, 28, and Chandigarh-Shimla National Highway No 5 till Tipra toll plaza. He said so far, 5, 700 samplings have already been planted.Gupta lauded the social service by the ITBP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-assembly-speaker-gyan-chand-gupta-for-greener-environment-289088
28-07-2021||---||Rs 6-cr facelift for Mohali community centre||Mohali, July 27 The community centre at Phase 3B1 here will be reconstructed at a cost of Rs 6 crore, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said here today. The community centre, which has been in a dilapidated condition for the past many years, is being demolished to clear the way for a “new modern community centre”.  Sidhu said: “The construction of a new modern community centre – which will look like a marriage palace-cum-hotel – will be started immediately after the demolition of the old structure.” He said the new building would be equipped with modern facilities. “Besides the basement, the new building will have two halls and rooms. The community centre will be fully air conditioned. There will also be a lift to the upper floor and a ramp for the disabled. The contract for the construction has already been awarded,” said Sidhu. The Mayor said all the promises made by the newly-elected MC team to the people of Mohali were being fulfilled at a fast pace.  “It has been a short while since I took over the charge. But my team has been working day and night for the development of Mohali. At the same time, projects are being reviewed so that they can be completed in time,” he added. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-6-cr-facelift-for-mohali-community-centre-289089
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Experts dwell on animal resources for research||The seven-day workshop on ‘ethical contemplation of animal resources for experimentation’ that was organised at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) concluded here today.The aim of the workshop was to provide a push to high-end scientific research and prepare scientific manpower that can venture into research careers and knowledge-based economy.Dr Sanjeev Khosla, Director, IMTECH, discussed the importance of animal research in improving human health. Dr Rajat Sandhir, Professor, Department of Biochemistry, PU, touched upon models available for research on neurodegenerative diseases.The workshop was attended virtually by 24 four participants from different institutes and a wide range of topics were covered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-dwell-on-animal-resources-for-research-289090
28-07-2021||---||RWA raises issues with Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal||Chandigarh, July 27Residents Welfare Association, Modern Housing Complex, Sector 13, met the UT Adviser and discussed several civic issues in the area.The issue of muddy and contaminated water supply was taken up. Residents said the remedy was an immediate replacement of rusty water pipes. Deplorable sanitation condition of the area was also discussed.They said: “Not a single bus shelter exists on the main road passing through the MHC.”They talked about the need for another e-sampark centre, sign boards, waterlogging, traffic, security and others issues. “We have handed over a copy of the memorandum of our demands to the Adviser who has assured us of doing the needful,” said Colonel Gursewak Singh (veteran), President, RWA and SA Qureshi, General Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rwa-raises-issues-with-chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-289091
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC cracks whip on encroachers||The enforcement wing of the MC today cracked a whip on encroachers.A special team formed on the orders of Joint Commissioner Rohit Gupta seized 13 dumped vehicles kept at Burail during the day. A total of 23 challans were issued for various violations here. This was the second such drive in the area.Besides, illegal vendors were removed from Sector 22 in the evening. Earlier, they were removed when the no-vending zone policy was implemented.However, they had gradually stated encroaching upon the government land again.Residents had filed complaints against illegal vending as it led to traffic congestion and nuisance on the roadsides. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-cracks-whip-on-encroachers-289092
28-07-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Sewer deaths in Mohali: National Safai Karamchari Commission presses for early action||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 27Ten days after the death of two persons inside a sewer near HLP Galleria in Phase 8 here, the police have not been able to identify the people responsible for the negligence due to which the precious lives were lost.Anjana Pawar, member of the National Safai Karamchari Commission, met the district administration officials and Safai Sewak Union representatives here today to make a headway in the case.Pawar said the main aim of the commission’s visit to Mohali was to meet the officials concerned and press for early identification of people responsible for the negligence.“What is there to probe? It is obvious… who is the person responsible for it? It has been 15 days but no one has been named in the case. This way, it can take 15 years also. The commission has come here to get it done (fix the accountability) and we will not leave till it is done,” she said.On July 18, Harpal Singh, a resident of Phase 11, had died due to gaseous buildup inside a 10-foot-deep sewer line on the slip road near HLP Galleria in Phase 8.Gagan Rai (26), a labourer from Saharsa, Bihar, volunteered to rescue the trapped worker, but he too fell into the sewer and died.Harpal, was a contractual worker in the Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, Mohali.The 52-year-old was living in a rented accommodation in Phase 11 and was the sole earning member of his family with three children, aged 19, 15 and 9.Construction labourer Gagan Rai, who acted as a Good Samaritan, lived in the tin sheds close to the spot. He also was the sole earning member of his family. Rai is survived by his wife and two kids.Better facilities soughtAnjana Pawar, member of the National Safai Karamchari Commission, met district officials and Safai Sewak Union representatives on Tuesday to assess the situation faced by the safai sewaks on ground. Pawar said the word “sewerman” should be abolished and stressed on providing better and healthy atmosphere to safai sewaks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewer-deaths-in-mohali-national-safai-karamchari-commission-presses-for-early-action-289093
28-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Licence fee: Covid renders over 6K vendors defaulters in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27Covid-19 has rendered over 6,000 registered street vendors defaulters in the city.Despite getting another chance of clearing their pending licence fee by July 26, only around 40 per cent vendors could make the payment. There are around 10,000 registered vendors divided in three categories — street, essential and non-essential.They were earlier given April 28 as the last date for clearing their dues. Since many of them could not make the payment, they were offered one more opportunity. The defaulters are now staring at losing their vending licences. However, the corporation is yet to decide whether they have to be offered some more time for payment, given fee exemption or their licence should be cancelled.MC Joint Commissioner Rohit Gupta told Chandigarh Tribune, “Over 6,000 vendors could not clear their dues. We will decide the further course of action in this regard by the next week.”Street vendors lamented that during the first wave of Covid, they had got fee exemption, but it was not given this time. “Due to Covid and the UT Administration’s restrictions on opening shops/stalls, many of us had gone back to our native places as there was no business. Others were not able to put up stalls as there was no footfall for a few months,” said Jagat Shankar, a registered vendor.The vendors also alleged that a step-motherly treatment was being meted out to them as the MC had given relaxations in fee to the second-hand car market and the night food street, but not to the poor vendors.“We come from the economically weaker section. More than anyone, we need fee exemption. It is obvious that the vendors will not be able to pay fee as the pandemic has hit them hard. There was no business, how we will pay?” lamented Ram Milan Gaud, president of a street vendor body.VN Sharma, member of now-defunct MC’s Town Vending Committee, said, “Though fee exemption was not given to them, we offered them to pay the fee in installments. We also extended the last payment date twice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licence-fee-covid-renders-over-6k-vendors-defaulters-in-chandigarh-289094
28-07-2021||Mohali||e-auction of 40 GMADA sites from Aug 4 to 16||The Punjab Government has provided an opportunity to people to purchase property in SAS Nagar.The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is conducting an e-auction of over 40 sites for IT, nursing homes, industrial, commercial and residential purposes at SAS Nagar.The e-auction will start at 9 am on August 4 and end at 1 pm on August 16. An official spokesperson said 26 booths, five SCOs/SCFs, four IT plots, one group housing site, on school and two other educational sites were available in the e-auction.GMADA has fixed the base price of these properties and for more information interested persons can visit the official website www.puda.e-auctions.in.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-auction-of-40-gmada-sites-from-aug-4-to-16-289095
28-07-2021||---||4 missing minor girls from Chandigarh traced to Delhi, brought back||Chandigarh, July 27Four minor girls, who had fled from their houses in Buterla, Sector 41, on Monday morning, were traced by the UT police to Delhi and brought back to the city.The girls, aged 11, 13, 15 and 16, had left home to start a new independent life away from their parents. However, timely action by the police spoiled their plans.Inspector Rakesh Kumar, SHO of the Sector 39 police station, said they had received information about the missing girls in the evening after the girls did not return home following which a kidnapping case was registered.The police tried to track their mobile phones, but these were switched off.“We sent a team to the Inter-State Bus Terminus, Sector 43, to verify if the four minor girls had boarded a bus together. On enquiry, we came to know that the girls had boarded a Haryana Roadways bus,” Inspector Rakesh Kumar said.Acting on the lead, a police team was immediately sent to the Delhi bus stand. “We were not sure whether they had gone to Delhi. However, our team reached the Delhi bus stand where it located the girls on Monday night,” the SHO said.All girls were brought back to the city and handed over to their families after a medical examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-missing-minor-girls-from-chandigarh-traced-to-delhi-brought-back-289096
28-07-2021||Panchkula||No death, no new case in Panchkula||No fresh case of Covid surfaced during the past 24 hours and the overall tally remained at 30,637 in the district. No death due to the virus was reported from the district on Tuesday.As of now, 30,258 patients have been cured of the disease. There are three active cases with 376 deaths in the district. Meanwhile, a total of 1,671 persons were vaccinated against Covid-19 at 17 government and four private vaccination centres across the district on Tuesday and 850 of them had got their second dose.A total of 3,78,803 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. —TNS4 test positive in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported four new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of six patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSOne fresh case in MohaliMohali: The district reported one new Covid-19 case from Kharar on Tuesday and four recoveries. Of the 68,441 positive cases reported so far, 67,344 patients have been cured. There are now 40 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-no-new-case-in-panchkula-289097
28-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali: ‘Stealing cables’, man electrocuted in Fatehpur Taprian near Khizarabad||A man is suspected to have died of electrocution while allegedly stealing cables of the motor of a tubewell in Fatehpur Taprian near Khizarabad here this morning.The police said the deceased, Sandeep Singh, 27, belonged to nearby Kansala village and some of his relatives came to claim the body. Village residents had found the body lying outside the tubewell shed and informed the police.The Block Majri police took the body into their custody and sent it to the mortuary of the Kharar Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination.The police recovered a stolen cycle, a bag containing cables, a mobile phone and a liquor pouch from near the spot. The tubewell was located in an isolated place and was targeted by the deceased at night, but he got electrocuted while cutting the cables of the motor, villagers alleged.Block Majri SHO Simranjit Singh said, “Prima facie, it appears to be a case of electrocution. We have initiated inquest proceedings.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-stealing-cables-man-electrocuted-in-fatehpur-taprian-near-khizarabad-289099
28-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Chandigarh Administration earns HC rap for skirting independent floor sale issue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27In an out-of-the-ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court scanned newspaper advertisements to find out whether floor-wise sale of dwelling units was contemplated. Finding no less than two dozen such advertisements in the newspapers’ Sunday edition, the Bench not only rapped the Chandigarh Administration for skirting the “vital issue” pertaining to the sale of independent floors in the city, but also directed the holding of a fact-finding exercise. It would be carried out under the UT Chief Architect’s supervision.The Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri also made it clear that the exercise was fact finding in nature. It was imperative for the Bench to take a final view in the matter.The Bench observed it thought of scanning the advertisements as the court was seized of the matter and discovered 24 advertisements in the Sunday edition “scouting for purchasers /investors for separate floors/independent floors”.Reproducing the advertisements, the Bench added it lent credence to the petitioner-Residents Welfare Association that independent floors were being sold under the garb of sale of a certain percentage share of a residential unit.The Bench added that the written statement filed on behalf of the UT and subsequent affidavit by an Assistant Estate Officer was totally silent on the aspect. The Administration ought to have been alive to such a situation, particularly when specific averments were made in the petition filed in 2016.“Being in a state of denial on paper would not suffice. In the fitness of things, the Administration should have carried out some kind of physical verification to ascertain as to whether such modus operandi had been resorted to after repeal of the Apartment Rules,” the Bench asserted.The methodThe Bench directed the UT Administration to forthwith carry out the exercise. To begin with, it was asked to identify properties/buildings wherein sale of shares, be it to the extent of 50, 30 or 20 per cent, were sold/transferred to a person outside the family of the original owner/shareholder. It was asked to check the facts from the office of the Estate Officer where the “record of the rights” was maintained.The Bench added that the second step would be to carry out a physical inspection of such identified buildings/ dwelling units to find out whether the sale of shares had actually translated into a buyer occupying an independent floor in otherwise composite dwelling unit. It would also find out whether independent floors were in the process of being constructed commensurate to the shares purchased in such dwelling unit.The Bench added that it would be open for the official respondents to seek cooperation/assistance of the police authorities/law enforcement agencies to facilitate the carrying out of the physical inspection of the premises.“To ensure that such exercise does not become overly time-consuming and the object is only towards a fact-finding exercise, we are of the view that it ought to be a sample exercise. The same be confined from the date of filing of the instant petition till December 31, 2019. Still further the exercise be confined to residential buildings,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-earns-hc-rap-for-skirting-independent-floor-sale-issue-289100
28-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Electric vehicles fail to catch Chandigarh residents’ fancy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27Designed to reduce greenhouse gas emission, the demand for plug-in electric vehicles for personal use is yet to pick up in the city due to lack of charging stations and a high cost of such vehicles.According to the data available with the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), there is no aggressive demand for electric vehicles in the city. In the year 2018, only three electric four-wheelers were registered with the RLA and the figure slightly increased to seven in 2019. With creation of awareness among the masses, the demand for such vehicles jumped five times in 2020 and this year, only 37 cars have been registered in the city so far.Rising fuel prices notwithstanding, city residents have given thumbs down to electric vehicles.Mostly, interstate travellers don’t trust electric vehicles due to inadequate charging infrastructure along the roadside.While the UT Administration has waived road tax on the electric vehicles, these still fail to attract buyers due to a high price. Also, there are expectations of a better technology to be developed in the near future.The UT Administration has also proposed a policy to give more incentives to city residents to encourage them to buy electric vehicles.An official of the Transport Department, UT, said the main reasons for the poor sale of pollution-free electric vehicles were the lack of affordable options and infrastructure. He, however, said the demand would surely go up once these two issues were resolved.In reply to a question raised in the Lok Sabha, Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Heavy Industries stated that 48 charging stations had been installed in Chandigarh till July 6 this year, under the Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) India Scheme and sale of a total of 48 electric vehicles (e-2W, e-3W and e-4W) were supported with incentive under the scheme in the UT.The UT Administration has planned to purchase electric vehicles for its officials. UT Adviser Dharam Pal said they were contemplating to go for electric vehicles for officials in future. He said they would gradually improve the infrastructure to encourage the sale of electric vehicles in the city.The UT will get a fleet of 40 electric buses in September. This will help improve the air quality in the city. The Transport Department has tied up with a private firm to operate electric buses in the city from September this year. In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase-II of the FAME India scheme.The Adviser said they would inaugurate one such electric bus in the city next week. The UT Administration plans to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses. At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 run on local or suburban routes and 153 on interstate routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electric-vehicles-fail-to-catch-chandigarh-residents-fancy-289102
28-07-2021||Panchkula||Police catch up with mobike thief||Notepads for kidsChandigarh: Hamari Kaksha, an NGO, in collaboration with Alltech Biotechnology, distributed 40 notepads among students from government schools in Chandigarh. Coordinator of the NGO said they tried to sync their lessons in accordance with the work done in the school and stay in touch with students through phone. TNSPUTHAT on Aug 24Chandigarh: Panjab University rescheduled the date of PUTHAT-2021 to August 24 from July 30. The prospectus (including an online application form) and the details of the revised schedule for the entrance test are available online on puthat.puchd.ac.in. TNSTeachers protestFatehgarh Sahib: Education providers on Tuesday held a protest and submitted a memorandum to the District Education Officer. Kulwinder Singh, a union leader, said it was difficult to make both ends meet with the low salary. OCSector 22 park gets open air gymChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma inaugurated an open air gym at Sunlight Park, Sector 22-C, here on Tuesday in the presence of residents and office-bearers of the Residents’ Welfare Association. The Mayor said the Municipal Corporation was providing open air gyms in each and every park throughout the city to facilitate the residents. Keeping in view the health of citizens, the MC was committed to providing best possible facilities and infrastructure in each locality. The total cost of the open air gym at Sunlight Park, Sector 22-C, comes around Rs2.66 lakh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-catch-up-with-mobike-thief-289103
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||36-year-old man hangs himself to death in Khuda Ali Sher||A 36-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Khuda Ali Sher. The victim has been identified as Virender Singh, who worked with a private company at IT Park. The police received information about the incident around 11 am and visited the spot. The victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. Sources said the victim was alone at the time of the incident. The police have shifted the body to a mortuary and informed the victim’s kin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/36-year-old-man-hangs-himself-to-death-in-khuda-ali-sher-289115
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Speed up probe against lawmakers, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells IOs||Just about five months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made clear its intent to fast lane cases involving sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Bench on Tuesday warned the investigation officers (IOs) of action for unwarranted delay.The pendency of cases against CM Capt Amarinder Singh, MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira and Haryana former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda was also brought to the notice of the Bench.Taking up the suo motu case “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” for monitoring the progress of matters pending against them, the Bench asserted it had impressed upon the investigating agencies of Punjab to ensure expeditious completion of investigation in all such cases. “In case this court finds that there is any unnecessary delay, it shall have no option but to seek explanation of the investigation officers concerned,” the Bench added.Appearing for the State of Punjab, Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna submitted that Inspector General of Police (IG), Crime-II, Bureau of Investigation, had been nominated as the nodal officer for fortnightly review of criminal cases under the police investigation registered against sitting or erstwhile MPs/MLAs.Claiming sincere efforts to ensure the compliance of directions issued by the Supreme Court and the High Court, Tinna added a letter had already been written to the field units in the state in this regard. Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain said he would apprise the court of further progress in the matters against Capt Amarinder, Khaira and Hooda on the next date of hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speed-up-probe-against-lawmakers-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-ios-289126
