29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two booked for embezzling funds||The police have registered a cheating case against a former senior accountant at the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB) and the project coordinator manager, Finance Accounts, for allegedly embezzling funds from the board.According to the police, a complaint was received from Kanwalpreet Brar, Director, Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, Punjab.Acting on the complaint, Rajni Pandey, a resident of Sector 49, who was working as a senior account, and SP Singh, working as a project coordinator, have been booked under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station. Pandey resigned from the post in February this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-embezzling-funds-289699
29-07-2021||Mohali||Sewer deaths in Mohali: Commission chairman seeks high-level probe||Geja Ram, chairman of the Punjab State Sweepers’ Commission, today sought a high-level inquiry into the death of two persons inside a sewer pit near HLP Galleria in Phase 8 here.He demanded that a case under Section 304 should be registered instead of Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Phase 8 police station. In addition, provisions of the SC/ST Act and the Manual Scavenging Act - 2013 should also be added. ‘Register case under Section 304’Geja Ram, chairman of the Punjab State Sweepers’ Commission, demanded that a case under Section 304 should be registered instead of Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Phase 8 police station. In addition, provisions of the SC/ST Act and the Manual Scavenging Act - 2013 should also be added.He said the matter was being investigated by the DSP-level officer and the Additional Deputy Commissioner for the past 11 days. They should identify the person responsible for the negligence, which led to the loss of two precious lives.He said the matter needed to be closely scrutinised as the present investigation team had not considered several important aspects.He said the investigation team should not consider these deaths as an accident. It should conduct a high-level inquiry to find out the real cause of these deaths so that justice could be delivered to the families of the deceased.The chairman recommended that the Safety Act related to sweepers/sewermen be strictly enforced, providing the required safety devices and other equipment to janitors on the job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewer-deaths-in-mohali-commission-chairman-seeks-high-level-probe-289700
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mauli Jagran residents nab two snatchers||Motorcyclist Hit by Audi, diesChandigarh: A 20-year-old motorcyclist was killed, while a girl riding pillion was injured after a rashly driven Audi car hit the bike near the Sector 3/4/9/10 chowk. It was a demo car, which was taken out for a test drive. According to the police, complainant Ankita (21) of Khuda Lahora, who was riding pillion on the motorcycle being ridden by her friend Arun Kohli, reported that they were coming from the Sector 4 petrol pump side when a speeding Audi coming from the Matka Chowk side hit their motorcycle. The injured Ankita and Arun were were rushed to the GMSH-16, from where Arun was referred to the PGI where he died. The police have registered a case against the car driver, identified as Ramji Pannu, a resident of Sector 15. He was arrested and later released on bail. TNSEntrance tests rescheduledChandigarh: Panjab University here has rescheduled entrance tests for various courses. While the PU-LLB (3 Year Course) Entrance Test - 2021 has been rescheduled to August 14, the PU-CET (UG) Entrance Test - 2021 will now be held on September 5. The PU-MBA (Executive) Entrance Test - 2021 will be conducted on August 14. TNSRole of teachers as mentorsChandigarh: The seven-day National Faculty Development Programme organised by the HRDC, Panjab University, in collaboration with Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, concluded here on Tuesday. TNSMan arrested in arms caseChandigarh: A Dhanas resident has been arrested while possessing a country-made pistol and a live cartridge. The suspect, identified as Inder Sen (33), was arrested from EWS Colony, Maloya, while possessing the pistol and the cartridge. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. TNSTwo held for theft at houseChandigarh: Two persons, identified as Saurav and Rohit, both residents of Ram Darbar, have been arrested in a case of house theft. The police said a woman resident of Ram Darbar had reported that gold and silver jewellery worth several lakhs were stolen from her house on July 25. A case was registered and later, the two suspects, who reside in the same area, were arrested for the crime. TNS4 arrested on rioting chargeZirakpur: The police have arrested four youths for rioting under the influence of alcohol. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said they received information that some youths were drinking alcohol openly on the bonnet of a jeep. The police arrested Avtar Singh, a resident of Mohali, Gurpreet Singh of Sangrur, Swapan Singh of Patran, and Sikandar Singh of Jind. TNSFootwear shop gutted in MohaliMohali: Goods worth lakhs were gutted in a fire at a footwear shop at the Phase 7 market here. The incident took place around 10:30 pm on Monday after the shop was closed. Nearby shopkeepers saw fumes emanating from the shop and informed its manager about the incident. A fire tender was rushed to the spot, which took around one hour to douse the fire. The police said the fire was probably caused by a short circuit. TNSHarbans Singh is Mohali SDMMohali: Harbans Singh, 2016 batch PCS officer, joined as the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Mohali, on Wednesday. Singh, who hails from Rupnagar district, was earlier the Kharar SDM. He was recently transferred to Mohali. He also served on various posts such as SDM, Garshankar, and SDM, Anandpur Sahib. Singh said his priority would be to implement government schemes and extend policies to beneficiaries in a transparent manner. TNSMoga, K’thala to vie for titleChandigarh: Moga will face Kapurthala in the final of the Punjab State Inter-District Senior T20 Tournament. The final will be held at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here on July 29. The semi-final between Moga and Amritsar was washed out due to rain on Wednesday. Moga qualified for the final on the basis of more wins in the league phase as per the PCA Inter-District Tournament Rules. TNSYashraj, Shoib win gold medalsMohali: Yashraj Dharamdas Somnani from Maharashtra won a gold medal in the Khawankey Sangrai-3 category by scoring 45.9 points on the third day of the 2nd Senior National Sqay Martial Arts Championship at Chandigarh University. Ajay Singh from Madhya Pradesh won a silver medal by scoring 40 points. Vedant Sohas Karekar from Goa and Nakala Madhu Babu from Andhra Pradesh tied third for the bronze medal with a final score of 39.7 points. Syed Shoib from Karnataka gave a tough fight to other players in the Aero Sqay Men’s Competition. Shoib won a gold medal by scoring 44.8 points, followed by Chandan Das from Odisha who bagged a silver medal by scoring 39.5 points. Korubilla Gopee Ramu from Andhra Pradesh claimed tied third position with Vansh Gaur from Delhi by scoring 38.9 points. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-residents-nab-two-snatchers-289702
29-07-2021||Zirakpur||Overnight rain pours misery on tricity||Overnight rain led to severe waterlogging in parts of Dhakoli and Zirakpur this morning, leaving some areas under 1-foot-deep water. Several housing societies and streets were flooded with rainwater causing damage to property and vehicles.Zirakpur Municipal Council officials had to press JCB machines into action to clear blockages and drain out water from the affected areas. The area around Sushma Crescent in Dhakoli, VIP Road and several low-lying areas was flooded in over 1-foot-deep water. Till afternoon, several RWAs of housing societies had hired JCB machines to drain out the rainwater.Eyewitnesses said the road leading to the Community Health Centre, upgraded to a 100-bed hospital in papers, was in a mess with slush. “Municipal Council officials and the administration are just not bothered about patients and attendants visiting the hospital. If for nothing else, on humanitarian grounds, they should get this road repaired,” said Opinder Singh, a Dhakoli resident.In some housing societies in Peer Muchalla, Kishanpura and Baltana, the situation was worse as there was no outlet or drainage system for rainwater.Peer Muchalla resident Kulvinder Saini said, “Illegal constructions, encroachments and violation of the master plan have left the drainage system almost non-existent.Residents had to face great inconvenience as most roads and streets were waterlogged. Long traffic snarls were witnessed at various places on the Chandigarh-Delhi road in Zirakpur too.“Office-goers and road users had a tough time wading through waterlogged streets and roads. It was only in the afternoon that the situation improved,” said Shikha Dubey, a private schoolteacher in Gazipur.One of the boundary walls of Highland Park Homes in Zirakpur collapsed due to waterlogging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overnight-rain-pours-misery-on-tricity-289612
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Khuda Lahora residents in deep waters||Rain left several houses and streets in Khuda Lahora inundated today.Around 3 am, residents were taken by surprise as water entered their houses. Around 11.30 am, water again entered their houses. It was a sleepless night and a troublesome day for local residents.Rajender Kumar, a resident of the area, said water entered several houses. They kept draining out the water at night.He said it was a flood-like situation around 3 am. The authorities reached with help around 4.30 am. It took hours to remove the water from houses and the locality.Rainfall in city 13.2 mmExpect moreThe city recorded 13.2 mm of rainfall on Wednesday. According to the Met Department, the rain is expected to continue for the next three days. The rain had a cooling effect on the city. The maximum temperature fell by over four notches from 31.2°C on Tuesday to 26.8°C on Wednesday.Just when residents thought that the trouble was over, a flood-like situation emerged once again around 11.30 am, causing huge inconvenience to them. It again took residents and officials hours to clear the area.Residents said water from Patiala ki Rao “bounced back” through the storm pipeline.Angry residents gheraoed the JE and SDO of the MC and raised slogans of “MC murdabad”. It was after the XEN reached the spot that the situation eased. City BJP president Arun Sood also visited the area.Rajender, who has been raising the waterlogging issue with the authorities for a long time, said the MC failed to upgrade the sewerage and storm water system.The authorities had to dismantle a causeway leading to Botanical Garden, which was hampering the movement of rainwater, but it could not complete the work till yesterday. The causeway was finally demolished today, which helped release the water from the village.Several areas in the city also saw waterlogging. Parking lots and roads remained waterlogged at some places. The Industrial Area, southern sectors, colonies and villages remained the most hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khuda-lahora-residents-in-deep-waters-289620
29-07-2021||Panchkula||Water enters Panchkula houses||With rain lashing the city overnight, rainwater entered houses in Sector 19 and left streets in the area inundated.Furniture and electronic items were damaged in several houses.Cars and bikes parked outside houses were in knee-deep water and were damaged. As a result, many could not go to their offices and business outlets.The scene at Abheypur, Budhanpur and other low-lying areas was no different.Residents in Abheypur, which recently witnessed the outbreak of cholera due to contamination of drinking water, are once again not sure whether the drinking water would be safe as several places were inundated.“When most residents were busy enjoying the pleasant weather and rain, we were busy draining out water that entered our houses. Our houses got flooded and furniture was damaged,” Harish, a resident of Sector 19, said.“There was no place to go to in the middle of the night. The authorities concerned were not picking up calls,” another resident said.Harinder Malik, councilor from Ward No. 8, said, “Rainwater started entering houses of those living in HSVP plots and the area adjoining Baltana around 1 am. On receiving information, I rushed to the affected areas.”The BJP councillor said he himself tried calling the officials, but nobody responded.“I had to call up local MLA and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta asking him to direct the officials concerned to drain out rainwater from the affected areas,” he said.In other parts, vehicles had to wade through waterlogged roads and roundabouts.SK Nayar, president of the Citizens Welfare Association, said, “The Panchkula Municipal Corporation is solely responsible for the prevailing situation that erupted due to overnight rain. Civic body officials didn’t act on time. They were too late in issuing tenders for cleaning of road gullies.”MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said as the sector in question was a low-lying area, it got flooded during heavy rain.“We will make a concrete plan to address the issue. For now, we have deployed teams, which will work round the clock to drain the water from the area,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-enters-panchkula-houses-289621
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity panel for uniform fuel prices||Suggestions for uniform excise duty, motor vehicle taxes and fuel prices in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula came up at the third meeting of the Apex Committee of Tricity.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore presided over the meeting, which was attended by Vijay Vardhan, Chief Secretary, Haryana, Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary, Punjab, Dharam Pal, Adviser to the UT Administrator, the DGP, Punjab, the ADGP, Haryana, and other senior officials of Punjab, Haryana and the Chandigarh Administration.The Administrator said the main objective of the meeting was to work towards coordinated development of the city and its satellite towns in Punjab and Haryana.The committee discussed various law and order issues. They dwelled on participation of both neighbouring states in tackling crime committed by interstate gangs, snatchings and thefts in the tricity. It was also suggested to encourage the use of emergency response support system (Control Room No. 112).Citing an example of recent protests in the city, the Administrator issued directions to ensure compliance of the decision to prohibit the entry of tractors in the tricity during such agitations. It was also agreed that protesters from Punjab and Haryana need to be stopped at the respective borders with Chandigarh, with support of the respective state government. Peaceful agitations with prior permission need to be allowed to be held, but only at dedicated and earmarked areas in the UT.The Administrator exhorted that all levels of official hierarchies, right up to the beat level, should hold meetings at regular intervals and follow-up action should be taken accordingly.The Administrator emphasised that all three governments need to work in coordination to work out on a direct approach road for connectivity with the Chandigarh international airport as well as the ring roads around the tricity.In the meeting, it was also discussed to harmonise the excise duty, motor vehicle taxes and fuel prices in the tricity.The issue of beggary was also highlighted wherein it was decided that proper schooling should be provided to child beggars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-panel-for-uniform-fuel-prices-289624
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Post of Chandigarh DHS: Punjab sends panel of 3 members||The UT Administration has got a panel of three doctors of the Deputy Director rank for appointment as the new Director, Health Services (DHS), UT. Dr Amandeep Kang, who holds the post, is superannuating on September 30.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, has sent the panel comprising the names of Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali, Dr Amarjit Singh, Head, Department of General Medicine, GMSH-16, Punjab sends 3-member panel and Dr Suman, Deputy Director, Vigilance Department (Ludhiana).The UT Administration is likely to call the three officers for interview before zeroing in on one of them.In 2015, it was after the intervention of the then Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal that the post of the DHS in the Chandigarh Administration had returned to the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-of-chandigarh-dhs-punjab-sends-panel-of-3-members-289658
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||23% of pregnant women in Chandigarh inoculated||In a fortnight, the UT has vaccinated 23 per cent of the total number of pregnant women in the city with Covishield, a vaccine against Covid-19.There are around 3,000 pregnant women registered with the UT Health Department. Around 700 of them have been inoculated since July 13.City sees 5 casesChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported five new cases of Covid-19 and no death. A total of six patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSDr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Every Tuesday, we have antenatal day at our clinics. Last Tuesday, we were able to inoculate 50 odd pregnant women and counselled others. Those who were counselled turned up in good numbers yesterday. Around 150 expectant mothers had turned up.”Dr Kang added, “There are case reports of preterm birth in women with Covid-19 and hence, it is important for them to take the vaccine. Seven pregnant women have lost their lives in the city due to Covid-19.”The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had stated that like any medicine, a vaccine might have side effects, which are normally mild. After getting the vaccine, she can get mild fever, pain at the injection site, or feel unwell for one to three days. The long-term adverse effects and safety of the vaccine for foetus and the child are not established yet.Why vaccinate pregnant women?According to the Health Ministry, “Although more than 90 per cent infected pregnant women recover without a need for hospitalisation, rapid deterioration in health may occur in a few. Symptomatic pregnant women appear to be at an increased risk of severe disease and death. In severe cases, like all other patients, pregnant women may also need hospitalisation. Pregnant women with underlying medical conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes, obesity and age over 35 years are at higher risk of severe illness due to Covid-19.”The Ministry had also clarified that Covid-19 vaccines available are safe and vaccination protects pregnant women against Covid. Experts believe that vaccines are unlikely to pose a risk to the pregnant person or foetus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-of-pregnant-women-in-chandigarh-inoculated-289673
29-07-2021||Mohali||5 new Covid cases in Mohali||P’kula left with just 2 active casesPanchkula: The district reported no Covid case for the second consecutive day, keeping the overall tally at 30,637. The toll too remained at 376. With just two active cases, the district is on the verge of becoming Covid-free. The recovery rate stands at 98.76 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-covid-cases-in-mohali-289675
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sukhna Lake level 3 feet below danger mark||The water level of Sukhna Lake has reached 1,159.90 ft due to rain in the region since last night. The water level is nearly 3 ft below the danger mark.Two days ago, the water level in the lake was recorded at 1,156 feet, said an official of the UT Engineering Department. He said the water level was expected to rise further if rain continued in the region.The official said the floodgates of the lake would be opened if the water level reached the danger mark of 1,163 feet.The official said the lake was also fed by Saketri and Kansal rivulets, which carried rainwater into the lake from nearby hills. At present, the water level is far below the danger mark, but the Administration is ready to deal with any kind of situation, said the official.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake reached the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two flood gates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years. Before 2018, it was in 2008 that the floodgates had to be opened when a similar situation was there.After the floodgates are opened, the Sukhna choe carries the excess water of the lake into the Gaggar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sukhna-lake-level-3-feet-below-danger-mark-289677
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Praveer Ranjan to be new Chandigarh DGP||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/praveer-ranjan-to-be-new-chandigarh-dgp-289678
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh urged to get architectural items notified as ‘art treasures’||To prevent illegal trafficking of architectural items from Chandigarh, the UT Administration has been urged to get these items notified as “art treasure”.In a communication, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) stated that till these architectural items were declared as “art treasures” they cannot take any action.These heritage items do not come under the category of “antiquity” or “art treasure”, as per the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act 1972, the ASI pointed out.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, UT, said, “Since our heritage items are not older than 75 years, they are not covered under the term antiquity… The only way forward for its protection is getting it notified as ‘art treasure’ from the Central Government.”“Once it is notified as ‘art treasure’ the heritage items will be covered under Section 3 of the Act. Thereafter, it shall not be lawful for any person, other than the Central Government or any authority or agency authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, to export any art treasure,” said Jagga. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-urged-to-get-architectural-items-notified-as-art-treasures-289679
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||India Cycles4Change challenge: Chandigarh to get Rs1-cr grant from Centre||Chandigarh has been selected as one of the 11 cities in the country to receive a support of Rs 1 crore from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for the “India Cycles4Change (C4C) Challenge”, an initiative to promote cycling, organised under the Smart Cities Mission.The challengeIn all, 107 cities had participated in the first round of the challenge launched in June 2020, under which they had to implement and introduce low-cost changes to increase cycling infrastructure. Of this, Chandigarh was among the top 25 cities shortlisted in February 2021.The event was presided over by Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). It was attended by key stakeholders from the Central and state governments, including municipal commissioners of cities and MDs/CEOs of Smart Cities.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO-Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), and NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, CSCL, attended the online event and received the award.The CEO said Chandigarh would also receive guidance from national and international experts to further scale up cycling-friendly initiatives.As per a survey by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), the use of cycles has increased by 65 per cent during the lockdown.In all, 107 cities had participated in the first round of the challenge launched in June 2020, under which they had to implement and introduce low-cost changes to increase cycling infrastructure. Of this, Chandigarh was among the top 25 cities shortlisted in February 2021.The CEO said a presentation was given to the jury members to cement its place in the top 11. The monetary support will be utilised in scaling up the cycling-friendly initiatives in the city.He said various parameters on which the cities were judged are forming the C4C work team, process and rationale behind selection of corridor and neighbourhood locations, site analysis, handlebar survey process and findings, designing solutions for corridor and neighbourhood through site visits & focused discussions, testing design solutions on ground for corridor and neighbourhood through stakeholder & community engagement, measuring the impact of interventions through photo and video documentation, forming the scale-up cycling plan and identifying funding sources, setting up the Healthy Streets Apex Committee and forming the Healthy Streets Policy, process of rolling out the perception survey and its findings, on-ground engagement through cycle rallies, cyclothons, cycle repair workshops, cycle training programmes, cycle to work & cycle rental programmes, online engagement through social media campaign to collect cycling stories and press coverage of the C4C in the city.He said the CSCL had already constructed a dedicated network of 200-km cycle track in the city and more were being constructed to connect the periphery and the city’s industrial areas. Chandigarh was also gearing up for the launch of the first phase of the public-bike sharing project with 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations spread across the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-cycles4change-challenge-chandigarh-to-get-rs1-cr-grant-from-centre-289681
29-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: 10 days on, car in which girl left home with dad untraced||The local police have been unable to find the car in which the 10-year-old girl, who was later found murdered, left her house in Power Colony in Sector 19 here with her father on July 17 afternoon.The girl’s body was found at the Bandar Ghati stretch near the dumping ground in Sector 23 in the morning of July 18, making her missing father the prime suspect in her murder. However, the girl’s father was also found dead on a railway track in Zirakpur on July 19.Sequence of eventsChandimandir SHO Inspector Arvind Kumar said their investigation into the crime was at a crucial juncture; hence, they could not reveal the details that may hamper their efforts to solve the case. He added that they would crack the case soon.The post-mortem report of the girl had confirmed sexual assault before murder by strangulation.“The girl’s body had 12 injuries. The child also had injuries on private parts. However, it is subject to confirmation of samples from a forensic lab in Madhuban,” a source in the Health Department had told Chandigarh Tribune.Police officials said now they were waiting for a report of the forensics for the confirmation of rape.A police official on PCR duty had first spotted the body of a girl on July 18. On the basis of his complaint, the police had registered an FIR under Section 302 and 201 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station. A day later, her father, the prime suspect in the case, was found dead on railway tracks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-10-days-on-car-in-which-girl-left-home-with-dad-untraced-289683
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested for snatching denied bail||A local court here today dismissed the bail application of a 24-year-old allegedly held in a snatching case saying that “effecting a compromise after the commission of an offence does not mitigate the gravity of the offence”.“Offences like snatching pose a serious threat to the law and order situation,” the court observed.Dharminder was booked after Ravi had complained to the police that two boys had snatched his mobile phone, purse containing Rs 5,000, his Aadhar card, and a copy of PAN card from him when he was going in an auto-rickshaw on June 25, 2021.A case was registered against the accused under Section 379-A, 411 read with 34 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station.Accused Dharminder, alias Billa, was arrested on July 2.The counsel for the accused claimed that Dharminder had been falsely implicated in the case and that he had nothing to do with the alleged offence.Trial of the case will take time. Therefore, no useful purpose will be served by keeping him behind bars, said the counsel. He also laid stress on the point of compromise between the two parties.The public prosecutor though said if granted bail, the applicant would hamper the investigation.After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, said: “In view of the serious allegations against the applicant, the court is of the opinion that at this stage, the applicant is not entitled to the concession of bail.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-snatching-denied-bail-289684
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||One year of National Education Policy: Chandigarh schools adopting new ways of learning||A year ago, the Government of India announced one of its most transformative public policy initiatives - The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.PM Narendra Modi will address an event to mark one year of the NEP on Thursday.Chandigarh Tribune spoke to Reema Dewan, Principal, Delhi Public School, Chandigarh, and CBSE City Coordinator, on how the NEP has transformed schools in Chandigarh.“We can proudly claim that the schools in Chandigarh have enthusiastically adopted the NEP in spirit as they wanted to transform the education system to meet the needs of 21st century India and produce global citizens,” said Dewan.“The teachers are undergoing comprehensive capacity-building and professional development programmes initiated by the CBSE to ensure that the recommendations of the NEP percolate deep and strong into the education system,” she added.Dewan further said: “Small tests, quizzes, and oral presentations, debates, discussions are the new assessment tools. Standardised examinations at grade levels 3, 5 and 8 aim to test the achievement of basic learning outcomes through assessment of core concepts and knowledge along with relevant higher order skills and application of knowledge in real-life situations, rather than rote memorisation.”“To strengthen high-order skills like creativity, critical thinking, and logical problem solving , critical and comprehensive test worksheets were incorporated into daily learning,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-year-of-national-education-policy-chandigarh-schools-adopting-new-ways-of-learning-289686
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Construction of aviary in protected area of Sukhna Lake questioned||Environmentalist Rahul Mahajan and NGO My Tree Foundation today raised question over the allotment of tender for the construction of a bird aviary in the protected area of Sukhna Lake.Mahajan, along with Prem Garg, the founder of My Tree Foundation, alleged that the Audit Department had raised questions over Rs 3.38 crore expenditure on the under-construction project.Forest Department refutes allegationsThe apprehension raised here is completely baseless, imaginary and with ulterior motive. All procedures have been duly followed for the execution of this work, said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forest. The nature-loving citizens of Chandigarh will appreciate this project of walk-through aviary, he added.Under the General Finance Rule 2017, to initiate any construction, the department has to sign a contract agreement with the agency hired for construction services, the duo added.“Despite these rules, on January 10, 2020, the Forest Department initiated an e-tender for fabrication work of the bird aviary and did not sign any agreement with the agency before allotting Rs 3.38 crore for the project on March 2, 2020,” they alleged.Refuting the allegations, Chief Conservator of Forest Debendra Dalai said, “The apprehension raised here is completely baseless, imaginary and with ulterior motive. All procedures have been duly followed for the execution of this work. The nature loving citizens of Chandigarh will appreciate this project of walk through aviary.”“The observation raised by audit had been taken care and there was no loss to the government,” he added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/construction-of-aviary-in-protected-area-of-sukhna-lake-questioned-289687
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Satish Bhatia remembers his idol and dear friend Nandu Natekar||Former national champion and UT Sports Department coach Wing Commander Satish Bhatia paid tributes to legendary badminton player Nandu Natekar who died in Pune today.Natekar, 88, was suffering from age-related ailments.The first Indian shuttler to win an international title in 1956, Natekar won over 100 national and international titles in a career spanning over 15 years.Bhatia, who represented India in the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games, remembered Natekar as one of the most talented shuttlers.“I was his junior and learnt a lot from him,” said Bhatia.“I was at the peak of my career when I played against him. It was in the Thomas Cup, when he recognised my talent and turned out to be an amazing friend. It’s disheartening to learn about his demise. He surely deserves a better farewell,” said Bhatia.Talking about his companionship with Natekar, Bhatia said: “I have known him personally. We played each other in many national and international tournaments. In 1963, we both were in the team for the Thomas Cup and also toured New Zealand and participated in the Asian Championship.”“In 1968, after I became a national champion, I played against him in the YMCA Kolkata. He purposely lost the match as he wanted to encourage me… I was scheduled to leave for the world championships the next day,” he recalled. “He was one of the world’s best stroke players and first player to get the Arjuna Award. I will always remember him as a gentleman.”Natekar, who was considered one of most popular sportspersons of his time, was a former World No. 3.Born in Sangli, Maharashtra, Natekar was conferred with the prestigious Arjuna Award in 1961.He made it to the quarterfinals of the prestigious All England Championships in 1954 and became the first Indian player to win an international event, claiming the Sellanger International in Malaysia in 1956.Natekar won 12 out of the 16 singles matches and eight doubles matches as part of the Indian team at the Thomas Cup between 1951 and 1963. He also captained the country in the same tournament in 1959, 1961 and 1963.He had also represented India at the 1965 Commonwealth Games in Jamaica.“After competing in the Commonwealth Games, he (Natekar) visited my Chandigarh-based residence. He interacted with many players,” Bhatia remembered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/satish-bhatia-remembers-his-idol-and-dear-friend-nandu-natekar-289688
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists protest in Maloya||A small group of farm activists today protested near the community centre at Maloya.The activists had gathered at the venue to protest against the Mayor’s visit. However, none of the BJP representatives showed up at the event organised by a local NGO – Child Women Protect Welfare Society Chandigarh.Rajwinder Gill, one of the protesters, said, “We had information that the Mayor was to come for this event.”The founder of the NGO, Babita Chandaliya, was miffed with the protesters. “This was an event of the disabled people, but it has been made political. I support farmers too, but this is unfair.”The farmers protested at the venue for about 20 minutes and later dispersed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-protest-in-maloya-289689
29-07-2021||Panchkula||One-third of 18+ population in Panchkula fully vaccinated||A one-third of the population in the district eligible for the Covid vaccine has been fully vaccinated.Of the 3,86,553 adults in the district, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and pregnant women, as many as 97,494 have completed the two-dose course. It is 34.04 per cent of the total eligible people. The first dose of the vaccine has been taken by at least 2,86,439 people (74.10 per cent of the targeted population). Overall, a total of 3,83,933 doses of vaccine have been administered in the district. 72% HCWs, 67.8% FLWs given both dosesAccording to the Health Department, 5,255 healthcare workers (72 per cent) and 8,162 frontline workers (67.8 per cent) have got vaccinated with both doses of the Covid vaccine.According to the Health Department, 5,255 healthcare workers (72 per cent) and 8,162 frontline workers (67.8 per cent) have got vaccinated with both doses.An irregular supply of the vaccine has not stopped the local Health Department from ramping up the outreach of its Covid-19 vaccination programme.Local health officials maintain that they distribute the stock to the local vaccination centres as soon as they receive it.On Wednesday, the district registered the vaccination of 5,130 persons after the Health Department received a fresh stock of the vaccine. While 1,671 people go the jab on Tuesday, 4,141 people were administered the shot on Monday.The district is now left with 12,600 doses of Covishield and 1,510 doses of Covaxin.Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said, “We don’t just have vaccination to focus upon. We have a limited number of trained health staff which is also engaged in regular health activities.” She added that vaccination was paramount to limit the consequences of the infection. “Even if a person gets infected, the severity would be low if vaccinated,” she said.The CMO further stated that maximum vaccination coverage was the only effective way to combat the possible third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-third-of-18-population-in-panchkula-fully-vaccinated-289690
29-07-2021||Zirakpur||Women gang robs elderly of gold bangle in Zirakpur||A women gang involved in theft and snatching incidents struck again here this morning. The gang members today robbed a 60-year-old woman of her gold bangle before fleeing from the spot.This is the fourth such incident in the area in the past 15 days. Two women, in a white car driven by a 30-year-old man, rob women and elderly people of their jewellery and money.The suspects have committed several robberies in the area and complaints have been registered against them.The victim, Shakuntla Devi, who resides in Shiva Enclave, Zirakpur, stated that the incident took place near the Skynet Tower when she was taking a walk around 6.30 am. Two women in a white car came and held her hand on the pretext of seeking her blessings. The elderly woman avoided them, but the duo forcibly pulled her hand and fled the spot. Moments later, she realised that the two women and the car driver had cut her gold bangle.The elderly woman, a native of Jammu, stated that the same gang had approached her 10 days ago. At that time, she maintained distance from them. Today, they committed the act forcibly.Previous incidentsOn July 26, an elderly woman of Dera Bassi was robbed of her gold bangle by three car-borne women, who sought help from her on the pretext of giving water to an ailing co-passenger. The incident took place around 6:30 am near Nagar Kheda temple when the victim was out for a walk.On July 24, three women and a man robbed Dhakoli resident Balwinder Kaur, 54, of her gold bangle after dragging her into their car near Bauli Sahib Gurdwara in Dhakoli around 7.30 am.On July 13, four unidentified women robbed a Noida resident of her gold bangles near Patiala Chowk in Zirakpur. Victim Amarjit, a resident of Noida, came to visit her niece in Zirakpur. In her complaint to the police, the victim stated that she boarded an auto-rickshaw from Patiala Chowk. Four unidentified women also boarded the auto. Later, the women de-boarded the auto-rickshaw and started walking towards a car waiting for them. The victim later realised that her gold bangles had been stolen.On February 25, two unidentified women stole jewellery worth lakhs from a house at Mona Greens, a housing society in Zirakpur. The victim, Swati, said two unidentified women knocked at her door around 9 am. They identified themselves as a mother-daughter duo, aged 45 and 22, and sought work as housemaids. The victim left the house and went to her shop, leaving behind her elderly mother and the housemaids. An hour later, both of them fled, leaving behind ransacked almirahs with money and jewellery stolen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-gang-robs-elderly-of-gold-bangle-in-zirakpur-289691
29-07-2021||Mohali||Ghaggar water level up, Mohali DC reviews steps||The water level of the Ghaggar today touched the 7-foot mark, prompting Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan to review the necessary arrangements in low-lying areas of the river as the weatherman has predicted more rain in the coming days.Stating that the district administration was on high alert, Dayalan said a 24x7 flood control room was working in the administrative complex to monitor any flood-like situation in the district and evacuation centres with essential items were ready to deal with any eventuality.Reviewing the flood-control arrangements, he said the district administration would remain fully vigilant to check any untoward incident due to the rain. He also directed officials to strengthen flood-prone sensitive places to minimise damage in the eventuality of a flood.Dayalan directed the SDM, Dera Bassi, to remain vigilant and sound an alert in downstream areas of the Ghaggar and chalk out an evacuation plan in case of flood.He also reviewed the arrangements made by various departments to deal with such a situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ghaggar-water-level-up-mohali-dc-reviews-steps-289693
29-07-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula imposes Sec 144 near Ghaggar banks||As heavy rain during the ongoing monsoon is expected to lead to a rise in the water level of the Ghaggar, which passes through the district, Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa today imposed Section 144 of the CrPC near its banks.As per the order, approach within 20 metres of the banks of any river/rivulet by any person (adult or child) is now prohibited until September 26.At least 13 locations near the Ghaggar and its tributaries — the Tangri and the Kaushalya — have been marked as flood-prone.The DCP also directed the Forest Department, Irrigation Department and other departments concerned to put up a clear warning or notice boards near the rivers to prevent any untoward incident.It is usually seen that people, mainly children from slums, take a bath in the Ghaggar, putting their lives at risk. Many drowning mishaps have been reported over the past years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-imposes-sec-144-near-ghaggar-banks-289695
29-07-2021||Mohali||Youth found dead in Jayanti ki Rao rivulet at Teedan village, New Chandigarh||A youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Mullanpur here today. The deceased has been identified as Lucky (21), a resident of Sector 38. He was a contractual employee with the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.His body was found in the Jayanti ki Rao rivulet at Teedan village, New Chandigarh. Villagers saw a partially submerged body on the banks of the rivulet. The police recovered his bike from the Sarangpur area. Cops from Sector 39 and Mullanpur visited the spot today.A missing person report was lodged in this regard at the Sector 39 police station on July 22. The kin of Lucky expressed apprehension of foul play in his death.The police took the body into their possession and sent it to the Kharar Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination. The police have recorded the statements of his family members and registered a case at the Mullanpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-found-dead-in-jayanti-ki-rao-rivulet-at-teedan-village-new-chandigarh-289696
29-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Punjab minister inaugurates selfie point to cheer Olympic players||Punjab Sports and Youth Services Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today inaugurated selfie points across the state, besides launching LED screens for live streaming of Olympics events, at the Sports Complex in Sector 78 here.Sodhi expressed confidence that players from the state will win at least three to four medals as Punjab had sent the second largest contingent from the country.“We know that our players had sleepless nights and practised hard. They will be doing their level best at the Olympics,” said the minister.“Being responsible citizens, we should try to repay our Olympic players by cheering them. Therefore, the Sports Department has set up a selfie point at the Sector 78 Sports Complex,” he said.Sodhi said this was a great opportunity for fans of all Olympic players to express their love and gratitude towards them. This selfie point had an LED screen for live telecast of Olympics events. He urged the people of Mohali to visit this selfie point and encourage the Olympics players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-punjab-minister-inaugurates-selfie-point-to-cheer-olympic-players-289697
29-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Live-in relationship cases: Courts guardians of minor girls, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 28The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the courts were also the guardian of minor and other girls of tender age, who enticed by men, might end up filing protection petitions based on live-in relationships without knowing the consequences.Live-in relationship casesJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan also made it clear that the zeal and zest shown by the courts in disposing of protection petitions based on live-in relationship on the very first date without issuing notice to the parents of girls aged about 18, at times, resulted in deep trouble for them.Justice Sangwan observed it was but obvious for the court to issue a notice to the girl’s parents or issue directions to the illaqa magistrate to record her statement before disposing of petitions based on live-in relationship. This was where the girl was either a minor or of a tender age around 18. The intention was to find out whether she understood the consequence of filing a protection petition and whether she was capable of taking an independent decision.The directions came on a girl’s anticipatory bail petition in an FIR registered on June 9 for using as true a declaration knowing it to be false, cheating and other offences under Sections 420, 198, 199, 200, 120-B, IPC, at the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur district.The girl as a petitioner had filed two protection petitions, along with the co-accused, and was now facing criminal proceedings. The initial petition was dismissed as withdrawn. The couple filed another plea concealing the filing of the first. Her mother subsequently alleged that the co-accused was a married person with a living spouse. As such, the live-in relationship claim was apparently false.Her counsel submitted the petitioner was not aware about the marriage of the co-accused when she filed the two petitions. She was also unaware about concealment as the co-accused had engaged the counsel and filed the petition.Justice Sangwan asserted it was well-known that protection petitions based on live-in relationship were filed in a calculated manner just to create defence as girl’s parents filed rape and abduction case.“Needless to say, at the age, around 18 years, the primary concern of the a girl’s parents is to educate her properly and to build up her professional career and such decisions are consciously taken by the parents, whereas the protection petitions, based on live-in relationship, are filed by young persons based on emotional decisions taken from heart,” Justice Sangwan added.Granting interim bail to the girl, Justice Sangwan directed the Gurdaspur SSP to ensure the arrest of co-accused before the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/live-in-relationship-cases-courts-guardians-of-minor-girls-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-289634
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon 16% deficient in Punjab, surplus in Haryana, Himachal||Widespread rain in the region notwithstanding, monsoon in Punjab continues to remain below the long period average for the month of July. On the other hand, monsoon in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, which had turned deficient from June-end to mid-July, has now turned surplus.Rain has been deficient in July by 16 per cent in Punjab, according to data released by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) today. In Haryana and HP, rain in July has been above the long period average by 31 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively.During the past 24 hours, rain was excess by 297 per cent in Punjab as compared to the average for this period. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, it has been above average by 273 per cent and 189 per cent, respectively. Data compiled by the IMD shows that Punjab, Haryana and HP received 23.1 mm, 26.1 mm and 29.2 mm rain, respectively, in the past 24 hours. The long period average for this period for these states is 5.8 mm 7 mm and 10.1 mm, respectively.The weatherman has predicted that the current spell of widespread rainfall is likely to continue over J&K, HP, Punjab and Haryana till July 30, and reduce thereafter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-16-deficient-in-punjab-surplus-in-haryana-himachal-289639
29-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Lift fixed, but specially abled activist yet to receive apology||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28Two days after specially abled activist and national awardee Vivek Joshi (40) underwent a humiliating ordeal at the office of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development (DSSWCD), Chandigarh, the latter maintains a studied silence. It is yet to respond to his email or apologise for the harrowing ordeal he went through.Also read: Chandigarh: Lift broken, specially abled interviewed in corridorVivek says the disabled constantly have to fight with society to be treated with respect. Disappointed with what he calls a ‘standard’ response from the authorities, Vivek says, “I’m used to it now since it happens every few months. Governments don’t care.” Vivek adds the behaviour meted out to him on July 27 was a violation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act.Vivek has been honoured with national and state awards in 2016 and 2011, District Honour, Jalandhar, in 2016, excellence award by ADAPT, Mumbai, in 2015, among many others.On Monday, he had to wait for over an hour in an unkempt passage of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development building at Sector 34 in Chandigarh and had to relieve himself in his car due to a non-functional lift and no bathroom.Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development, said, “The lift started functioning the very next day of the incident. Intimation regarding the activist’s email wasn’t received by me. We will be responding to him tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lift-fixed-but-specially-abled-activist-yet-to-receive-apology-289643
29-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Industrial land in Mohali sold illegally: BJP leader Tikshan Sood||Senior BJP leader Tikshan Sood today alleged a scam in the auction of land belonging to the Industries Department in Mohali.Addressing a press conference, he said, “The land was initially allotted by the PSIDC to a unit, but it was returned to the government after the closure of the company. It was bought by a real estate firm through an auction for Rs 120 crore. The firm illegally obtained permission and sold it in 25 plots.”Denying all allegations, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said: “Tikshan is making such false statements just to gain cheap publicity. There’s no truth in it and these allegations are politically motivated.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industrial-land-in-mohali-sold-illegally-bjp-leader-tikshan-sood-289630
29-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||It’s back to learning for judicial officers of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 28It is back to learning for judicial officers of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Noticing that some of the verdicts passed by the judicial officers in the subordinate courts were deficient in the art of writing orders, the Punjab and Haryana HC has asked the Chandigarh Judicial Academy director to look into the matter. He has been asked to educate the judicial officers.The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by Subhash Chand against Haryana and another respondent for cancellation of bail to an accused in a cheating case registered on June 30 at Pataudi police station.The counsel for the petitioner, Virendra Rana, argued that the FIR was registered on the premise that the description of the property was altered by changing a page of the agreement to sell after it was entered into between the petitioner and respondent-accused. A house, which was the only residence of the petitioner, was included in the same.The counsel alleged that the petitioner, along with the purchaser, signed all pages. But in the certified copy, only page number one and three were signed by the him. His signatures were not there on page number two, demonstrating that a fraud had been played.It was also submitted that the order passed by the Gurugram Additional Sessions Judge in the matter was totally non-speaking. In the entire order, not even a single line referred to the contents of the FIR. He added it was the basic requirement for forming an opinion regarding the grant of anticipatory bail to the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-back-to-learning-for-judicial-officers-of-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-289698
29-07-2021||---||Praveer Ranjan to replace Sanjay Baniwal as Chandigarh DGP||Chandigarh, July 28 Praveer Ranjan, a 1993-batch IPS officer of AGMUT cadre, will be the new DGP of Chandigarh.He will be replacing Sanjay Baniwal, a 1989-batch officer.Ranjan’s transfer orders were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today. He was presently posted in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/praveer-ranjan-to-replace-sanjay-baniwal-as-chandigarh-dgp-289540
