30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Friday.Chandigarh now has 36 active cases with an average positivity rate of 0.28 per cent over the last seven days.The UT also reported its first Covid-related death in almost a month. The bulletin also showed one man who hanged himself tested positive posthumously. The bulletin shows he was brought dead to GMSH-16.Some 1,572 tests were conducted over the last 24 hours.Chandigarh recorded four new recoveries over the same period.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of this number, 1,90,025 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-290574
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||No scam in Mohali industrial land auction: Minister Sunder Sham Arora||Terming the allegations of scam in the auction of industrial land in Mohali absurd and baseless, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Thursday said the ownership and possession of the property, which was allotted to JCT Electronics Ltd, now liquidated, still vested with ARCIL.Caused no lossNo financial loss has been caused to the state. Also, there is no role of Punjab Government in the e-auction, which was carried out by an agency registered with the RBI. - Sunder Sham Arora, Industries MinisterTraining his guns on the Opposition, especially the SAD and AAP, Arora said the allegations based on unfounded facts reflected their desperation to stay politically relevant.The auction of the plot was conducted by Assets Reconstruction Corporation of India Ltd (ARCIL) in February 2020. The allottee, JCT Electronics Ltd, had become a defaulter as a consequence of which it went into liquidation. Ordering the winding up of the company, the Punjab and Haryana High Court appointed an official liquidator to take over the assets.He said ARCIL had then taken over the possession of the said property and made attempts to monetise the assets. The minimum bid price of Rs 105 crore for the plot received no response in the first e-auction held in December 2018. Subsequently, the reserve price was reduced to Rs 95.50 crore and then to Rs. 90.50 crore. However, again no bids were received. The minister said ARCIL again conducted an open e-auction in February 2020 and sold the plot at the highest bid amount of Rs 90.56 crore to GRG Developers & Promoters in a transparent manner.The minister refuted the allegation of causing any financial loss to the state government. “PSIEC has not issued the no-objection certificate for effecting the transfer of property in favor of the auction purchaser. PSIEC has categorically conveyed to ARCIL and auction purchaser that NOC will be provided only after the matter is decided by the Finance Department” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-scam-in-mohali-industrial-land-auction-minister-sunder-sham-arora-290305
30-07-2021||---||Thieves make off with shoes||Mohali, July 29Fear gripped shopkeepers in the Dhakoli area as unidentified thieves allegedly stole about 25 pairs of shoes from Nagpal Shoes near the Baoli Sahib gurdwara in Dhakoli last night.Rajinder Nagpal, shop owner and his son Vipul Nagpal, said they had closed the shop at 9 pm. When they went to the shop on Thursday morning, they found the lock of the shutter broken. There was no CCTV camera in the shop. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-make-off-with-shoes-290141
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Proudly vaccinated’ drive||Public dealing from noon-1 pmChandigarh: The UT Administration has restarted public dealing from noon to 1 pm, except on Wednesday and Friday, and made it mandatory for officials to be available during the period. The order issued by the Establishment Department states, “No meeting should be scheduled during the visitors/public meeting hours by such officers so that public is not harassed. Display board mentioning visiting hours should be displayed at an appropriate place.” tnsCHB allots nine flatsChandigarh: The Chandigarh Housing Board on Thursday held a computerised draw for allotment of dwelling units under the Small Flats Scheme. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the draw was held for nine persons of Colony No. 4 who were declared eligible by the Estate Office for allotment. The draw was held under the supervision of Rupesh Kumar, SDM (South), for allotment of houses at Maloya Housing Complex. Since one of the persons had a disability certificate, he was allotted a ground floor flat, he said, adding that immediately after the draw, the result was uploaded on the official website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in. Allotment letters to these persons will be issued within a week and thereafter physical possession will be handed over on completion of the formalities. TNSCricket trials tomorrowMohali: The Mohali Cricket Association will conduct trials to select senior team here on July 31. The trials will be held at the PCA C-Ground from 2 pm. The selected team will participate in the inter-district one-day limited overs matches to be organised by the Punjab Cricket Association. Players born in Mohali or residing/studying/serving in the district for the past one year will be eligible for the trials. TNSChitkara varsity 'Green Champ'Chandigarh: Chitkara University has been recognised as the 'District Green Champion' for the academic year 2020-21 by the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Union Ministry of Education. Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro Chancellor of Chitkara University, received the award in the presence of Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, Patiala. The award is given to colleges that have actively participated in keeping their campuses clean and sanitised, and making progress towards a 'Swachh Bharat'. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proudly-vaccinated-drive-290142
30-07-2021||---||Harshdeep helps Mohali beat Ludhiana by six wickets||Chandigarh, July 29Harshdeep Singh claimed a four-for as Mohali defeated hosts Ludhiana by six wickets in a rain-curtailed Punjab State Inter-District U-19 One Day Tournament match today.Mohali skipper won the toss and put Ludhiana in to bat after the match was reduced to 22 overs a side due to light rain.Bhavish Sethi scored a half-century (53) as hosts made 124/7 in the allotted overs. Sanyam Gill contributed 29 runs to the total. Harshdeep was the pick of bowlers for Mohali, claiming 4/10.In reply, Mohali achieved the target in 19.3 overs. Aryan Bhatia made 26 runs while Jovanpreet Singh scored a brisk 23.In another match, Amritsar defeated Ferozepur by 69 runs. The match was reduced to 27 overs a side.Batting first, Amritsar scored 130 runs in 27 overs with Taranveer Singh (30) and Vansh Rishi (26) making useful contributions.Sagar Sawal took three wickets for Ferozepur, while Sachin Choudhary and Komalpreet Sidhu claimed two wickets each.In reply, Ferozepur were all out for 61 runs in 20.2 overs. Amritsar skipper Manroop Singh took 4/30, while Vansh Sehgal bagged 3/11.Meanwhile, Fazilka defeated Faridkot by four wickets.Batting first, Fardikot made 152/9 in 20 overs. Jaspreet Singh scored 57, while Avijit Singh hit a quick-fire 34.Gursewak Singh (4/23) and Nikhil Setia (3/23) shared seven wickets between them.Fazilka rode on Nikhil Setia’s half-century (65) to reach home with four wickets to spare. Rahul Saxena contributed 32 runs to the chase.Moga suffered an eight-wicket loss against Fatehgarh Sahib, while Kapurthala logged a two-wicket win over Nawanshahar. The matches between Barnala and Patiala and Sangrur and Mansa were abandoned due to the rain.Bawa shines with batRaj Angad Bawa scored a blistering ton to help Cricket Coaching Centre, Sector 16, register a 198-run win over Royal Cricket Academy, Sector 27, in a Build Back Better U-19 Cricket Tournament match here on Thursday. Batting first, Sector 16 side scored 345/7 in 40 overs. Bawa hit an 82-ball 114. His knock was studded with 10 boundaries and five sixes. Devang Kaushik and Abhishek contributed 83 runs each to the total. In reply, Royal Cricket Academy were bowled out for 147 runs in 32.1 overs. Nilay (46) was the top scorer for the side. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harshdeep-helps-mohali-beat-ludhiana-by-six-wickets-290125
30-07-2021||---||2 women held for theft||Chandigarh, July 29Two women have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police for committing a theft at a boutique in Sector 16.The suspects have been identified as Seema (32), a resident of Sector 56, and Janki (34), a resident of Sector 25. The duo was arrested near Sector 11 with the stolen goods.The police said goods worth about Rs 10 lakh were stolen by the two women from the boutique, Kaleidoscope, on July 13.Seema has a tainted past. She was earlier arrested in five cases of burglary and house theft in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-women-held-for-theft-290126
30-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda
||Chandigarh coaches pitch for one more Astroturf for hockey||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 29 With the Chandigarh Hockey Academy’s quota of seats under the Khelo India initiative being increased significantly, the coaches here are pitching for an additional Astroturf field. At present, the city has one full-fledged Astroturf field at Sector 42 Sports Complex and a mini-Astroturf (practice arena) at the Sector 18 based hockey stadium.  The city has been allotted 30 seats – 15 boys and 15 girls – under the Kehlo India scheme.  “There’s no harm in getting another full-fledged Astroturf field. Currently, the entire load is on Sector 42 Sports Complex. The other facility (at Sector 18) is meant for practice, not for matches,” said a senior coach. Sources claimed that a proposal was made for another field at the Sector 42 Sports Complex (South Sector). However, the clearance from the Forest Department was turning out to be a stumbling block.  “The project was rejected a few years ago. However, the authorities can have another field at Sector 18 or at any other Sector. It’s not necessary to have both the fields at a single venue,” said another source.   “Also, the girls’ hostel is located at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18, so it’s ideal to have one field in the vicinity of the hostel,” the source added.  The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports had earlier selected the Sector 42 Hockey Stadium, Chandigarh, as one of the eight Khelo India State Centres of Excellence.  Besides hockey, academies for boxing and rowing have also been given approval under the scheme.  A total of 90 seats were awarded under the scheme.  “Though it’s not easy to have another Astroturf field in a short span of time, the administration can always ask for the Centre’s help. Also, the Astroturf field at Sector 42 was laid in 2015… the average life of a field is somewhere close six or seven years. So, having an additional Astroturf field is necessary,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-coaches-pitch-for-one-more-astroturf-for-hockey-290123
30-07-2021||---||Man arrested with pistol||Mohali, July 29The Lalru police arrested a person for possessing .315-bore country-made pistol and eight cartridges from the Ambala-Chandigarh highway on last night.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Fatehabad district of Haryana. He was produced in a local court which remanded him to two-day police custody. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-pistol-290130
30-07-2021||Mohali||Kharar to get water from Kajauli waterworks||To suffice the drinking water needs of the Kharar residents, the Punjab Government has decided to provide them potable water from the Kajauli waterworks, said former minister and senior Congress leader from Kharar Jagmohan Singh Kang.  Kang said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had passed the Kajauli waterworks project under which Kharar city would get 5 million gallon water per day (mgd).  The Congress leader said 1 mgd will also be supplied to Morinda. The approximate cost of the project will be around Rs 35 crore, said Kang. It will include construction of water treatment plant, construction of water tanks and pump chamber, installation of pumping machinery, laying of pipelines and building overhead service reservoirs. An 80-mgd-capacity pipeline for supply of raw water from the Kajauli waterworks has already been laid by GMADA, Kang said, adding that water from this pipeline will be made available to Kharar and Morinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-to-get-water-from-kajauli-waterworks-290131
30-07-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder gets RI in cheque-bounce cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27Gurdeep Kaur, JMIC, has sentenced a builder to rigorous imprisonment for a period of two years in two cases of cheque bounce. The punishment in both cases shall run concurrently. The period of detention of the convict during the trial shall be set off against the substantive sentence of imprisonment imposed upon him.Besides, the court has also directed the builder to pay Rs30 lakh as compensation to the complainant. In default of payment of the compensation amount, the convict shall undergo an additional simple imprisonment of six months.Gurdev Singh, a city resident, filed the case through counsel Anuj Ahluwalia against Rajesh Bhagat, Director of M/s Bhagat Colonisers Pvt Ltd (Longwood Luxury Main Market, Barog, Solan district, HP), under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. Gurdev, in the complaint, said he purchased a flat at Longwood Luxury Main Market from the builder. After negotiations, an agreement to sell was executed between the accused and the complainant in 2013. As per the agreement, a total sale consideration of the flat was fixed at Rs50 lakh and the complainant paid Rs40 lakh as earnest money towards the purchase of the flat.The last date for the execution of sale deed was fixed as November 15, 2013, when the remaining amount of Rs10 lakh was agreed to be paid. However, before the last date of the execution of sale deed, the accused approached the complainant expressing his inability to execute the sale deed. Despite the fact that the complainant had time and again requested the accused to abide by the terms of the agreement to sell, the accused failed to do anything on the date fixed for the execution of sale deed. Finally, the complainant requested the accused to pay double the amount of earnest money to the complainant as per clause 7 of the agreement to sell.After several reminders, the accused issued two post-dated cheques drawn on the Central Bank of India, Chandigarh, for a sum of Rs40 lakh each in favour of the complainant. But both cheques were dishonoured on presentation to the bank.After examining the records, the court held the builder guilty of an offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act and was accordingly convicted.The counsel of the accused pleaded for leniency, while Anuj Ahluwalia submitted that the convict did not deserve any leniency as the convict did not have the intention of complying with the terms of agreement right from beginning and had dishonestly issued two cheques in discharge of his liability which were dishonored.The court has held that the convict does not deserve the benefit of being released on probation as such a measure would frustrate the legislative intention of providing for punishment for dishonour of the cheques as the objective behind incorporating the said penal provision is to ensure that the instrument once issued by the drawer is duly honoured so as to keep up and maintain the faith of society and the business community.More miseryIn case the convict fails to pay the compensation amount, he shall undergo additional simple imprisonment of six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-gets-ri-in-cheque-bounce-cases-290124
30-07-2021||---||Voting schedule for Panjab University Senate poll announced||Chandigarh, July 29 Panjab University here has announced the voting schedule for the election of ordinary fellows to be conducted on August 3.  The principals and staff members of the technical and professional colleges will elect the ordinary fellows under Section 13, Sub-Section (1) (d) of the Panjab University Act. The polling booths have been set up at various places in  Chandigarh and Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/voting-schedule-for-panjab-university-senate-poll-announced-290127
30-07-2021||---||BJP, Cong lock horns in Chandigarh over farmers’ issue||Chandigarh, July 29Councillors of the ruling BJP and the Congress today locked horns at a House meeting over the issues of attack on Mayor’s vehicles as well as barricading of venues of events attended by him.Congress councillor Satish Kainth said the public was suffering due to the inauguration of various projects by the Mayor.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “I will continue to inaugurate projects for the welfare of the people. Security is the issue of the local police.”“The security was beefed up after attack on my vehicle. Do you support attack on the Mayor?” he asked the Congress councillors.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said: “We condemn both violence and your party’s attitude towards farmers.”The BJP councillor, Davesh Moudgil, replied: “As the Leader of the Opposition in MC House, you should have condemned the violence the same day. We support democracy, but not mobocracy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-cong-lock-horns-in-chandigarh-over-farmers-issue-290128
30-07-2021||---||Five DSPs transferred from Mohali district||Mohali, July 29In a major reshuffle, five Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) have been shifted out of Mohali district. They have been replaced by two officers from within the district and three from other districts.The state government today shifted 130 DSPs with immediate effect.The five DSPs, who have been shifted out of Mohali, are DSP Ramandeep Singh (now posted at Ropar), DSP Deep Kamal (now posted as ACP, Gill village, Ludhiana), Mohali Traffic DSP Guriqbal Singh, DSP Deepinder Kaur of NRI wing and DSP Gursharanjit Singh.The two DSPs who have been transferred within the district are Kharar DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur, who has been posted as DSP, Security Airport; and Derabassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh, posted as DSP, Security Mohali.Three DSPs posted from other districts in Mohali district are Deepak Rai as DSP, Kharar; Manvir Singh as DSP, Headquarters; and Manoj Gorsi as DSP, Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-dsps-transferred-from-mohali-district-290129
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 5 fresh Covid cases||The city on Thursday reported five fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 61,948. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained at 809. The active caseload now stands at 37. With four fresh recoveries, the number of patients cured of the disease reached 61,102. —TNSMohali logs one case, no deathMohali:: One case of Covid-19 surfaced in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 68,447. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district till Thursday evening while two patients were cured of the virus. The lone fresh case came from Dhakoli. — TNSTwo fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported two fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,639. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,259 patients have recovered from the disease so far, four cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-5-fresh-covid-cases-290149
30-07-2021||---||Banquet hall to be built in Sector 47, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 29The MC House today approved to raze the Janj Ghar in Sector 47 to pave the way for a modern banquet hall.The House approved an amount of Rs76.40 crore for the project. As per the plan, the building will have ground, first and second floor and three levels in the basement for parking of vehicles and other purposes.The banquet hall will have meditation centre, yoga centre, library, gym, dormitory, AC rooms, open to sky hall, parking for 350 cars in basements, lifts and other facilities.The MC will either seek funds from the UT Administration or ask it to build it. The civic body has already approved a banquet hall in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, but the work on it could not be started till date due to fund crunch. “We will soon float a tender in this regard,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.Councillor Davesh Moudgil said, “People from the city go to Zirakpur to arrange marriage functions. If we are able to build banquet halls here, we can earn revenue besides providing a facility to the people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banquet-hall-to-be-built-in-sector-47-chandigarh-290117
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 held for theft at Sec 56 house||Two persons have been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for a theft at a house in Sector 56 here.Complaint Anita had reported that gold ornaments and Rs15,000 were stolen from her house on June 11, following which a case was registered.During investigation, a team led by Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh, incharge Palsora police post, nabbed the suspects, identified as Neeraj (35) and Gautam (25), both residents of Sector 56.Gold ornaments worth around Rs2.75 lakh have been recovered from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-theft-at-sec-56-house-290118
30-07-2021||Sandeep Rana||Waste Processing Plant Upgrade: Chandigarh MC House selects IIT-Ropar to prepare project report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The MC General House today awarded the job of preparation of the detailed project report (DPR) and the request for proposal (RFP) to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, to upgrade and maintain the waste processing plant.The DPR and RFP will be later tabled in the House and a tender will be floated to hire a firm.Addressing the House, MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the IIT had sought three-month time for the work, but the civic body would request it to submit it in a month and a half.As decided in the last House meeting, the MC had earlier sought quotations from Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, the IIT-Ropar, and the Thapar Institute of Technology, Patiala.Other agenda items approvedYadav shared that the Patiala institute did not submit a quotation.The House preferred the IIT-Ropar’s bid as it was lower than the PEC quotation. PEC had sought Rs80 lakh for the work while the IIT-Ropar submitted a quote of Rs 26.77 lakh plus institute overheads (20 per cent) and taxes (18 per cent).Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said, “The IIT has been involved with the Punjab Government on such projects and has a relevant experience.”The DPR and RFP will be for the conversion of dry waste into energy technology. For wet waste, the existing composting plant will be upgraded.The IIT will also work on other technologies for horticulture waste management. It will be prepared the technical and financial assessment of the project.In its last House meeting, the corporation had decided to upgrade its garbage processing plant with a waste-to-energy technology. The MC will tie up with the Power Department, UT, to decide on the share of the electricity to be generated at the Sector 25 plant.In June last year, the civic body had taken the possession of the plant from Jaypee Group while stating that very less processing of waste was being done at the unit for the past many years.As per the IIT-Roorkee report, the existing plant can at best handle 60 to 65 TPD (tonne per day) waste. The city produces about 450-tonne waste per day. The unprocessed waste is being thrown at the dumping ground. Several fire incidents have occurred at the dumping site, causing air pollution and trouble to locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-processing-plant-upgrade-chandigarh-mc-house-selects-iit-ropar-to-prepare-project-report-290119
30-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Home Guards jawan attempts suicide at Mini-Secretariat in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 29A Home Guards jawan allegedly attempted suicide by taking poison after accusing an official from the Home Guards, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa and the SHO of the Sector 5 police station, Inspector Lalit, of mental harassment today.The jawan, Piyush (26), took rat poison and celphos tablets around 10 am on the top floor of the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1.He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 following the incident. He is now out of danger.The jawan was reportedly sent to the Police Lines after he stopped the car of a “woman officer” at Majri Chowk for jumping the red light on July 17 while being on traffic duty. The jawan had also shot a video of the incident, narrating his side of the story.He alleged that the woman had threatened to “teach him a lesson” and even tried to snatch his phone.In the video, both can be seen engaged in heated arguments.Moments before taking the poison, the jawan recorded a video message in which he accused the DCP and senior officials of the Police Department of mentally harassing him and transferring him to the Police Lines despite “performing his duty with honesty.’’He then put out the video in WhatsApp groups.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Headquarters, Vijay Kumar Nehra said the July 17 matter had come to their notice following which the jawan was sent to the Police Lines pending an inquiry.“The woman officer had alleged that the jawan’s behaviour was inappropriate,” he stated.Speaking to Chandigarh Tribune, the jawan said he was punished for executing his duties objectively.“Rules are rules. Doesn’t the law apply to a senior officer? The law should be equal for all,” Piyush said.“I had signalled the driver of the car to stop, but he kept moving. I then asked the driver to park the car on the side, but he threatened me saying, ‘do you know who is sitting inside the car?’ I said it doesn’t matter, traffic rules are applicable to all. The woman sitting on the back seat of the car identified herself as an IAS officer. She threatened to teach me a lesson. While in the car, she called some senior official of the district…..subsequently came out of the car and entered into a heated argument with me. They then left the spot. After 10 minutes, I received a call from the Sector 4 traffic line that my duty had been changed and I should report to the Police Lines,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.He claimed that he had also appeared before ACP Nehra, who praised him for “executing his duty in an appreciable manner.”“Yesterday, I received a call from the Sector 5 police station that they have received a complaint against me for misbehaving with a woman officer. I was wondering what wrong did I do by stopping an officer for violating traffic rules,” he said, adding that he was being harassed by senior officials since the July 17 incident. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij also took cognisance of the incident and instructed DGP Mohammad Aqil to conduct an inquiry into the matter.The DGP said he had already issued instructions in this regard.“All facts will be investigated and appropriate action will be taken accordingly,” he said.The police have already filed an FIR against the woman officer at the Sector 5 police station for violating the traffic rules and obstructing a public servant from discharging his duty.DCP Mohit Handa could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-guards-jawan-attempts-suicide-at-mini-secretariat-in-panchkula-290120
30-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Passenger footfall: Chandigarh International Airport regains 71 per cent ground||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 29The Chandigarh international airport regained the passenger footfall by over 71 per cent since the second wave of the Covid struck in March this year.According to information, before lockdown was imposed in March this year to contain the pandemic spread, the airport saw a daily footfall of at least 7,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures. The number later went down to zero as no domestic flight operated form the local airport. After cases started declining, domestic flights were resumed and the number of passengers has now risen to nearly 5,000, registering a regain of about 71 per cent.At present, 33 flights are being operated at the airport.On May 3, the Mohali administration had allowed people to travel by air either by producing a Covid negative report not older than 72 hours before boarding the flight or producing a vaccination certificate (at least one dose) over two weeks old.It is pertinent to mention here that before the lockdown was imposed in March last year to control the spread of Covid-19, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number had come down by about 85 to 95 per cent when the domestic flights resumed operations in May last year.The airport was generating a total revenue of around Rs30 lakh daily, with the main source being the aeronautical category. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking and advertisements.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer of the airport, said after the easing of restrictions, the airport had witnessed a steady increase in passengers. He said barring a few, all outlets, including those of high-end brands, were operating at the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passenger-footfall-chandigarh-international-airport-regains-71-per-cent-ground-290121
30-07-2021||Ambala||22 suspected child labourers rescued from train at Ambala||A joint team of the anti-human trafficking unit of the state crime branch, the Child Welfare Committee, the GRP, the RPF, the Child Help Desk and the Bachpan Bachao Andolan today rescued 22 children from an Amritsar-bound train. They were suspected to be brought from different areas of Bihar to be engaged as child labourers.Rakesh Chopra, coordinator, Child Help Desk, Ambala railway station, said, “There was a tip-off that some children are being trafficked in the New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Karambhoomi Superfast Express. Seven teams were formed and all coaches of the train were checked. During the exercise, 27 children were found. Five of them were later handed over to their respective family members. A DDR has been registered in this context by the GRP. The remaining children have been shifted to a shelter home in Ambala Cantonment.”ASI Rajesh Kumar of the anti-human trafficking unit, Panchkula, said, “It is suspected that the children were brought from Bihar to engage them as child labour in Ludhiana.”“Initially, there were 27 children and the majority of the people travelling with them claimed to be their maternal uncles, paternal uncles or neighbours. Five children were allowed to go as they were travelling with their elder brothers. Some children claimed that they were going to stay with their parents in Amritsar while some said they were going for study purposes. The children are in the age group of 11-17 years,” he said.“Statements of people travelling with them are being recorded. Their parents are being called. Counselling will be done by the child welfare committee,” the cop said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/22-suspected-child-labourers-rescued-from-train-at-ambala-290122
30-07-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board allottees can now check account statement online||Chandigarh, July 29Now, allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats in three sectors can check the details of the payment made, penal interest for delay and the total outstanding dues.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said the board had recently started the facility of online payment for all kind of dues on its website — www.chbonline.in.All details of about 17,000 allottees of small flats, 1,700 allottees under the affordable rental scheme and about 4,500 allottees of commercial units have been made available on the website of the CHB. These allottees can generate a live account statement for their unit and see the details of the licence fee/ground rent paid, penalty for late payments and the balance due on a real-time basis by visiting the website of the CHB.All data regarding the payment of residential flats has been made available on the CHB website.“Now, one can see the details of payments made against the particular residential flat since its allotment. In case there is any discrepancy, the same may be brought to the notice of the account officer concerned, along with a copy of the receipt of payment, for reconciliation and updating the record,” Garg said.Now, the allottees at Sector 63 and Sector 49 and Housing Schemes 616 Category-II, 336 Category-I, 13 Category-I, 51 Category-II and 160 two-bedroom flats (GSFHS-2010) in Sector-51A residential units have been given the facility to check outstanding dues against a particular unit and for generating live account statement.He, however, clarified that “this being a transition phase, there is a possibility of errors in the computation of dues. The allottees are requested to bring such errors to the notice of the CHB for appropriate rectifications.”He said efforts would be of great convenience to allottees of Sector-63, 49 and 51-A (specific schemes) in managing and keeping track of their payment/dues and they need not to come to the CHB office to ascertain their dues.“The similar facility for allottees of residential flats of other schemes/sectors is being prepared and will be made available soon. However, the allottees of residential units can see the details of the payments made by them so far but they have to wait for some time to see the live account statement with the calculation of dues,” he added.Facility for three SectorsThe allottees at Sector 63 and Sector 49 and of housing schemes (616 Category-II, 336 Category-I, 13 Category-I, 51 Category-II and 160 two-bedroom flats -- GSFHS-2010) in Sector 51-A have been given the facility to check the outstanding dues against a particular unit online and generate a live account statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-allottees-can-now-check-account-statement-online-290132
30-07-2021||---||Mohali ready with flood-control measures||Mohali, July 29The district administration here has geared up to thwart any flood related eventuality.The authorities have made flood control plans for all three sub-divisions and departments concerned have been put on a high alert.Briefing about arrangements being made in Dera Bassi, SDM Kuldeep Bawa said six evacuation centres had been set up in the sub-division to cater to more than 2,100 persons at a time.The centres have been established at Government High School Laru; Jashan Palace, Lalru; Government Primary School, Sanoli; Government Primary School, Ibrahimpur (Zirakpur area); Sports Stadium and Government Senior Secondary School, Dera Bassi.Bawa said essential items like food, electricity, medicine and water supply was being provided to these centres.“Necessary apparatus like boats, JCB machines and pump sets are being hired and officials of the Drainage Department have been put on high alert. They have been instructed to sanitise all the drains of the area in a time-bound manner,” said Bawa.In Kharar sub-division, three flood control rooms have been set up to contain any contingency.All the necessary arrangements are underway, said Kharar SDM Aakash Bansal. He though informed that water level in the seasonal rivulets – Patiala ki Rao and Jaynati Devi ki Rao – was under control and there was no need to panic.Boats, life jackets, torches, tents, bamboos, tarpaulin, raincoats, searchlights, pump sets and other equipment have been acquired, said BansalInstructing health officials to be ready with ambulances, the SDM said directions had also been given to the officials concerned to accumulate medicines, food, fodder and water.“Police officials and sarpanches have been asked to maintain a vigil on vulnerable points and inform the officials concerned in real time so that arrangements can be made accordingly,” said Bansal.Meanwhile, Mohali SDM Harbans Singh informed that two flood control room helplines – 0172-2219505 and 2219506 – were operational at the district level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ready-with-flood-control-measures-290133
30-07-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC gets 38 new employees||The Mohali Municipal Corporation, which had been facing a shortage of staff, received a boost as Health and Family Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu handed over appointment letters to 38 persons here today.Out of the 38, 11 have been appointed clerks, a librarian, 15 firemen, seven peons and four baildars, who have been given appointment letters. City Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg were among those present on the occasion.Balbir Singh Sidhu urged all the new employees to work with utmost sincerity and diligence. He said the Congress Government was committed to boosting employment and development in all aspects.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said with these new appointments, the work would gain momentum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-gets-38-new-employees-290134
30-07-2021||Mohali||One booked for disposing of dealer’s vehicles||The Zirakpur police have booked a person for disposing of vehicles of a car dealer after taking the latter in good faith.The suspect has been identified as Inderjit Singh, a resident of Karkore village near Dera Bassi.The police said Ravinder Kumar, alias Babla, a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib, had stated in his complaint that he had an office in Zirakpur and was also involved in the business of sale and purchase of vehicles. He said in August 2020, the suspect took him in confidence and took seven vehicles for sale.Babla said the suspect, along with his wife Harpreet Kaur and brother-in-law Preet, a resident of Desu Majra had disposed of the vehicles. He said till date, the suspect had neither returned the vehicles nor paid the cost of the vehicles to him.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Ajit Singh said after taking the legal opinion of the District Attorney, a case under Section 406 of the IPC was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-booked-for-disposing-of-dealers-vehicles-290135
30-07-2021||---||Travel firm told to pay relief to Zirakpur resident for deficient service||Chandigarh, July 29The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a travel firm to refund Rs50,000 to a consumer after it failed to arrange the promised trip.The commission also directed the firm to pay 7,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.Sudhir Kumar, a resident of Zirakpur, said he booked a tour package for himself and his wife for Rs67,000. He paid the amount in two instalments to a travel firm, M/s Funadeq Travels (Holidayz Bazaar), in September 2019.He said at the time of booking, he was assured that visa, hotel bookings and flight tickets would be done by the firm. It was also promised that in case visa was not approved, then the total amount would be refunded.The firm informed them in December 2019 that the visa of the complainant’’s wife was not approved by the Malaysian embassy and he offered to refund the amount. Later, the firm sent a cheque for Rs67,000. However, the cheque bounced on being presented to the bank.When contacted, the firm asked to wait for a week and offered to refund the amount soon. When he again contacted the firm, it refunded Rs17,000 through account transfer and assured to credit the remaining amount of Rs50,000 by January 1, 2020.Despite repeated requests, the firm failed to refund the remaining amount. Alleging that the act amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the firm, he filed a complaint. During the hearing, none appeared from the firm side. Therefore, the Commission pronounced the order ex-parte. After examining the records, the commission held the firm guilty of deficiency in service.Non-appearance of the firm shows that it had nothing to say in its defence against the allegations made by the complainant.The commission said the act of the firm in giving false promise of the tour, issuing refund cheque but not maintaining sufficient balance in its account for clearance and subsequently promising to refund the remaining amount of Rs50,000 but not honouring the same proved deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.In view of this, the firm is directed to refund the remaining amount of Rs50,000 to the complainant along with interest @9 per cent per annum. The commission has also directed the firm to pay Rs7,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travel-firm-told-to-pay-relief-to-zirakpur-resident-for-deficient-service-290136
30-07-2021||---||Man damages property of Chandimandir toll plaza, booked||Panchkula, July 29The local police have filed an FIR against an unknown person for damaging the Chandimandir toll plaza property and threatening its staff.The incident had taken place on June 18.Following the incident, the project director of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had written to the Panchkula Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), seeking action against culprits. The DCP subsequently directed the Chandimandir police station to file an FIR and initiate investigation into the incident.According to the FIR, on June 18 around 6,50 pm, a white-coloured Innova car coming from the Pinjore side stopped in lane No. 13 and its driver, who was allegedly in a drunken state, broke the window glass of booth No. 13.“When confronted by the security staff on duty, the driver started abusing and threatening the staff of dire consequences by showing them a ‘kirpan’. He also told the staff that he was in possession of a pistol. However, the driver ran away from the spot by hitting a barricade before the police PCR could arrive,” read the FIR, quoting the complainant.“The staff deployed at the Chandimandir toll plaza is scared due to this incident,” the complainant told the police. The complainant also sought deployment of adequate police force at the toll plaza.The police filed an FIR under Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-damages-property-of-chandimandir-toll-plaza-booked-290137
30-07-2021||---||Panchkula: Giving prohibitory orders the go-by, people throng Ghaggar||Panchkula, July 29Despite Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa’s instructions of prohibiting people to approach near the banks of Ghaggar river, people were seen taking bath in the river, crossing it and performing religious rituals near its banks on Thursday.The DCP yesterday had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC near the banks of rivers, including Ghaggar, in view of expected rise in their water levels due to heavy rain in the ongoing monsoon season.According to the order, approach within the 20 meters of the banks of any river/rivulet by any person is prohibited till September 26.At least 13 locations had been identified as flood prone near the Ghaggar and other rivers.When asked about the violations despite order, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra urged people to not flock the river as it could prove deadly.“The policemen deployed with PCRs have been asked to sanitise people about the entire issue and they have been asked to act strictly if there is any violation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-giving-prohibitory-orders-the-go-by-people-throng-ghaggar-290138
30-07-2021||---||High Court stays final order in GST matter||Chandigarh, July 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the passing of the final order by the Excise and Taxation Officer, Chandigarh, on the basis of a notice issued by him. The show-cause notice demanding the GST was issued by the ETO to a Chandigarh-based taxpayer, assigned to the jurisdiction of the Centre and not the UT.When the GST was ushered in, the GST Council mandated that taxpayers would be divided as per a computer programme between the Centre and the state tax authorities, ensuring that a single taxpayer would deal with only one set of officers — either the Centre or the state.Before the GST rollout, the then Finance Minister stated that “each assessee would be assessed only by one authority,” after the GST Council agreed to the division of the taxpayer base.The High Court was told that lack of consensus between states and the Centre had previously held up the GST rollout by April 1, 2017. Pursuant to the decision of the GST Council to divide the taxpayer base, the Centre and the UT issued a joint circular setting out the taxpayers to be assessed by the Centre and the UT, to ensure that one taxpayer dealt with only one set of officers.The taxpayer challenged the show-cause notice issued by the ETO, through advocates BL Narasimhan and Amrinder Singh. It was argued that the notice was illegal as it was in contravention of the GST Council directions and the joint circular. Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Vikas Bahl directed the authorities not to pass a final order during the pendency of the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-final-order-in-gst-matter-290139
30-07-2021|| Chandigarh||Make Labour Department services online: Chandigarh Beopar Mandal||A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal today called on Varun Benniwal, Assistant Labour Commissioner, regarding improvement in the regulating compliance process of the Labour Department.The delegation suggested that instead of renewal of the licence every year under the Shop Establishment Act, it should be issued one time as per the Punjab Act without any need for renewal. If any dealer closes his business, he should inform the Labour Department in writing and surrender his licence.An amnesty scheme should be launched and one more chance of minimum six-month time should be given to those who have not registered or renewed their commercial establishment under the shop Act for any reason without any penalty or challan.They suggested that there was a need for making available all services by the Labour Department online. There should be a provision for amendments such as change of employees or address in the website. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-labour-department-services-online-chandigarh-beopar-mandal-290140
