31-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports one new Covid-19 case and one death||Chandigarh on Saturday reported just one new Covid-19 case as the total number of cases reached 61,953 while one death was also recorded.A positivity rate of 0.07 per cent was recorded in the city as 1,450 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.A 55-year-old man from Mauli Jagran, who was suffering from co-morbidities, succumbed to the virus at PGIMER as the death toll due to the pandemic reached 811.The number of active cases has come down to 31.A total of five patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation, who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 61,111 patients have been cured till date in the city.The number of people who have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine is 6,14,778 while 1,94,759 people have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-new-covid-19-case-and-one-death-291032
31-07-2021||---||CBSE Class XII results: Hiteshwar Sharma of Bhavan Vidyalaya tops tricity with 99.8%||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 30Hiteshwar Sharma, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, here, topped the tricity in the CBSE Class XII exams. He scored 99.8 per cent marks in the arts stream. He got a perfect 100 in sociology, political science, economics and physical education.Hiteshwar Sharma (99.8%)Stream: HumanitiesSchool: Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, PanchkulaAim in life: To become a civil servantExam strategy: Consistency, thorough revisionHours of study: 5-7Parents: Ashutosh Ranjan, an HCS officer, and Meenakshi Sharma, a homemakerAbir (99%)Stream: CommerceSchool: Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, PanchkulaAim in life: To become financial officerStrategy: Taking mock tests, getting tuitions in weak subjectsHours of study: 5Parents: Dr Anil Kaushal, Dr Sarita Kaushal, both are medical professionalsAaditya Prasad (99.4%)Stream: Science (non-medical and medical)School: Delhi Public School, ChandigarhAim in life: To become computer engineerExam strategy: Stick to time table, solving previous years’ question papersHours of study: 4-5Parents: NG Prasad, a professor at IISER, Mohali, and Jyoti Belavadi, a teacherAditi Singla (99%)Stream: CommerceSchool: Bhavan Vidyalaya, ChandigarhAim in life: Management studies at IIMStrategy: Consistency and clarity of conceptsHours of study: No fixed hoursParents: Davinder Singla, pvt job, & Shefalika, teacherNarmada Aggarwal (98%)Stream: MedicalSchool: GMSSS-16Aim in life: To pursue MBBS and then MDSuccess strategy: Studying NCERT booksHours of study: 10-12Parents: Sanjeev Aggarwal, pvt job, & Nisha, runs parlourFor Hiteshwar, who had scored AIR 3 in the CBSE Class X exams in 2019, consistency and revising topics thoroughly were pivotal for success. “I never skipped my classes. I believe in studying on a daily basis. I took all exams very seriously,” he said while sharing his strategy.The son of a Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer, he wants to follow in his father’s footsteps by becoming a civil servant.Hiteshwar stayed away from the social media during the preparations. He has also represented Haryana three times in cricket.A resident of Sector 10, here, Hiteshwar had recently interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the cancellation of Class XII board examinations.“PM sir had asked me about my thoughts on the cancellation of Class XII exams. I told sir that those who remain consistent and are the toppers will still remain the topper in any criteria adopted by the CBSE for the preparation of Class XII result,” he recalled his conversation with the Prime Minister.Aaditya Prasad from Delhi Public School, Chandigarh, topped the tricity in the non-medical stream with 99.4 per cent marks. He is famous in his school as a ‘Super Science’ student for he had also opted for biology as his optional subject.Sharing his examination strategy, Aaditya said he identified strong and weak subjects and focussed on areas that needed improvement. “I was weak in chemistry. So, I solved each and every question of this subject and the previous year’s paper. I had also thoroughly studied the NCERT syllabus. I also used to follow a time table. I gave one hour to each subject and did four-five hours of collective studying,” he said.Aaditya shared that lockdown helped him study in a planned way. “Online teaching was quite interesting as teachers used different aids to teach lessons. Studying supplementary material available online also helped in preparations,” he said.He used to take morning and evening walks to beat the exam stress and often read science fiction in his leisure time. He draws inspiration from his father, NG Prasad, a professor at the IISER, Mohali. Aaditya wants to pursue computer science.“I opted for biology because I wasn’t sure which way to go post-Class X. Now, I feel that I like mathematics and physics more.”In the commerce stream, Abir of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula, and Aditi Singla from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, topped the tricity with 99 per cent marks.Abir scored 99 in all his subjects. He aspires to get admission in a reputed college of Delhi University and become a financial officer. “Even though the board exams couldn’t take place due to the pandemic, I practised mock tests and took tuitions for the subjects in which I was weak. It was crucial for pre-boards. The strategy worked,” he said. While the academics helped him become a topper, fitness kept him going.“I kept short-term goals and focused on achieving them with hard work and dedication,” he added.Aditi said, “Consistency and discipline is all that matters during preparation for any examination. Clarity of concepts is required in every subject,” she said. Aditi likes to read in her leisure time and ride a bicycle. In the future, she wants to do management studies. Narmada Aggarwal, a student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, has topped the tricity in the medical stream by securing 98 per cent. Her success strategy was to study for 10-12 hours every day, but not at the cost of sleep. She said, “I always ensured that I take required sleep. I used to study for long hours during the day. NCERT books are a must for examination as these make the concepts clear.” She wants to pursue MBBS and then complete MD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-xii-results-hiteshwar-sharma-of-bhavan-vidyalaya-tops-tricity-with-99-8-290781
31-07-2021||---||Chandigarh: Sector 38 resident fumes over hefty water bill||Chandigarh, July 30A resident of Sector 38 has expressed his despair over a ‘hefty’ water bill he received from the Municipal Corporation (MC).Sanjeev Raina, a resident of Sector 38 (West), said his water consumption used to be 100 to 117 kilolitre (kl) per bill (Rs800 to Rs1,200 usually). The recent bill, dated July 12, amounting to Rs32,420 for 1,370 kl of water consumption, was issued by the MC.“Yesterday, I visited Chief Engineer NP Sharma. He directed me to meet the Superintending Engineer who further directed me to meet the SDO and so on... Nobody responded. After wasting the whole day, I came back without any result,” he alleged.Today was the last day to pay the bill and there was a penalty of Rs3,242 for late payment, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-38-resident-fumes-over-hefty-water-bill-290783
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||One death, four new Covid cases in Chandigarh||Four new cases in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: Four more persons tested positive for Covid in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, no fresh fatality was reported and two patients were cured of the disease till Friday evening. TNSNo new case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Friday reported no fresh case, keeping the overall tally unchanged at 30,639. With no fresh death, the Covid toll also remained at 376. While 30,259 patients have been cured, there are now just four active cases. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-four-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-290785
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patient jumps to death at GMCH-32, Chandigarh||Past incidents at hospitalAugust 2, 2020: A 62-year-old Covid patient reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the fifth floor of the hospitalOctober 17, 2020: A 27-year-old woman, Anu, reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the seventh floor of C-BlockDecember 3, 2012: A 26-year-old mother of a newborn girl committed suicide by jumping from the fourth floor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patient-jumps-to-death-at-gmch-32-chandigarh-290786
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lounge sealed in Chandigarh's Sec 34-A mall for serving hookah||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lounge-sealed-in-chandigarhs-sec-34-a-mall-for-serving-hookah-290788
31-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||‘Dishonest’ son to pay Rs 1L costs to mother||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30A “dishonest” son, who wanted to create grounds for ousting his own mother from their house, will end up paying Rs1 lakh costs to her. Asserting that “greediness” on his part was apparent from his petition and a representation to the police, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed the Mohali Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) to ensure the recovery of costs from him.‘Petitioner’s greediness apparent’Dismissing the petition with Rs 1 lakh costs, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court added that a perusal of the representation showed that it had been filed with an oblique motive of harassing his own mother so that the petitioner may usurp the house on the basis of the GPA given by her and oust her in old age. “This greediness on the part of the petitioner is apparent from the representation given to the police as well as from contents of this petition,” Justice Sangwan concluded.Justice Sangwan also directed the CJM to ensure onward payment of costs to his mother. For the purpose, Justice Sangwan set a two-month deadline. The case has its genesis in a petition filed by the son, Sunny, against the state of Punjab and other respondents.Describing the petition as “unfortunate”, Justice Sangwan observed that the petitioner had prayed for protection of life and liberty from the mother and her brother (his uncle). A perusal of the petition showed that the petitioner’s father had executed a will in November 2013, vide which 100 per cent share of a booth and 50 per cent share of the house was given to the petitioner. The remaining share of the house was already in the name of the petitioner’s mother.Justice Sangwan added that the reason was obvious. The petitioner, being the son, was to inherit his business. The wife was to have the house to live in for the rest of her life. However, the petition reflected that the petitioner became dishonest.Justice Sangwan observed that it was stated in the petition that he got the general power of attorney of his mother’s share in his name to deal with the house in any manner. By way of filing the petition, he wanted to create grounds to oust from the house his own mother, a senior citizen, and to sell it further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dishonest-son-to-pay-rs-1l-costs-to-mother-290791
31-07-2021||---||CBSE class XII Results: Pass percentage of govt schools in Chandigarh improves by 7.1%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The overall pass percentage of the government schools in Chandigarh this session is 98.7 per cent, which is 7.1 per cent higher than the previous academic session – 2019-20.A total of 12,312 students appeared in the All India Senior School Certificate Examination (AISSCE) this year, out of which the result of 12,231 students was declared. The result of the remaining students would be declared later on.There are 40 Government Senior Secondary Schools in Chandigarh out of which 28 have secured 100 per cent pass percentage.Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 15; GMSSS-16; GMSSS-19; GMSSS-20D; GGMSSS-20B; GMSSS-21; GMSSS-22; GMSSS-23; GMSSS-23 (NYC); GMSSS-26 (TM); GMSSS-32; GMSSS-35; GMSSS-37B; GMSSS-37D; GMSSS-39; GMSSS-40; GMSSS-44; GMSSS-46; GMSSS-MHC, Mani Majra; GMSSS, Karsan; GMSSS, Maloya; GMSSS, Sarangpur; GSSS, Mani Majra Town; GMSSS, Kaimbwala; GSSS, Mauli Jagran; GMSSS, Raipur Khurd; GMSSS, Behlana; and GSSS, Khuda Ali Sher registered 100 per cent pass percentage. A total of 788 students secured above 90 per cent marks.Rubinderjit Brar, Director, School Education, said, “The past one year has been a year of anxiety and speculations for the entire teaching-learning fraternity. But even in the dire circumstances, the Education Department has once again proven that it is possible to achieve any milestone.”Meanwhile, the Chandigarh region has secured a pass percentage of 99.47 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-xii-results-pass-percentage-of-govt-schools-in-chandigarh-improves-by-7-1-290874
31-07-2021||Mohali||This visually impaired Mohali girl eyes bright future with 86% marks||Mohali girl with no vision in her right eye and just 20 per cent vision in her left eye scored 86 per cent marks in the arts stream in her Class XII exams, the results for which were declared by the CBSE today.Muskan Sharma, a student of Guru Nanak Public School, Chandigarh, had scored 67 per cent marks in her Class X exams.The Phase 2 resident said a writer was provided to her by the school management for the exams and she wanted to become a teacher like her mother Meenu Sharma.Muskan also said she loved drawing, painting and dancing.Muskan’s father Deepak Sharma said there was problem in her eyes since childhood and she was undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-visually-impaired-mohali-girl-eyes-bright-future-with-86-marks-290875
31-07-2021||Mohali||Parnika Sisodia overall Mohali topper in CBSE Class XII exams||Doon International School’s Parnika Sisodia is the overall topper in Mohali in the CBSE Class XII exams, the results of which were declared today. She scored 98.2 per cent marks in non-medical stream.Arjun Sagar, another student from the same school, is overall second in Mohali with 97.4 per cent marks in humanities stream.The overall third position is shared by Arshia Dhiman (non-medical) of DAV School, Riya Baweja (medical) of St Soldier International School and Maithily Ginotra (commerce) of Doon International School with 96.8 per cent marks.Principal of Doon International School said: “The school management feels proud of its students for exhibiting excellent result. Hundred per cent result of the school shows the school’s efforts in maintaining the highest standards in tutelage”.Dr Rosy Sharma, principal of DAV Public Senior Secondary School, Phase 10, said Arshia had made the school proud by scoring high marks. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parnika-sisodia-overall-mohali-topper-in-cbse-class-xii-exams-290876
31-07-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh's Maintenance Tribunal to cancel property transfer if children fail to take care of parents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30Parents who transfer property in the name of their children need not fear indifference of their children, courtesy the Maintenance Tribunal, Chandigarh.Under Sector 23 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, the tribunal is empowered to declare the transfer of property by parents to their children null and void if the latter fail to take care of their parents.The tribunal has made it mandatory that a property transfer deed from parents to children must contain an undertaking from the children that they would take care of basic amenities and physical needs of their parents.It observed that children, relative and person in good faith got instruments registered in their names from senior citizens or their parents with the verbal promise that they (transferee) shall provide basic amenities and basic physical needs to the transferor (parents). But after getting property transferred in their name, they refused to follow up on their verbal promise.The tribunal, headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner KPS Mahi, states: “As per section 23 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007, the Tribunal is empowered with the power to declare such instrument of transfer or gift or otherwise as null and void wherein the condition is violated.”In good faith under the influence of the transferee and due to a lack of knowledge about the above provision, the transferor executes the instrument without quoting the condition in the transfer instrument, stated the tribunal.The tribunal has directed the sub-registrar that at the time of registration of the instrument to transfer/gift deed, he must inform the transferor about the above provision of the Act. He must himself ensure that the transferee has got the condition in the deed.The sub-registrar will also have to get a fixed notice in his office for awareness of the general public and also create awareness among document writers and advocates dealing in such property transfers.An official said after getting a statement in writing from children, it would help the authorities in taking action against the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-maintenance-tribunal-to-cancel-property-transfer-if-children-fail-to-take-care-of-parents-290877
31-07-2021||---||Residents flay Chandigarh MC over hefty garbage collection charges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30Complaints poured in at a four-day camp organised at the Community Centre in Sector 27 here to resolve the grievances of the residents related to heavy garbage collection charges.Apart from area councillor Devinder Singh Babla, Municipal Corporation (MC) officials were also present at the venue to address the problems being faced by the residents.An aggrieved resident insisted on not paying the charges. “We’ll take out a procession and make them understand how to behave with the residents… elections are also not far away,” he said.Endorsing the views, another resident said they should protest against the unprecedented garbage charges being levied by the MC.“Every resident of Sector 27-D is upset because of these garbage charges,” he said.“Ours is a joint property. I am living on the ground floor and received a bill of Rs 2,100, while the first and second floor occupants received a bill of Rs 900 only. How the MC has generated the bill, can you explain?” he asked.“If people are going to meet such harassment then we don’t need their services,” said Manmohan Singh, another resident.“Apart from the garbage charges, the MC has levied Rs 1,019 as sewerage cess. As per the last bill, it was Rs 177… The MC is for the convenience of public and not to cause inconvenience,” said yet another resident.In a letter to the Mayor, Babla said: “You have no idea what difficulties the residents of Chandigarh are going through.”Pointing out at the latest water bills received by the residents, the councillor said the MC had left no stone unturned to increase the pain of the residents.“Even after increasing the bill, garbage is not being properly picked and the whole system has collapsed,” Babla alleged.This morning, hundreds of people from various households told me about the increased rate of garbage collection. When I saw the bills, I was shocked to see that charges for three kitchens had been imposed on the families with just one kitchen, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-flay-chandigarh-mc-over-hefty-garbage-collection-charges-290879
31-07-2021||Mohali||7 quintals of adulterated cheese seized in Balongi village of Mohali||Sleuths of the Health Department, along with police officials, seized seven quintals of adulterated cheese from a vehicle near Balongi here this morning.District Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar said he received a complaint from the Balongi police that adulterated cheese was being supplied from Haryana at Barmajra near Balongi, which was being sold to shopkeepers in the area.He said on the instructions of Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur, a team of the Health Department was immediately constituted, which laid a naka near Barmajra this morning.Dr Subhash said on suspicion, the team stopped a tempo. During search, a total of 680 kg of cheese was seized from the vehicle. The tempo driver told him that he was coming from Haryana and wanted to sell the product at Barmajra.Dr Subhash said the cheese consignment worth Rs1.50 lakh had been seized and the sample had been sent to a food safety lab in Kharar. The report of the sample would come after 48 hours, following which action would be taken.The official asserted that the Health Department was committed to ensuring quality, unadulterated and clean food to the people of the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-quintals-of-adulterated-cheese-seized-in-balongi-village-of-mohali-290880
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Touchstone Educationals plant over 100 saplings in Sector 22, Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/touchstone-educationals-plant-over-100-saplings-in-sector-22-chandigarh-290881
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit in Chandigarh tomorrow||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-chandigarh-tomorrow-290884
