01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: CM Channi asks people to ensure his victory from Chamkaur Sahib||Punjab Chief Minister and Congress candidate Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday asked people of his constituency Chamkaur Sahib to make him win with a margin of at least 50,000 votes in the February 20 state assembly polls.His remarks came days after AAP leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that Channi was losing from his home turf Chamkaur Sahib seat.Addressing a gathering of people after filing nomination papers from Chamkaur Sahib seat (SC) in Rupnagar district, Channi made an impassioned speech and asked people to ensure his victory as he recounted several development projects carried out in his home constituency.“You have to make (me) victorious by a margin of 50,000 votes,” said Channi who was accompanied by his family.Asking people to support him wholeheartedly in the upcoming elections, he said, “If we win (from Chamkaur Sahib) by less than 50,000 votes, then it will not be a victory.”He also targeted his political opponents, accusing them of joining hands to suppress the voice of people of Chamkaur Sahib.“They can get as many raids conducted as they want, can get false FIRs registered as many as they want…people of Chamkaur Sahib are with me, no matter what,” said the 58-year-old leader.“I am your son and your brother. I have been with you for 15 years and never went away from you for even a single day. I am nothing without you,” the three-time MLA said in his impassioned speech.He urged people to support him in this election from this constituency as he has to visit various areas of Punjab for campaigning.“I never showed my back to any village. Every work was done,” he said.Opposition parties have targeted Channi over the recent Enforcement Directorate raids on his relative.The ED recently seized cash amounting to over Rs 10 crore, including about Rs 8 crore from a relative of Channi, during raids conducted in connection with an anti-money laundering investigation against illegal sand-mining operations in the poll-bound state.Channi has categorically denied any link in his relative’s case being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and accused the political opponents of running a “slanderous and misleading” campaign against him.Channi has been representing Chamkaur Sahib constituency since 2007.In the 2017 assembly polls, Channi won from Chamkaur Sahib by a margin of 12,308 votes.Channi on Monday had filed his nomination papers from Bhadaur (SC) seat in Barnala district.The Congress on Sunday had fielded Channi from the second assembly seat Bhadaur (SC).Channi, who replaced Amarinder Singh last year, is the first chief minister of Punjab from the Scheduled Caste community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-cm-channi-asks-people-to-ensure-his-victory-from-chamkaur-sahib-366182
01-02-2022||New Delhi||SC asks Punjab police not to arrest MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains till February 3||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed Punjab police not to arrest till February 3 the Lok Insaf Party MLA, Simarjeet Singh Bains, who is facing an arrest warrant in connection with a rape case.Initially, the apex court was of the view that the accused MLA be permitted to remain out till February 23 for filing nomination papers and electioneering which was opposed by the lawyer of the alleged rape victim.Before the woman’s lawyer opposed the plea of Bains, a bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli observed: “We are not saying anything on merits. The high court is seized of the matter, it is unfortunate that the order has not been passed...We are only allowing him (the protection) till 23rd February ... after that, he will surrender and get regular bail”.However, the bench took note of vehement submissions of advocate Gagan Gupta, appearing for the alleged rape victim, that it was not a case of a political vendetta at the time of polls, rather an FIR for committing rape has been lodged long back.As many as four criminal cases have been lodged against the complainant after she lodged the rape FIR, the lawyer said.The counsel for the woman also said that a separate plea has also been filed by her in the apex court and that may be listed together for hearing and after taking note of the contention, this court would be satisfied that the accused leader was not entitled to the relief sought.The plea has been filed by the leader before the election to seek relief and as the matter of fact, the case has been going on in the high court where a status report has been filed revealing that as many as 20 cases are pending against the MLA.The court ordered that the plea of the woman be also listed on Thursday along with the petition of Bains.Bains represents the Atam Nagar assembly seat in the Ludhiana district of Punjab.The leader has filed the appeal against an order of the Punjab and Haryana by which it did not stay the trial court’s non-bailable warrants issued against him in the rape case.Earlier, the apex court had granted relief to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case, observing “we are a democracy” where politicians are permitted to file nominations and it should not get the impression that “motivated” cases are filed.It had flagged the sudden spurt in criminal cases against political opponents just before the assembly polls in Punjab and had asked senior advocate P Chidambaram, appearing for the Punjab government, to advise the authorities to ensure that it does not get the impression that the state is acting against political rivals with vindictiveness. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-asks-punjab-police-not-to-arrest-mla-simarjeet-singh-bains-till-february-3-366167
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Majithia to fight only from Amritsar East||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said he will not fight from Majitha assembly seat and will only contest from Amritsar East from where he has entered the fray against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.The former minister further said his wife Ganieve Kaur will contest from Majithia assembly segment in his place.Ganieve had filed her nomination papers from Majitha seat on Monday.Bikram Majithia's spouse Ganieve Kaur in fray from MajithaA few days back, the Shiromani Akali Dal chief had fielded Majithia from Amritsar East against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.He had earlier been nominated from Majitha assembly segment and had also filed nomination papers from this seat.Addressing the media in Amritsar, Majithia said after the SAD named him as candidate from Amritsar East assembly seat, people of this constituency asked him which seat he would represent in case he won from both the seat.He said the question prompted him to take a call on fighting only from one seat and decided against contesting from Majitha assembly segment “After taking permission and blessing of voters of the Majitha assembly segment, I announce that my wife Ganieve Kaur will fight from Majitha seat. I will contest from Amritsar East seat,” said Majithia.Majithia has been representing the Majitha assembly segment since 2007.  Majithia, a three-time MLA, targeted Navjot Sidhu for not carrying out any development work in the Amritsar East constituency Sidhu last week had dared Majithia to leave the Majitha assembly seat and fight only from his constituency.The scrutiny of nominations will be done on February 2 and the last date of withdrawal of candidature is February 4.Voting for Punjab's 117 Assembly seats will be held on February 20 and the counting will take place on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/punjab-polls-bikram-majithia-to-fight-only-from-amritsar-east-366163
01-02-2022||Avneet Kaur||Famous for sports, Sansarpur village calls for boycotting Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, January 31Sansarpur village that falls in Jalandhar Cantonment constituency has a very special place in the history of sports. Not many know, this small village has produced as many as 14 Olympians — nine have played for India, four for Kenya and one for Canada — and all belonging to the same street here.Also read: Sansarpur: Mecca of hockeyBesides, it has also churned out over 300 international and national-level hockey players for the country. But little did the present and past governments have done to revive the lost glory of the village and to motivate the present generation to take up the sport as a profession.“After every five years, the candidates come and make fake promises to build schools, roads and stadiums here, and then after winning elections, they just ignore us and our demands,” said Azaad Singh, whose 28-year-old son died due to drug addiction around 10 years ago. He said this time they were a bit more hurt as the former Olympian, who himself is associated with the sport the village is popular for, did nothing.He further said it’s not just him, but the 80 per cent of the village has decided to boycott the incumbent MLA as almost a decade has passed under his leadership, but no major development has taken place.Talking to Jalandhar Tribune, Sonu Gill, the sarpanch of the village, said: “If only NRIs have to work for our village, then what was the need of the MLA or any government.” He said drug menace and unemployment have been the major reasons behind the village’s downfall in Indian hockey but what has the government done, he questioned.He further said the residents, since the last two terms, have been supporting former Olympian thinking being a sportsperson, he understands our needs, but all in vain.Another panchayat member Paramjeet Singh said: “No government official and the MLA has visited the village once in the last five years. The last we saw him was in 2017, when he came for campaigning.” He further said they had recently put interlock tiles in many streets and the entire expenditure for the same was contributed by residents and NRIs.Throwing light on the main issues of the village, the residents said drugs, bad roads, lack of proper schools, stray cattle and waste management are the main issues of the residents here for a long time.They also alleged that not a single penny has been sanctioned to the village in the last five years, and the little development that one sees in the village is all due to NRIs.Another resident, Brijinder Kaur, said looking at the condition of the village, which had given great sportsmen to the country, no one here is ready to cast their vote in favour of the Congress. She further said only after taking written assurance from the other candidates, they will decide who they will support.Meanwhile, Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh said Rs70 crore has been sanctioned for the development of 11 villages, including Sansarpur, and tender for construction of roads, laying sewerage etc has been passed, but the work got delayed due to Covid.When asked about the boycott and resentment in the residents against him, he said there’s nothing such among the residents and this was all politically motivated. He said he agrees that the construction work has been delayed and roads in many areas due to sewerage work are lying dug up and the residents are facing inconveniences, but the work will be completed very soon.He further said Sansarpur was the first village in his constituency to get an AstroTurf in the local stadium. “The people of the village have seen my work, and I am sure I will again win from here with a thumping majority.” #PargatSingh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-development-no-vote-sansarpur-village-calls-for-pargat-singhs-boycott-366058
01-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar flyers expect revolutionary changes as Air India goes into ‘right hands’||Amritsar, January 31City-based flyers are hopeful of getting quality air services after the Tata group took over Air India from the government.With a large number of domestic and international flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, the flyers believe that the takeover would bring in revolutionary changes, quality in-flight management and efficient service.Even though a number of flights are suspended due to Covid-19 restrictions, Amritsar-London-Heathrow, Amritsar-Birmingham, Amritsar-Abu Dhabi flights are being operated once in a week, while the Amritsar-Dubai flight is being operated thrice a week. A few domestic flights are connecting the holy city to Delhi, Nanded and Mumbai.Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a freelance travel writer, says: “The national carrier of a country is a symbol of national identity and serves as a window to project the image of the country globally.” He said: “I have avoided Air India for a long time, but now I want to travel in it. After all, it’s now in the right hands. Under the Tata group, Air India used to train the staff of Singapore Airlines, which is now counted among the top airlines in the world. Started as Tata Airlines, every foreigner wanted to fly on an Air India plane for a trip to India.”Talking about Pakistan International Airlines, Sandhu said it used to one of the best airlines in the world like Air India, but complacent and lackadaisical approach, besides corrupt practices, spoiled its show.Yogesh Kamra, an aviation expert, says “JRD’s Air India in 1940s had set its benchmark in the aviation sector and many five-star airlines operating these days want to replicate those quality services. With Tata now in the cockpit, a lot will change and efforts will be on to attain the same royal glory that JRD Tata had planned for Air India.”The next few years will be crucial during the transition. A lot of unlearning and re-learning will be required. To earn passenger loyalty, there would be a need to improve onboard and airport services, besides connectivity to secondary cities and improvement in customer services. #AirIndia #srigururamdassjeeinternationalairport||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-flyers-expect-revolutionary-changes-as-air-india-goes-into-right-hands-365976
01-02-2022||Nawanshahr||Pressured to go against my MLA wife: Angad Singh||Having been denied the ticket by the Congress, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh (31) today filed his nomination papers as an Independent candidate from the seat. The party had yesterday given the ticket to Satvir Palli Jhikki, chairman, District Planning Committee.Angad’s mother and former MLA Guriqbal Kaur also filed her papers from the seat as a backup candidate. Before reaching the SDM’s office to file his papers, the MLA organised a gathering at his place, where he claimed his marriage with UP-based MLA Aditi Singh, contesting as a BJP candidate there, was used as a tool to deny him the ticket.“I met the senior leadership in Chandigarh and New Delhi, but was made to feel as if I had committed a crime by marrying Aditi in November 2019. I told them we had been living separately for 15 months, at which they pressured me to write against her on the social media. But I refused to stoop to such a level. There are problems in every marriage. But the party made my personal life public. I feel insulted and humiliated,” he said.Angad even took a dig at the Congress’ choice. “The party leaders found problems in my candidature, but they had no issues while picking a candidate who had already been announced a candidate by the PLC,” he said. Calling it a ‘Delhi vs Nawanshahr’ contest, Angad said he would back Charanjit Singh Channi again as the CM. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pressured-to-go-against-my-mla-wife-angad-365924
01-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Congress seeks voters' feedback in selection of chief ministerial candidate||Chandigarh, January 31Voters and party leaders will play a decisive role in the selection of Congress’ chief ministerial candidate in the upcoming Assembly elections. A pre-recorded message through the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) is being sent out to mobile numbers of voters across the state. Besides, feedback is being taken through party candidates, AICC coordinators, survey teams spread across the 117 Assembly segments over the next one week.Three options to choose fromThrough the message, the voters are being given three options — Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu or no CM face — to choose from Gokul Butail, joint secretary, All India Congress Committee, and incharge of election control room for Punjab, confirmed feedback was being sought through the IVRS system.Sources said after party leader Rahul Gandhi announced that the party would announce the CM face soon, ground surveys had begun. The party would reach out to nearly four lakh party workers, including coordinators and district incharges at the block level. The party is expected to announce the CM face between February 7 and 10. Rahul is expected to visit the Malwa region in the first week of February. “The party will build the momentum before announcing the CM face,” said a senior leader. #CharanjitChanni, #NavjotSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-seeks-voters-feedback-365927
01-02-2022||---||CM Channi, Captain Amarinder, Sukhbir, Parkash Singh Badal file nomination papers||Chandigarh/Muktsar/Patiala, January 31Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi (Bhadaur), and his predecessors Capt Amarinder Singh (Patiala Urban) and Parkash Singh Badal (Lambi) were among 638 leaders who filed their nomination papers on the fifth and penultimate day of the deadline.One of the richest candidates in the fray, Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjit Singh, also filed his papers from Kapurthala. With 619 nominations filed till yesterday, the total now stands at 1,257, said Dr S Karuna Raju, Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab. The last date for the process in the state is February 1.In Muktsar, Badal, 94, filed his nomination from his home turf Lambi for the sixth time in a row. Badal, who is the oldest candidate in the fray, has been winning from Lambi since 1997. This is his 13th Assembly election.His total immovable assets are now Rs 6.71 crore and movable properties Rs 8.4 crore. He is presently facing a case of alleged forgery of the constitution of the SAD in a Hoshiarpur court. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal filed his nomination from Jalalabad. Harsimrat filed the papers as covering candidate.In Patiala, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Capt Amarinder Singh set the ball rolling for his party’s electoral debut, as he filed his nomination papers for Patiala Urban. He was accompanied by Union Jal Shakti minister and BJP’s Punjab’s election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.The erstwhile Maharaja of Patiala owns New Moti Bagh Palace, which was priced at Rs 71 crore in 2014, had reached half the price at Rs 35 crore in 2017 and stays the same at Rs 35 crore as per documents submitted by Capt Amarinder Singh. As per the affidavit filed by Capt Amarinder has Rs 50,000 cash in hand while his savings in various bank accounts are Rs 55.22 lakh. Capt Amarinder has bonds worth Rs 47.59 lakh while he owns a farm house in Siswan against which he has a loan of Rs 2 crore. He owns no vehicle while he wife has two Innova vehicles.In Muktsar, Congress candidate Karan Kaur Brar filed her nomination today. A perusal of her affidavit showed that she along with her late husband Kanwarjit Singh Sonny Brar owns total assets worth about Rs 162.31 crore. Her movable assets are worth Rs 41.62 lakh, which includes jewellery worth Rs 11 lakh and a Toyota Innova vehicle of Rs 17 lakh. Their total immovable property is worth Rs 161.9 crore, including properties worth Rs 150 core located in Chandigarh and Delhi. These are however under litigation.In Gurdaspur district, state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma filed papers from Pathankot and Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa (BJP) from Batala.In Moga, Congress nominee Malvika Sood went to the returning officer's office on a bicycle along with her family members to file her nomination papers. In Mansa segment, 27-year-old Sidhu Moosewala, the youngest in the fray, filed his papers as Congress candidate.In Ropar, 18, including Daljit Singh Cheema, filed nomination papers in three constituencies of Ropar, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib. In Fatehgarh Sahib district, 28 candidates filed their nominations in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana segments. While PCC working president Kuljit Singh Nagra filed his papers from Fatehgarh Sahib, Cabinet Minister Kaka Randeep Singh entered the poll fray from Amloh constituency. In Bassi Pathana, Congress MLA Gurpreet Singh GP filed the nomination papers.Money MeterParkash Singh Badal (SAD)LambiAssets:Rs15.11 crImmovable: Rs6.71 crMovable: Rs8.4 crSukhbir Singh Badal (SAD)JalalabadAssets: Rs78.15 crImmovable: Rs52.95 crMovable: Rs25.20 crCapt Amarinder Singh (PLC)Patiala UrbanAssets:Rs38.69 crImmovable: Rs35 crMovable: Rs3.69 crKaran Kaur Brar (Cong)MuktsarAssets: Rs162.31 crImmovable: Rs161.9 crMovable: Rs41.62 lakhSidhu Moosewala (Cong)MansaAssets: Rs13.13 crImmovable: Rs6.76 crMovable: Rs6.37 crMalvika Sood (Cong)MogaAssets: Rs1.24 crImmovable: Rs79 lakhMovable: Rs45 lakh(Inputs from Gurdaspur, Moga, Mansa, & Fatehgarh Sahib) #CaptAmarinderSingh #CharanjitChanni #ParkashSinghBadal #ranagurjitsingh #SukhbirBadal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-badals-file-nomination-papers-365917
01-02-2022||Arun Sharma||Tough going for CM Charanjit Channi in Chamkaur Sahib||Chamkaur Sahib, January 31Amid the allegations of patronising illegal mining, sitting MLA and CM Charanjit Singh Channi is on a sticky wicket in Chamkaur Sahib this time.Also read: 'I've come to Malwa with a mission', says Punjab CM Charanjit Channi; files papers from BhadaurMoreover, the 15 years of anti-incumbency is also on the play, which will make the situation tougher for the first Dalit CM of the state during the Assembly elections.While the AAP has once again fielded Charanjit Singh against Channi, others in the fray are former AIG and SAD-BSP candidate Harmohan Singh Sandhu and BJP’s Darshan Singh Shivjot.After representing the seat since 2007, Channi was able to initiate development works only five years ago when the Congress came to power in March 2017 and he won third time in a row and became a Cabinet minister. While a theme park announced in 2004 was completed in November last year and the work on a skill institute was also started. The stones of bridges at Purkhali and Bela were also laid by him and grants amounting to over Rs 100 crore were distributed.His journey to the Assembly seemed smooth till a few months ago and he was even considered invincible by the rivals after he took over as the CM in September. The situation, however, took a dramatic turn after AAP leaders Manish Sisodia, Raghav Chandha and Charanjit Singh started visiting government schools and desilting sites, alleging that Channi failed in providing proper education infrastructure in his constituency and illegal sand mining was rampant in the area.Though the CM refuted all allegations of the AAP and other parties regarding illegal mining, his image took a hit after the recovery of huge amount from his relative during the ED raid and the revelations made by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia.He has, however, chosen to contest from Bhadaur too.Meanwhile, AAP’s Charanjit Singh, who lost to Channi with a margin of 12,308 votes, claimed the CM had done nothing for the people of the constituency even after becoming a Cabinet minister in 2017. “While the theme park was an old project that was already underway, Channi can’t show even a single work initiated by him,” he added.Despite publically announcing of taking a tough stance against the mining mafia, Channi was found shaking hands with them, he alleged.His own leader not backing HIMCongress leader and Morinda ex-MLA Jagmohan Singh Kang is also campaigning against the CM, alleging that he misguided the Congress high command due to which his son Yadvinder Singh was not given the party ticket from Kharar. #ChamkaurSahib #CharanjitChanni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tough-going-for-cm-in-chamkaur-sahib-365919
01-02-2022||Jalandhar||Trashing reports of rift, Som Parkash joins Phagwara candidate Vijay Sampla in filing papers||The BJP put forth a united front during the filing of nominations by its Phagwara candidate Vijay Sampla, ex-Union Minister and chairman, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, on Monday.Union Minister Som Parkash and BJP national general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam accompanied Sampla during the filing of papers. Som Parkash was also Sampla’s proposer. BJP candidate for the 2019 Phagwara bypoll and state vice-president Rajesh Bagha also accompanied Sampla.Ticket given on merit onlyBJP is an inclusive party where there is no control of any particular family and the ticket is distributed to candidates who have the ideological commitment to the welfare of the nation. —Hardeep Singh Puri, Union ministerNotably, the Phagwara SC seat has been a witness to intense factionalism within the BJP with the seat contended by both Sampla and Parkash’s families for long. Deemed political rivals, the duo had previous run-ins over seats. While Som Parkash had been seeking a ticket for his wife Anita Parkash for the Phagwara seat this time, she had been campaigning for long. From organising langars during the Covid lockdown, to holding workers and residents’ meets in the run-up to the 2022 elections, Anita has done it all. The BJP, however, placed its bets on Sampla this time."I am wholeheartedly supporting our party candidate from Phagwara. As far as the reports of me being more active elsewhere is concerned, these are just concocted stories,” said Som Parkash. In the 2019 Phagwara bypoll too, Som Parkash wanted to field his wife while Sampla had sought the seat for his son Sahil Sampla. The BJP had then chosen Rajesh Bagha as the candidate.Another seat that witnessed a tussle between two senior leaders was Hoshiarpur in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections for which Som Parkash was chosen as a candidate to the displeasure of Sampla, who took to Twitter to term it ‘cow slaughter’.However, ironing out differences, the duo put up a joint front on Monday. The Phagwara seat has been with the BJP for the past three consecutive terms until the 2019 byelection. In 2012 and 2017, the seat was won by Som Parkash. — TNS #Phagwara #vijaysampla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trashing-reports-of-rift-som-joins-sampla-in-filing-papers-365921
01-02-2022||Gurdaspur||Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa keeps party in suspense||Congress candidate from Fatehgarh Churian Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa kept up the guessing game as he did not turn up to file his nomination on the penultimate day of filing the papers. His son, Ravi Nandan Bajwa, too, failed to turn up.Tript has been sending regular feelers to the high command seeking a ticket from Batala instead of Fatehgarh Churian from where he is the sitting MLA. On Saturday, instructions were sent out from his camp to his followers, including Batala Mayor Sukhdeep Singh Teja and a dozen municipal councilors, to ensure their Whatsapp status showed Tript will be contesting as an Independent from Batala if the high command refused to bow to his demand.Bajwa remained ensconced at his Qadian residence today. Deliberations were held throughout the day, but by evening no consensus had been reached. Trip camp insiders say whenever the minister gives finality to his decision to fight from Fatehgarh Churian, his supporters step in and bar him from making it public. — #TriptRajinderBajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tript-keeps-party-in-suspense-365936
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Probe ordered against Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, claims AAP's Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party has welcomed the order by Governor Banwari Lal Purohit asking the DGP to conduct a high-level inquiry into allegations of illegal sand mining against CM Charanjit Channi.Addressing mediapersons here on Monday, state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said the AAP had submitted a letter to the Governor demanding an inquiry against Channi.Chadha thanked the Governor for “accepting” their demand and hoped the Punjab Police would conduct a “fair and independent” investigation in the matter and punish the guilty.Referring to the letter related to the order of inquiry, Chadha claimed the Governor had taken cognisance of the matter and ordered DGP VK Bhawra to take action against Channi for illegal sand mafia at Jindapur village in his Chamkaur Sahib segment.“The Governor has asked the DGP to conduct a high-level inquiry into illegal sand mining and submit a report,” he claimed. Chadha asked the DGP and Punjab Police not to work under political pressure and register an FIR against the CM after conducting a fair and independent probe.Chadha said: “We have already exposed sand mafia in Chamkaur Sahib and said he and his relatives are associated with the sand mafia. Punjab can never be safe in the hands of a Chief Minister accused of sand mafia.”The AAP was keeping an eye on the Punjab Police probe as it was a “serious” matter, he said. In case of any lapse in the investigation, the party would raise voice against it and bring the truth to the people, he added.Reacting to the allegations, Sunil Jakhar, former PCC chief, said: “Apparently the highest court deciding a drug case kept the election process in mind, but the Governor has no such compunction instituting inquiry against the CM. Forget the constitutional propriety, even remaining shards of federalism demolished. The EC should stall order's execution.” — #CharanjitChanni #IllegalMining #RaghavChadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-ordered-against-channi-claims-aap-365945
01-02-2022||Nitin Jain||2 AAP MLAs slug it out in Jagraon||Ludhiana, January 31Two sitting MLAs of the AAP are slugging it out in the Jagraon constituency, which had remained a stronghold of the ruling Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal in the past.While AAP sitting MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke is seeking a repoll from here, the party’s present MLA from adjoining Raikot segment, Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, who had switched over to the Congress recently, has been fielded from this reserved seat.Keen contest on cardsThe two newly-formed farmers’ outfits — Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) and Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP), which have also joined hands, have nominated another new face Kuldeep Singh Dalla from here.Manuke, 49, who won her maiden election from here in 2017 and was the Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, is seeking votes on the basis of her performance and with a promise to bring change in the state. A postgraduate in economics, she was a teacher before taking to politics.Hissowal, 47, says he was forced to shift from Raikot to Jagraon after joining the Congress. Having won his maiden election from Raikot, he is banking on the performance of the present regime.Kaler, 70, contesting his third election, is banking on his performance as the Jagraon MLA from 2012 to 2017. He won his maiden election in 2012 and lost from Nihalsinghwala in 2017.Kanwar, 61, contesting his maiden election, is seeking votes for solving the perennial problems of drainage and sanitation besides forming the BJP-led government.Dalla, 38, also fighting his maiden election, says the welfare of all sections of the society, especially farmers, by throwing out the traditional parties is his main poll plank.In 2017, Manuke had defeated Congress’ Malkit Dakha by a margin of 25,576 votes. SAD’s Amarjit Kaur Sahoke had finished third, while the remaining six candidates lost their security deposits.Notably, the SAD has represented the seat for a maximum of nine times, while the Congress had it six times since inception in 1951. The AAP had won Jagraon in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-aap-mlas-slug-it-out-in-jagraon-365947
01-02-2022||Patiala||EC notice to Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for holding roadshow despite ban||Nabha Returning Officer Kanu Garg on Monday issued a show-cause notice to Congress candidate Sadhu Singh Dharamsot  . Dharamsot had held a roadshow before filing the nomination papers.He had held a procession while visiting a temple to pay the obeisance. In a video of the roadshow uploaded by him on the social media, Dharamsot is seen in a convertible Jeep holding a rally with hundreds of supporters, in violation of the Covid guidelines. However, Dharmsot claimed: “I didn’t hold any roadshow. I was going to pay obeisance at a temple. People gathered to greet me when I was on my way to the temple.” — #sadhusinghdharamsot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-notice-to-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-365951
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Son to contest from Kharar, says Jagmohan Kang||Rebel Congress leader Jagmohan Kang today announced that his son Yadwinder Kang will contest elections as an Independent candidate from Kharar.Addressing a press conference, the former minister said he would not only go Chamkaur Sahib but also Bahadur to campaign against CM Charanjit Channi and “expose his misdeeds”.He claimed his threat to take on Channi from Chamkaur Sahib had forced him to contest from Bhadaur. “Though we have been approached by the AAP, BJP and other parties, we will go by the decision of our supporters. I have been in the Congress for 47 years, but Channi got my ticket cancelled for vested interests,” said Kang. He claimed Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary played a role in securing the Kharar seat for Vijay Sharma Tinu. — #jagmohankang #Kharar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/son-to-contest-from-kharar-says-kang-365954
01-02-2022||Amritsar||Bikram Majithia's spouse Ganieve Kaur in fray from Majitha||Dy Speaker’s wife to contest as IndMuktsar: Angered at denial of ticket, Congress’ Malout MLA-cum-Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti today said his wife Manjit Kaur will contest the Assembly election from Bhadaur against CM Charanjit Singh Channi. Bhatti further said his wife will file the nomination on Tuesday. Bhatti said: “Channi and other party leaders have kept us in the dark. I became an MLA in 2007, 2012 and 2017, but they ignored my seniority. First, they promised me a ticket from Bhucho, then from Jaitu and later assured the Bhadaur seat.” TNSEC seizes valuables worth Rs305 croreChandigarh: After the model code of conduct came into force, enforcement teams have seized valuables worth Rs305 crore till January 30. Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju today said surveillance teams have seized 26.64 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs12.11 crore. Similarly, the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to Rs273.13 crore, besides confiscating unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs18.48 crore. Dr Raju said 1,197 vulnerable hamlets have been identified. He added that 2,860 persons have been identified as probable sources of trouble and preventive action has been initiated against 1,835 persons. #BikramMajithia #majitha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithias-spouse-in-fray-from-majitha-365956
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal misleading people on Bhullar, claims Akali Dal||The SAD today said it had documentary evidence to “expose” AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal’s “lies” on the release of Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar as it released the minutes of the Sentence Review Board (SRB) meet held here.Addressing a press meet, Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, said Kejriwal was trying to fool people with his assertions that he had nothing to do with Bhullar’s release, whereas in reality, five of seven members on the SRB were directly linked to Dehi CM.He claimed SBR members were directly associated with Kejriwal. He said the board had held a meeting on December 11 in which it rejected Bhullar’s plea for release. Bains released the minutes, claiming his Cabinet colleague led the board to reject the plea. He said Kejriwal should desist from “misleading” people when it had been proved that he was behind the move. — #arvind kejriwal #devinderpalsinghbhullar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-misleading-people-on-bhullar-claims-akali-dal-365957
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sunehra Punjab Party launched||The Sanjha Sunehra Punjab Manch formed in August 2021 announced to launch Sunehra Punjab Party today.Party’s national chief KC Singh said, “A small but diverse group of individuals — civil, military, sports and civil society — came together to establish the Sanjha Sunehra Punjab Manch in August 2021. After five months of holding interactive public meetings, a common thinking emerged that a change wasn’t possible unless good Punjabis stepped forward to occupy the political space.” “Consequently, most members endorsed the decision to register a political party with the EC, which approved the name.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunehra-punjab-party-launched-365958
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers burn PM Modi's effigies, observe Betrayal Day||Farm unions across the state held a protest against the non-fulfillment of promises made to them by the Centre at the time of withdrawal of the three farm laws in November last year. The call for observing a “vishwasghat diwas” was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.Farmers burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 16 districts. Demonstrations were held in front of 12 DC offices and 10 SDM offices. The unions claimed that more than 1 lakh farmers, women and farm labourers, participated in the agitation.The protesters strongly condemned the breach of trust by the Government of India. They alleged that the Centre vide their letter dated December 9, 2021, had agreed and promised to constitute a committee to ensure MSP for all crops as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and strengthening of public distribution system. Other demands included removal and arrest of Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra Teni (whose son is accused of crushing four farmers and injuring others by running over the vehicles under a pre-planned conspiracy in Lakhimpur Kheri) and withdrawal of all cases slapped against farmers and labourers in Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, UP and other states during farmers’ stir, compensation and government jobs to the families of more than 700 farmers who lost their lives, farmer and labour friendly amendments in the Electricity Amendment Bill.All these demands were agreed to be implemented within a month, however, the Centre has been running away and adopting a casual attitude, said farm leaders.Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of BKU Ekta Ugrahan today burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister to mark ‘vishwasghat diwas’ (betrayal day) at Hanuman Chowk in Bathinda. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. Shingara Singh Mann of BKU Ekta Ugrahan said their demands have not been accepted so far.In Fatehgarh Sahib, rift among the farm unions came to the fore as different associations burnt effigies separately. Farmers belonging to BKU Ekta Ugrahan held a protest in front of the DC office. Later, members of other factions started their agitation. #FarmersProtest #NarendraModi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-burn-pms-effigies-365960
01-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Can't stay conviction if aspirant fails to show irreparable loss: HC||Chandigarh, January 31Just before the Assembly elections, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a contender seeking stay on his conviction for contesting the polls was required to indicate irreparable loss that would be caused to him in case it was not stayed.The High Court also dismissed an aspirant’s plea for stay on his conviction for enabling him to contest the polls. Justice Lalit Batra, among other things, held that the contender had not been able to point out the irreparable loss or consequence in case his conviction was not stayed.Referring to a plethora of judgments, Justice Batra asserted: “In view of the settled legal propositions, the applicant/appellant having been convicted and sentenced for the commission of offence of the aggravated form of bigamy involving ‘moral turpitude’. Further the fact he has not been able to point out what irreparable loss or consequence would fall upon him, in case, his conviction is not stayed, instant application moved by the applicant/appellant seeking the suspension of his conviction being devoid of merits, is dismissed.”Justice Batra also madeit clear that the applicant/appellant was on a “weaker footing” compared to an employee seeking a stay on conviction on the ground of losing his job. Justice Batra asserted a similar application was moved in the case of “Shyam Narain Pandey versus the state of Uttar Pradesh”. The court’s attention was drawn to the fact that the applicant/appellant would lose his job if the conviction was not stayed. But the ground was declared to be insufficient to grant the relief. “The plea put forth by the applicant/appellant is on much weakerfooting inasmuch as he wants to contest the state Assembly elections-2022,” Justice Batra asserted.The matter was brought to Justice Batra’s notice after an application was moved by the applicant/appellant seeking stay on his conviction during the pendencyof an appeal filed against the judgment of conviction dated June 5, 2002, passed by the Ropar Additional Sessions Judge.His counsel contended that the applicant/appellant was a long-time active member of a political party and was currently holding the general secretary’s post. He intended to contest the upcoming Assembly elections from the Rupnagar constituency on the party ticket. The counsel further urged that his nomination papers from the Anandpur Sahib parliamentary constituency for the parliamentary elections in 2009 were rejected on the account of his conviction in the case.Dismisses petitionDismissing a plea, Justice Lalit Batra said the applicant/appellant had already been granted the concession of the suspension of sentence. “The relief he is seeking now can’t be granted as he hasn’t been able to draw the court’s attention to the consequences that may arise, if the conviction was not stayed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-stay-conviction-if-aspirant-fails-to-show-irreparable-loss-hc-365961
01-02-2022||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Hoshiarpur: This cobbler won't give up, in fray 20th time||Hoshiarpur, January 31“I am committed to building a society that has no discrimination of any kind. There is no caste or financial difference or any communal boundaries. To achieve this target, I am going to contest for the 20th time,” says Om Prakash Jakhu, a cobbler who works near Clock Tower, here on Monday.Promising free education and health facilities for all, Jakhu filed his nomination as a candidate of the Bharatrashtra Democratic Party.Talking to The Tribune, he said: “I am fighting the poll to save the youth from narcotics. My mantra is work to every hand, food to every mouth, education to every child and health services for all.”Jakhu has only Rs 20,000 cash in hand and has no bank deposits or property. He has a two-wheeler in the name of assets. “Of my poll budget of Rs 20,000, I have spent Rs 7,500 on filing the nomination and depositing the security amount while the rest of the amount will be used for my door-to-door campaigning. I will visit people, polish their shoes to earn my livelihood and urge them to vote for me.”Jakhu had contested 19 times. Years ago, he had been a BSP candidate, then he contested from Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party in the MLA polls thrice. Asked about contesting from a new party this time, he said, “I am fighting for the sake of people, to save democracy and defeat the communal and corrupt forces.” #Hoshiarpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-cobbler-wont-give-up-in-fray-20th-time-365962
01-02-2022||Chandigarh||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel targets Centre over rising inflation||Senior Congress leader and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel today slammed the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre over rising inflation.Addressing a press conference here, Baghel accompanied by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said: “PM Narendra Modi and his government at the Centre have failed to control the ever-rising inflation. The Gujarat model of development is a failure.”The CM said the rising prices of petrol, diesel and gas cylinders have made it tough for citizens to manage their household expenses. During the rule of the Modi-led government, the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark and the price of LPG cylinder has reached Rs 1,000.“Similarly, the prices of pulses and edible oil have jumped from Rs 100 to Rs 200. Even the prices of other products, including tea leaves, salt, etc. have gone up. It has become difficult for the common man to buy daily essentials,” he said.Talking about Congress’ ‘Punjab Model’, Sidhu said it had been prepared considering the necessities of all sections of society. “This model is based on the policies of former PM Jawaharlal Nehru and Dr BR Ambedkar. It is built after extensive research… with a motive to uplift the state and meet the needs of all sections,” he said. — #bhupeshbaghel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baghel-targets-centre-over-rising-inflation-365964
01-02-2022||---||War widows battle for honour, benefits||Chandigarh, January 31Widows of several war heroes who had laid down their lives in the line of duty and were decorated posthumously for gallantry have claimed that the state government has failed to recognise their sacrifices and accord them due honour.Speaking to mediapersons, they said even after 30 years some of them were struggling to get benefits promised to them under the state government’s policies for war heroes.Kamla Rani, whose husband Naib Subedar Baldev Raj, was killed in a counter-insurgency operation in Baramulla district in 1992 said she was deeply disheartened at the attitude of the state government. He was decorated with Kirti Chakra, the second highest peacetime gallantry award, she said.Sepoy Rajinder Singh, a recipient of Shaurya Chakra, had left behind his pregnant wife when he was killed in action in 1998. Even 23 years, the mother and son have been waiting employment from the Punjab Government.Lt Joga Singh, also a recipient of Shaurya Chakra was killed in counter-insurgency operation in 1998, but his family continues to run from pillar to post.Bhupinder Kaur, widow of Lt Col Bachittar Singh, a Shaurya Chakra recipient, said while her husband’s name is displayed at the National War Memorial in New Delhi, no gratitude has been shown by the Punjab Ggovernment. She said she had to face intense hardships in raising her daughters. Sukhroop Sahota brave officer’s younger daughter said the government cannot overlook her father’s sacrifice and other families. She said her father was also awarded Army Commanders Commendation & Chief of Army Staff Commendation for displaying bravery in Operation Rhino against the ULFA militants in Assam.The provisions of the Honour and Gratitude Policy of Punjab were not being followed in letter and spirit, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/war-widows-battle-for-honour-benefits-365965
01-02-2022||---||Faridkot: Rs 13 lakh disparity in fee leaves MBBS students confused||Faridkot, January 31A disparity to the tune of Rs 13 lakh in the tuition fee for MBBS course announced by the state government and a private medical college has left hundreds of medical aspirants in utter confusion.While the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had announced Rs 50.47 lakh as a full-course MBBS fee, Adesh Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (AIMSR) has mentioned Rs 63.93 lakh in its prospectus under the fee structure.Counselling underwayIn its notification dated September 22, 2021, the DMER had announced the fee structure for the four-and-a-half year MBBS course at the AIMSR.As per this notification, the first year tuition fee would be Rs 9.45 lakh, followed by 10 per cent increase every subsequent year (total Rs 50.47 lakh).However, the AIMSR declared the first year fee at Rs 11.90 lakh, followed by 10 per cent increase every year of the course, thus making it Rs 63,93,930.BFUHS has been conducting counselling for the MBBS course in nine medical colleges in the state, including the AIMSR.The first list of the candidates selected for the MBBS course for this academic session in all medical colleges would be released today.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS, said, “The university will charge Rs 9.45 lakh as a tuition fee for every admission at the AIMSR as per the directions and notification of the state government.”Meanwhile, the authorities at the AIMSR said they have challenged the fee structure announced by the state government in the High Court.The fee shall be subject to the final decision of the writ petition said the management at the AIMSR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13l-disparity-in-fee-leaves-medical-students-confused-365967
01-02-2022||---||Punish Delhi assault  case accused: Akal Takht||Amritsar, January 31Taking cognisance of sexual assault on a woman in New Delhi, Akal Takht and the SGPC has asked the Centre to ensure that the accused gets the exemplary punishment. Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said torture of woman was sheer brutality.Demanding severe punishment for the perpetrators of this unfortunate incident, SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said humiliating a person in this manner was totally against human rights.The SGPC has assigned Delhi Sikh Mission officials to investigate the matter. “What could be more shameful than the torture of a helpless and lonely woman. It was even more unfortunate that women were involved in this crime,” said the SGPC. #AkalTakht #gianiharpreetsingh #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punish-delhi-assault-case-accused-sgpc-365968
01-02-2022||---||IAS officer caught taking Rs 2 lakh bribe||New Delhi, January 31The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) today arrested Director of Punjab Roadways Paramjit Singh (IAS officer) in Chandigarh for accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh.The CBI carried out a raid while Paramjit was allegedly accepting the bribe for recommending the officer’s name to the Principal Secretary of the Transport Department for promotion.A case was registered against Paramjit on a complaint in which it was alleged that the complainant was due for a promotion to the rank of General Manager, for which the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC), was constituted in January.CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said, “It was further alleged that the accused demanded a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant for recommending his name to the Principal Secretary, Transport Department, for promotion.”Joshi said the deal was settled at Rs 2 lakh. “The accused had allegedly also threatened the complainant to bear the consequences in case the bribe was not paid to him,” he said.The CBI officials laid a trap and caught Paramjit while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh, said Joshi. He added that searches were conducted at the premises of the accused in Chandigarh and Mohali, which led to recovery of Rs 30 lakh.Joshi said Paramjit would be produced before the court on Tuesday. #iasofficer #PunjabRoadways||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ias-officer-caught-taking-2l-bribe-365969
01-02-2022||New Delhi||SC tells Punjab not to arrest Bikram Majithia till February 23||In a major relief to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the Supreme Court on Monday gave him protection from arrest till February 23 in a criminal case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, in view of the February 20 Assembly elections in Punjab.As an SAD candidate from Amritsar East, Majithia is pitted against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.A Bench led by CJI NV Ramana, which had earlier restrained Punjab from taking coercive action against Majithia till January 31, asked the SAD leader to surrender before the trial court on February 23. It directed the trial court to decide his bail plea expeditiously.The top court wondered how several criminal cases were suddenly coming out on the eve of the Assembly elections in Punjab. It also talked about a case registered against Simarjit Singh Bains that has landed in the top court.“Sorry to say this, suddenly these cases are coming up before elections and everybody has reasons to suspect some motives.... We are in a democracy… we are not saying hold your hands and not control drug mafias. But let the elections take place,” the Bench told senior counsel P Chidambaram, representing the Punjab Government. — #BikramMajithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-tells-punjab-not-to-arrest-majithia-till-february-23-365923
01-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||'I've come to Malwa with a mission', says Punjab CM Charanjit Channi; files papers from Bhadaur||Barnala, January 31With CM Charanjit Singh Channi filing his nomination papers from Bhadaur on Monday, the reserved constituency is set to witness a keen contest.Also read: Tough going for CM Charanjit Channi in Chamkaur SahibMission MalwaI have come to Malwa with a mission…Though Capt and Badal sahib were there, the area lacks development. — Charanjit Singh Channi, CMWhile voters are hopeful to see development in their area which is deprived of even the basic amenities, Channi’s political opponents have started targeting him, calling him an “outsider”.Unfazed, Channi said he had come like Sudama and hoped that people of the Malwa region would take care of him like Lord Krishna.He claimed he had massive support in the region and would win both Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur seats. “I have come to Malwa with a mission…The party high command has ordered me to contest both seats. Malwa has not seen much development and I will give the region its due,” said Channi, who is pitted against Aam Aadmi Party’s Labh Singh Ugoke and SAD-BSP’s Satnam Singh Rahi.During the last elections, AAP’s Pirmal Singh Dhaula had emerged victorious. He was polled 57,095 votes. The political equations changed when Dhaula joined the Congress a few months ago.Ugoke claimed, “AAP’s support base is still intact. Bhadaur got nothing during the Congress rule. How will Channi face voters? Besides, he is an outsider.”There are a total of 77 villages in the constituency and two urban areas, Tapa and Bhadaur. Lack of health, education and road infrastructure and other basic amenities are the main issues.SAD’s Rahi said, “In November last year, the CM had announced Rs 25 crore for the development of Bhadaur. Area residents will question him on his false claims as no funds were released.”CPI (M) candidate Balvir Singh said, “During the last five years nothing was done to end the drug menace and to improve health and education facilities. Voters are aware of the Congress’ tactics.” #CharanjitChanni #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ive-come-to-malwa-with-a-mission-says-cm-files-papers-from-bhadaur-365928
01-02-2022||New Delhi||Punjab Congress rethinks on Khadoor Sahib, Adampur seats||The Congress has resumed discussions on nominations for the Adampur and Khadoor Sahib seats. It may field former MP Mohinder Singh Kaypee, replacing Sukhwinder Singh Kotli whose name figured in the first list of candidates on January 15.The Congress said it was also discussing the Khadoor Sahib seat where two-time MLA Ramanjit Sikki has already been fielded. AICC sources said sitting Congress MP from Khadoor Sahib JS Gill had sought the seat for himself or his son Updesh.Sources, however, said it was not easy to replace a sitting MLA, who “was also popular”. — #adampur #KhadoorSahib #MohinderSinghKaypee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-rethinks-on-khadoor-sahib-adampur-seats-365934
