02-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Punjab CM Channi on Congress Uttarakhand star campaigner list, Navjot Sidhu not there||New Delhi, February 2In growing signals of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s clout in the party, his name on Wednesday figured among the 30 star Congress campaigners for Uttarakhand elections on February 14 even though Punjab itself is to go to polls on February 20.The name of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu is not on the list.Other star campaigners of Congress in Uttarakhand are party president Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka vadra, Ghulam nabi Azad, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel (Gehlot and Baghel are also among UP star campaigners where Channi has not been named).Former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat, Uttarakhand Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal and Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala also feature in the list.Sidhu’s omission is significant given Channi’s inclusion.The two are racing for Punjab Congress’ chief ministerial nomination ahead of February 20 polls, with Channi said to be leading the race.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-on-congress-uttarakhand-star-campaigner-list-navjot-sidhu-not-there-366474
02-02-2022||Jammu||J-K: Sidhu pays obeisance at Vaishno Devi shrine||Ahead of the Assembly elections, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday visited Mata Vaishno Devi shrine atop Trikuta hills in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.The cricketer-turned-politician reached base camp Katra in the afternoon and straightway flew to the 'Bhawan' (sanctum sanctorum) to offer prayers at the revered shrine, they said.The officials said Sidhu is likely to stay for the night at the shrine to participate in the morning prayers before returning to his state on Thursday.“Warmth, love, and affection at the heavenly abode is heart-rendering,” the Congress leader wrote on his Twitter handle, sharing a video of some devotees taking selfies with him.In another tweet, Sidhu wrote “On my way to Mata Vaishno Devi…The eternal grace of the divine mother has always protected me on this path of Dharma…At her lotus feet for blessings…Dushtaan da vinaash kr, Punjab da Kalyaan kar…Sach Dharam di sathapana kr…”Punjab is scheduled to vote for 117 assembly seats on February 20. Warmth, love and affection at the heavenly abode is heart rendering… pic.twitter.com/Z7KEUBIY9E   #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/j-k-sidhu-pays-obeisance-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-366467
02-02-2022||Vijay Mohan||Chandigarh among 8 airports identified for promoting aircraft maintenance activities||Chandigarh, February 2Chandigarh is among eight airports in the country that have been identified by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for promoting maintenance, repair and overhaul activities for aircraft and aviation equipment.“The Airports Authority of India has come up with a business-friendly proposal for MRO with zero airport royalty charges and significantly rationalised land rentals for eight AAI airports,” an action taken report on the ‘Status of Aviation Connectivity in the Country’ tabled in Parliament on Wednesday by the Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture stated.The eight airports are Begumpet (Hyderabad), Bhopal, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Juhu (Mumbai), Kolkata and Tirupati. Other airports with available land and space resources, with potential to attract MRO service providers for establishing their facilities shall be identified and notified by AAI from time to time, the report adds.Chandigarh international airport is co-located with the sprawling Chandigarh Air Force Station, while the civil airport has a separate approach and terminal building, the runway, air traffic services and navigation facilities are owned and operated by the Air Force. The IAF also has the country’s largest helicopter repair and overhaul establishment at this station.Civilian flights from Chandigarh started from a small enclave located on the north-eastern edge of the air force station. In 2008, the Punjab government acquired 304 acres of land along the station’s southern edge, and a modern airport building was inaugurated in 2015. In 2019, the air force also lengthened and strengthen the runway to cater to international civilian flights operating heavy wide-bodied aircraft.The Committee had earlier observed that at the time of aircraft purchase, aircraft manufacturing companies insist upon the aircraft operators to enter into a contract for maintenance of the aircraft in the manufacturers’ country, even though such facilities may be available in the country of the operator.The Committee was of the view that this hampered the growth of MRO industry in our country and recommended that in order to give the much desired fillip to the local MRO industry, the Ministry of Civil Aviation should devise a suitable MRO policy for the growth of MRO industry, whereby employment opportunities can be created.In September, 2021, the ministry had issued revised guidelines for rationalizing charges, including license fees, land lease, etc, levied on MRO service providers for the ease of doing business as well as to provide further incentives to the sector.The Committee’s report also stated that India has the potential to be an MRO hub due to locational advantage, growing aircraft fleet, low labour costs and the natural talent to drive innovation. “However, the country has not yet been able to fully exploit the opportunities available in this sector and a major deterrent for growth of the MRO industry is high taxation of MRO components. Aircraft MRO services are critical in the aviation value chain and it would be of a huge loss for the country, if we do not tap the vast technical and skill base available in the country,” the report stated.Following the Committee’s emphasis on enhanced collaboration between defence and civilian MROs, the government is facilitating civil-military MRO convergence by fostering greater technical and business collaboration between leading MRO companies in India and the defence establishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-among-8-airports-identified-for-promoting-aircraft-maintenance-activities-366461
02-02-2022||---||SAD asks Congress to explain ‘electoral fraud’ in the name of inner party democracy in selecting its CM||Chandigarh, February 2The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday said the statement of former Pradesh Congress president Sunil Jakhar that he had not been made chief minister even though party legislators had supported his claim overwhelmingly had exposed the “electoral fraud committed by the Congress high command in the name of inner party democracy”.In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema demanded the immediate resignation of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. He said the Congress high command had not only cheated its legislators but the entire rank and file by making Charanjit Channi the chief minister. “This was done even though Channi secured only two votes during an internal ballot of legislators which was held to decide Capt Amarinder Singh’s replacement as chief minister.”Cheema said now that Sunil Jakhar had disclosed that he had received the support of 42 legislators and that Sukhjinder Randhawa had received the support of 16 MLAs, Preneet Kaur of 12 and Charanjit Channi of two, it was up to the Congress high command to set the record straight.“The Congress party also owes an explanation to the party rank and file as to why it did not proceed on the principle of inner party democracy. This also shows that the inner party democracy which the Congress proclaims is a sham and that it is still run in a dictatorial manner by the Gandhi family,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-asks-congress-to-explain-electoral-fraud-in-the-name-of-inner-party-democracy-in-selecting-its-cm-366456
02-02-2022||Rajmeet SinghChandigarh||Congress sets up in-house mechanism for Punjab Assembly elections||The Congress has set up an in-house poll mechanism for Punjab Assembly election in an attempt to overcome the challenge of hiring professional poll strategist.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the party had hired election strategist Prashant Kishor.A strong team of over 200 volunteers, drawn from state units of Congress in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and other neighbouring places have positioned in all 117 assembly segments and 23 districts for real-time feedback on poll-related issues. Already working for the last over two months, the volunteers included elected representatives from the level of block development committee (BDC) to the positions like secretaries and general secretaries in the state youth congress units.  The Punjab elections have provided an opportunity to set up a robust in-house mechanism to run a digital campaign in modern ways and it would be replicated in coming elections in other states and the general elections. The team gets feedback on the candidates, real-time issues of the voters across different assembly segments, reaching out to the intended beneficiaries of government schemes.Gokul Butail, Joint Secretary, All India Congress Committee, and in charge of the party's election control room for Punjab, says: “The volunteers coming from different background get an opportunity to hone their professional and networking skills, connect with the grass root workers and at the same time interact with the top leadership. The volunteers add to team management skills. The opportunity offers incentives to rise the organisational ladder in the party”.  #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/congress-sets-up-in-house-mechanism-for-punjab-assembly-elections-366454
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||When Bikram told me to fight polls, I thought he was joking, says Majithia’s wife Ganieve Kaur||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s wife Ganieve Kaur on Wednesday said she thought her husband was joking when he told her to fight from Majitha assembly seat in Amritsar for the February 20 Punjab assembly polls.The 46-year-old said she never thought of taking a plunge in politics.Kaur on Wednesday visited religious places in Kathunangal in Amritsar marking her beginning in electoral politics.Shiromani Akali Dal leader Majithia on Tuesday had announced that his wife will contest from the Majitha seat in his place and he would fight from Amritsar East from where Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is seeking re-election.Majithia has been representing Amritsar’s Majitha assembly segment since 2007.“I will try my level best. I will take care of the Majitha constituency the way I look after my children,” Ganieve Kaur told reporters in Amritsar.Asked about her decision, she said a lot of discussion on politics takes place at home but she never thought of entering politics and it was her husband who asked her to fight the election.“I thought he was joking with me,” she said.Now that she has taken the electoral plunge, Kaur said she will take the development agenda ahead.“I will take the work done by him forward,” she said.She said she was getting so much love from the people of Majitha, the constituency nurtured by her husband who devotes a lot of time there.Kaur said she always prayed for her husband though never actively campaigned for him.Majithia on Tuesday had said his family members always prayed for him but they never participated in politics.“Even till two days ago, my wife did now know that it could happen,” Majithia had said.Navjot Sidhu last week had dared Majithia to leave the Majitha assembly seat and fight only from his constituency.Bikram Majithia and Ganieve Kaur had got married in 2009. They have two sons.Ganieve is a 1996 graduate from Jesus & Mary College in Delhi.  #BikramMajithia #PunjabElections2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-bikram-told-me-to-fight-polls-i-thought-he-was-joking-says-majithias-wife-ganieve-kaur-366449
02-02-2022||Jalandhar||‘Sada Channi’ jerseys kick up a row in Jalandhar||Leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday lodged a massive protest near PPR Mall here where they stopped two trucks carrying sports jerseys with ‘Sada Channi’ printed on them.AAP candidate from Jalandhar West Sheetal Angural said he got the information that a truck was unloading packets of these jerseys near the market and reached the site. He said he immediately called AAP leaders and workers at the site and got the truck halted.District AAP chief Rajwinder Kaur, Jalandhar AAP candidate Surinder Sodhi and a large number of workers reached the site carrying party flags and raised slogans against the state government. The AAP leaders flayed the government resorting to cheap tactics to win the elections by offering voters freebies when the election code was in place.“The Congress was planning to give these tracksuits to every household and ask for votes,” said the leaders as they also burnt the effigy of Jalandhar West Congress MLA Sushil Rinku alleging that the trucks were going to his constituency.AAP leader Sodhi, who retired as IG Punjab Police, said the incident showed how the police was hand-in-glove with the ruling party. “Had I been the police officer of Jalandhar today, I would have got the SHO of this area suspended for not having noted the movement of this truck. Our party volunteers have played a vigilant role and got the government’s illegal activity stopped,” he said.The whole drama continued for over five hours and SAD candidate Jagbir Brar and BJP candidate Sarabjit Makkar too reached the spot levelling allegations against the state government for indulging in unfair means. Police teams, too, reached at the spot.The matter finally got resolved as District Congress Committee chief Balraj Thakur finally reached the spot and presented a bill from a Ludhaiana-based hosiery company saying “We had ordered their track suits from the district Congress for our party workers who will go for door-to-door canvassing.” The matter ended at that point. #Channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sada-channi-jerseys-kick-up-a-row-in-jalandhar-366319
02-02-2022||Patiala||Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, completes 74 years||Yadavindra Public School (YPS), Patiala, is completing 74 years of existence tomorrow. Following the Covid curbs, the celebrations have been postponed for a year.“Foundation Day marks the beginning of a new journey. And one such a journey began 74 years ago when YPS, Patiala, was founded on February 2, 1948. And today, the school enters the 75th glorious year of its existence. It’s a proud moment and a memorable day for us,” says school Director, Major Gen Sanjiv Varma (retd).“We have come a long way, from 150 odd students to over 1,400. We have recently added an indoor auditorium, while a cricket pavilion, boxing hall, basketball court, shooting and archery ranges, bigger swimming pool and AstroTurfs will be ready soon,” says Raja Malvinder Singh, chairperson, YPS Board of Governors.“Our focus is to turn this school into a complete boarding facility eventually. As the joint family culture is shrinking, the need of the hour is a complete boarding school for better education and overall development of the children,” Raja Malvinder adds. — #yadavindra public school #yps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yadavindra-public-school-patiala-completes-74-years-366237
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court to hear drugs case in March now||The drugs case will now come up for hearing in March after the constitution of a new Bench by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The matter was directed to be placed before the Chief Justice (CJ) on Tuesday following Justice Pankaj Jain’s recusal.“To be listed before some other Bench, of which one of us (Pankaj Jain, Judge) is not a member, after obtaining appropriate orders from the CJ, on March 24,” said the order passed in the “court on its own motion” or suo motu case placed before the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Jain.Justice Masih was a member of the Bench that initially took the suo motu cognizance of a letter forwarded to the High Court by retired IPS officer Shashi Kant way back in September 2013, underscoring the drug menace in Punjab and requesting for a judicial scrutiny. Kant was assisting the Bench of then CJ Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Masih in another petition by Tarlochan Singh and other petitioners on the specific issue of drug menace in the jails of Punjab. — #shashi kant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-hear-drugs-case-in-march-now-366235
02-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Union Budget lacks vision for growth: Farmers||Chandigarh, February 1Farmers have given a thumbs down to the Budget proposals, saying it “lacks any vision for agricultural growth”.Though there is nothing in the Budget presented on Tuesday, cash-strapped Punjab can draw solace in the fact that the borrowing limit for the states has been allowed at 4% of the GSDP (up by 0.5%) for coming fiscal. This should give the next government enough legroom to manage its operations, even though it will only add to the state’s debt burden, expected to be Rs 2.82 lakh crore by March-end.In the poll-bound state, where the farmers’ issue is a major agenda, the Budget is being decried for failing to give any succour to them. Since the BJP had promised in 2014 that the farmers’ income will be doubled in six years, leaders and economists are questioning the government on it. “Also, there is also no mention of any worthwhile initiative to wean Punjab away from the wheat-paddy monoculture,” said farm economist MS Sidhu.They are also upset with the fall in the amount reserved for the direct purchase of wheat and paddy. “The subsidy on feed and fertilisers has also been reduced,” rued Jagmohan Patiala, general secretary, BKU-Dakaunda.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of Kirti Kisan Union said though the Budget spoke of diversification to oilseeds and millets, there was no guarantee that these would give assured income to farmers.Agri proposals #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lacks-vision-for-growth-farmers-366234
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Centre focused on corporates, public ignored: Bhagwant Mann||Reacting to the Union Budget, state AAP chief Bhagwant Mann said the Centre was so focused on their ‘corporate friends’ that they completely neglected the common man and the middle class.He said no special package for Punjab or farmers was a proof of the BJP government’s vindictiveness against them. He questioned how the Centre would provide 60 lakh jobs as it had already sold major government sectors to private players. #bhagwant mann #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-focused-on-corporates-public-ignored-bhagwant-mann-366233
02-02-2022||Sampla quits as SC Commission head||POLL NUGGETS||Phagwara: BJP’s Phagwara candidate Vijay Sampla has resigned as the Chairman, National Commission for Scheduled Castes. His resignation was accepted by the President on Tuesday. Confirming this, Sampla said after getting directions from the party high command, he had submitted his resignation on January 28 and it had been accepted. OCCapt Amarinder’s ex-OSD joins SADFaridkot: Sandeep Singh, alias Sunny, district chief of Punjab Lok Congress and former OSD to ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday joined the SAD in the presence of Sukhbir Badal. Many other Congress leaders, including four- time councillor Tara Singh Bhatti and PCC SC Cell chief Balwinder Singh Lovely Bhatti, also joined SAD. TNSPoll panel recognises SSMChandigarh: The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political outfit formed by farm unions, claimed they had been recognised by the EC. The party had applied for the approval last month. Till Tuesday morning, there was little hope of the morcha being recognised as a party and members were planning to contest the polls as Independent candidates. The morcha had been seeking ‘tractor’ as the poll symbol. TNSLEADERSPEAKSAD not going soft on ManpreetThere is no truth in SAD going soft on Manpreet Badal. Each seat is important for us. I would rather quit than have an unethical pact with political rivals. He has reneged on all promises made to Bathinda. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-366232
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court gives Simarjeet Singh Bains 2-day protection from arrest||Faced with a warrant of arrest, Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains got a reprieve on Tuesday from the Supreme Court, which ordered the Punjab Police not to arrest him till February 3.A Bench led by CJI NV Ramana initially proposed to protect him from any coercive action till February 23 to enable him to file nomination papers and campaign for the February 20 Assembly polls.However, it chose to give him protection from arrest for two days and posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday after advocate Gagan Gupta, representing the complainant, pointed out it was not a case of a political vendetta at the time of elections and that the rape FIR was lodged long time back.Gupta said several criminal cases had been filed against the complainant after she lodged the rape FIR. “He (Bains) is a threat to the society,” he submitted.Stating that a separate petition had been filed by the victim, he demanded it should be listed together for hearing to enable him to satisfy the Bench that Bains was not entitled to any relief.Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi submitted on behalf of the MLA that it was a case of political vendetta. He alleged the accused MLA moved the top court on the eve of elections for relief but the case had been going on in the high court where a status report had been filed revealing as many as 20 cases were pending against him.The court ordered that the plea of the woman be also listed on Thursday along with Bains’ petition.Bains — an MLA from Atam Nagar Assembly constituency — has challenged an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court refusing to stay a non-bailable warrant issued by the trial court in Ludhiana against him after he failed to appear in a case of violation of Covid norms.The top court had on Monday granted protection from arrest to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case and wondered why several criminal cases were suddenly coming out on the eve of the Assembly polls. — #simarjeet bains #simarjeet singh bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-gives-simarjeet-singh-bains-2-day-protection-from-arrest-366230
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Jagmohan Singh Kang, sons join AAP||Ex-minister and three-time Congress MLA Jagmohan Singh Kang today joined the AAP. His sons Yadvinder Singh Kang and Amarinder Singh Kang also joined the party in the presence of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha.Kang was the vice-president of the Punjab Congress. Elected thrice as MLA in 1992, 2002 and 2012, he served as a minister in the Congress government from 1992 to 1995.Kang has a support base in the Kharar and Anandpur Sahib region. His younger son Amarinder was the state general secretary of the Punjab Congress’ social media wing, while Yadvinder is a member of the Khijrabad zila parishad and had been aspiring for a Congress ticket from Kharar. #arvind kejriwal #jagmohan singh kang #raghav chadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jagmohan-singh-kang-sons-join-aap-366228
02-02-2022||Tarn Taran||MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa’s brother enters fray from Khadoor Sahib||Queering the pitch, MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa’s brother Harpinder Singh and son Gursant Singh filed nomination papers as “Congress” candidates from the Khadoor Sahib constituency today.On January 29, sitting MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki had filed his papers as the Congress nominee. His name was on the list released by the AICC on January 28. Sikki claimed he had been allotted the ticket by the party and had attached the document with his papers. — #jasbir singh dimpa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-jasbir-singh-dimpas-brother-enters-fray-from-khadoor-sahib-366227
02-02-2022||Anandpur Sahib||Madan Mohan Mittal’s son misses bus||Former state BJP secretary Arvind Mittal, who is the son of former Cabinet minister Madan Mohan Mittal, could not file papers from the Anandpur Sahib seat today as the BSP refused to change its candidate, Nitin Nanda.Arvind was supposed to file papers today, but he didn’t show up at the Returning Officer’s office. Disappointed at the denial to ticket to his son, Mittal had quit the BJP on January 29 and joined the SAD.While Mittal was appointed the senior vice-president of the party, his son Arvind was promised the ticket from Anandpur Sahib. The SAD assured the Mittals that the BSP, its alliance partner, would induct Arvind as its party member and replace him with Nanda, their candidate.Sources said it was also discussed in case the BSP refused to replace Nanda, efforts would be made to swap the Anandpur Sahib seat with some other constituency. Mittal said Arvind could not be declared the SAD-BSP candidate due to “technical” issues. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/madan-mohan-mittals-son-misses-bus-366226
02-02-2022||Sultanpur Lodhi||Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son files papers as Independent||Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh today filed his papers from the Sultanpur Lodhi Assembly segment as an Independent candidate. He had sought a Congress ticket but the party fielded sitting MLA Navtej Cheema.Rana Inder Partap Singh (Ind) Sultanpur LodhiAssets Rs 67.95 crImmovable: Rs 2.90 crMovable: Rs 65.05 crRana Gurjeet, his wife and former MLA Rana Rajbans Kaur accompanied their son in a procession to the Returning Officer’s office. Rana Gurjeet’s sister-in-law and former MLA Sukhjinder Rana filed papers as a covering candidate.Addressing a rally organised at a marriage palace later, Rana Inder said: “I’m not a rebel candidate. I am standing up for people who have faced oppression due to false FIRs registered at the behest of local MLA Cheema.”Rana Gurjeet backed his son, saying he had decided to contest after touring the constituency. “It’s not a rebellion,” he insisted, adding Rana Inder would back the Congress if he wins. — #rana gurjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-gurjeet-singhs-son-files-papers-as-independent-366224
02-02-2022||Gurdaspur||Finally, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa settles for Fatehgarh Churian||After weeks of indecision, leading to confusion in his camp, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa finally opted to contest from Fatehgarh Churian from where he is also the incumbent MLA. He filed his nomination papers in Gurdaspur today afternoon.There was widespread speculation that his son, Ravi Nandan Singh Bajwa, who is also the chairman of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad, would contest as an Independent from Batala from where the official candidate is Ashwani Sekhri, However, the move never fructified.PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had been vehemently opposing the shifting of Bajwa from Fatehgarh Churian to Batala. Tript had allegedly used all his resources, and contacts, in an attempt to get his seat changed. His main rival will be Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal of the SAD. Interestingly, Lodhinangal is the sitting Batala MLA. His seat had been changed by the party after Lodhinangal impressed upon it the futility of contesting from Batala in the changed demographic scenario. Tript had been active in Batala and in the last five years he ushered in several big-time projects. — TNSSunam incharge is Ind candidateSangrur: Congress' halqa incharge and national secretary of Indian Youth Congress Daaman Bajwa filed her nomination as an Independent candidate from Sunam. Bajwa had been seeking a review of the party decision to field Jaswinder Singh Dhiman, nephew of Amargarh MLA Surjit Dhiman, from the seat.Manpreet’s cousin Fattanwala quitsMuktsar: Denied ticket from Muktsar, PCC general secretary Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala, a cousin of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, has left the Congress. Honey was a ticket aspirant in 2017 as well but the party had fielded Karan Kaur Brar. In 2012, he had contested from Muktsar as PPP nominee. He is likely to join the SAD. #fatehgarh churian #tript rajinder bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-tript-rajinder-singh-bajwa-settles-for-fatehgarh-churian-366223
02-02-2022||Dhuri||Bhagwant Mann kicks off Dhuri campaign||A day after local Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy started door-to-door meetings in Dhuri Assembly constituency, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) CM face Bhagwant Mann also started meetings in villages on Tuesday. Amid applause, Mann with his satirical skills targeted his opponents over a host of issues, especially corruption and failures in providing jobs.“When Congress and SAD leaders come to your villages, security guards climb your rooftops as if they are in Pakistan. But I have never used such security. Even after becoming a Member of Parliament, I am still amid you without any special security, as I know you love me,” said Mann.Mann visited various villages, including Bhalwan, Palasaur, Bhojowali, Bhadalwad, Bhullerheri, Kaulseri, Samundgarh and others, and sought votes to make Punjab prosperous. “All successive governments have failed to take effective steps for the development of Punjab. Farm suicides are rising; youngsters are without jobs; and there are no doctors and teachers, but leaders of the Congress and SAD claim to have made Punjab prosperous,” said Mann.From Dhuri, the SAD-BSP has fielded Parkash Chand Garg, while Randeep Singh Deol is BJP candidate.His opponents have also started targeting him and alleging that he has done nothing even after winning twice from Sangrur as MP. “I have been challenging Mann for an open debate as he has done nothing for the constituency,” said Goldy. — #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-kicks-off-dhuri-campaign-366221
02-02-2022||Patiala||PM Modi, Amit Shah to visit Punjab soon: Capt Amarinder Singh||On the first day of his election campaign here, Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt Amarinder Singh today said for Punjab’s survival, it is necessary for the Centre and state to work together, asserting both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah will campaign for the PLC-BJP-SAD Sanyukt coalition soon.Blaming CM Charanjit Channi for the economic mess, the ex-CM said: “Punjab was reeling underRs 70,000 crore debt when I left. Channi added Rs 33,000 crore to it in just 111 days.”A day after filing his nomination from the Patiala Urban seat, Capt Amarinder claimed he had cordial ties with Modi while he was the Gujarat CM and the RSS ‘prabhari’ for Punjab.Capt Amarinder said the alliance had been formulated in the interest of Punjab and country. “The state, with its economy in a shambles, is at a crossroads and needs Centre’s support to go ahead.”Targeting PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the former CM said his hug to Pakistan army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and the Pakistan premier’s recommendation for his re-induction into the state Cabinet later clearly suggested he could not be relied upon, especially in a sensitive border state like Punjab.“We want peace with Pakistan but will not bow to them. We are prepared to fight, our Army is ready to take them head on,” he said. The PLC’s alliance with the BJP-led government at the Centre would ensure security in the state, he added. — #amit shah #capt amarinder singh #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-amit-shah-to-visit-punjab-soon-capt-amarinder-singh-366220
02-02-2022||GS Paul||Bikram Majithia vs Navjot Sidhu: More of a personal fight, say locals||Amritsar, February 1With SAD MLA and ex-minister Bikram Majithia throwing hat into the ring in Amritsar East, the home turf of his arch-rival Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, for the ensuing 2022 Assembly polls, the stakes are high on both sides.Also read: In fray only from Amritsar East: Bikram MajithiaWith high stakes in Amritsar East, cops ready for anythingAAP may benefitThe Sidhu-Majithia fight is more on a personal level while the development, which matters to the common man, remains ignored. People may look for change & vote for AAP. Roop Lal, Bharat Nagar residentResidents feel that it would be a tough fight, which could tilt on either side. Both candidates have remained unbeaten on the political pitch. Sidhu was three-time MP and sitting MLA from East, whereas Bikram was a three-time MLA from Majitha.With Majithia, the SAD has made its debut in the East. During the SAD-BJP alliance, this seat was in the BJP quota.Post delimitation in 2012, East was represented by Navjot Kaur Sidhu (BJP candidate), who quit the medical profession to enter politics. Despite being a Congress-dominating belt, she won with 33,406 votes on the BJP ticket.In 2016, Sidhu, a three-time Lok Sabha MP from Amritsar between 2004 and 2014, quit the SAD-BJP alliance and joined the Congress. In 2017, he won the seat by a convincing margin of 42,332 votes.Meanwhile, Sarbjit Singh, Verka resident, said with the Congress dominance in the area, Sidhu could deliver better while Majithia, who was facing drug charges, could be the last choice. “Despite winning with a mammoth margin, the Sidhu couple could hardly deliver as they were not cooperated by the top leadership, be it Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD or Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress. The families belonging to Maqboolpura, Verka and Batala road localities have been harshly affected by the drug menace and no successive governments have been able to curb it. They too have Sidhu as a better choice as he presented the ‘Punjab model’ and a vision for the state’s resurrection. But Majithia will certainly give a tough fight.”Ironically, some residents resent the scant visits of Sidhu. Even his ‘missing’ posters too had surfaced a couple of times here till June 2021. Kamal Makhan of Sharifpura said the SAD could not be taken lightly. “It seems Majithia’s candidature was not decided in a day. Over the recent period of time, the SAD has increased its invasion with a strong workers’ base at the grassroots level in East. Majithia will give a tough fight to Sidhu and the margin could be anything between 1,000 and 2,000 votes,” he added. #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-of-a-personal-fight-locals-366219
02-02-2022||Amritsar||In fray only from Amritsar East: Bikram Majithia||Putting to rest speculation over contesting from two seats, three-time SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia today said he had decided to give up the Majitha constituency and contest from his arch rival and PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s home turf of Amritsar East.Also read: Bikram Majithia vs Navjot Sidhu: More of a personal fight, say localsWith high stakes in Amritsar East, cops ready for anythingMajithia’s wife Ganieve Kaur had filed her nomination papers as a SAD candidate from Majitha yesterday, suggesting the Akali leader might contest from Amritsar East alone.Majithia said he had vacated the Majitha seat on “technical grounds” as under the poll norms, a candidate contesting from two seats has to give up one if he wins both. Navjot Sidhu had dared Majithia to give up Majitha and contest from Amritsar East. Majithia had filed his papers from Amritsar East on Friday.Asserting that his decision should not be taken as a “challenge” or “dare”, he said: “After taking my constituency (Majitha) residents and supporters into confidence, I decided to contest from Amritsar East.”During the course of campaigning in Amritsar East, Majithia had been facing queries about which seat he would choose should he win both. “It is a call of duty and my commitment towards voters who elect their representatives. My endeavour is to teach an ‘arrogant person’ (referring to Sidhu) how to respect and love,” he said.“It was equally surprising for my wife as she has never been actively involved in political activities. I am sure she will do her best to serve the residents,” he said.On his vision for Amritsar East, he claimed he had remained undefeated from Majitha due to the development brought about in his constituency. #bikram majithia #ganieve kaur #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-fray-only-from-amritsar-east-bikram-singh-majithia-366218
02-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Election: Congress out to mollify rebel candidates||Chandigarh, February 1With three days left for the withdrawal of nomination papers, the Congress leadership has stepped up efforts to mollify party leaders who have entered the fray as Independent candidates. At least seven prominent leaders have chosen to contest the Assembly elections against party nominees.Navjot Sidhu, PCC ChiefWill be adjustedIf the party forms govt, these leaders will be given prominence. Chairmanships will not go to MLAs’ sons, if party gives me power to decide.A senior party leader told The Tribune after convincing the leaders to withdraw their nominations, the party will issue show-cause notices to rebels for expulsion from the party, if required, after February 4. “If people have left, others are joining back,” he said.Clarifying on not reallotting the Adampur seat to senior leader Mohinder Singh Kaypee and the Khadoor Sahib seat to Harpinder Singh, brother of MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, the leader said though the seats were reviewed, reallotting these would have opened a pandora’s box for the party. There was pressure on the party to review other tickets also.However, Kewal Dhillon, who has been denied the ticket from Barnala, has not filed his nomination as an Independent candidate after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi went to his house last evening to mollify him. Ravi Nandan Bajwa, son of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, has also not filed papers as an Independent candidate from Batala.Among the party faces who have filed nominations as Independent candidates are Daaman Bajwa (Sunam); Dr Manohar Singh (Bassi Pathana), brother of CM Charanjit Singh Channi; Rana Inder Partap Singh (Sultanpur Lodhi), son of Rana Gurjeet Singh; Harpinder Singh (Khadoor Sahib), brother of MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa; Manjit Kaur (Badhaur), wife of Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti; and KK Bawa (Ludhiana West).On party leaders denied the ticket, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the party would persuade them. #kaypee #punjab congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-out-to-mollify-rebel-candidates-366215
02-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||MS Kaypee loses out to Sukhwinder Kotli in Adampur||Jalandhar, February 1The filing of nomination papers by Congress’ Adampur candidate Sukhwinder Kotli went right down to the wire today with the party keeping up the suspense over the nominee till the final 10 minutes on the last day of the process.Former minister MS Kaypee and Kotli, whose candidature was put on hold, were made to wait till 2.50 pm, before Congress co-incharge Chetan Chauhan handed over the ticket to the latter. As the deadline of 3 pm approached, both leaders reached the Returning Officer’s office past 2.30 pm without the authority letter. They waited for a few minutes for the letter, but Kaypee chose to enter the office and got the process of filing of papers started.He signed a few papers and got the signatures of the proposers when Kotli entered the office holding the authority letter from the party giving him the ticket. Kaypee then got a call and left in a huff, saying he had withdrawn his papers. Kaypee, a former PCC chief and Jalandhar MP, later said he had never felt so insulted before. “I don’t know why the party did this to me. I was in touch with the senior leadership over the phone since morning. If they were to deny me the ticket, they should have told me straightaway. There was no need for this drama.”The confusion started last night when Kotli went to Chandigarh amid reports of the seat being under a review. He was told his ticket had been kept on hold. He returned to Jalandhar this morning without the ticket. Kaypee was approached by supporters after reports of the review, but he said he was yet to get the ticket. It is learnt that Kaypee, whose daughter is wedded to CM Channi’s brother, was trying for a review through him, while minister Pargat Singh, who had made Kotli join the party, had recommended latter’s candidature.Deeply insultingI have never felt so insulted before. If they were to deny me the ticket, they should have told me straightaway. MS Kaypee, former ministerThe party co-incharge was reportedly in Jalandhar since noon but was directed to hand over the ticket at the last moment to Kotli so that Kaypee, who had been threatening to file papers as an Independent from Adampur or Jalandhar West (his traditional seat) or Jalandhar Cantonment (against Pargat), remained contained in the confusion. It is after 1967 that the Kaypee family has not got a ticket. #adampur #kaypee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ms-kaypee-loses-out-to-sukhwinder-kotli-in-adampur-366213
02-02-2022||Chandigarh/Ropar||On last day, Punjab CM Charanjit Channi among 931 file nomination||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was among 931 candidates who filed their nominations in the state on the last day today.As per data available on the EC software, Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said the total number of nominations filed in the state stood at 2,279. As many as 1,348 nomination papers had been filed earlier.In Ropar, Channi filed his papers from Chamkaur Sahib (reserved). The sitting MLA held a roadshow with thousands of his supporters after filing the nomination, in violation of Covid-19 guidelines issued by the EC. Earlier, Channi also addressed a huge gathering of his supporters numbering over 3,000 outside his election office in grain market and then proceeded towards Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib in a procession. Interestingly, none of the participants, including Channi, was wearing face mask or maintaining social distancing.In all, a total of 26 nomination papers were filed in three Assembly constituencies of Ropar, Chamkaur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib today.In Moga, Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi Grewal, filed his nomination papers as Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) candidate from the Dharamkot constituency. Though Grewal is BJP member, being Capt Amarinder Singh's confidant, the party fielded him on PLC ticket. BJP’s Dr Harjot Kamal also filed his papers for Moga constituency.In Muktsar, the total assets of sitting Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby, who is Congress candidate from Malout this time, have increased nearly 21 times in the past five years. She recently left AAP and joined the Congress. A perusal of Ruby's election affidavits revealed that she had total assets of about Rs 1.75 lakh in 2017. However, now her total net assets are worth about Rs 36.42 lakh after deducting the loan taken from a bank.In Fatehgarh Sahib district, 20 candidates filed their papers in all three Assembly constituencies — nine in Fatehgarh Sahib, six in Amloh and five in Bassi Pathana.(Inputs from Moga, Muktsar & Fatehgarh Sahib) #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-last-day-punjab-cm-among-931-file-nomination-366212
02-02-2022||---||Punjab Congress leader Jagmohan Kang joins Aam Aadmi Party||Chandigarh, February 1Former Punjab minister and Congress leader Jagmohan Singh Kang and his sons Yadvinder Singh Kang and Amarinder Singh Kang join Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Disenchanted with Punjab Congress- Jagmohan Singh Kang Saab, 3 time cabinet minister and MLA joins AAP alongwith his sons & Youth Congress leaders Yadavindra & Amrinder. @ArvindKejriwal ji enrolls them into the party. AAP Punjab is going strength to strength with each passing day pic.twitter.com/MkTXPO9lRc  Kang had a few days back threatened to contest as Independent from Kharar after being denied ticket by the Congress.On Thursday, he had said that his son Yadvinder Singh Kang would contest as an Independent if the party did not reconsider its decision on giving Kharar ticket to liquor contractor and Mohali District Planning Committee chairman Vikay Sharma Tinku.Hitting out at CM Charanjit Singh Channi for denying ticket in his family, Kang alleged that the CM's tilt towards Tinku was because of common business interests between the two. Kang claimed that barring Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, other members of the central election committee were in his favour.Kang said he had also written to party president Sonia Gandhi in this regard. #jagmohankang #Kharar #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-congress-leader-jagmohan-kang-his-sons-join-aam-aadmi-party-366109
02-02-2022||Deepkamal Kochhar||High drama on Adampur nomination, Sukhwinder Kotli files papers as Congress candidate at 11th hour||Jalandhar, February 1High drama prevailed ahead of the filing of papers by the Congress candidate for Adampur Assembly seat on Tuesday.A complete suspense was maintained till the last 10 minutes on the last day of filing of papers. Both key contenders, including former minister MS Kaypee and on-hold candidate Sukhwinder Kotli, were made to wait till 2.50 pm before Congress co-incharge Chetan Chauhan finally handed over the ticket to the latter.Both reached the office of the RO for the seat in the local Municipal Corporation office just 20 minutes before the ticket was to be handed over.Kaypee had even entered the office of the RO and had got the process of filing of papers started. He had already presented his file and even signed few papers and got the signatures of the proposer done when Kotli too entered the RO’s office in excitement. He had by then got the authority letter which Kaypee kept on expecting till then. At this, Kaypee got a call and left announcing that he had withdrawn his papers.Kaypee, who has also been PPCC chief and Jalandhar MP, said he never felt so insulted. “I really do not know why the party did this to me. I was in contact on phone since morning and was kept in complete confusion. This should not have been the way. If they were to deny me ticket, they should have told me straightaway without complicating the matter. There was no need to do all this drama that the seat was being reviewed.” Kaypee left in a huff with his family saying that he would talk in detail later.Kotli had gone to Chandigarh last night and since then there were reports of the seat being reviewed. His ticket had been kept on hold. He returned to Jalandhar this morning but did not go to his place in Kotli Than Singh village of Adampur. He stay put at his CA’s place in the city.Kaypee, who resides in city in Model Town, had about 100 supporters reaching him after reports of the review but he did not accept congratulatory messages from anyone saying that the ticket was yet to reach him.He finally left his place with his son and son-in-law at 1.30 pm but did not reach the RO’s office for more than an hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-to-drop-sukhwinder-kotli-from-adampur-to-give-ticket-to-kaypee-366107
