03-02-2022||---||As IVRS messages seek voters’ choice for Punjab CM face, PPCC denies any official survey being carried out by party||Chandigarh, February 3Amid lakhs of voters in Punjab getting Delhi-based IVRS messages seeking choice of the Congress CM face, PPCC has denied that any verified or official survey is being carried out by the party.In a complaint to the Election Commission of India (ECI), the PPCC accused AAP leader Raghav Chadha of making communal remarks referring to Sunil Jakhar being excluded from a phone call survey on account to a particular community. Arshpreet Khadial, national spokesman of IYC and Surjit Swaich, legal adviser of PPCC, in their complaint have pointed out that statement of Chadha was baseless as no verified survey was taking place.The stand of the PPCC has left the voters confused. “This means the party is getting a discreet feedback from voters without coming in the forefront,” said a party leader.Sources in the party said the IVRS messages is aimed at building momentum among the 1.5 crore voters who would be getting the messages. Otherwise, party under its internal mechanism is getting feedback from its party leaders and workers on CM face. It is the feedback of the party leaders and workers that matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-ivrs-messages-seek-voters-choice-for-punjab-cm-face-ppcc-denies-any-official-survey-being-carried-out-by-party-366761
03-02-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu a hero and will remain so, says wife Navjot Kaur||With the Congress likely to announce its CM face for the Punjab Assembly polls on February 6, state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife on Thursday said it doesn’t matter who becomes the CM, her husband will remain a hero.“Whoever the CM may be, it does not matter,” Navjot Kaur Sidhu said.“Navjot Singh Sidhu is a hero and he will remain a hero,” she said while talking to reporters in Amritsar.“Whoever is the CM, he should listen to his ministers, sign ministers’ files and let the ministers do their work. Had Amarinder Singh done this, nobody would have any problem with any CM,” she said.The remarks of Sidhu’s wife came ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s February 6 visit to Ludhiana, where he is likely to announce the chief ministerial face of the party for the February 20 Punjab Assembly polls.Gandhi will address a virtual rally in Ludhiana on February 6.During his last visit on January 27 to Punjab in Jalandhar, Gandhi had announced that the Congress will go into the Punjab Assembly elections with a CM face and the decision on it will be taken soon after consulting party workers.Besides taking response from party leaders and workers, the Congress is also seeking opinion of the public on the CM face through an automated call system.Over the past several weeks, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have, directly or indirectly, made a case for themselves to be declared as the party’s chief ministerial candidate.Rahul Gandhi while addressing a virtual rally in Jalandhar last week had said that Channi and Sidhu have assured him that whosoever is chosen as the CM face, the other will support him.  #PunjabElections2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-a-hero-and-will-remain-so-says-wife-navjot-kaur-366760
03-02-2022||---||Maj Gen Vijay Kumar is Judge Advocate General of the Army||Chandigarh, February 3Major General Vijay Kumar Korpal has been appointed as the Judge Advocate General (JAG) of the Army. He will be the chief legal advisor to the Army Chief and be responsible for the functions of the Army’s legal department.Prior to this, he was serving as the Deputy Judge Advocate, Headquarters Eastern Command at Kolkata. He takes over from Maj Gen Praveen Kumar, who has retired.Maj Gen Korpal belongs to Jalandhar and is an alumnus of DAV College, Jalandhar. He graduated in law from Guru Nanak Dev University’s regional center in Jalandhar in 1987.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/maj-gen-vijay-kumar-is-judge-advocate-general-of-the-army-366753
03-02-2022||---||1988 road rage case against Navjot Sidhu: SC defers hearing to February 25||New Delhi, February 3A Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar adjourned the hearing on a petition seeking review of its 2018 order letting off Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 after senior advocate P Chidambaram said on his behalf that the advocate-on-record in the case has changed and he needed time to file reply to the review petition as has was engaged only last night.The cricketer-turned-politician was acquitted of homicide charges but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased.The Supreme Court had on September 12, 2018 agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018 order imposing a fine of Rs 1,000 on Sidhu in the case.The Bench—which had earlier issued notice to Sidhu “restricted to quantum of sentence”—is to reconsider enhancing the amount of punishment given to him.Sidhu and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu were initially tried for murder, but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and gave him a three-year imprisonment.But the Supreme Court had on May 15, 2018 acquitted him of the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with the 1988 road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died after allegedly being beaten up Sidhu and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu. #NavjotSidhu #roadrage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1988-road-rage-case-against-navjot-sidhu-sc-defers-hearing-to-february-25-366728
03-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Denied ticket for grandson, Congress leader HS Hanspal joins AAP||In a major setback for the Congress, former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief and a senior Congress leader HS Hanspal joined AAP on Thursday. He was seeking ticket for his grandson, Sunder Singh Hanspal from Sahnewal. Hanspal joined the AAP in the presence of party's Punjab chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann and party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha.Speaking on the occasion, Mann said, “The support of all these veteran leaders and them joining the AAP proves that there is a wind of political change that is blowing in the favour of the Aam Aadmi Party.”“Today, all honest leaders are coming together to save Punjab and the Aam Aadmi Party will form its government in Punjab,” he added.Chadha too expressed hope that the AAP would form the next government in the state, saying people of the state like the duo of Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann and have high hopes from them.Voting for Punjab’s 117 Assembly seats will be held on February 20 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10. PTI inputs #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-denied-ticket-for-son-congress-leader-hs-hanspal-joins-aap-366720
03-02-2022||New Delhi||Group of pro-Khalistan elements in Canada spreading anti-India feelings: Govt||A small fringe group of pro-Khalistan elements in Canada is spreading anti-India feelings and the government remained closely engaged with that country over the issue, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said on Thursday.He told Rajya Sabha that both governments have recognised the fundamental principle of respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India and Canada as the basis of bilateral ties."The vast majority of people of Indian origin in Canada share a warm emotional bond with India and have worked for the betterment of relations between India and Canada," Muraleedharan said."There is a small fringe group of pro-Khalistan elements in Canada who spread anti-India feelings through their extremist statements and activities," he said.The minister was replying to a question."The government of India remains closely engaged with the Government of Canada to address our concerns relating to anti-India activities by the extremist elements," he said.Muraleedharan said the government maintains close contact with the Indians in Canada, and its policy is to make continuous efforts to strengthen the bond with the community.To a separate question, he said no pledge or commitment has been made by India and Japan for spending US$ 10 billion and funding patterns under the public-private partnership for the Asia Africa growth corridor.Muraleedharan, referring to an India-Japan joint statement of 2017, said the prime ministers of the two countries welcomed the efforts to explore the development of industrial corridors and industrial networks for the growth of Asia and Africa.In the joint statement, he said the two prime ministers expressed their strong commitment to work together to enhance connectivity in India and with other countries in the Indo-Pacific region, including Africa.  #khalistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/group-of-pro-khalistan-elements-in-canada-spreading-anti-india-feelings-govt-366714
03-02-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court extends for a week protection from arrest given to Simarjit Singh Bains||The Supreme Court on Thursday extended for a week the protection from arrest given to Lok Insaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, against whom a Punjab court has issued an NBW.A Bench led by CJI NV Ramana asked the State of Punjab to file its reply and the matter will be taken up after a week.The court also gave protection from any coercive action to a woman who was allegedly slapped with several cases after she lodged a criminal case against Bains.The Bench - which had on Tuesday given him protection from arrest for two days - raised questions over the conduct of Bains - a two-time MLA. #simarjit bains #simarjit singh bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-extends-for-a-week-protection-from-arrest-given-to-simarjit-singh-bains-366696
03-02-2022||Moga||BSF shoots dead Pakistani youth who intrudes into Indian territory in Punjab’s Ferozepur sector||A Pakistani youth was shot dead by the jawans of the Border Security Force (BSF) as he intruded into the Indian territory crossing over the international border in Ferozepur sector on Wednesday night, a BSF spokesman said.The spokesman said the incident took place at border observation post KS Wala, adding that the troops challenged the intruder but he did not stop and continued moving ahead in an aggressive manner. The BSF troops fired on the intruder in self-defence killing him on the spot.In the morning, the BSF troops launched a search of the area. #BSF #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-dead-pakistani-youth-who-intrudes-into-indian-territory-in-punjabs-ferozepur-sector-366683
03-02-2022||Neha Saini||Time to understand significance of wetlands: Experts||Amritsar, February 2Harike Pattan, the largest wetland in Punjab and second largest in India, is home to some of the rare species of water birds. It hosts lakhs of migratory birds through the Central Asian flyway and is touted as a hub for eco-tourism in not just Punjab, but on national scale.Also read: Coffee table book on green wealth of Punjab released on World Wetlands DayKanjli Wetland sees no migratory birds this yearIt’s home to vulnerable and endangered species like the Indus river dolphin, gharials, testudines turtle and smooth-coated otter. On World Wetlands Day, that falls on February 2, as part of an international initiative to spread awareness regarding wetland conservation, a run for wetlands has been kick-started from Wednesday till February 5. Under this, several partners and collaborators will host runs/walks for three days to spread awareness regarding wetlands. In the city, several partners, including WWF-India and Dilbir Foundation, will encourage individuals, organisations to host such runs/walks.Gunbir Singh, president, Dilbir Foundation and an avid eco-conservationist, said it’s time to understand the significance of wetlands.“It’s a day to reinvest thought and action into these phenomenal purifiers of water and air, rechargers of carbon, hosts to hundreds of fellow species — the wetlands. Punjab has Harike, Kanjli, Ropar and Nangal Ramsar sites, recognised for their international significance. Many more such ecosystems such as Shalla Patan, Keshopur, marshes and village ponds are equally important and need conservation,” Singh said during a symbolic run held to mark the World Wetlands Day on Wednesday.Harike, being an important site for eco-tourism, has seen several attempts by state government to launch tourism projects. In 2020, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had announced Rs15 crore to develop Harike as a hub of eco-tourism. Before this, an amphibious bus, known as a “gharuka”, was introduced in the wetland during the tenure of the former SAD-BJP government as part of eco-tourism activities. Despite many attempts, eco-tourism plans by the government remain unfilled.Geetanjali Kanwar, coordinator, Aquatic Biodiversity, WWF-India, who has been working with a network of officials to create a connection between wetlands and natives living in surrounding areas, stresses on the need for sustainable and responsible tourism policy to connect people with the wetland.“One of the most important aspects of our programme here is to connect locals with wetlands and we are doing it through education workshops. WWF India jointly in collaboration with the Punjab Forest, Wildlife Preservation Department, have been conducting workshops for villagers along the Harike wetland to train ‘Wetland Mitr’. We train them on testing water quality and monitor wetland health. We already have a network of 15-17 such ‘Wetland Mitrs’ who are monitoring the Indus River Dolphins and keeping a watch on the flora and fauna,” she said.WWF-India also runs another educative programme called ‘water school’ around the Beas and the Harike wetland, where schoolchildren are trained and encouraged to explore biodiversity of wetland.Fact file #Environment #harike pattan #Tourism #wetlands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-to-understand-significance-of-wetlands-experts-366566
03-02-2022||Muktsar||Woman killed over property in Gidderbaha||Five booked for Rs12L fraudMuktsar: The Lambi police have booked five employees of the Block Development and Panchayats Officer’s (BDPO) office in Lambi, including a computer assistant and four gram rozgar sahayak, for alleged fraud of Rs 12.59 lakh in MGNREGA. The District Social Audit Coordinator of MGNREGA told the police that computer assistant Amritpal Singh, gram rozgar sahayak Vikesh Kumar, Harphool Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Harmeet Singh, allegedly committed fraud of Rs 12.59 lakh between January 2020 and July 2021. A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. TNSOver 240 kg poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police have seized 52 kg of poppy husk by intercepting a mini truck, which was ferrying waste paper material from Ajmer to Patiala. Driver Gurcharan Singh and his helper Jagtar Singh of Ghagga, Patiala, have been held under the NDPS Act. In another incident, 189 kg of poppy husk was seized from fileds of Pucca Saharan village on Sriganganagar-Hanumangarh Road. Land owner Vishnu Dutt Sharma managed to flee from the spot. In the third case, 2 kg of opium was seized from Shubham of Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-killed-over-property-in-gidderbaha-366547
03-02-2022||Faridkot||NMC curtails vacation of MBBS students||After the delay of over five months in the starting of the MBBS course for the year 2021, the National Medical Commission (NMC) on Wednesday announced that the academic session for the MBBS course for the year 2021 shall commence from February 14.As there has been a delay in the starting of the MBBS course on account of the pandemic, so the vacation has also been curtailed during the first, second and third professionals by one month, said Dr Sandhya Bhullar, secretary, NMC. Usually, the MBBS course starts in mid-August.In a public notice, issued by the NMC on Wednesday, it said that the foundation course of the dedicated one-month of the MBBS course has been subsumed within the first professional of 11 months. The foundation course will be covered after usual teaching hours or on weekends/holidays. Thus first professional has been compressed to 11 months instead of 13 months, said the notice. — #MBBS #national medical commission #nmc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nmc-curtails-vacation-366543
03-02-2022||---||Amritsar: SIA of Jammu and Kashmir nabs man for funding terrorists||Amritsar, February 2After raiding a house in Amritsar, the State Investigation Agency (SIA) of Jammu and Kashmir reportedly arrested a person, who was allegedly involved in terror funding, on Tuesday night here. The suspect has been identified as Jaideep Dhawan of Pawan Nagar.Sources claimed that the J&K Police had seized Rs 42 lakh hawala money from Nagrota on November 16. The police claimed that the money was being pumped in the Valley for militants. The SIA got the transit remand of Jaideep from the Mohkampura police station. The SIA also reportedly carried out raids in other two locations of Punjab and Haryana and nabbed two more persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-sia-of-jammu-and-kashmir-nabs-man-for-funding-terrorists-366540
03-02-2022||---||False info: Baba Farid University of Health Sciences serves show-cause notices on students||Faridkot, February 2The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has issued show-cause notices on many candidates for allegedly giving false information in their affidavits (submitted to the university) during the first round of counselling for the MBBS course.In their affidavits, these candidates mentioned that they had not applied in any other state or UT for admission in MBBS course under 85 per cent state quota seats meant for Punjab domicile residents.However, during the verification of the documents of these candidates and cross-checking it from neighbouring states, including Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi, the BFUHS found that many of them had applied for admission in more than one state under the state quota scheme.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, BFUHS, said, “These candidates seem to have violated rules and furnished false information to the university in their affidavits. We have issued show-cause notices to many candidates.”The BFUHS has been conducting the counselling for MBBS and BDS courses in 22 medical and dental institutes in the state. The university was to announce the result of first-round of counselling with allotment of seats on January 31, but it has been postponed for an indefinite period.All the states/UTs have eligibility criteria for the state quota seats, which protect the rights of actual residents of that state/UT with a mandatory period of schooling along with a fixed period of residence to make the candidate eligibile for the state quota.However, multiple litigations have been filed related to the admission of many students from other states after they got admission to the medical and dental colleges of Punjab claiming themselves as a bonafide resident.In a pre-emptive move, the BFUHS had mandated all candidates and their parents to submit affidavits to confirm that they were not claiming the benefit of residence in any other state or UT.Dr Bahadur said, “We warned the students regarding cancellation of their admission in case the information turns out to be false, but still some candidates are trying to mislead the university.”MBBS counselling #baba farid university of health sciences #bfuh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-info-med-varsity-serves-show-cause-notices-on-students-366537
03-02-2022||---||Punjab Congress MP demands law on 'runaway NRI brides'||New Delhi, February 2Punjab Congress MP Jasbir Singh Gill on Tuesday gave a notice in the Lok Sabha seeking a discussion on the alleged harassment of husbands by NRI brides. He said there were laws to address harassment by NRI husbands, but none even acknowledged, let alone covered, the “anguish caused by runaway NRI brides.”Giving a notice for a short duration discussion on the matter, Gill said, “I am in the know of many cases where deserted husbands committed suicide and families of many in-laws of such brides were left in financial distress leading to disturbances.”The MP from Khadoor Sahib said several husbands were financing their wives to study the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), and later to travel and settle abroad.“After completing the study, wife gets her work permit. Instead of sponsoring the husband to the new country, she deserts the man. We have a law to punish runaway husbands, but there is no law to punish girls who inflict deep psychological and financial wounds. We should bring a law for this,” Gill said in the notice given to Lok Sabha Secretary General today.Sheer harassmentWe have a law to punish runaway husbands, but there is no law to punish girls who inflict deep psychological and financial wounds. We should bring a law for this. — Jasbir Singh Gill, Congress MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mp-demands-law-on-runaway-nri-brides-366535
03-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Prosecution's lapse leads to acquittal of three||Chandigarh, February 2An unexplained lapse on the prosecution’s part has led to the acquittal of three convicts by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a drugs case.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain was told that 26 sample parcels from a consignment allegedly meant for an Indo-Pak smuggler were received by a forensic chemical laboratory on March 26, 2010. But all 52 sample parcels were produced before a court on March 30, 2010, evident from an order passed by the Zira Judicial Magistrate First Class.The Bench asserted there were admittedly 78 parcels, including 26 bulk parcels and 52 sample parcels. The same were produced before the court on March 22, 2010. After finding the seals intact, the case property was ordered to be kept in a judicial malkhana.The prosecution claimed that 26 out of 52 sample parcels were sent to a forensic laboratory on March 26, 2010. The lab report also showed that 26 sample parcels were received on that date. As such, the prosecution was left with 26 bulk parcels and 26 samples parcels on March 30, 2010.But the order dated March 30, 2010, indicated that all 78 parcels were produced before the court. It ordered the 26 sample parcels to be sent for chemical examination on that date.The Bench added reading of case documents raised serious question about the sample parcels being sent to the lab on March 26, 2010, and an application dated March 30, 2010, produced by the state counsel compounded it further. The prosecution had requested the court to order the deposition of bulk parcels and 26 sample parcels in the judicial malkhana. The remaining 26 sample parcels were requested to be sent for chemical examination.“If that is so, how can the report based on 26 sample parcels received by lab on March 26, 2010, be linked to contraband recovered in this case?” the Bench questioned after hearing advocates Ashwani Bhardwaj, Vipul Jindal, Jashandeep Singh Sandhu, RS Sekhon and Pankaj Bhardwaj for the appellants.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Jain asserted: “In the trials under the NDPS Act, samples of the contraband recovered and the chemical examination thereof is a vital link that yokes the accused to the charge. In the present case, the said link has gone amiss. Burden to prove guilt of accused rests upon the prosecution. It is cast with the duty to satisfy the same beyond all reasonable doubt. The prosecution cannot at any stage afford to jettison the said burden and take the trial lightly.”The Bench ordered the setting aside of their conviction in the drugs case, but maintained their conviction and sentence for attempt to murder and other offences under Section 307 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act.Vital link amiss: HCIn the trials under the NDPS Act, samples of the contraband recovered and the chemical examination thereof is a vital link that yokes the accused to the charge. In the present case, the said link has gone amiss. Burden to prove guilt of accused rests upon the prosecution. It is cast with the duty to satisfy the same beyond all reasonable doubt. #punjab and haryana high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prosecutions-lapse-leads-to-acquittal-of-three-366530
03-02-2022||Patiala||Dhuri man Ranbir Sodhi elected to Finland council||A Punjabi University alumnus, Ranbir Sodhi, has been elected as member of the council of governors of the Vantaa-Kerava area (provinces) in Finland. Sodhi has been living in the country for the past 34 years.Originally from Dhuri, Sodhi is a three-time legislator and represents the Social Democratic Party. He is among 69 members from the area who will elect its cabinet.Sodhi said: “The Finland government organised its provinces (barring Helsinki) into counties to oversee the rescue and health services. The powers of health and rescue were shifted from individual provinces to the councils of governors. After a planning for nearly 15 years, the elections of the councils were held for the first time in January. I am one of the members from the Vantaa-Kerava area, which has 69 members.”Sodhi, who moved to Finland at 34, is in the restaurant business. He holds a master’s degree in economics from Punjabi University.“Council of governors oversee provisions of health and rescue operations,” he said. — #Dhuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhuri-man-elected-to-finland-council-366527
03-02-2022||The Congress government did not provide an allowance of Rs2||Leaderspeak: Congress government failed Punjab youth on job front||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaderspeak-congress-government-failed-punjab-youth-on-job-front-366523
03-02-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Poll nuggets: Parkash Singh Badal resumes outdoor campaigning in Lambi||Sidhu pays visit to Vaishno Dev shrineChandigarh: Amid hectic election campaigning, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president and party candidate from Amritsar (East) Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday visited the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. On way to the holy shrine, the PCC president tweeted: “The eternal grace of the divine mother has always protected me on this path of dharma.” #Lambi #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-parkash-singh-badal-resumes-outdoor-campaigning-in-lambi-366521
03-02-2022||Chandigarh/Amritsar||Punjab Congress releases theme song; SGPC files plaint||The Congress today released a two-minute theme song projecting the party’s developmental agenda, titled ‘Punjab di charhdi kala, Congress mange sarbat da bhala’.The song broadly outlines the development works carried out by the state government, including setting up road network, new schools in villages and reduction of power tariff among other things.Meanwhile, the SGPC has strongly objected to the song, claiming it disorts a prayer.A complaint has been filed with the Chief Electoral Officer.  #punjab congress #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-releases-theme-song-sgpc-files-plaint-366518
03-02-2022||Tarn Taran||Nomination of MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa's kin rejected||Congress MLA and Khadoor Sahib nominee Ramanjit Sikki heaved a sigh of relief after the nomination of Harpinder Singh and Gursant Updesh Gill were rejected during the scrutiny process today.Harpinder is the brother and Gursant is the son of Congress MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa.Both of them had filed their papers on Tuesday as Congress candidates, but failed to show the authority letter issued by the party to Returning Officer Deepak Bhatia, who confirmed the rejection.Papers of ex-MLA Ravinder Brahampura were also rejected. He had filed his papers as SAD candidate. — #jasbir singh dimpa #ramanjit singh sikki||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nomination-of-mp-jasbir-singh-dimpas-kin-rejected-366517
03-02-2022||---||Road rage: Supreme Court to hear review plea against Navjot Singh Sidhu||New Delhi, February 2The Supreme Court will on Thursday hear a petition seeking review of its 2018 order letting off Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in a road rage case in which a man had died in 1988.The cricketer-turned politician was acquitted of homicide charges, but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt.On September 12, 2018, the SC agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018, order imposing a fine of Rs 1,000 on Sidhu in the case.A Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice SK Kaul, which had earlier issued notice to Sidhu “restricted to quantum of sentence”, will reconsider the amount of punishment given to him.Sidhu and and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu were initially tried for murder, but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and gave him three-year imprisonment. But the Supreme Court had on May 15, 2018, acquitted him of the charge of culpable homicide. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rage-supreme-court-to-hear-review-plea-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-366513
03-02-2022||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Urmar: In dire need of infra booster dose||Though the constituency has given many ministers in the successive governments, yet in terms of development, it remains a laggard. Non-functional sports wing, shortage of teachers in schools and college, and no new job-oriented courses for youth are major issues that haven’t been addressed for long.The road infrastructure also needs an immediate revamp, be it town or villages. The sewerage system is inapt to handle rains. The sewage treatment plant, too, needs upgrade. The only Suvidha Centre at Tanda town is always under pressure. People have to visit repeatedly to get their work done due to heavy rush there.Government offices are also scattered and getting work done is quite a task. Tough mini-industrial centre was set up years ago, no unit was ever established and the land serves as grazing ground for the cattle. “A huge amount of funds were pumped into the creation of a sports wing having players’ hostel, gymnasium, playing halls, etc., but it hasn’t been utilised yet. The road from Tanda Civil Hospital to Rara is in a shambles. Schools are functioning with inadequate number of teachers. Even the government college on 100 acres is being run by guest faculty. How can we secure the future of our kids in such a scenario?” says Sukhvinder Arora, a social worker.Locals’ key demandsPast trendEarlier known as Tanda, Urmar has always given Congress and SAD candidates an equal chance to represent it. While Congress’ Sangat Singh Gilzian was elected twice in 2012 and 2017, SAD nominee won in 2002 and 1997. In 2007, Gilzian won as an Independent.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,80,026Male: 91,137Female: 88,882Third gender: 7 #sangat singh gilzian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urmar-in-dire-need-of-infra-booster-dose-366511
03-02-2022||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma||'Environment insecure, industries shifting base' from Punjab: Ashwani Sharma, BJP state president||Coming out of the SAD’s shadow, the BJP has pitched itself as the majority partner in the new alliance with Capt Amarinder’s PLC and Sukhdev Dhindsa’s SAD(S). Is the BJP ready for the big role?Three decades ago, the SAD and the BJP forged an ‘apolitical’ alliance. As Punjab was just coming out of the dark days of terrorism, it needed a front that could ensure peace and brotherhood. At that time, we chose to forge a social alliance rather than promoting our political interests. Even if we contested on 23 seats, our workers helped the alliance on the remaining 94. Now, we are reaching out to people to showcase the political potential of our party.Politics is being played on securityWe are recovering RDX, sighting drones and witnessing bomb blasts. This has led to industries closing down and shifting their base... ours is a border state, yet politics is being played on its security. When the Centre increased the area of BSF’s authority from 15 km to 50 km, the Congress cried foul.Senior leader Madan Mohan Mittal left the BJP and joined the SAD recently. Your party leaders have expressed concern over the development. Your comments.Madan Mohan Mittal led our party during the trying times of terrorism. It is really sad whenever a leader of such a stature leaves the party. However, I feel personal preferences often lead a person to make poor decisions. Sometimes a person errs in his decision. But I must admit that it is always the party which is at loss.The BJP has given at least two-third of the ticket to those who joined the party recently. This has led to resentment among a section of old workers.Our party carried out several surveys before announcing the ticket. Not all newcomers have been given the opportunity. Only those found deserving have been fielded. They, too, are treated like all other party workers.Some leaders, who have been denied the ticket, have charged the BJP with not giving them the respect they deserved. What’s your opinion?After the distribution of ticket, there were certain leaders who were disappointed. We heard them out. They are back on the job. In our party, discipline is paramount. We are not like any other party where leaders are airing their grouse openly and contesting independently.Your old ally SAD has tied up with the BSP this time. Is there any chance that you could both enter into an alliance again?The SAD chose to leave the alliance. Earlier, many a time our workers said we should leave the SAD, but we didn’t. The BJP now has a chance to bring a turnaround in the state on its own.In the past 20 years, the Chief Ministers have changed, but not the issues — be it unemployment, drugs or corruption. Today, we have made a commitment to the people that we will make a ‘New Punjab’.Are drugs and sacrilege big issues for the state?Drug menace is the biggest issue. Punjab has given countless brave soldiers and sportspersons par excellence. This is the land of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. It is unfortunate when it is called ‘a haven for drugs’. Like our policy of zero tolerance to terrorism, we are committed to ending drug menace in Punjab. Those involved in drugs and sacrilege will be punished.The contentious farm laws, which are now scrapped, created a sentiment against the BJP. This has also resulted in a five-cornered contest in Punjab. Will any party get the majority?Everyone has the right to protest, but the forces behind the agitation attempted to push Punjab back into the dark days. These forces wanted to break the Hindu-Sikh unity. The Prime Minister understood the situation and withdrew the farm laws in the interest of the nation. During the agitation, protesters said they were not a political front. Now, they have taken the poll plunge. They have the right to do that, but it was not right on their part to not allow us to carry out our activities. Our leaders were also attacked. This is not democracy.Youth are leaving the state in big numbers due to joblessness. What is the way forward?Punjab today requires a secure environment, only then we can think of progress. The industry is leaving or thinking to leave because they have no security and live under threat. We are recovering RDX, sighting drones and witnessing bomb blasts. This has led to industries closing down and shifting their base. In such a scenario, why would an investor invest in the state? Ours is a border state, yet politics is being played on its security. When the Centre increased the area of the BSF’s authority from 15 km to 50 km, the Congress cried foul.Besides, we need institutes that can provide matching skills for the industry. Pathankot has a Pepsi unit. Not even a single local is employed there. Why? They lack the required skills.Do you think Covid curbs have impacted the campaigning?We all need to follow the Covid guidelines. As far as the effect on campaigning is concerned, the BJP does not work only during the elections but round the clock and throughout the year. A cadre-based party like us is not affected by the ban on rallies or other restrictions. Our campaigning is not affected at all.Why is Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol not seen much in his parliamentary constituency?He represents us in Parliament and is doing his job efficiently. He ensured funds for bridges in our area and carried out various programmes. He also attends party meetings regularly. #ashwani sharma #punjab bjp||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/environment-insecure-industries-shifting-base-from-punjab-ashwani-sharma-bjp-state-president-366510
03-02-2022||Fazilka||Age row: Plaint against Congress candidate Davinder Singh Ghubaya||Fazilka BJP candidate Surjit Kumar Jyani’s personal assistant Rakesh Sehgal and advocate Manoj Tripathi filed a complaint before the Returning Officer (RO) today over “incomplete” nomination papers of Congress candidate Davinder Singh Ghubaya.The complaint alleges Ghubaya provided incomplete information about his education and date of birth. “His date of birth has been mentioned as July 31, 1993 in different education certificates, but his date of birth certificate states it as December 13, 1991,” states the complaint, seeking cancellation of his nomination papers. Jyani’s petition before the High Court challenging Ghubaya’s age has been pending since 2017. However, Ghubaya has repeatedly stated that his birth certificate mentions it as December 13, 1991. — TNSTwo birth datesThe complaint alleges Congress Fazilka candidate’s date of birth (DoB) is mentioned as July 31, 1993 in education certificates. In DoB certificate, it is December 13, 1991 #fazilka||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/age-row-plaint-against-congress-candidate-davinder-singh-ghubaya-366508
03-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Charanjit Channi frontrunner for Punjab CM face||New Delhi, February 2Incumbent Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is “much ahead” in the race for Congress’ CM face in election-bound Punjab, preliminary surveys conducted by the party show.The surveys are ongoing with AICC sources telling The Tribune that the CM face will be announced after the withdrawal of nominations ends on February 4.Factors at playThe party is undertaking a vast exercise to gauge the mood of the organisation in Punjab, reaching out to every MLA, state unit office-bearer, worker, frontal organisation member through private calls and interactive voice response system.Feedback is being separately sought on the party app “Shakti”. “Preliminary responses show Charanjit Singh Channi ahead in the race by a huge distance,” a senior Congress functionary said. The consultation process was still underway and the idea was to involve all workers, he added.The Congress is, meanwhile, discussing the format for the announcement of the CM face in Punjab, whether through a physical rally addressed by Rahul Gandhi in Punjab or a virtual one. Current thinking favoured an announcement through a virtual rally, but that could change, sources said. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-frontrunner-for-punjab-cm-face-366506
03-02-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: FM Manpreet Badal's cousins, former MLA  rejoin SAD||Ex-MLA Bhai Harnirpal Singh ‘Kuku’, his son and Congress’ Kotkapura segment incharge Bhai Rahul Singh Sidhu and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s cousins — PCC general secretary Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala and Faridkot Sugar Mill ex-chairman Manjit Singh Fattanwala — rejoined the SAD on Wednesday.SAD chief Sukhbir Badal said the party would get a major boost in Muktsar, Faridkot and neighbouring districts. Both the families had left the SAD in 2010 and 2012, respectively. Bhai Rahul and Fattanwala both were denied the party ticket, after which they quit the Congress. — #manpreet badal #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-fms-cousins-former-mla-rejoin-sad-366505
03-02-2022||Anirudh Gupta||Food joints hog limelight as leaders try to connect with voters in Punjab||Ferozepur, February 2Local eateries are hogging the limelight as the candidates flock these food joints in an apparent attempt to reach out to the voters.During his recent visit, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma along with hosts of senior BJP officials was spotted at “Ramu Pooriwala” in the early morning, to strike a chord with locals. Recently, BJP’s candidate Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, was seen at stall of “Raju Kulche Wala”. Even daughters of Congress candidate Parminder Singh Pinki were spotted at an eating joint while canvassing for their father.Sanjay Kumar, a sweet shop owner, said, “All the candidates just want to capitalise on the popularity of eating joints.” Earlier, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, was also seen having kachoris at a food joint. Anurag Aeri, a social worker, said, “Whether these candidates will be able to get more votes by visiting these food joints or not can be ascertained after the results, however, they will certainly end up consuming more calories for sure.”Gurmit Sodhi said, “It’s a nice way to connect with locals and at the same time quench hunger as one does not get any time to have proper food these days.”Raju, who runs a golgappa kiosk along GT Road, said politicians come to his stall along with their supporters and get pictures clicked with his customers. “We have no issues with their visits as it increases our sales only,” he said. PD Sharma said since physical rallies have been banned by the Election Commission, politicians have been using every opportunity to showcase their daily activities on social media to connect with locals. #Ferozepur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/food-joints-hog-limelight-as-leaders-try-to-connect-with-voters-in-punjab-366501
03-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab needs pro-people leaders: Bhagwant Mann||AAP’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday said Punjab needed pro-people and serious leaders, not corrupt politicians.Reacting to former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s remark “people need seriousness, not drama or gimmick”, he said. “Punjab doesn’t need politicians who caused its people pain, made them shed the tears of blood and ruined the youth with drugs.”In a statement, Mann said Badal had been the CM of Punjab for nearly 20 years. “But Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat, during the tenure of Badal, was not hidden from anyone,” he said. — #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-needs-pro-people-leaders-aap-366499
03-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Campaign trail: SAD's Gurbachan Singh Babbehali trying hard to return||Gurdaspur, February 2When SAD’s Gurbachan Singh Babbehali was a ruling party MLA from 2007 till 2017, he was one politician who wielded absolute power. Not a leaf moved without his permission. He posted key men at key posts. The blueprint of all developmental works, minor or major, carried his signatures. Among bureaucrats, his word carried weight.Then came the fall. In the 2017 polls, he was routed by Barindermeet Pahra of the Congress by nearly 28,000 votes. It was time for introspection. And with it came the change. The aggressiveness with which he carried himself earlier has now been replaced with submissiveness. And his ferocity, which at one time was feared, has given away to a quiet demeanour. “If you learn from defeat, you have not really lost,” he says.Babbehali is now a changed man as he heads into his third election with optimism.On a drive to Kala Nangal village, he informs you how the incumbent MLA, had done precious little in the past five years. “Just see the quality of the interlocking tiles. They get damaged days after these are laid,” he quips.His phone rings. He asks the man on the other side to make sure his entire family leaves the Congress and joins his ranks. “Everybody knows that the Congress is playing a losing game. That is why more and more people want to join the SAD,” he maintains.He is on the comeback trail knowing well that one defeat does not translate into a final defeat. “I fail to understand why I lost. Major developmental projects like the new civil hospital, District Administrative Complex and the Judicial Complex came up in my tenure. Still, people did not vote for me. This is a bit surprising, isn’t it?”He leaves his native village at 10 am and returns around 8 pm every day. In between he touches nearly 10-12 villages. Before retiring for the day around midnight, he presides over a workers’ meeting. He gets livid when he talks about the municipal committee elections, claiming these were rigged by the Congress. “All 29 wards were won by the Congress. The electronic voting machines were tampered with, that is for sure,” he says. But there are a few takers for the machines being rigged. #Gurdaspur #SAD #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-trail-sads-gurbachan-singh-babbehali-trying-hard-to-return-366498
03-02-2022||Amritsar||Bikram Singh Majithia's wife Ganieve Kaur begins maiden campaign in Majitha||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s wife and SAD-BSP candidate Ganieve Kaur on Wednesday kicked off her poll campaign in Majitha.She paid obeisance at the historic Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib in Kathunangal where an ardaas was performed for her success in the political sphere. Later, she visited Mata Chawinda Devi Temple and met the residents of nearby areas.Despite being new to politics, she looked confident of garnering the support of residents. Ganieve said it was a sudden move of entering into politics actively, yet she would take care of the constituency, which was like an extended family to her.“I have never campaigned for my husband in the elections but just prayed for his success. It certainly came as a surprise to me as I wasn’t prepared at all. When my husband told me to contest the Majitha seat, I took it as a joke. Later, when I was apprised of the circumstances, I couldn’t say no. Now, when I met the residents, I was thrilled at the love and affection they showered on me. It is a challenge for me to keep up with the responsibility that was put on my shoulder and maintain the winnability factor,” she added.About her vision for the constituency, she said Majitha had seen massive development during my husband’s tenure. “My priority will be to expand these projects, be it civic amenities, connectivity or even social ones.” — #bikram majithia #ganieve kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithias-wife-ganieve-begins-maiden-campaign-in-majitha-366497
03-02-2022||Aman Sood||Denied ticket, BJP men reluctant to canvass for turncoats in Patiala||Patiala, February 2Denied tickets, local BJP leaders are miffed with the party high command and are “reluctant to canvass wholeheartedly” for the turncoats.In the crucial last leg of the campaign, many candidates are trying their best to ensure that the BJP cadre are at the forefront while seeking votes.A couple of days ago, even ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh along with Union Minister and state BJP’s poll incharge Gajendra Shekhawat reached out to local BJP leaders. Since the BJP and the PLC tie-up in the state, the saffron party cadre in many districts are unhappy and miffed with the fact that many of their top leaders have been ignored to “make room for turncoats”.Sources within the local BJP unit confirmed that the entire cadre wasn’t happy with the decision on ticket allocation, when many senior leaders were left out of the race. “We have been nurturing the BJP cadre in the state even in opposition and during the 10-year coalition government. Now when it was time to give us an opportunity to become MLAs, ‘outsiders’ have been brought in from other parties and given tickets,” they said.“The state BJP unit pushed my name for Patiala Urban seat and it was cleared even at the top. However, I have no option but to continue with the party and abide by its decision as the central command has given the ticket to Capt Amarinder,” said BJP leader Gurtej Dhillon, who was an applicant from Patiala Urban.“Senior BJP leaders and even those close to Capt Amarinder have assured to give due political respect to me. I will ensure our workers continue to work for the coalition. I do not want to say anything more,” he added.Another senior BJP leader confessed that it was hurtful to be replaced by turncoats as their decades of hard work for the party had been ignored. “Openly we can’t comment on the issue as the party high command is keen on winning the polls. But facing our cadre and workers in the city will be tough while asking for votes for outsiders,” he added.“Now the party high command is assuring to adjust us suitably. But if I would have been the MLA, I would have given a chance to those who have worked for the party for years,” the leader added.Talking to The Tribune, a few candidates contesting on the BJP or PLC tickets said they had personally visited saffron party leaders in their areas. “But only time will tell if they will work for us with dedication, as everything appears normal when we meet them but they’re reluctant to seek votes in their areas,” they said.Recently, senior leader Madan Mohan Mittal too left the BJP and joined the SAD after the saffron party denied his son Arvind Mittal the ticket from Anandpur Sahib.Hurt, but won’t back outI’ll abide by the party’s decision. Three generations of my family have backed the BJP. I am hurt, but I met Shekhawat and Capt Amarinder today and decided to continue to work for the party. Bhupesh Aggarwal, BJP spokesperson #punjab bjp||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denied-ticket-bjp-men-reluctant-to-canvass-for-turncoats-in-patiala-366496
03-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||To steer poll campaign, Congress volunteers in Punjab double as strategists||Chandigarh, February 2The Congress has set up an in-house poll mechanism for the Assembly elections, overcoming the challenge of hiring a professional strategist. In 2017, the party had hired poll strategist Prashant Kishor.A 200-volunteer team, drawn from state units of Indian Youth Congress (IYC) in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states have been positioned in all 117 segments for the real-time feedback.Active for the past over two months, volunteers include elected representatives from block development committees (BDC) to secretaries and general secretaries in the state units. The elections have provided an opportunity to set up a robust in-house mechanism to run a digital campaign and it would be replicated in other states.Volunteers, who are also successful professionals, are sparing time to be part of the electoral experience. The in-house team is getting the feedback on the candidates, addressing issues of voters and reaching out the intended beneficiaries of government schemes.Gokul Butail, in-charge of the election control room for the state Congress, says, “The volunteers are getting an opportunity to hone their professional and networking skills, connect with the grassroots-level workers and at the same time interact with the top leadership. The opportunity offers incentives to rise in the party.” During Rahul Gandhi’s visit on January 27, the volunteers played a key role in digitally connecting voters with party leaders. #prashant kishor #punjab congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-steer-poll-campaign-congress-volunteers-in-punjab-double-as-strategists-366495
03-02-2022||---||Post Capt's Amarinder Singh exit, 42 MLAs backed me for Punjab CM's post, claims Sunil Jakhar||Chandigarh, February 2As the Congress is all set to announce its CM face for the coming Assembly elections, senior party leader Sunil Jakhar created a flutter by pointing out that a majority of the MLAs had backed him for the post after Capt Amarinder Singh was dethroned in September last year.Jakhar, chairman of the Campaign Committee and one of the faces for the ongoing campaign, was speaking at a rally in Abohar in support of his nephew Sandeep Jakhar. In a video, he is heard saying that after Captain Amarinder’s ouster, 42 MLAs had voted for him, 16 for Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, 12 for Preneet Kaur, six for PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and two for Charanjit Songh Channi for the CM’s post.The Jakhar’s video, which has gone viral, has sparked a buzz, adding yet another twist to the Congress’s campaign for the crucial state elections. In the video, Jakhar is also heard saying in Punjabi that he has no complaints and “God does whatever is right”.Meanwhile, a senior Congress leader said though the facts of the voting done by the MLAs at the time of Capt Amarinder’s ouster were already in public domain, Jakhar’s words came when the party was taking a feedback from voters and workers to choose between Channi and Sidhu as the CM face.It is also being seen by Congress leaders as a subtle reminder by the former PCC chief to the party leadership about his relevance at a time when it was asking its workers about the CM face.Incidentally, Jakhar, who was one of the faces for the Congress’ posters for the Assembly elections, has apparently been left out by the party after it took a U-turn on going to the polls with a CM face. Earlier, the party kept on saying that it would go with joint faces.Talking in context of the situation when Capt Amarinder Singh was removed and 42 MLAs voted for him, the senior Congress leader said certain advisers in Delhi made it a “Sikh-Hindu issue”. But, both the party and the state are secular.He further said declaring the CM candidate was the prerogative of the party high command and the decision was taken after consultation with leaders and workers. “Personally, I feel that it will not be politically prudent to change horses during the battle,” he added.Jakhar said if backing a handpicked Dalit candidate was a good choice, then the party should give chance to Channi.Party & state are secularWith Capt Amarinder’s removal and MLAs backing me, certain advisers in Delhi made it a ‘Hindu-Sikh issue’. But both the party and the state are secular. — Sunil Jakhar, CongNot the time to rake up old issuesIt is not the time to rake up old issues. It is futile to discuss the matter (of internal voting in the Congress) at this stage as the issue is long over. — Pargat Singh, ministerUttarakhand: Channi star campaignerWhile Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has found a place among the star campaigners for the upcoming Uttarakhand Assembly elections, the name of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu is missing from the list. #capt amarinder singh #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-capts-amarinder-singh-exit-42-mlas-backed-me-for-punjab-cms-post-claims-sunil-jakhar-366493
03-02-2022||Satya Prakash||1988 road rage case: Trouble for Navjot Sidhu as SC to hear review petition on Thursday||New Delhi, February 2The Supreme Court will on Thursday hear a petition seeking review of its 2018 order letting off Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in a road rage case in which a man had died in 1988.The cricketer-turned-politician was acquitted of homicide charges but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased.The Supreme Court had on September 12, 2018 agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018 order imposing a fine of Rs 1,000 on Sidhu in the case.A Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice SK Kaul—which had earlier issued notice to Sidhu “restricted to quantum of sentence”—will reconsider the amount of punishment given to him.Sidhu and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu were initially tried for murder, but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and gave him a three-year imprisonment.But the Supreme Court had on May 15, 2018 acquitted him of the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with the 1988 road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died after allegedly being beaten up Sidhu and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu.“The material on record leads us to the only possible conclusion that we can reach that the first accused (Sidhu) voluntarily caused hurt to Gurnam Singh punishable under Section 323 IPC,” the top court had said.Review petitions are generally heard “in chamber” and not in open courts by a procedure called “hearing by circulation” where advocates representing the parties are not allowed to argue. But in exceptional cases, the court allows open court hearing if convinced about its need.According to the prosecution, Sidhu and co-convict Rupinder Singh Sandhu were present in a Gypsy parked near Sheranwala Gate crossing in Patiala on December 27, 1988, while Gurnam Singh was on his way to a bank in a Maruti car with two others. As Gurnam asked the Gypsy occupants to give them way, the duo beat him up and fled. Gurnam was taken to a hospital, where he was declared dead. #NavjotSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-to-hear-road-rage-case-involving-navjot-sidhu-on-thursday-366459
03-02-2022||---||Punjab Congress MP wants a law against runaway NRI brides, gives notice in LS||New Delhi, February 2Punjab Congress MP Jasbir Singh Gill on Tuesday gave a notice in the Lok Sabha seeking a discussion on the alleged harassment of husbands by NRI brides and said there were laws to address harassment by NRI husbands but none even acknowledging, let alone covering, the “anguish caused by NRI brides.”Giving a notice for a short duration discussion on the matter and calling the attention of the home minister to the issue, Gill said in LS today, “I am in the know of many cases where deserted husbands committed suicide and families of many in laws were left in financial distress leading to disturbances.”The MP from Khadoor Sahib said several husbands were financing their wives to study The International English Language Testing System (IELTS), and later to travel and settle abroad.“After completing the study the wife gets her work permit and instead of sponsoring the husband to the new country, she deserts the man. We have a law to punish runaway husbands but there is no law to punish girls who inflict deep psychological and financial wounds. We should bring in a law for this,” Gill said in the notice given to Lok Sabha Secretary General today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mp-wants-a-law-against-runaway-nri-brides-gives-notice-in-ls-366452
03-02-2022||Chandigarh||42 MLAs had backed him as Punjab CM candidate after Amarinder quit, claims Sunil Jakhar||As the Congress has decided to take a feedback from voters and party workers to choose between Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as the CM face, a day-old video of senior party leader Sunil Jakhar referring to a majority of MLAs backing him as CM after Capt Amarinder Singh was ousted, has created a flutter in political circles.Jakhar, who was one of the faces of the campaign for the coming Assembly elections, has apparently been left out by the party after it took a U-turn on going to the elections with a CM face.The former PPCC chief, who was addressing a rally in Abohar in support of his nephew Sandeep Jakhar, is heard saying in the video that after Amarinder’s ouster, 42 MLAs had voted for him, 16 for Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, 12 for Preneet Kaur, six for Navjot Singh Sidhu and two for Channi as the CM face.Though the facts have been highlighted several times earlier, the timing of this statement by Jakhar is being seen by party leaders as a subtle reminder by the former PPCC chief to the party leadership about his relevance at a time when the party is asking its workers about the CM face.The video of Jakhar claiming that a majority of MLAs had backed him for the Chief Minister’s post after Amarinder Singh quit has sparked a buzz, adding yet another twist to the Congress's campaign for the crucial state election.In the video that has gone viral, Jakhar, who is chairman of the Congress campaign committee, is heard saying in Punjabi that he has no complaints and “God does whatever is right”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-of-sunil-jakhars-claim-that-46-mlas-had-backed-him-as-cm-candidate-after-amarinder-had-quit-goes-viral-366413
03-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress releases theme song, to seek people's response on its CM face||Chandigarh, February 2Moving into the next phase of its digital campaign under its ‘Punjab Di Chadhdi Kala, Congress Mange Sarbat Da Bhalla’, the Punjab unit of Indian National Congress (INC) on Wednesday launched its theme song.Official Campaign Song of Punjab Congress Punjab Di Chadhdi KalaCongress Mange Sarbat Da Bhala#SarbatDaBhala pic.twitter.com/lYLmZs070MEarlier, a teaser of the audio-video theme song, focusing on the party’s star campaigners and contenders of the CM face, Navjot Singh Sidhu and Charanjit Channi, was shared on Wednesday morning on the INC’s Punjab Twitter handle. The teaser shows pictures of both Sidhu and Channi.Party insiders handling the digital and backed strategy say the teaser and release of the theme song would arouse interest of the voters in the party's campaign and associate themselves with party candidates in the respective assembly segment.Incidentally, the teaser projected both Sidhu and Channi as the party’s face seeking opinion of voters through a pre-recorded message on the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) being sent out to mobile numbers of voters across the state. Party leaders aim to send the IVRS message to nearly 1.5 crore voters having mobile connections.The voters are being given three options — Channi, Sidhu or no CM face.Feedback is also being sought through candidates, AICC coordinators and survey teams spread across all 117 Assembly segments.Through the message, the voters are being given three options — Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu or no CM face — to choose from.Gokul Butail, joint secretary, All India Congress Committee, and incharge of election control room for Punjab, said feedback was being sought through the IVRS system.The party is reaching out to nearly four lakh party workers, including coordinators and district incharges at the block level. The party is expected to announce the CM face between February 7 and 10. Rahul Gandhi is expected to visit the Malwa region in the first week of February. “The party will build the momentum before announcing the CM face,” said a senior leader. #CharanjitChanni #NavjotSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-to-release-theme-song-today-seek-peoples-response-on-its-cm-face-366395
03-02-2022||---||Stuck without food and medicines in Alberta, Punjabi-Canadian truckers whose video went viral are back home safely||Chandigarh, February 2Dozens of Punjabi-Canadian truckers who were stranded in Montana, as they were trying to cross into Alberta since the weekend with little access to food or medical assistance, are back safe at home.Also read: 'Fringe minority', says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as anti-vaccine protest in Canada spurs outrageConfirming this news, Alberta's minister of transportation Rajan Sawhney on Wednesday tweeted: “I am happy to report these Alberta truckers who shot a video a few days ago while stranded at Coutts are now safe at home. I spoke with them this morning, they are doing well and are in good spirits.”I am happy to report these Alberta truckers who shot a video a few days ago while stranded at Coutts are now safe at home. I spoke with them this morning, they are doing well and are in good spirits. pic.twitter.com/FtuDo9wWwFA video of the truckers had gone viral, where they had said that they had sort help from the government as they were stuck due to the protest. They said that they have little food and most of them had medical issues. The drivers asked for politicians to help in crossing as their supplies were running low. While one of them claiming that that they were “vaccinated and want to go home”.These are the truckers I want media stories focused on. https://t.co/ugoeUI2UBOThe anti-vaccine protest in Canada has spurred outrage. In the aftermath of Canada's biggest pandemic protest to date, the demonstrators have found little sympathy in a country where more than 80 per cent are vaccinated. #Canada #truckersprotest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/stuck-without-food-and-medicines-in-alberta-punjabi-canadian-truckers-whose-video-went-viral-are-back-home-safely-366386
