04-02-2022||Chandigarh||Darbara Singh Guru, senior Akali leader and former principal secretary to Parkash Badal, joins Congress||Senior Akali leader and retired bureaucrat Darbara Singh Guru joined the Congress on Friday—a day after he stepped down from the Akali Dal.Darbara Singh Guru formerly served as the principal secretary to SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal when he was chief minister, Channi made the announcement through a tweet on Friday,“I welcome S. Darbara Singh Guru, Senior Akali Dal Leader and former Principal Secretary to former Chief Minister S. Parkash Singh Badal into the party fold. I am sure his induction will further help us strengthen the party at grass-root level,” Channi’s tweet said.    I welcome S. Darbara Singh Guru, Senior Akali Dal Leader and former Principal Secretary to former Chief Minister S. Parkash Singh Badal into the party fold. I am sure his induction will further help us strengthen the party at grass-root level. pic.twitter.com/APQL8rUX3P #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/darbara-singh-guru-senior-akali-leader-and-former-principal-secretary-to-parkash-badal-joins-congress-367045
04-02-2022||---||70,501 from Punjab went to work in Gulf in 5 years; 417 complaints registered regarding fake agencies: Govt in Lok Sabha||New Delhi, February 4The Ministry of External Affairs on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that 70,501 Indian workers from Punjab had gone to Gulf countries in the past five years and 417 complaints had been registered regarding fake agencies during the same period.“As per records available in the eMigrate platform, 70,501 Indian workers from Punjab were issued emigration clearances during the last five years. These persons were workers proceeding to the Gulf and ECR (Emigration Check Required) countries on job contracts valid for 2-3 years. The Government of India attaches highest priority to the safety, security and wellbeing of Indians in foreign countries. As per eMigrate, a total number of 417 complaints of different nature, including about fake agencies, have been registered by the people of Punjab during the last five years,” Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said in the Lok Sabha on a question by Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann of the AAP.The Minister of State said timely actions had been taken by the Ministry and the Missions/Posts abroad to the resolution of the reported grievances.“The cases of fake agencies brought to the attention of ministry/missions and posts abroad are shared with the state authorities concerned for appropriate action,” Muraleedharan said.The minister added that overall an estimated 1.35 crore Indian nationals were residing in various countries, including 88 lakh in Gulf countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/70-501-from-punjab-went-to-work-in-gulf-in-5-years-417-complaints-registered-regarding-fake-agencies-govt-in-lok-sabha-367041
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||If satisfied dying declaration is true, court can base conviction on it: Punjab HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has held if the court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true and voluntary it can base conviction on it, without corroboration, while upholding the life imprisonment of a murder accused who had set his wife on fire in 2014."It is trite law that, if the Court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true and voluntary it can base conviction on it, without corroboration..," observed the high court.The appellant was aggrieved against the judgment passed by the Sessions Judge, Palwal, Haryana, whereby he has been convicted in an FIR of March 25, 2014 for offence punishable under Section 302 IPC (murder) and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs 25,000. He is convicted of murdering his wife.The division bench, comprising Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain, passed these orders on Thursday while dismissing the appeal filed by Sukhbir.The main complainant in the case Sonu Mohanti, brother of the deceased woman, had turned hostile during the trial.As per his statement earlier, Ranjana was married to accused Sukhbir in 2008. There was a discord between them from the beginning and Sukhbir used to maltreat her and beat her without any rhyme or reason.Twice she left his house and went to parental home in Jharkhand. However, she was sent back. In January 2014, Sukhbir visited Jharkhand to bring Ranjana back. He assured that he will not maltreat her and thus Ranjana was sent back by her parents.In order to ensure that Ranjana felt safe, Mohanti accompanied her and started living in the same premises. On March 23, 2014, at about 6-7 pm Sukhbir, in drunken condition, started beating Ranjana.With the intervention of the complainant, Ranjana could be saved. However, at around midnight, he woke up to the shrieks of his sister and found her engulfed in fire. Sukhbir was present in the room. On seeing Mohanti, he fled.Ranjana disclosed to her brother that Sukhbir took her to his room and sprinkled kerosene over her and lit fire with match-stick. Immediately after the incident, Mohanti recorded his statement when his sister was unfit to record her statement.She was taken to Government Hospital, Palwal from where she was later referred to Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi for treatment.However, on March 28, 2014, doctors opined Ranjana (34) to be fit to make statement which was recorded by a Magistrate wherein she narrated the sequence of events and stated that the couple had got married in 2008 and have two children and her husband used to beat her up after consuming liquor.Ranjana had in her statement stated that her husband had an illicit relationship with her sister-in-law ('Jethani') and it was Sukhbir who had set her ablaze.Ranjana succumbed to her injuries on May 5, 2014.Sukhbir was tried for offence punishable under Section 302 IPC for having murdered his wife. Mohanti was declared hostile.On evaluating the evidence on record, the trial Court found that: “The fact that PW1 (Mohanti) has turned hostile is undoubtedly a relevant consideration but is not the sole determinative factor for deciding the guilt or for otherwise of the deceased."With these observations, it is held that the dying declaration of the victim as recorded by PW9 (Magistrate) on 28.03.2014 is worthy of reliance and fully proves that the accused had immolated the victim on the intervening night of 24/25.03.2014".The trial court observed that the dying declaration of the victim when tested on the anvil of admissibility is fully admissible and no intrinsic infirmity could be pointed out in this statement."Hence, in my opinion, the same deserves to be relied upon without corroboration from any other source and while accepting the same, it stands fully proved that the victim had died due to sustaining burn injuries caused by the accused by immolating her with any intention to kill her and in this way he proved to have committed the murder of the victim," the trial court had held.The counsel for the appellant argued that the complainant having resiled from his statement, dying declaration alone is not sufficient to hold the appellant guilty.On the other hand, counsel for the State contended that, as per settled law once the Court has come to the conclusion that the dying declaration was the truthful version, it does not need any corroboration."In our view, dying declaration of the victim proved on record proves the guilt of the appellant beyond doubt. Finding no merit in the present appeal the same is ordered to be dismissed," the high court bench held. ---  #punjab hc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/if-satisfied-dying-declaration-is-true-court-can-base-conviction-on-it-punjab-hc-367020
04-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Decision on Punjab chief ministerial face to be taken by BJP parliamentary board, says Hardeep Puri||Chandigarh, February 4The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance on Friday gave 12 commitments to the people of Punjab, as it seeks the mandate for the Punjab polls scheduled for February 20.In a bid to woo farmers, who have been antagonistic towards the BJP because of the three contentious (now withdrawn) farm laws, the NDA has promised to grant MSP on fruits, vegetables, pulses and oilseeds, besides granting a Rs 5,000 crore annual budget for promoting crop diversification in the state, among 11 other commitments made on Friday.Getting into the “dole race”, the alliance also announced 300 units of free power to all, power supply to MSMEs at Rs 4 per unit, increase in allowances to anganwari workers to Rs 10,000 and increase in compensation to ASHA workers to Rs 6,000; social security pensions to the old, widows and physically challenged to be enhanced to Rs 3,000; setting up of ‘Guru Kripa’ canteens for the poor to give food to the needy at Rs 5 per meal; pucca houses for all; and, enhancing compensation to the martyrs from defence forces to Rs 1 crore and a job for their kin. They also announced that those consuming over 300 units of power would pay tariff at Rs 3 per unit.Announcing these commitments by the alliance, Union Minister and Punjab election incharge Hardeep Puri, flanked by Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt Amarinder Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Ashwani Sharma, president of state unit of BJP, said that unlike other political parties, the commitments made by them would be honoured. He reiterated that this new alliance, unlike the previous bad marriage they had with the Shiromani Akali Dal, was strong and much needed for peace and harmony in the state.Interestingly, though Puri ducked the question as to who will be the chief ministerial face of the alliance, categorically denied the statement made by Manjinder Singh Sirsa regarding Capt Amarinder Singh not being the CM face. “The decision on the CM face is to be taken by the BJP Parliamentary Board. The BJP is a disciplined party and decisions are taken by the Board. The opinion expressed by Sirsa could be his personal view,” he said.The commitments made by the BJP include an assured peaceful and harmonious environment; doing away with the sand, liquor mafia; eradicating drug abuse; providing employment opportunities to all; farmer welfare through guaranteed MSP, allotment of one lakh acre shamlatland to landless growers; upgradation in health care infrastructure at village level; quality education for all with smart schools, government colleges in each tehsil and vocational tracing to be imparted, besides emphasis on skill development; creating an industrial revolution through simplification of tax structure, VAT refunds, overall development of Punjab; women empowerment and 33 per cent reservation for them in police jobs besides a slew of sops for the underprivileged.Puri said a Border Area Development Commission and a Lala Lajpat Rai MSME Development Centre would be set up. “We will achieve all this in just two years…this is our article of faith,” he said.Training his guns at the Aam Aadmi Party, he rued that they were flaunting the success of mohalla clinics in Delhi, when in realitythe health infrastructure in the capital had collapsed during the peak of pandemic.Speaking on the occasion, Capt Amarinder Singh said that when he, as CM, tried to take on the powerful political elite involved in various mafias, they turned against him. “After I set up a Special Investigation Team to look into drug smuggling, 63,000 people were arrested for drugs. I put 3,000 gangsters behind bars and some were eliminated. Now, there is threat to the hard-earned peace and harmony in the state. The voters have to choose wisely, if they want economic development,” he said.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa promised that those guilty of sacrilege would be arrested. “Only we can and will control mafias. Lokayukta will be strengthened. Mining authority will be formed. Citizen Charter Act will be implemented for deliverance of public services, task force for the drugs menace,” he said. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decision-on-punjab-chief-ministerial-face-to-be-taken-by-bjp-parliamentary-board-says-hardeep-puri-366990
04-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab polls: Does Congress have a Plan B for Punjab? Is  'sympathy factor, Scheduled Caste CM being targeted' translating into votes?||Chandigarh, February 4As the Congress is building up the hype ahead of likely announcement of Charanjit Channi as the Chief Minister face in Punjab election on February 6, the ED is back to haunt the party in money laundering case involving Channi’s nephew, Bhupinder Honey.Holding their horses, the party leaders are reassessing the situation as so far they have been claiming that the ED has not been able to establish any link between the seizures from Honey and Channi.Chief Minister Channi has alleged that the ED was forcing his nephew to name him in the case, adding that, “I have no link with the seizures from my nephew.”Sources say it was being monitored as to how the narrative of corruption being built up against Channi proves productive or counter-productive for the party.The party strategists say that the party is building up the narrative of a Scheduled Caste CM being targeted and demoralised ahead of the polling on February 20. It is been seen whether the “sympathy factor” for Channi translates into votes.Party insiders are saying that there was no plan B and it would go ahead with plan to announce the CM face at the earliest, knowing well that the CM face would be targeted in multiple ways by the Opposition. In a similar manner, Navjot Sidhu is also being targeted in multiple ways, they added.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, however, denounced it as a “political arrest, done to create pressure”.“Channi is a Scheduled Caste CM, they want to hassle and demoralise him,” Kharge was quoted as saying to media.Randeep Singh Surjewala took to twitter saying that with 15 days left for Punjab elections, BJP “election department” (ED) has been launched. Hinting at the chronology of events, he said the ED action was tohelp chotta Modi (read Arvind Kejriwal) in Punjab. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-does-congress-have-any-plan-b-for-punjab-sympathy-factor-scheduled-caste-cm-being-targeted-translating-into-votes-366963
04-02-2022||As leaders make new promises this election||Punjab polls 2022: In the battle for Amritsar, issues no political party is talking about||The battle lines have been drawn and stakes been claimed. Campaigning has become shriller and high-pitched, but burning issues have been sidelined once again. Several elections have gone by, but core problems being faced by citizens of Amritsar remain unchanged, with no solution in sight. Here are just a few of these issues…Bhagtanwala dump yardOnce a main issue in almost every election, it remains unresolved till date. The shifting of the dump yard remained a matter of several discussions and debates in previous elections. Residents are facing health hazard and several attempts at waste management at the dump yard through scientific methods have failed numerous times. Interestingly, this time, this issue is not on the list of any political candidate vying for votes.Multipurpose sports stadiumAnother lost and never found project is the ambitious multipurpose sports stadium in the E Block of Ranjit Avenue. The foundation stone of the stadium was laid in 2011. The proposed facility was to have a cricket ground, an athletics track and a football ground, besides lawn tennis courts. Currently, the site has turned into a dump yard with no new announcement made about its future.Crumbling traffic mgmtAnother major issue that seems to have not caught any political candidate’s attention is the crumbling traffic management and parking woes in the city. Owing to lack of parking spaces and proper traffic management, traffic jams and congestion have become a nuisance for citizens. All major intersections and commercial places have become major traffic bottlenecks, almost making it difficult to drive a two-wheeler or four-wheeler. Lack of parking spaces in major commercial centres such as Hall Bazaar, Katra Jaimal Singh, Telephone Exchange, Karmo Deohri, Guru Bazaar Shastri Market, Raja Market, Katra Ahluwalia, Majith Mandi, Loon Mandi, Daal Mandi, etc., have only added to the woes, with haphazardly parked vehicles eating away the roads meant for commuting.Sewerage woesThe issues of garbage disposal and broken sewers are a pain in the neck for residents. Almost all constituencies in Amritsar face this issue. Big political names winning from these constituencies have failed to provide solutions to such basic problems. Illegal encroachments have only grown and without any check.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-promising-the-moon-but%E2%80%A6-366908
04-02-2022||---||Supreme Court defers hearing on Navjot Sidhu road rage case plea to February 25||New Delhi, February 3The Supreme Court today deferred to February 25 the hearing on a petition seeking review of its 2018 order letting off Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in a 32-year-old road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died.The order by a Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice SK Kaul came as a reprieve for the cricketer-turned-politician ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll to be held on February 20.The deferment came after senior advocate P Chidambaram, representing Sidhu, submitted that the advocate-on-record in the case was changed last night and he needed time to file reply to the review petition. Initially, the Bench proposed to defer it to February 21 but finally it posted the matter for hearing on February 25 as Chidambaram urged that it be listed on any date after February 23. "On a lighter side, two weeks' time is crucial for him," the top court said.The Bench took exception to a letter circulated by Sidhu's new counsel seeking four-week adjournment that said the matter had been "unexpectedly listed"."We have no difficulty in adjourning…but the advocate-on-record has made a statement in the letter that is, unexpectedly listed…It's not an accurate statement because it was shown in the advance list," Justice Khanwilkar said, adding, the court's Registry should not be cornered like this."I am sure, the Registry is right," Chidambaram said.On behalf of the review petitioner, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra urged the Bench to expand the scope of the notice and consider reviving conviction on homicide charges. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-defers-hearing-on-sidhu-road-rage-case-plea-to-feb-25-366777
04-02-2022||---||Aam Aadmi Party contestant from Mohali Kulwant Singh richest in election fray||Chandigarh, February 3With assets worth Rs 251 crore, AAP candidate from Mohali Kulwant Singh is the richest candidate in the fray. A real estate tycoon, he joined AAP just last month. In addition, his wife owns assets valued at Rs 24.85 crore.Superrich Nominees *Joint assets with spouseNext in the list are Muktsar candidate Karan Kaur Brar, daughter-in-law of former CM Harcharan Singh Brar, with assets worth Rs 162 crore and Technical Education Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and his wife Rana Rajbans Kaur with assets worth Rs 130.37 crore.Their son Rana Inder Pratap Singh, who is contesting as an Independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi, has declared wealth worth Rs 70 crore. Former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal have movable and immovable assets worth Rs 51.21 crore and Rs 71.56 crore, respectively. Their total wealth is Rs 122 crore. Sukhbir also owns horses worth Rs 95 lakh and two weapons valued at Rs 2 lakh. Harsimrat also has jewellery worth Rs 7.24 crore.AAP’s Sunam MLA Aman Arora is also among the superrich candidates. He and his wife Sabina Arora have assets worth Rs 87.75 crore. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, contesting from Bathinda Urban, also figures among the wealthy with Rs 73 crore assets. He owns 11 vehicles as well. #rana gurjeet singh #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aam-aadmi-contestant-from-mohali-kulwant-singh-richest-in-election-fray-366786
04-02-2022||Bathinda||SAD vows revamp of village infra in Punjab||Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today promised that all 12,500 villages of the state would have concrete streets if the SAD-BSP alliance formed government in the state, besides providing clean drinking water and sewerage facilities to villagers.DS Guru quits partyFatehgarh Sahib: Darbara Singh Guru, former Principal Secretary to Parkash Singh Badal, resigned from SAD on Thursday. Sources said he was annoyed at the allotment of Bassi Pathana seat to the BSP. TNS“The SAD-BSP tie-up is committed to improving the village infrastructure on the pattern of cities. We will launch a comprehensive plan for this purpose once elected to power,” he said at a public gathering in Bathinda Rural.He also promised that farmers, who did not have a tubewell connection, would get one within a month of the formation of the SAD-BSP government. He announced that all homeless families would be given five-marla plots each. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-vows-revamp-of-village-infra-366788
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||33 nominations withdrawn on Day 1||SAD seeks action against Cong over adChandigarh: The SAD on Thursday urged the EC to take action against the Congress for allegedly misusing ‘Gurbani’ in its advertisements and asserted it not only violated the model code, but had also hurt the sentiments of Sikhs. Submitting a complaint to the CEO, Punjab, spokesman Arshdeep Kler urged the EC to issue directions for the removal of such hoardings and boards, and take action against the party for distorting holy scriptures. TNSLEADERspeakWill canvass for Sidhu in Amritsar East: Dr Dharamvira GandhiToday, when the entire mafia world within every political party is determined to eliminate Navjot Singh Sidhu politically, I will stand with him and will go to Amritsar East to campaign for him. — Dr Dharamvira Gandhi, former Patiala MPAsked to pay Rs. 50 lakh for ticketI was asked to pay Rs. 50 lakh for AAP ticket. I am being threatened by senior party leaders not to divulge such information. I have the recordings to substantiate my claim. — Ashu Banger, congress candidate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-nominations-withdrawn-on-day-1-366790
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh will not pilot BJP-led govt: Manjinder Sirsa||With the Assembly elections round the corner, BJP’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa ruffled feathers within the alliance today, saying the chief minister of the NDA government will not be Capt Amarinder Singh, who heads the Punjab Lok Congress, but somebody else.Answering a query during a press conference, Sirsa, who left the SAD to join the BJP recently, said Capt Amarinder would not to be the “pilot” of the government. “He will continue to live in his Siswan farmhouse,” he said.Replying to another query regarding the possibility of a post-poll alliance with the Akalis in case of a hung Assembly, Sirsa said though the decision had to be taken by the party leadership when such a situation arose, “anything is possible in this world”.Sirsa denied the possibility of venturing into Punjab politics, saying his main focus was on religious issues of the Sikhs. Taking a dig at the Opposition parties, Sirsa said the Congress had a history of targeting Punjabis, the SAD always harped on “Panth” being in danger, while APP did not have a single Sikh face in its Delhi Cabinet. — #capt amarinder singh #manjinder sirsa #punjab lok congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-will-not-pilot-bjp-led-govt-sirsa-366791
04-02-2022||Aman Sood||Turncoats dominate in Patiala segments||Patiala, February 3Turncoats are having a field day in the Patiala Urban and Rural segments, where two former Mayors, an incumbent Mayor and two former councillors are trying their luck.In Patiala Urban, barring SAD candidate Harpal Juneja, three other nominees are turncoats, testing loyalty of party workers.Poll matrix in urban segmentOne of them is former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress and formed the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC). He had won the seat in 2017 on a Congress ticket with more than 52,000 votes, defeating AAP’s Dr Balbir Singh.One of the tallest leaders in the state politics, Capt Amarinder is facing a challenge from three candidates having an association with the Akali Dal. The two former Mayors — Congress candidate Vishnu Sharma and AAP’s Ajit Pal Singh Kohli — recently quit the SAD.Congress candidate Sharma, a prominent Hindu face of the city politics, was once a close aide of Captain Amarinder. He was the first Mayor of the city. He rejoined the Congress two weeks ago.“It is homecoming for me. Under Capt Amarinder Singh, party workers felt sidelined,” he said.Meanwhile, AAP has fielded former Mayor Kohli, who joined the party last month after snapping ties with the SAD. He was the Patiala Mayor from 2007 to 2012. His family had seven decades of association with the Akali Dal. His father Surjit Singh Kohli, senior vice-president of Akali Dal, was a Cabinet Minister in the SAD-BJP alliance in the 1990s. His grandfather Sardara Singh Kohli was a SAD legislator.Meanwhile, SAD candidate Juneja remained a party councillor from 2012 to 2017. He is the district SAD president of the urban wing. His father Bhagwan Dass Juneja contested unsuccessfully against Amarinder’s wife Preneet Kaur in the 2015 byelection from Patiala Urban.In the Patiala Rural segment, incumbent Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, who has joined the PLC, will face former SAD councillor Jaspal Singh Bittu Chatha.Congress’ Mohit Mohindra, son of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, is making his electoral debut, while AAP has fielded eye specialist Dr Balbir Singh.While Mohit is banking on development in the constituency represented by his father, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma and Dr Singh will try to make inroads ino the constituency. #brahm mohindra #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/turncoats-dominate-in-patiala-segments-366796
04-02-2022||---||Surjit Singh Rakhra sweats it out to win back Samana||Samana, February 3One thing that has not changed in Surjit Singh Rakhra during his over two decades of political career is his accessibility to people of his constituency. Be it the time when he lost the election, or when he became an MLA or when he went on to become a Cabinet minister.While all other leaders seek to change their constituency to avoid anti-incumbency, SAD leader Surjit Singh Rakhra is toiling hard to wrest the same seat. “I have never ever dreamt of changing my seat. They are my people. I will always be there for them,” says Rakhra.Former Cabinet Minister Rakhra, who had defeated Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh in the 2012 elections but lost to Congress leader Rajinder Singh in 2017, says he addresses over 30 meetings every day. He has been going from lane to lane and from village to village to meet and greet people of his constituency.Even opponents never target him in their speeches and rival workers greet him with respect. He has earned this due to his humble and down-to-earth approach, say Congress and AAP workers in Samana.The segment had voted for Rakhra in 2002 when he had defeated Congress’ Brahm Mohindra. In 2007, Mohindra had turned the tables on Rakhra.“Welfare schemes have eluded my constituency and a large number of poor are without blue cards. People also complain about the government failing to generate employment for the youth,” he states, assuring to change all this if the SAD-BSP forms the next government. #surjit singh rakhra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surjit-singh-rakhra-sweats-it-out-to-win-back-samana-366797
04-02-2022||---||Punjab Election: Parties grapple with namesakes yet again||Gidderbaha, February 3The politics of namesake candidates continues to haunt candidates of main political parties this election too.For instance, there is an Independent candidate, a namesake of AAP candidate Pritpal Sharma in Gidderbaha. Further, this constituency has one Hardeep Singh, an Independent candidate, namesake of SAD candidate Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon.Similarly, there are two candidates in Gidderbaha with the same name — Om Parkash. One Om Parkash is the candidate of the Punjab Lok Congress, while the other is the candidate of the Punjab Kisan Dal.Notably, in the 2017 Assembly elections, there was an Independent candidate, Baldev Singh, namesake of AAP candidate Principal Baldev Singh in Malout. Independent nominee Baldev Singh had got 864 votes.Similarly, in 2014 parliamentary elections, there was an Independent candidate named Manpreet Singh Badal, namesake of Congress candidate Manpreet Singh Badal, in Bathinda constituency. Independent candidate Manpreet Singh Badal had got 4,618 votes.Notably, after the scrutiny of nominations, 53 candidates are left in fray in Muktsar district. The last day for the withdrawal of nominations is Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-grapple-with-namesakes-yet-again-366799
04-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Amid din, campaign songs catch voters' fancy in Punjab||Bathinda, February 3With political parties and candidates intensifying their campaign for Assembly polls, music composers, lyricists and producers have started recording campaign songs for the parties and candidates.Since the Election Commission had put a ban on roadshows and public rallies, the focus of parties is on virtual campaigns and candidates are working on various ways to reach out to the voters.Catchy music videos and peppy songs are helping them in their endeavour. The AAP has come up with a song: “Ek mauka dena aapa Kejriwal nu, ek mauka dena aapa Bhagwant Mann nu”. In the video, it has shown both — the SAD and Congress — in bad light and offered a solution to all problems in Punjab.The Congress has launched its campaign song: “Punjab di chardi kala, Congress mange sarbat da bhala”. It features Rahul Gandhi, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, and also highlights the work done by its government in its five-year term.The SAD has launched a video song: “Saada veer Sukhbir”, which is sung and written by Harvinder Harry. Its video includes glimpses of Sukhbir Badal’s campaigns and highlights the work that the party had done during its previous term.Candidates Manpreet Badal, Manoj Bala, Mohit Mohindra and many others have also come up with songs for their campaign.Bathinda Urban Congress candidate Manpreet Badal’s campaign song: “Vote sadi haqdar koi hor nahi ho sakda, sada Manpreet warga koi hor nahi ho sakda, sadi vote support Manpreet de naal”. Apart from social media, the song is being played at every public meeting of Manpreet during his campaign in Bathinda.Another Congress candidate from Maur, Dr Manoj Bala has released a song: “Halqa Maur Mandi wich aaye Manju Bansal Mangat Rai, vikas wich na kameya, leke awan saholta naweya. Kon karuga reesa Bansal parivar deya”.Around six-year-old Adabpreet Singh has come up with a song: “Kathe hoke Kohli nu jatadeo, jhado wala button daba deo Punjabio”, for his uncle Ajitpal Singh Kohli, who is contesting on AAP ticket from Patiala Urban. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #rahul gandhi #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-din-campaign-songs-catch-voters-fancy-366801
04-02-2022||Abohar||We helped poor during lockdown: Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Congress former chief Sunil Jakhar today lambasted the Opposition for “impersonating” as people-friendly, claiming none of them offered help when Covid lockdown was announced.Addressing a meeting of councillors and ward workers, he said when millions of people were stuck in uncertainty, the Congress started a 24-hour helpline at the state office and asked districts and sub-divisional units to start similar helplines for the needy.He claimed the state government made elaborate arrangements to ferry 10 lakh migrants to their homes by trains, while the BJP government at the Centre refused to even waive their travel fare. BJP’s role was limited to playing “thali” and lighting lamps, he claimed.Jakhar said the parties that were now promising the moon to the poor were nowhere to be seen during the lockdown period. “The (AAP) leaders who claimed to have added new dimensions to health services in Delhi could not establish a single government hospital in seven years.”Hundreds of Covid victims died in the corridors of hospitals there due to gross failure to manage oxygen. Depressed patients from Delhi found shelter in Punjab and many lives were saved, he added. — #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-helped-poor-during-lockdown-jakhar-366811
04-02-2022||---||Supreme Court extends protection from arrest to Simarjeet Singh Bains||New Delhi, February 3The Supreme Court today extended for a week the protection from arrest given to Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains in a criminal case even as it pulled him up for slapping several cases against a woman who filed a rape complaint against the lawmaker.Taking exception to “misuse of police machinery”, a Bench led by CJI NV Ramana also stayed the criminal proceedings in four cases filed against the woman complainant for two weeks.Misuse of machineryWhat is happening in your state? How many cases he (Bains) has filed against the lady… You (state) can’t be a party to such kind of misuse of police machinery. —SC to Punjab Advocate GeneralWhile Bains has challenged an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court refusing to stay a non-bailable warrant issued against him by the trial court in the rape case, the woman complainant has moved the top court seeking relief in criminal cases lodged against her.The Bench, which had on Tuesday given protection from arrest to Bains for two days, raised questions over his conduct and posed several questions to the Punjab Government.“What is happening in your state? How many cases he (Bains) has filed against the lady, and he wants anticipatory bail and the lady should go to jail… You (state) can’t be a party to such kind of misuse of police machinery,” the Bench told Punjab Advocate General DS Patwalia. It asked the state of Punjab to file its reply and posted the matter for hearing after a week.Maintaining that the state didn’t have “much role in the dispute”, which seemed to be between two parties, Patwalia said he would seek instructions and file a response. As the guardian of the law, the state has a duty to protect it, he added.As the hearing commenced, the CJI asked senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi: “Have you seen your client’s activity? How your man is harassing people… he is a public representative, an MLA for two times. Is this the way to behave?”As Rohatgi said the MLA was innocent and the cases against the woman had been filed by other people as she ran a job racket for getting people employment in Canada, the CJI said: “I want the Advocate General of Punjab to appear in this matter.” #simarjeet bains #simarjeet singh bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-extends-protection-from-arrest-to-bains-366820
04-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Police face HC ire for wanting complainant to turn investigator||Chandigarh, February 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Punjab Police for wanting the complainants to carry out the probe at their level in a kidnapping and murder case, instead of doing their job.Justice Anoop Chitkara of the High Court asserted the stand showed that the allegations of the accused being a close aide of an MLA and an influential politician “may have some element of truth in them”.DGP directed to transfer probeThe Punjab Director General of Police shall transfer the investigation to some competent and sensitive investigation wing within two weeks. —Justice Anoop Chitkara, High CourtThe assertion came as Justice Chitkara ordered the Punjab Director General of Police to transfer the investigation to some competent and sensitive investigation wing. Taking up the petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Kulwant Singh, through counsel KB Raheja, Justice Chitkara observed a dejected father, whose young son — a Class VII student — was kidnapped and murdered way back in January 2018 was before the court seeking transfer of the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation, a specialised crime branch of the Punjab Police, or to any team after constituting a SIT under the court’s supervision.“A perusal of the paragraph reveals that instead of doing their job, the investigator now wants the complainants to do the investigation at their level. If this is the state of affairs, what is the need to appoint the investigators? It shows that the petitioner’s allegations may have some element of truth in them. This court refrains from commenting further. Suffice it to say that the Director General of Police of the State of Punjab shall transfer the investigation to some competent and sensitive investigation wing within two weeks,” Justice Chitkara concluded.Looking at the background of the matter, Justice Chitkara observed the petitioner’s son was kidnapped and subsequently murdered. His body was recovered from the bushes. The reason for the murder was allegedly ransom and subsequently concealment of evidence. In one of the paragraphs of the petition, it was alleged that the private respondents were close aides of an MLA.Justice Chitkara also took a note of Raheja’s argument before the Bench that the boy was kidnapped for performing the “ritual of sacrifice”. The investigation was sketchy and biased. It was being influenced following pressure from the local minister.Justice Chitkara asserted the limited prayer of the disillusioned father was for a just and fair investigation. Referring to a reply placed before the Bench, Justice Chitkara added the contents of a paragraph pricked the conscience of the court. #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-face-hc-ire-for-wanting-complainant-to-turn-investigator-366821
04-02-2022||---||Elderly woman seeks death sentence for convicted Tarn Taran Police inspector||Amritsar, February 3Swarn Kaur (87), mother of Santokh Singh, a Punjab State Electricity Board employee who was allegedly abducted and kept in illegal detention by the Tarn Taran police before his mysterious disappearance in 1991, expressed dissatisfaction over the sentence announced by the CBI Special Court, Mohali.The court has convicted Inspector (retd) Major Singh, then SHO of Sadar police station in Tarn Taran and sentenced him to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment under Sections 364 of (kidnapping in order to murder) and 344 of the IPC (wrongful confinement for 10 days or more) on Monday.A resident of Jaspal village, Swarn Kaur pointed out that being a cop Major Singh had the duty to safeguard the public, but he had kidnapped her son. “The court should have sentenced him to life imprisonment or awarded death sentence for his act,” she said and pointed out that she has been fighting the legal battle for the past 32 years.“The sentence was unduly lenient for such a grave and heinous crime. We will review the judgment and will challenge in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said advocate Jagjit Singh Bajwa.The victim was posted at Butari subdivision. On July 13, 1991, after he came back from his duty, Major Singh along with a police party arrested the victim in front of Swaran Kaur and his wife Rajwinder Kaur. He was allegedly kept in illegal detention for 10 days before his mysterious disappearance.Swaran Kaur had even approached the higher police authorities for the release of her son, but to no avail.Disappearance caseSwarn Kaur (87), mother of Santokh Singh, a Punjab State Electricity Board employee who was allegedly abducted and kept in illegal detention by the Tarn Taran police before his mysterious disappearance in 1991, expressed dissatisfaction over the sentence announced by the CBI Special Court, Mohali. #illegal detention #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-seeks-death-for-convicted-inspector-366822
04-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Overcast weather not good for rabi crop, say experts||Moga, February 3Light to moderate rain, which was continuing in most parts of the state, particularly in the Malwa belt for the past 24 hours, is worrying farmers as it may harm rabi crops. It has affected the growth of wheat plants, delayed the harvesting of potatoes and also raised the fears of pest attack on other horticulture crops.Agro-scientists say that cloudy and foggy weather conditions, which led to insufficient sunshine in the past one month has already affected the development of wheat plants, which were at the middle stage of growth.Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a state-award winner agro-scientist of the Agriculture Department, said: “Insufficient sunshine in the past one month has reduced photosynthesis, which will undoubtedly affect the growth of wheat plants”.He said excessive rainfall also leads to water stress on plants, which decreases the rate of net photosynthesis per unit leaf area. Moreover, suspended particles of clay, silt, or free-floating algae could also make it hard for plants to synthesise the sugar they need to grow, he said.Dr Brar said: “Proper soil aeration accelerates the growth of plants and increases the crop yield, but higher amount of water in soil results in poor aeration of soil, which retards the metabolic activities and reduces the respiration process in the root cells of the plants.”Farmers, Sukhdev Singh of Khosa Randhir Singh village and Gurcharan Singh of Dhalleke village, said threats of aphids, yellow rust and other insects and pests on wheat plants were also looming large due to prolonged wet and humid weather conditions. “It may affect the production or net yield of the crop,” they feared.The agro-scientist said yellow rust was a common fungal disease in wheat and affects the stems, leaves and grains. The prolonged cloudy weather conditions had increased the chances of wheat getting infested with aphids at the growing stage, when both the adults and nymphs take a heavy toll by sucking the cell sap, thus reducing the vitality of plants, he maintained.He said the Agriculture Department would assess the effect of prolonged cloudy and wet weather conditions on wheat in the coming days. “If the rain stops in a day or two and paves the way for good sunny days then the weather will become conducive for the growth of wheat plants,” he said.However, Dr Brar advised the farmers to be careful and check their crops regularly to detect aphid attack, if any, so that preventive remedial measures could be taken on time.Plant growth hitAgro-scientists say that cloudy and foggy weather conditions, which led to insufficient sunshine in the past one month, has already affected the development of wheat plants that were in the middle stage of growth||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overcast-weather-not-good-for-rabi-crop-say-experts-366823
04-02-2022||Abohar||BKU launches drive, escorts kids to school||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) today launched a “Chalo bachcho school” drive by escorting some students to a government school of Bazidpur Bhoma village here.Union district president Sukhminder Singh said the BKU state executive committee had taken an initiative to send children to schools across the state so that their studies could be regularised. “Around 1,000 persons have been allowed to gather in election meetings, while the number of children in schools is often less than this, then why aren’t they reopening schools for offline classes?” he asked.He said farmers and labour organisations in all villages would together send their children to government schools. Not all rural families can afford online education, so children should be taught regularly in schools.However, heads of government schools refused entry of students to classrooms, citing the directions received from the administration. — #bhartiya kisan union #BKU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-launches-drive-escorts-kids-to-school-366824
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||Farm union terms Budget ‘anti-farmer’||The Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has condemned the BJP government over the union Budget and declared it to be anti-farmer.While issuing a joint press release here, union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and its general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan have with facts and figures alleged the Centre of imposing huge cuts on government purchase of crops on MSP and also on subsidises to the agricultural sector. — #BKU #BUDGET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-terms-budget-anti-farmer-366826
04-02-2022||Surinder Bhardwaj||CM Charanjit Channi's brother, PLC queer pitch in Bassi Pathana||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 3The Bassi Pathana constituency in Fatehgarh Sahib district is witnessing a keen contest not only among traditional parties but also Independent and newly formed Punjab Lok Congress candidates.While the Congress, BSP and AAP are leaving nothing to chance to win the constituency, the entry of Dr Manohar Singh, brother of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, as an Independent candidate and PLC nominee Dr Deepak Jyoti have queered the pitch for them.Jai Inder Kaur, daughter of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, not only inaugurated the election office of the PLC candidate but initiated hectic campaigning by addressing election meetings at several places in Bassi Pathana.Similarly, Dr Manohar Singh is moving from door to door to woo voters, claiming he wants to “put the seat in the lap of brother after winning it”.The sudden shift of focus on the constituency, which is lately being frequented by family members of high-profile leaders seeking votes for their respective candidates, has left voters both confused and surprised, as they see it as a victory of democracy.Even candidates from traditional parties are unsure of which way the wind will blow this time and how much impact the presence of high-profile faces in the constituency will have.Congress candidate and sitting MLA Gurpreet Singh GP says the presence of Dr Manohar Singh in the fray will benefit him, as none of the Congress leaders or workers has joined him from the area. “Only those who are opposed to him or supporters of AAP and SAD are backing the CM’s brother,” he claims, adding Dr Jyoti, PLC candidate, who was earlier in the Congress has no base in the area.Past trendBassi Pathana (R) constituency was formed in 2012 when SAD candidate Justice Nirmal Singh (retd) won. In 2017, Gurpreet Singh GP won, defeating Santokh Singh of AAPElectorate strengthTotal voters 1,48,727Male 78,413Female 70,311Third gender 3 #bassi pathana #charanjit channi #plc #punjab lok congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cms-brother-plc-queer-pitch-in-bassi-pathana-366780
04-02-2022||---||PCC ex-president HS Hanspal joins AAP||Chandigarh, February 3In a setback to the Congress, senior party leader HS Hanspal joined the Aam Admi Party (AAP) in the presence of Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann here today.Earlier, Jagmohan Kang, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Fateh Bajwa and Dr Harjot Kamal had quit the Congress.Hanspal said, “The Congress has wavered from its ideology. It has lost the verve prevalent during the times of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. It is impossible for the party to take action against the mafia raj and bring Punjab out of the crisis.”Party has wavered from ideologyThe Congress has wavered from its ideology. It is impossible for the party to take action against the mafia raj and bring Punjab out of the crisis. —HS Hanspal, Former PCC chiefThe former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief had sought a Congress ticket for his grandson Sunder Singh Hanspal from the Sahnewal Assembly segment.Hanspal, a prominent Namdhari leader, was among the senior-most Congress leaders associated with the party since 1965. He has been the Rajya Sabha member twice.Meanwhile, former Cabinet Minister Jagmohan Singh Kang, Akali Dal (Dhindsa) leader Harsukhinder Singh Babbi Badal and bank employees’ union leader KK Sehgal also joined AAP today.Mann said, “With these veteran leaders joining AAP, one thing is clear. There is a wave in favour of AAP. Today, all honest leaders are coming together to save the state and trying to form the AAP government.”Chadha hoped that AAP would form the government in Punjab.Kang said, “My supporters and I will campaign for AAP candidates in Chamkaur Sahib, Bhadaur and Kharar so that CM Charanjit Singh Channi and liquor baron Tinku Sharma are defeated.” #bhagwant mann #hs hanspal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-ex-president-hanspal-joins-aap-366782
04-02-2022||GS Paul||Battle lines drawn: Bikram Majithia hits ground, Navjot Kaur Sidhu says no threat||Amritsar, February 3In Amritsar East, one of the most keenly watched seats, Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, having accepted the challenge by arch-rival and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, has hit the ground, while his political nemesis is yet to make his presence felt.Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, who has been canvassing on her husband’s behalf, however, says Sidhu has held programmes earlier but never publicised these to avoid rush due to Covid restrictions. “I am touring the constituency from 9 am to 9 pm daily here,” she says as Sidhu visited the city today.Asserting that “Sidhu is an undisputed hero while Majithia is no threat”, she says: “Residents want Majithia to stay away from the constituency, fearing drug menace will thrive if he is elected,” she said. On the entry of Majthia’s wife Guneive Kaur into politics, she says it is a move to secure home seat Majitha.Asserting that she has no grudges with the Majithias and has always prayed for their good health, Dr Sidhu says: “I have differences with Majithia due to his drug connections. Maybe once his name is cleared, there is a possibility of reviving the friendship.”Nonetheless, it has been a challenge for the SAD to make a debut from Amristar East, given the seat was earlier with estranged partner BJP.After being announced the party candidate on January 26, Majithia has been holding regular meetings since January 29.Majithia says the seat has been neglected despite being represented by the “celebrity couple”. “Look at my track record in Majitha, which was transformed within a few years,” he says. #bikram majithia #navjot kaur sidhu #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/battle-lines-drawn-majithia-hits-ground-navjot-says-no-threat-366784
04-02-2022||---||Congress now says no official survey on  Punjab CM face||Chandigarh, February 3Amid lakhs of voters in Punjab getting Delhi-based interactive voice response system (IVRS) messages seeking choice of the Congress’ chief ministerial face, the PCC has denied any verified or official survey being carried out by the party.A complaint has been filed by the PCC with the Election Commission, referring to AAP state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha suggesting former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar was excluded from a phone call survey for belonging to a particular community. Arshpreet Khadial, national spokesman for the IYC, and Surjit Swaich, legal adviser, pointed out Chadha’s statement was baseless as no verified survey was taking place.Overlooked despite 42 MLAs’ supportCongress is dividing people on religious lines. Even after the support of 42 MLAs, Jakhar was not appointed the CM just for being a Hindu. —Raghav Chadha, aap state affairs co-inchargeThe stand of the PCC had left the voters confused. “This means the party is getting a discreet feedback from voters without coming to the forefront,” said a party leader.Sources in the party said the IVRS messages were aimed at building a momentum among 1.5 crore voters who would be getting the messages. Otherwise, the party under its internal mechanism was getting feedback from its leaders and workers on CM face. It is the feedback of party leaders and workers that matters, they added.Meanwhile, reacting to Jakhar’s claim that he had the backing of 42 MLAs for the Chief Minister’s post after Capt Amarinder Singh was removed, Chadha today said the party had been doing politics based on caste and religion.“The Congress is conspiring to divide people on the basis of caste and religion by lending religious colour to politics. The biggest example is Congress leader Sunil Jakhar. Even after the support of 42 MLAs, Jakhar was not appointed as the CM just because he is Hindu,” he claimed.Addressing mediapersons, Chadha said it was shameful that the Congress threw Jakhar out of the CM’s race just because he was Hindu and appointed Charanjit Singh Channi, who had the support of just two MLAs. “It was done with the intent of dividing the people on the basis of caste and religion,” he said.Claiming that the Congress was only using Jakhar to woo Hindu voters, Chadha said if Jakhar was not in the race for the post, why was his photograph being used on party’s hoardings alongside those of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Channi.“The Congress is giving only two options to the people — Sidhu and Channi. Why is Jakhar not an option? He is not facing any allegations of sand mafia, corruption or drug mafia, why he is not in the race of Congress’ CM face?” he asked the ruling party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-now-says-no-official-survey-on-cm-face-366772
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi likely to announce Punjab CM face on Feb 6||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to announce the chief ministerial face during a virtually rally in Ludhiana on February 6. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will visit the state in the second week of this month.Confirming Rahul’s visit, CM Charanjit Singh Channi said the party leader is likely to announce the CM face. Yesterday, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had said the announcement on the CM face could happen any time.CM face or not, Sidhu will be heroSidhu is a hero and will remain one. Does not matter who will be the CM face. The only thing that matters is the CM should listen to ministers, sign files and let them work. — Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of PCC chiefSources in the party said to build the tempo ahead of the much-awaited announcement, the party will start a digital campaign from Friday. Unlike the last virtual rally at Jalandhar, where party candidates had joined Rahul for the digital rally, the candidates will this time be stationed in their respective Assembly segments.Rahul had during his recent visit announced that the party will seek responses from voters and workers to zero in on the CM face. Following this, pre-recorded message through the interactive voice response system (IVRS) were sent out to mobile numbers of voters across the state. Besides, feedback was taken through party candidates, AICC coordinators, survey teams spread across the 117 segments. The party has already got over 60 lakh responses.A senior party leader said Jakhar’s reference to him receiving maximum votes from MLAs after Capt Amarinder Singh was dethroned but still not being considered for being a Hindu face has brought to fore infighting within the party. He has strongly condemned the use of ‘Sikh-Hindu factor’ by certain senior leaders, claiming the Congress was a secular party.Party leaders point out that experienced leaders such as Partap Singh Bajwa and Sunil Jakhar cannot be overlooked. While Jakhar is not in the fray, Bajwa is contesting from Qadian. — #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #punjab congress #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/announcement-likely-on-feb-6-366775
04-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot MLA Amit Vij looks to ride on development works||Pathankot, February 3It has been raining for the past 48 hours. To compound matters, the weatherman says the conditions are unlikely to improve in the next few days. MLA Amit Vij’s campaign has indeed been thrown into chaos.“In Pathankot, the political battlefield in itself has been turned into a constant chaos. The winner will be the one who controls that chaos, both his own and enemies’,” says Vij. Unmindful of the gloom around him, he brims with the youthful exuberance of a teenager.Executive to legislatorHe is elated because barely an hour ago, he executed a major kill. Vij and his brother, Ashish Vij, who is also his backroom boy, had been working on this for the past several weeks. Finally, today they poached Punjab AAP spokesperson Teena Chowdhury. “Teena was a vital cog in AAP’s wheel. She has a strong connect with women of the area,” said Vij.Vij has indeed come a long way from being a top executive of an MNC to being an MLA.The fickle weather has forced a change in plans. He will now be visiting his friends-turned-foes and later in the afternoon will kickstart his door-to-door campaign. In the past few weeks, at least a dozen of his diehard supporters have deserted him. “I have immense love and respect for them. They will be back with me because love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into a friend,” he quips.A supporter calls him to say a prominent candidate was holding a rally in the time of Covid. “Calm down. Never disturb your enemy while he is committing a mistake,” Vij told him. The man certainly knows the tricks of his trade.The MLA harps on the development initiatives carried out by him. “Several projects, big and small, have come up at a cost of Rs 450 crore. The most important is the Dakhi road overbridge. A sum of Rs 40 crore has been spent on recarpeting of roads. As many as 25 community halls and 21 parks have been established. All government schools in my seat have been converted into smart schools. The list goes on,” maintains Vij.He says his biggest achievement has been to nurse the ailing Hindu co-operative bank back to good health. #pathankot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vij-looks-to-ride-on-development-works-366776
04-02-2022||---||Rahul Gandhi likely to announce Punjab CM candidate on February 6||Chandigarh, February 3Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to announce the CM face during his virtual rally in Ludhiana in the politically-significant Malwa region of Punjab on February 6. This would be his second visit to Punjab after announcement of assembly elections.CM Charanjit Singh Channi during an election rally in Ropar made this announcement.Rahul Gandhi had during his recent visit announced that the party will seek responses from voters and workers to zero in on the CM candidate. Following this, pre-recorded message through the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) were sent out to mobile numbers of voters across the state. Besides, feedback was taken through party candidates, AICC coordinators, survey teams spread across the 117 Assembly segments over the next one week.The party has already got over 52 lakh responses from voters through the IVRS system. Feedback is also being sought from party workers and leaders.Through the message, the voters were being given three options — Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu or no CM face — to choose from. #PunjabElections2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-announce-punjab-cm-candidate-on-february-6-366737
