05-02-2022||---||Punjab polls: 1,304 candidates in fray for 117 Assembly seats||Chandigarh, February 5A total of 1,304 candidates are in the fray for 117 assembly constituencies of state of Punjab after 341 candidates withdrew their nomination papers on February 4, the last day of withdrawal.Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, S. Karuna Raju said here on Saturday that 2,266 candidates had filed their nominations papers for 117 Assembly constituencies of the State. He further said during the scrutiny 1,645 nomination papers were found valid.The CEO said highest number of candidates 19 each are in fray from Sahnewal and Patiala. Five candidates are in fray from Dinanagar.Raju said now 1304 candidates are left in fray. The voting would be held on Sunday, February 20, from 8 am to 6 pm. #PunjabElections2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-1-304-candidates-in-fray-for-117-assembly-seats-367324
05-02-2022||---||Parkash Singh Badal to undergo health check-up at Mohali's Fortis||Chandigarh February 5Five-time Chief Minister of Punjab Parkash Singh Badal visited Fortis Mohali on Satuday as a part of his regular periodic check-up.This was stated by his long time confidant and Advisor, Harcharan Bains.In a statement released through the party office, Bains said Badal was advised regular bi-weekly or tri-weekly precautionary check-ups and he has been maintaining this periodic regimen, especially after being affected Covid.The senior leader has been routinely and daily interacting with people in the ongoing election campaign in the state, said Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-to-undergo-health-check-up-at-pgi-367305
05-02-2022||---||Would have been surprised had it been the other way around: Manish Tiwari on absence from Punjab Congress star list||Aditi TandonNew Delhi, February 5A day after he was excluded from the list of 30 star campaigners for Punjab elections, former union minister and sitting MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari said he would have been pleasantly surprised had it been the other way round.Tewari got support from former president Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit Mukherjee on Twitter who termed his exclusion a sad state of affairs.“I would have been surprised if it would have been the other way around. The reasons have been a Public Affair now for quite a while,” Tewari said to Abhijit who earlier came out in his support on Twitter.“Sad state of affairs in @INCPunjabas they exclude a prominent senior congress leader, MP from Punjab & former minister @ManishTewari Ji from the list of star campaigners in poll bound Punjab! Such narrow minded steps will never help Congress to win elections,” Abhijit tweeted.Tewari has been known to speak his mind on a range of issues in the party.Tewari said reasons for his exclusion were “no state secret.”The star campaigner list issued by Congress yesterday had Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh in the lead along with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra. It also had AICC state-in charge Harish Chaudhary, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Charanjit Singh Channi apart from veteran MP Ambika Soni and former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar.Punjab MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Ravneet Singh Bittu and Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Hooda were included but Manish Tewari was conspicuous by his absence.Punjab minister Amarinder Raja Warring, Jalalabad MLA Raminder Awla (dropped this time), and AICC Minority cell chief Imran Pratapgarhi were also in the list.Pratapgarhi, who lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Moradabad polling just about 5 per cent of the votes, is a poet and a social media celebrity with over 1.66 million YouTube subscribers and over 21 lakh Facebook followers.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Bahgel, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, AICC general secretary Rajasthan (who headed the Punjab candidates screening panel) Ajay Maken, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and deputy leader of the party in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma were also in the list.The list further included Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, AICC general secretary and communications chief Randeep Surjewala, AICC in charge of Himachal Pradesh Rajeev Shukla, former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot, former MP Ranjeet Ranjan, Mahila Congress chief Netta D Souza and Indian Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/would-have-been-surprised-had-it-been-the-other-way-round-manish-tiwari-on-absence-from-punjab-congress-star-list-367289
05-02-2022||---||Panel formed on Sikh prisoners' release issue||Jalandhar, February 4A 13-member committee ‘Political Prisoner Release Committee’ was constituted during the meeting of various Sikh organisations on the issue of the release of Sikh prisoners from various jails. The 13-member committee has been authorised to take up the issue of political prisoners and other Sikh prisoners with government representatives.The organidations hit out at the Centre for showing reluctance in release of nine Sikh convicts, who are still languishing in jails, despite completion of their sentence period. The organisations announced to hold protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during their visit to Punjab. It was decided that once their schedule plan will be made public, the Sikh groups will declare their protest chart.Sikh organisations led by Dal Khalsa, Alliance of Sikh Organisations and farmer organisations led by BKU (Doaba) constituted the coordination committee for the release of political prisoners. The 13-member committee included Baba Hardeep Singh Mehraj, Baba Hardeep Singh Dibdiba, HS Majhi, Kisan leaders Amarjit Singh Sandhu, Gurpal Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Narien Singh and Jaskaran Singh with Advocate Jaspal Singh Manjpur as its legal adviser.Panthic and farmers organisations squarely placed the blame on the Prime Minister, Home Minister and the Delhi CM for the obstructions in the release of Sikh prionsers.They said on one hand the Union Home Ministry issued the notification in 2019 recommending the release of Sikh prisoner Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and eight other detainees, but on the other hand, the Delhi Police which comes under the Union Home Ministry, opposed the premature release of Bhullar twice in the meeting of the Sentence Review Board (held on February 28, 2020 and December 11, 2020). Another member of the Sentence Review Board (SRB) who opposed the premature release was the Director, Social Welfare. #devinder pal singh bhullar #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-formed-on-sikh-prisoners-release-issue-367259
05-02-2022||The Ministry of External Affairs on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that 70||70,501 from Punjab went to Gulf in 5 years||“The cases of fake agencies brought to the attention of Ministry/Missions and Posts abroad are shared with the state authorities concerned for appropriate action,” said Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan. TNSTake up cases for free, advocates urgedLaw Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday urged young advocates to take up cases free of cost and inculcate the culture of offering “pro bono” legal services. Lamenting the high and unaffordable fee charged by some lawyers, Rijiju, during the Question Hour, said: “It is very difficult for the government to put a cap or regulate the fee of advocates. Some advocates are so expensive that it is beyond common man's reach to afford the cost.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/70-501-from-punjab-went-to-gulf-in-5-years-367159
05-02-2022||---||Bhupinder Honey's arrest political, says Congress on ED action||Chandigarh, February 4Hours after the Enforcement Directorate arrested Bhupinder Singh Honey, nephew of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, in a money laundering case, the Congress went into the offensive against the Opposition parties, especially the BJP.Channi Targeted by NDA govtChanni is being targeted as he stood against the PM Narendra Modi-led government in favour of Punjabis. — Harish Chaudhary, State affairs inchargeParty leaders Randeep Surjewala and Harish Chaudhary said “anti-Punjab” forces had joined hands to pull down Channi. Surjewala said with 15 days left for the Punjab elections, BJP’s “election department” (ED) has been launched. Hinting at the chronology of events, he said: “The ED’s action was to help ‘chhota Modi’ (read Arvind Kejriwal) in Punjab.”Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge denounced it as a “political arrest, done to create pressure”. He said: “Channi is a Scheduled Caste CM. They want to hassle and demoralise him.”“Channi is being targeted as he stood against the PM Narendra Modi-led government in favour of Punjabis,” said Chaudhary. He insisted the ED raid was not a setback for Channi or party. “In fact, it has been seen the BJP raids in other poll-bound states in the past have proven counter-productive for the saffron party. There is no link between Channi and the recoveries of cash made from his nephew.”With their leaders adopting an offensive approach, party strategist are reassessing the situation as so far the ED has not established any link between the seizures from Honey and Channi.The party is assessing whether the narrative of corruption being built against Channi is proving out to be productive or damaging for the party, says sources.“By building the narrative of an SC CM being targeted and demoralised ahead of the polling on February 20, it is being analysed whether the sympathy factor for Channi translates into votes,” says a source. A senior party leader said there was no plan B and it would go ahead with the plan of announcing the CM face, knowing well the chosen candidate will be targeted in multiple ways by the Opposition. In a similar fashion, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu is being targeted in multiple ways, they added.Meanwhile, reacting to reports of Sidhu’s barb at the party high command over the top leadership wanting a weak CM who can dance to their tunes, Chaudhary said the remark was aimed at the BJP. Sidhu is one of the contenders for the CMs face. At an Amritsar rally, Sidhu had said: “If a new Punjab has to be made, it is in the hands of the CM. You have to choose the CM this time. People at the top want a weak CM who can dance to their tunes. Do you want such a Chief Minister?” #bhupinder honey #ED||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-political-says-cong-on-ed-action-367079
05-02-2022||Chandigarh/abohar||Opposition trains gun on Punjab CM Channi, says mafia links exposed||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today targeted the Chief Minister after his nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey was arrested by the ED.Govt patronage to illegal businessThe government is completely under the control of mafias, which have the patronage for doing illegal business of sand and drugs. — Bhagwant Mann, AAP CM faceAAP chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann alleged the Congress government was completely under the control of mafias, which had the patronage for doing illegal business of sand and drugs.Mann alleged while former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh protected mafia, his successor Charanjit Singh Channi ran the sand mafia through his relatives.“The Congress gave Punjab two dishonest CMs during its five-year rule. Captain ruined Punjab to save the Congress party. He has himself accepted that to save the honour of Congress, he did not take any action against the leaders accused of mafia. Channi has also confessed that he failed to keep an eye on corruption. It clearly means that his family and relatives were corrupt,” he claimed.In Abohar, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today demanded dismissal of Channi, claiming his nephew had purportedly admitted that Rs 11 crore recovered from him was part of proceeds from the sand mafia as well as bribe for managing postings and transfers.“Channi has no right to remain in office. He is likely to be arrested post elections,” claimed Sukhbir. — #bhagwant mann #bhupinder honey #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-trains-gun-on-cm-says-mafia-links-exposed-367081
05-02-2022||New Delhi||Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh Congress' star campaigners for Punjab Election||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh lead the list of party’s star campaigners for the February 20 Assembly elections along with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra.Disciplinary move against rebelsThe list of 30 campaigners released today features AICC state incharge Harish Chaudhary, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Charanjit Singh Channi apart from veteran MP Ambika Soni and former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar.CM face on Feb 6, says ChaudharyAlthough Punjab MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Ravneet Singh Bittu, and Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Hooda have been included, former minister and sitting Lok Sabha MP from Punjab’s Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari is conspicuous by his absence.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, PCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar, AICC general secretary Rajasthan (who headed the Punjab candidates screening panel) Ajay Maken, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, deputy leader of the party in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma and minister Amrinder Raja Warring are on the list. — #manish tewari #manmohan singh #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonia-manmohan-star-campaigners-367083
05-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Campaign Trail Amargarh: Patient listener, Smit Singh strikes instant connect||Amargarh, February 4Congress’ Amargarh constituency candidate Smit Singh has been Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu’s shadow for several years. His proximity to Sidhu is working to his advantage.“Entire Congress stands behind you like a rock. We have pinned our hopes on you,” says an elderly voter as Smit halts at Sangala village. The response is overwhelming. The son of former Dhuri MLA Dhanwant Singh, Smit makes an instant connect with voters.As his vehicle approaches a village, he gathers information on the local problems as well as development works undertaken by the Congress government. He gets off his Innova and walks towards elderly persons to seek their blessings. He then shakes hands with youngsters and warmly hugs a bunch of curious children.“We removed Capt Amarinder Singh as CM as he failed to meet people’s expectations. After that, our government worked hard to meet the promises made during the last elections,” Smit tells a crowd at Rustamgarh village. A few residents point out that the Congress has failed to end the drug menace. Some complain that Amargarh MLA Surjit Dhiman did little for the constituency.Smit hears them out and then addresses each of the issues raised. He gets a good response. “Our party is aware of your problems.That is why I have been sent here. Please give me a chance to serve you. I will not give you a reason to complain,” he requests the voters, hands folded.At several villages, he is fondly addressed as “Kaka”. Many are eager to learn about his achievements in sports. A shooter, Smit won India its first world-level medal in skeet shooting with a bronze trophy at International Junior Cup, Orimattila, Finland, in 2011. “I will encourage sports to end the drug menace,” he promises amid slogans.He makes a quick tour of Ratolan, Bhaini Khurd, Mankmajra, Bhaini Kalan, Sangali, Rustamgarh, Sangala, Mohmmadgarh, Himtan, Faizgarh, Dalelgarh and Sadopur villages. His speeches are short but effective. He refers to the ‘Punjab Model’, picks holes in AAP’s Delhi model and targets the BJP and Akalis. “You are my guiding force. I will follow you,” he tells the voters as he concludes the tour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patient-listener-smit-strikes-instant-connect-367086
05-02-2022||Hoshiarpur/Sujanpur||Zero tolerance to corruption in BJP, says Rajnath Singh||Targeting the Congress government, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh today said there was zero tolerance to corruption in the BJP, and the party wouldn’t mind shunting out MLAs who faced even a single charge of corruption.Rajnath was here at Goiwal village of Talwara block to campaign for BJP’s Dasuya candidate Raghunath Singh Rana. He arrived in a helicopter from Pathankot around 12 noon. Warming up the election atmosphere in the kandi area of Dasuya on a chilly and rainy day, Rajnath said external and internal forces were trying to create differences between Hindus and Sikhs, but no one could harm the deep and strong relationship.Speaking at the party’s voter interaction programme, the Defence Minister said PM Narendra Modi had worked to stop corruption through digitisation. He stressed the day a splatter of corruption falls on any MLA of the party, it wouldn’t hesitate in expelling the MLA concerned.At Sujanpur, canvassing for sitting MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu, the Defence Minister assured the locals of resolving the the controversial issue of 27,500 acres taken over by the Forest Department. “If our party comes to power, I will try to resolve the issue once and for all,” he said. The minister also trained guns on the Congress party, questioning “what was its contribution in nation building.” Later Rajnath addressed a gathering in Gurdaspur in favour of the BJP candidate Parminder Singh Gill. — #rajnath singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zero-tolerance-to-corruption-in-bjp-says-defence-minister-367088
05-02-2022||Aman Sood||Punjab cops on 'dummy' postings to hoodwink EC shifted||Patiala, February 4Acting on a report in these columns a fortnight ago on “dummy” postings of “politically connected” policemen in various districts, the state police have transferred all such officials to other districts on the intervention of the Election Commission.20 officers moved out in 24 hoursIn the latest orders, the state police wing has apprised the Election Commission that all such officers have been transferred.According to the recent orders, as many as 20 officers at the level of inspector and sub-inspector had been shifted from their present police district within 24 hours.The Tribune had reported how in the violation of rules, a number of police officers have been deputed to “cells which are not under the direct purview of the Election Commission”. Such transfers are often termed as “dummy” postings as these do not require additional manpower and are not directly related to the electoral process.While some station house officer (SHO)-level officers, who served for almost three years in a Cabinet minister’s constituency were transferred out of the district, continued to skip their new posting and remained in the constituency, a few others who served for over three years under an MLA managed posting in the Special Branch and continued to play truant from the office to allegedly help the MLA.A report was sought from the Inspectors General of Police (IGs) and commissioners of police in districts following which all such officers have been ordered to join their new place of posting within 24 hours.According to the orders, eight such officers have been shifted from Patiala range, while six had been shifted from the border range of Amritsar police.Interestingly, when a similar attempt was made ahead of the 2017polls, the state Election Commission had issued a notice to then DGP to explain the transfer of policemen on “dummy” postings. Documents in possession of The Tribune revealed many transfers had been made against “dummy” postings. Since these didn’tfall under the poll panel’s ambit, such officials got a free hand to serve the interests of their political bosses.The Election Commission guidelines, issued before polls, say: “No officer connected directly with elections shall be allowed to continue in the home district. If he/she has completed three years in respective district, then he/she will not be able to continue with the present posting.”Welcoming the move, SAD candidate from Patiala Harpal Juneja said: “It is a good decision to shift all such officials, but action should be taken against those senior officials who allowed them to stay in the same district.” The AAP and the SAD had been accusing Congress leaders of keeping choicest officials in the district to seek help ahead of polls. #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-on-dummy-postings-to-hoodwink-ec-shifted-367090
05-02-2022||Karam Prakash||Ex-kabbadi player Gurlal ready to take on heavyweights in Ghanaur||Patiala, February 4After a successful career in sports, former international kabaddi player Gurlal Ghanaur has taken a plunge into politics.Simplicity is my USPWe are going door to door in all villages to seek votes. The direct connect suits us and it seems to be working for us. Unlike other candidates, I am a simple person, which is my USP. — Gurlal GhanaurGurlal, who was an ASI in the Punjab Police, is locking horns with political heavyweights — Madan Lal Jalalpur and Prem Singh Chandumajra — from the Ghanaur Assembly constituency as AAP candidate.Experts said Gurlal’s toughest opponent was sitting MLA Jalalpur, who had been active in electoral politics for around two decades. Jalalpur has won twice from Ganaur. The other formidable competitor of Gurlal is said to be SAD veteran Chandumajra, who is a three-time MP and an ex-minister.A known face in the area due to his sports achievements, Gurlal had joined the AAP in June last year. Gurlal, who is said to have been gaining momentum with every passing day, said people of Ghanaur did not have any option earlier. “They are already fed up with the candidates of traditional parties. A majority of the promises, made by them, have never been fulfilled. People want a change this time.”When asked about his poll campaign, Gurlal said people want to connect directly with the candidate and not through any sarpanch or party workers.Gurlal said he would work to uplift sports infrastructure at the grass-roots level and work for providing respectable government jobs to the sportspersons through a new policy. #prem singh chandumajra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-kabbadi-player-gurlal-ready-to-take-on-heavyweights-in-ghanaur-367092
05-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Video clips, memes questioning Punjab leaders' work trend online||Chandigarh, February 4Video clips showing public dissatisfaction with the government on deliverance are trending big time on the social media.Need to counter propagandaAll our candidates have been told to counter the propaganda against the party. They’ve been told to go all out on the social media with info on development works that our govt undertook. — Harish Chaudhary, Congress leaderFor instance, there is a video clip showing women in the constituency of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu not getting clean potable water. Another shows voters in the constituency of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal questioning him for failing to settle the issue of thermal plant in Bathinda. A clip shows residents of Sansarpur in Jalandhar Cantt criticising Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh over the state of civic amenities in his constituency.A meme of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal answering a media question on students going abroad has also gone viral, wherein he says “we will get back the students who have gone abroad”. A boy in the clip says: “Now even Kejriwal has started lying. Brother! (Kejriwal) they are not coming back now even if you appoint them DC.”A former sarpanch of Sansarpur, Sonu Gill, says: “We went to Pargat Singh’s home five to six times and each time he promised an immediate action on the potholed roads. In fact, we were told that Rs 66 crore was sanctioned for the work in 11 villages in our area. Nothing has happened on the ground so far.”Videos of other candidates who have been questioned by people for non-performance include Congress candidate from Budhlada Ranvir Kaur, Punjab Lok Congress candidate from Amritsar Harjinder Singh Thekedar and the BJP candidate from Nathana.A spokesperson for the SAD said: “Our candidates are not facing any questions anywhere. We have a long list of achievements be it road infrastructure, airports, education, healthcare or good governance or promoting our culture”.Hardeep Dakha, sarpanch of Khanwala village in Fazilka, said: “People are saying we don’t need any freebies. They need quality education and healthcare. Politicians have only made false promises, people, particularly youngsters, are more aware now. They are seeking greater accountability and they also show their reaction on the social media.” #arvind kejriwal #manpreet badal #navjot sidhu #pargat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-clips-memes-questioning-leaders-work-trend-online-367093
05-02-2022||Archit Watts||In Muktsar, novel ways to reach out to voters||Muktsar, February 4With just two weeks left for the campaign to end, all candidates are now trying their best to outdo each other with their innovative ways to woo voters.Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who is vying to become MLA Gidderbaha for the third time in a row, is singing and dancing in his public programmes in the segment.His close associates say Warring always tried to strike a chord with commoners. “In the last Assembly polls, we prepared some audio and video songs and people used to dance on these tracks in public meeting programmes. This time, when some youngsters compelled Warring to dance, he accompanied them. Further, he once even sang a patriotic song to cheer up the crowd,” said a close aide of Warring.Similarly, SAD’s Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, who is in the electoral fray to become the MLA for the second time, recently drove a tractor and a motorcycle in the villages.Further, Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’s Gidderbaha candidate Gurpreet Singh Kotli is visiting villages by driving a tractor. He even stands on the tractor to deliver his public speech.In other parts of the state, too, candidates are adopting innovative methods for their campaign. For instance, Congress candidate from Dhuri Dalvir Singh Khangura Goldy recently went bare feet to some area of Dhuri town. Similarly, Congress candidate from Moga Malvika Sood went on a bicycle to the returning officer’s office to file her nomination papers.Meanwhile, a local said: “Politicians behave like a common man only during the elections. It is always good to see them doing such activities and trying to strike a chord.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-novel-ways-to-reach-out-to-voters-367094
05-02-2022||Ropar||28 in fray from 3 Ropar seats||A total of 28 candidates remain in the fray in Ropar, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib, after four withdrew their papers on the last date for withdrawal today.DC Sonali Giri said eight candidates — Iqbal Singh Lalpura (BJP), Daljit Cheema (SAD), Dinesh Kumar Chadha (AAP), Brinder Dhillon (Congress), Paramjit Singh Mukari (Punjab Kisan Dal), besides Avtar Singh, Davinder Singh Bajwa and Bachittar Singh (Independents) — will contest from Ropar.In Anandpur Sahib, besides sitting Congress MLA and Speaker Rana KP Singh, 10 others in fray are Harjot Bains (AAP), Gurdev Singh (CPM), Nutan Kumar (SAD-BSP), Parminder Kumar (BJP), Ashwani Kumar (Azad Samaj Party, Kanshi Ram), Malkiat Singh (Jai Jawan Jai Kisan), Ranjit Singh (SAD-A), and Surinder Bedi, Sanjiv Rana and Shamsher Singh (Independents).In Chamkaur Sahib, CM Charanjit Channi will try his luck. Eight others are Charanjit Singh (AAP), Harmohan Sandhu (SAD-BSP), Darshan Singh Shivjot (BJP), Gurmukh Singh (SP), Jagdeep Singh (CPI-ML), Naib Singh, (Punjab National Party), Lakhvir Singh (SAD-A), and Rupinder Singh (Independent). —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/28-in-fray-from-3-ropar-seats-367095
05-02-2022||Chandigarh||NDA vows MSP on fruit, veggies||The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance today gave 12 commitments to the people of Punjab, as it sought the mandate for the elections.The commitmentsIn a bid to woo farmers, who have been antagonistic towards the BJP because of the three (now withdrawn) farm laws, the NDA has promised grant of MSP on fruit, vegetables, pulses and oilseeds, besides granting Rs 5,000 crore annual budget for promoting crop diversification in the state.The alliance also announced 300 units of free power to all (Rs 3 per unit tariff over 300 units), power supply to MSMEs at Rs 4 per unit, increase in allowances for anganwari workers to Rs 10,000 and ASHA workers to Rs 6,000, enhanced social security pensions to old, widows and physically challenged of Rs 3,000, setting up “Guru Kripa” canteens offering Rs 5 per meal to needy, pucca houses for all, and enhanced compensation to martyrs from defence forces of Rs 1 crore in cash besides a job for kin — a commitment added to the list at the insistence of PLC chief Capt Amarinder Singh.Union Minister Hardeep Puri said unlike other political parties, the alliance would honour the commitments made to people. — TNSLEADERSPEAKWhy was honey given vip security?The VIP security provided to Channi’s nephew is proof of the close proximity between the two. If Channi wasn’t close with his nephew, why was he (Honey) provided with VIP security? — Raghav Chadha, AAP LeaderPOLL NUGGETSMuktsar dist Congress acting chief joins BJPMuktsar: In a setback for Congress candidate Karan Kaur Brar, district Congress committee acting president Bharat Bhushan Bansal Binta, who had sought party ticket, has joined the BJP. Binta, an aide of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, is also president of the Punjab Rice Industry Association. Earlier, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s cousins Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala and Manjit Fattanwala had joined the SAD on Wednesday. TNSSunam Cong incharge withdraws papersSangrur: Sunam Congress local halqa incharge Daaman Bajwa on Friday withdrew her nomination papers as an Independent candidate. After the party gave the ticket to Jaswinder Singh Dhiman, nephew of Amargarh MLA Surjit Dhiman, Daaman had filed her nomination as an Independent. “I have withdrawn my nomination as advised my supporters. I will take a final decision on my future course of action on Sunday,” said Daaman. #MSP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nda-vows-msp-on-fruit-veggies-367097
05-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||We believe in keeping supremacy of national security at forefront: Hardeep Singh Puri||Chandigarh, February 4Ruling out a post-poll alliance with former partner SAD in case of no clear verdict, the BJP has said their new alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress and SAD (Sanyukt) was perfect as the trio believed in “supremacy of national security, Punjabi pride and keeping interests of Punjab at the forefront”.Saw breakup as opportunityBy coming on our own, we can only go up. The SAD ensured no Sikh or Hindu leader from BJP could grow. When they walked away, we saw it as an opportunity. — Hardeep Singh Puri, BJP Co-inchargeThe party is hopeful of consolidating its urban vote to win the elections. It is also banking on voters realising the same party ruling in the state and Centre would lead to Punjab getting on the growth bandwagon.Talking to The Tribune, Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs and party co-incharge for Punjab elections Hardeep Singh Puri said till last election, the BJP was a junior partner in the alliance and got 5 per cent vote share.“When the SAD walked away, we thought it was a golden opportunity for the party. Even in seats where we would not do well, an embryonic unit would be set up. The new alliance is not subject to any ‘paarivaarik’ control,” he said.The minister said the SAD was able to “rule Punjab and milk the system” only on the basis of urban votes. “The urban voter is not just Hindu, but also Sikh and Dalit. When I contested from Amritsar, which I am told was sabotaged, I got 41 per cent of vote share in just 17 days of campaign. The 17 per cent Jat votes will be divided between the Congress, AAP and Akali Dal. If we can consolidate the urban votes by a serious campaign, reaching out to voters through social media and door-to-door canvassing, we stand a good chance,” he said, adding the party had also fielded many Dalit candidates.“Even candidates fielded by allies want to contest on our symbol as they see better electoral prospects and want to be part of a party that has political power,” he said.Puri denied the farmers were against the BJP, and highlighted how the party was promising them MSP on most crops as part of its commitment to Punjab, besides allocating an annual budget of Rs 5,000 crore for crop diversification. #hardeep puri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-believe-in-keeping-supremacy-of-national-security-at-forefront-puri-367098
05-02-2022||Chandigarh||Seizures worth Rs 319 cr made so far in Punjab, says EC||After the model code of conduct came into force, enforcement teams have seized valuables worth Rs 319.29 crore till February 3. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Dr S Karuna Raju on Friday said the surveillance teams had seized 30.23 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 16.5 crore.Similarly, the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to Rs 279.17 crore, besides confiscating unaccounted cash of Rs 21.38 crore.The CEO revealed as many as 1,221 vulnerable hamlets have been identified. Besides this, 2,960 persons have been identified as probable sources of trouble, he said, adding preventive action had been initiated against 2,247 persons. As many as 18,000 nakas were operational, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seizures-worth-319-cr-made-so-far-says-ec-367100
05-02-2022||Abohar||SAD, BJP leaders shift parties on Balluana seat||The SAD and BJP today suffered big jolt in Balluana segment. Three-time Akali legislator, Gurtej Singh Ghuriana, quit BJP and rejoined SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Ghuriana, former chief of the Malout Bar Association, had won as a SAD candidate from Balluana in 1997, 2007 and 2012. After SAD denied him ticket in 2017, he had joined the Congress. He again returned to SAD fold in 2019.When Akalis declared Hardev Singh Megh as their candidate from Balluana, Ghuriana quit SAD and joined the saffron in New Delhi on December 28. After BJP denied him the ticket from Balluana segment and announced Vandana Sangwal as their candidate, Ghuriana once again rejoined SAD.Megh, who was dropped as SAD candidate after his visit to Dera Sacha Sauda, in Sirsa, joined theBJP. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bjp-leaders-shift-parties-on-balluana-seat-367101
05-02-2022||Ferozepur||Ferozepur: Teacher flouts poll code, suspended||#Ferozepur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teacher-flouts-poll-code-suspended-367102
05-02-2022||---||Killing over sacrilege: 3 awarded life sentence for 2016 Dera Sacha Sauda follower follower's murder||Faridkot, February 4The Additional Sessions Judge, Jagdeep Singh Marok, on Friday awarded life imprisonment to three persons for killing a Dera Sacha Sauda follower on June 13, 2016, at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot.Killing over sacrilegeGurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, Ashok Kumar, alias Amna of Kohala village in Ferozepur, and Jaswant Singh, alias Kala of Chak Attari Sadarwala in Muktsar, have been awarded life imprisonment along with Rs 25,000 fine.The trio had killed Gurdev Singh almost a year after a “saroop” of Guru Granth Sahib was allegedly stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.Gurdev had a grocery shop, which was situated in front of the gurdwara. The torn pages of this “saroop” were allegedly found in Bargari, which had led to widespread tension in the Punjab.The killing of Gurdev had led to a massive protest by dera followers and the police had registered a murder case against unknown persons.The accused were nabbed after the Mallanwala police in Ferozepur arrested Gurpeet and Ashok. During the course of investigation, the duo disclosed that they had murdered Gurdev at the instance of Jaswant, who was arrested on August 13, 2017.Gurdev was one of the CBI’s key witnesses in the investigation related to theft of “saroop”. The central probe agency had questioned Gurdev numerous times as he was believed to be a prime witness, due to the location of his shop. #burj jawahar singh wala #dera sacha sauda #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-awarded-life-sentence-for-2016-dera-followers-murder-367104
05-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Courts required to ensure legal shield for kids in rape cases: HC||Chandigarh, February 4A girl child is in a “very vulnerable position” in our country, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asserted after making it clear that the courts were required to ensure proper legal protection for children in rape cases. A Division Bench of the High Court also made it clear that a unique approach was required to be adopted while dealing with such matters.The assertion by the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came in an eight-year-old case of a 4-year-old girl’s rape. The matter was placed before the Bench after the accused filed an appeal against the judgment of conviction and life imprisonment order passed in October 2014 by the court of an Additional Sessions Judge.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma asserted child rape cases were matters of “perverse lust for sex”, where even the innocent children were not spared in pursuit of sexual pleasure and there could not be anything more obscene than this.Describing child rape as a crime against humanity, Justice Verma added many such matters were not even brought to light because of the social stigma attached to it. Referring to some surveys on the issue, Justice Verma added there had been a steep rise in child rape cases.Justice Verma observed: “Children need special care and protection. In such cases, the responsibility on the shoulders of the courts is more onerous so as to provide proper legal protection to these children. Their physical and mental immobility call for such protection.”Justice Verma added children were the natural resource and future of the country. “Hope of tomorrow rests on them. In our country, a girl child is in a very vulnerable position and one of the modes of her exploitation is rape, besides other mode of sexual abuse. These factors point towards a different approach required to be adopted,” Justice Verma added.Dismissing the appeal in the matter after hearing the rival contentions and going through the evidence, the Bench asserted it was of the considered opinion that the impugned judgment of the Additional Sessions Judge did not call for any interference by the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/courts-required-to-ensure-legal-shield-for-kids-in-rape-cases-hc-367105
05-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Depleting groundwater in Punjab not on parties' agenda||Sangrur, February 4All blocks of Sangrur district are in the ‘dark zone’ due to over exploitation of groundwater for paddy and other crops and the situation may worsen if the authorities fail to take any corrective steps. None of the candidates, who are contesting Assembly polls from the district, has raised the issue.Majority of the farmers alleged that since the government does not ensure stable market for non-paddy and non-wheat crops, they were stuck in the cycle of wheat-paddy crops.A farmer from Bahadurpur village of Sangrur, Sulakhan Singh, said: “All claims of promoting diversification in agriculture are only on paper. I have attended many special camps and also tried to sow vegetables. But without financial support and proper marketing of the produce, the practice is not possible. Though less important issues are being raised repeatedly, no politician is discussing the issue of exploitation of groundwater these days.”Another farmer, Malkiat Singh, alleged that when he shifted to vegetable crops and produced potatoes, the market crashed and he failed to even recover his input cost.“Some days back, a politician came to our village and we asked him whether his party had any plans to promote crop diversification, but he failed to give a reply. He only promised to help us in selling paddy and wheat. Majority of politicians are repeating old promises, but we are worried about our future,” he said.Many farmers from various villages told The Tribune the water level had been going down in almost all parts of the district. They said the water table had gone down to over 350 feet, while in many villages, it was at over 400 feet.“Earlier, water was easily available at 150 to 180 feet. No politician is taking the issue seriously. We have been requesting all candidates to chalk out a plan and include it in their manifesto, but since they are not serious, they are not taking any required steps,” said Harshjot Singh, a young farmer of the area.Sangrur Chief Agriculture Officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said their officers had been trying to make farmers aware about the depleting groundwater.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/depleting-groundwater-not-on-parties-agenda-367106
05-02-2022||---||SGPC flays removal of Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa's statue in Pakistan's Haripur||Amritsar, February 4The SGPC and Chief Khalsa Diwan have condemned the removal of a statue of Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa in Haripur district of Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. A video clip of removal of the statue has gone viral on the social media.Take stern actionIf this idol has been removed then it is reprehensible. Earlier, the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore was damaged by some mischievous people. The Pakistan authorities should take stern action. — Nirmal Singh, President, Chief Khalsa DiwanThe statue of the Sikh warrior on the horseback with a sword in his hand was erected in 2017 on the Siddique-i-Akbar square in Haripur (district named after Nalwa).Sources said the statue was removed by the local authorities after some religious parties objected to its installation at the intersection named after first caliph of Islam Abu Bakr al-Siddiq.Nalwa was commander-in-chief of the Sikh Khalsa Fauj, the army of the Sikh Empire. He is known for his role in the conquests of Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud.On behalf of SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC’s publicity incharge Harbhajan Singh Vakta appealed to the Pakistan government and the Evacuee Property Trust Board to clarify on the matter. He has also approached Amir Singh, president, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, in this regard.Chief Khalsa Diwan president Nirmal Singh said: “If this idol has been removed then it is reprehensible. Earlier, the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore was damaged by some mischievous people. The Pakistan authorities should take stern action,” he said. #hari singh nalwa #Pakistan #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-flays-removal-of-nalwas-statue-in-pak-367107
05-02-2022||Chandigarh||3 special observers review preparedness for Punjab Assembly elections||Reviewing the election preparedness for the Assembly elections slated for February 20, the Election Commission’s three special observers on Friday expressed satisfaction and confidence that the polls would be held in a free, fair and transparent manner.Special general observer Vinod Zutshi, special police observer Rajni Kant Mishra and special expenditure observer Himlani Kashyap held a review meeting with Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, S Karuna Raju, at his office here.Additional CEO Amit Kumar, ADGP-cum-state police nodal officer (SPNO) Ishwar Singh, IG CRPF-cum-nodal officer for CAPF Mool Chand Panwar also attended the meeting. The special observers took stock of the overall poll preparedness, including Covid-19 preparedness, staff readiness, SVEEP activities, critical and vulnerable polling booths and adequate availability of EVMs.Emphasising the need for ensuring fool-proof security measures at all booths across the state, the observers reviewed the total seizure of cash, liquor, opiods, arms and ammunition during the code period. During the meeting, CEO Raju apprised them of the arrangements at polling booths, training of polling personnel, webcasting of booths, C-vigil app, Suvidha app, NGSP and monitoring of print, electronic and social media.The CEO assured the observers of following the Covid-19 guidelines in view of the omicron variant. He said 100 per cent of the staff to be deputed on poll duty would be fully vaccinated. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-special-observers-review-preparedness-367108
05-02-2022||---||MP, Rajasthan equally to blame: BJP on Punjab drug menace||Abohar, February 4Union Jal Shakti Minister and BJP's incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat admitted the governments of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan were equally responsible for inability to prevent large-scale smuggling of opium and poppy husk into Punjab through Rajasthan. Notably, the BJP has the government in MP, while Rajasthan has a Congress CM.Interacting with mediapersons at a workers' meeting in the presence of MLA Arun Narang today, Shekhawat said if the NDA was voted to power in Punjab, its priority would be to make the state drug-free.The NDPS Act prohibited, except for medical or scientific purposes, manufacture, production, trade, use, etc. of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. It was the legal and moral responsibility of both MP and Rajasthan to prevent large-scale smuggling to Punjab. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-rsthan-equally-to-blame-bjp-on-drugs-367109
05-02-2022||---||APP candidate files defamation suit against Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh||Anandpur Sahib, February 4Aam Aadmi Party candidate Harjot Singh Bains’s father Sohan Singh Bains filed a defamation case against Congress candidate and MLA and Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh today.The AAP candidate claimed sometime ago, he had raised questions regarding issues being faced by the residents in the segment. “Following this, the MLA and his supporters used foul language against us and issued threats,” he claimed. Bains, a lawyer, said he would contest the case. #rana kp singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/candidate-files-defamation-suit-367110
05-02-2022||Chandigarh||Finally, SSM given 'cot'  as symbol||The SSM, a political front of farmers, on Friday said it has been allotted a “cot” as the party symbol for the February 20 Assembly polls.The development comes days after the Election Commission approved the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) as the name of a political party subject to fulfilling certain conditions for the formal registration.SSM leader Prem Singh Bhangu said their party had got “cot” as the poll symbol and claimed SSM candidates were getting overwhelming response from people. “Villages are supporting us and they are fed up with the traditional political parties,” he said. The SSM is led by farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. Various Punjab farmer bodies which had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now-repealed farm laws and had launched their political front are contesting the Assembly polls in alliance with Haryana BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni-led Sanyukt Sangharsh Party. — #sanyukt samaj morcha #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-ssm-given-cot-as-symbol-367111
05-02-2022||---||Parents, owners protest closure of schools||Muktsar, February 4Members of the Private Schools’ Association and some parents today protested in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here demanding reopening of schools.The protesters said it was strange that political gatherings were allowed by the Election Commission, but students were not allowed to study in schools. They further said markets were overcrowded during Maghi mela, but the state government was reluctant to open educational institutes.Meanwhile, they threatened that if the schools were not allowed to open, they would not exercise their franchise.Some farm unions, too, have urged the state government to reopen schools at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-owners-protest-closure-of-schools-367112
05-02-2022||Muktsar||Woman kills daughter-in-law||150-kg poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police have seized 150 kg of poppy husk from a person after conducting a raid at an orchard near Maujgarh village on Abohar-Sriganganagar Road. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar Charan. Assistant Sub-Inspector Harmandir Singh said acting on a tip-off, they arrested Charan. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-kills-daughter-in-law-367113
05-02-2022||---||‘Environment should be a key poll issue in Punjab’||Amritsar, February 4The Punjab Environmental Awareness Movement organised a public meeting at Sant Singh Sukha Singh Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, Amritsar, to give priority to the public manifesto on environment during the Punjab Assembly elections. It was organised by Panthik Talamel Sangathan and Akal Purakh Ki Fauj.Various candidates contesting the Punjab Assembly elections were invited to participate and implement eight issues in the manifestos of their respective political parties. There should be a complete ban on pollution of rivers and water resources. The organisations demanded a clean environment by preventing air pollution. There should be a complete solution to the problem of waste in cities. Increase the forest cover in Punjab to at least 10 per cent of the total area and ensure proper maintenance of floodplains near wetlands and rivers.The Punjab Pollution Control Board should become an autonomous body of public accountability and work administratively and legally to ensure effective implementation of the Prevention of Pollution Act, 1974, Air Pollution Act, 1981, and Environmental Protection Act, 1986.Political parties were also invited on the occasion. Navjot Singh Sidhu, President, Punjab Congress; Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, Aam Aadmi Party; Gurpartap Singh Tikka, president, Shiromani Akali Dal Badal Urban; Gurpreet Singh Pradhan of United Akali Dal and United Social Front Sukhjinder Singh, who received the manifesto, also expressed his commitment and said that we will work for the environment.Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, a Padam Shree awardee, said environmental degradation due to material progress has taken place almost all over the world and science has proved that this climate change is leading to the extinction of human civilisation.Giani Kewal Singh, former Jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, lamented that the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015 had made major decisions to curb global warming but most countries had not implemented them. Although US President Joe Biden has apologised for withdrawing from the Paris Agreement in 2017, the delay is a sign of doom.Kahan Singh Pannu, a former officer, “As Punjab is agriculture-oriented state, clean air and water is a major contributor to its economy and culture. The sustainability of agriculture requires balanced use of fertilizers and chemicals used in the fields, but the race for higher yields has poisoned the Earth. Of these, only 1,600 million liters are treated in 128 cities”. #Environment #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/environment-should-be-a-key-poll-issue-in-state-367135
05-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||On Basant Panchami, parties take Punjab election fight to the skies||Bathinda, February 4This Basant Panchami, don’t be surprised if you see the poll battle taken to the skies.Adding colour to the festival of kites this poll season, political parties hope to dominate the skyline with their symbols flying high. Adopting new means to reach out to voters, candidates have got kites printed with their party symbols, slogans and photos.From Bathinda Urban, Congress’ Manpreet Badal, SAD’s Sarup Chand Singla and BJP’s Raj Nambardar are among the few who have gone in for this novel way of campaigning at a time when election gatherings have been restricted due to the pandemic.The Congress has printed the party flag and its symbol on the kites, while the Akali Dal is using Singla’s photo with the slogan ‘Bathinda Meri Jind Jaan’ in addition to the SAD-BSP symbols. The BJP candidate has his photo along with the slogan “Na Dar, Na Bhrashtachar, Iss baar Raj Nambardar” on yellow-coloured kites.To lend more zing to the campaign for the February 20 election, parties will also hold kite-flying competitions with their rivals. Kite makers are ecstatic about the demand. Raj Kumar, a kite seller, said: “Plain kites have been purchased in bulk by political leaders. Business is pouring in.” Meanwhile, Bathinda SSP Amneet Kondal appealed to kite flyers to not use the banned Chinese string. #kites||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-taking-election-fight-to-the-skies-367126
05-02-2022||Amritsar||We need someone 'honest' at top in Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Days before the Congress is to take a call on its CM face, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said Punjab needed someone “honest” at the top who could make a difference.Sidhu said the real fight was to choose between mafia and Punjab. “People feel deceived. They want a change. Not given an honest choice, voters will select another option (party),” he said. The PCC chief argued that to “resurrect” Punjab, a road map was needed and more importantly, a person who could implement that. “Your destiny depends on what or who you choose. It is choice, not chance, that determines your destiny. The policy-driven road map is there, but the question is who will implement it. It all depends on the CM, who should have the moral authority and ethics to make it happen. If one at the top is part of the land, sand or liquor mafia, he can never implement the agenda,” he said.Sidhu said the Congress high command had to live up to its legacy of attaining Independence for the country and providing it the Constitution. He said he was confident the decision (on CM face) would be taken while keeping Punjab’s interests and mood on mind.Asked if he would accept the party’s decision, Sidhu said: “There is no question of my accepting it or not. The voice of the people is the voice of God.” Addressing his supporters on Thursday evening, Sidhu had claimed that the “people sitting at the top wanted a weak CM, someone who danced to their tunes”.  #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-need-someone-honest-at-top-in-punjab-navjot-singh-sidhu-367117
05-02-2022||Jalandhar||ED arrests Punjab CM Channi's nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey||The Enforcement Directorate arrested Bhupinder Singh Honey, nephew of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, in early hours today in an alleged money laundering case linked to illegal mining.Also read: Bhupinder Honey's arrest political, says Congress on ED actionOppsition trains gun on Punjab CM Channi, says mafia links exposedHoney was presented in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Manjinder Singh on Friday afternoon before he was remanded in ED custody till February 8. The court allowed him to meet his family for two hours daily.Summoned for the second time on Thursday, he was interrogated by a team of ED officials for over seven hours. Since he appeared late yesterday and did not reportedly cooperate with the officials, they arrested him under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and sought his remand. During his interrogation, Honey reportedly complained of uneasiness after which he was taken to Civil Hospital for a check-up. After his condition was reported normal by doctors, the ED sleuths put him in a lock-up around 1 am.The questioning resumed this morning about his source of income and links with various contractors, business partners and political leaders. He was also questioned about the recovery of Rs 8 crore cash, other valuables and documentary evidence during the raids on his premises in Ludhiana and Mohali on January 18.Honey’s lawyer Harneet Oberoi, however, claimed that his client had fully cooperated with the ED. “The ground for arrest today was his non-cooperation. He could not appear after the earlier summons on January 25 as he had Covid. We have submitted all his reports. Honey has appeared regularly and on time when he was called.”The lawyer also mentioned that the basis of the ED’s case was an FIR lodged in 2018 at Rahon. “My client was not even an accused in that FIR.” Notably, the FIR mentions the name of Honey’s business partner Kudratdeep, whose name was subsequently removed and did not appear in the police challan copy. On the recovery of cash, the lawyer said, “The matter is sub judice.”Meanwhile, SAD and AAP leaders held a protest over the illegal sand mining issue outside the ED office today.Leaders of the Congress are questioning the timing of the arrest, which has come just two days ahead of Rahul Gandhi’s scheduled visit to Punjab and the expected announcement of party’s CM face. Channi is the frontrunner for the post.More lawmakers with criminal antecedentsNew Delhi: Despite the Supreme Court passing a series of directions to rid politics of criminals, the number of persons with criminal antecedents entering the legislature has witnessed a significant rise. The total number of cases pending against sitting and former lawmakers has gone up from 4,122 to 4,984 between December 2018 and October 2020, the Supreme Court was informed. Of 4,984 cases, 1,899 cases are more than five years old, amicus curiae and senior advocate Vijay Hansaria said in his latest report filed in the top court.The court has been hearing a PIL filed by Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay seeking expeditious trial of cases against sitting and former MPs/MLAs.“Even after disposal of 2,775 cases after December 4, 2018, the cases against MPs/MLAs have increased from 4,122 to 4,984. This shows that more and more persons with criminal antecedents are occupying the seats in Parliament and State Legislative Assemblies. It is of utmost necessity that urgent and stringent steps are taken for expeditious disposal of pending criminal cases,” Hansaria said in the report.The amicus curiae suggested setting up a monitoring committee headed by a former SC judge or Chief Justice of a High Court to monitor the investigation of cases being pursued by Central agencies such as the CBI, ED and NIA and to evaluate the reasons for the delay in investigation.Hansaria complained that no response had been filed by the Centre in terms of the August 25, 2021, order on expeditious investigation/trial of cases, providing of infrastructure facilities to the courts, and constitution of the monitoring committee. — TNS #bhupinder honey #bhupinder singh honey #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-arrests-punjab-cm-channis-nephew-bhupinder-singh-honey-367114
05-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh among star campaigners to campaign in Punjab||Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh will be among the star campaigners who will campaign in Punjab.The list released by the Congress includes Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Harish Chaudhary, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi, Ambika Soni, Meira Kumar, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel, Sunil Jakhar, Partap Singh Bajwa, Ajay Maken and Bhupindra Singh Hooda.Anand Sharma, Kumari Selja, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Rajeev Shukla, Sachin Pilot, Ravneet Singh Bittoo, Deepender Singh Hooda, Ranjeet Ranjan, Netta D’Souza, BV Srinivas, Imran Pratapgarhi, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Amrita Dhawan, Raminder Awla and Tajender Singh Bittoo also figure among the 30 names.    #punjab election||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonia-gandhi-manmohan-singh-among-star-campaigners-to-campaign-in-punjab-366979
05-02-2022||Deepkamal KaurJalandhar||ED gets custody of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi's nephew until February 8||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew is in trouble. The Enforcement Directorate arrested Bhupinder S Honey in a money laundering case late on Thursday evening—days after investigators raided his property and just over a fortnight before Punjab votes in its high-stake assembly elections on February 20.Honey, who was later remanded in ED’s custody until February 8, was summoned before investigators on Thursday —the second time he was asked to appear before them—for questioning that lasted over seven hours.  He had been uncooperative, the ED argued before a magistrate’s court at his custody hearing on Friday, before whisking him away amid heavy security.Honey reportedly complained of feeling queasy at his questioning on Thursday and was believed to have been taken for a checkup at the civil hospital. Doctors examining him concluded he was fine, and investigators brought him back to his lock-up early on Friday morning. Later in the evening, the ED team again took Honey for a checkup at the civil hospital and brought him back as all his medical reports were normal.During the questioning that resumed on Friday morning, he was asked about his dealings and his links with contractors and political leaders, sources said. Investigators also asked Honey about Rs 8 crore in cash and other valuables they claim to have recovered from his place in the January 18 raids they conducted at his properties in Ludhiana and Mohali, the sources said.Honey’s lawyer Harneet Oberoi denied the allegation that his client was uncooperative.“He could not appear on the earlier summons on January 25 as he had Covid at that time and we have submitted all his reports. Honey has appeared regularly and on time when he was called,” Oberoi claimed. Additionally, the ED’s FIR lodged in the case in 2018 did not mention Honey, the lawyer said.The FIR in question, filed in Nawanshahr's Rahon, names Honey’s business partner Kudratdeep, whose name does not appear in the subsequent police challan.Oberoi refused to comment on the recoveries, saying that the case was sub judice.Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party held protests against the Congress outside ED’s office.The ruling party meanwhile questioned the time of the arrest. Significantly, the arrest comes two days before Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Punjab.  #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-arrests-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-channis-nephew-in-money-laundering-case-366934
