06-02-2022||Ferozepur||PM’s security breach: Apex court appointed panel visits Ferozepur||The Supreme Court appointed five-member committee headed by former apex court judge Indu Malhotra arrived here on Sunday to probe the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab last month.The committee visited the road overbridge near Piareana village on the Ferozepur-Moga road, where the Prime Minister’s convoy remained stuck up for almost 20 minutes on January 5.The team stayed there for almost half an hour to inspect the site.Besides, the team visited the rally site and Ferozeshah village to take stock of the sequence of events that took place on that day.The Prime Minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover allegedly due to a blockade by farmers in Ferozepur after which he returned from Punjab without attending any event, including a rally.The top court had directed the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to provide all seized documents pertaining to the security arrangements made by the Punjab government for the PM’s visit.Before the apex court appointed the committee, a central team had visited Ferozepur on January 7.Even the Punjab government constituted a committee comprising retired Justice Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, Anurag Verma, to conduct an investigation.The SC-appointed panel also includes the Inspector General of the National Investigation Agency, Director General of Police, Chandigarh, the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Additional DGP (Security) of Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pms-security-breach-apex-court-appointed-panel-visits-ferozepur-367615
06-02-2022||---||Schools to reopen in Punjab from February 7||Faridkot, February 6Punjab government on Sunday decided to reopen all higher education institutes and coaching centers along with schools from February 7.The schools have been advised that all the students of age group more than 15 years to have at least first dose of vaccination. While attending physical classes, students will have the option to attend online classes. All universities , colleges (including medical and nursing colleges), schools for classes 6onward, polytechnics, all coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes (whether government or private) are allowed to open from February 7 for physical classes while adopting requisite social distancing norms, reads the Covid-19 restrictions from February 6 to 15, issued by principal secretary (home) today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-to-reopen-in-punjab-from-february-7-367580
06-02-2022||Ludhiana/Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Channi is Congress's CM candidate for Punjab polls||Ending days of uncertainty, Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s chief ministerial face for the upcoming Assembly elections, pushing PPCC Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu out of the race.The decision shows that it has gone by the popular demand of the party leaders and workers and at the same time cash in on the Dalit-Sikh face and nearly 32 per cent SC population in the state.The moment Rahul Gandhi, who was in Ludhiana to address a virtual rally, made public the chief ministerial face, cheers erupted from the listening crowd."I sincerely thank the Congress High Command and people of Punjab for bestowing their trust in me," Channi tweeted after he was named the chief ministertial face of the Congress for the February 20 Punjab Assembly elections.I sincerely thank the Congress High Command and people of Punjab for bestowing their trust in me. As you have seen us work so hard in the last 111 days to take Punjab forward, I assure you to take Punjab and Punjabis on the path of progress with new zeal and dedication. pic.twitter.com/7jW1rBhEkj  Channi’s supporters broke into celebrations in front of his house at Morinda in Chamkaur Sahib.Waving Congress flags, they burst crackers and danced on the beats of 'dhol'.Congress supporters also celebrated Channi’s nomination as CM face outside the venue of the virtual rally in Ludhiana.Sidhu has been saying that he would abide by the party high command’s decision with a rider that the choice of the candidate should be on the basis of honesty and not seen as part of the mafia.Amid the argument till the last moment that no one should be announced the chief ministerial face as it will give handle to the Opposition and demoralise the leader left out. Sidhu had said 60 MLAs will be needed to form the government and people will vote only for the CM candidate with a clean image.HIGHLIGHTS17:06: Channi takes the stage, thanks Rahul, Congress, and Punjab for reposing faith in him17:02: Punjab's CM candidate is Charanjit Singh Channi: Rahul Gandhi17:01: People said we want a CM who understands poverty: Rahul Gandhi17:00: I said in Parliament that there are two nations. One of the rich and the other of the poor. We don't want two Indias. We want one that is equal: Rahul Gandhi16:59: Sidhu told me in the car today that this state is the shield of the country. This state must choose its own leader: Rahul Gandhi16:57: You've asked me to choose a CM. This is Punjab's choice, not mine: Rahul Gandhi16:55: Rahul says Congress wants a partnership with Punjab and its people, they must tell what we should do16:54: Says doorstep delivery of certificates is Sidhu's vision16:53: He's come to change. So has Sidhu, and Jakhar: Rahul Gandhi16:52: Rahul calls Channi humble, says he remains connected with people. "Does Narendra Modi do that," he asks. "Does Yogi Adityanath do that?"16:50: Talks about Channi, says he's from a poor family, understands poverty. Has Punjab in his blood. 16:49: Congress makes leaders. They grow within the party: Rahul Gandhi16:47: Rahul says he asked Sunil Jakhar about Punjab politics. He knows Punjab's DNA, understands its history: Rahul Gandhi16:46: I realised then that this man has perseverance: Rahul Gandhi on Sidhu16:44: I met Sidhu 40 years ago. Sidhu does not know he met me 40 years ago: Rahul Gandhi16:33: I was given a responsibility: To find a diamond among diamonds. That's an not easy task: Rahul Gandhi16:32: Our PM fights, but he fights his own fight: Rahul Gandhi16:30: Rahul Gandhi begins his speech. A leader must struggle, a leader must fight, he says 16:32: Channi trains guns at AAP, calls former Congress Minister Jagmohan Singh Kang as mafia, says most leaders, candidates in AAP are turncoats from Congress16:26: I promise the people of Punjab that I will never buy any property in my name or my wife's name: Channi; says allegations against him are false16:25: Channi thanks Rahul Gandhi for giving him the chance to serve as CM for 111 days, lists his achievements16:23: "Over 700 people died for their livelihoods. Who's responsible? First, and the biggest, is the BJP. Someone who's complicit is just as responsible. So SAD's responsible. AAP notified one of the black laws, so AAP's responsible": Channi16:20: Channi takes the stage16:16: Sidhu ke ishq ne Punjab ki Bhalai maangi. I've accepted Rahul Gandhi's decision long ago: Sidhu (My love for Punjab asks only for its well being) 16:12: After Sidhu asked him to clap, Channi walks over to Sidhu and hugs him16:10: Sidhu said he left his family and Rs 50-crore business for the cause of Punjab, urged Rahul Gandhi to keep him as the "foundation stone" of the party. Don't treat me like a showpiece, he says 16:07: Navjot Singh Sidhu is Punjab's "aashiq": Sidhu16:05: Sidhu also hails Rahul Gandhi for elevating Charanjit Singh Channi, whom he called "poor Dalit", as Punjab CM16:03: Captain Amarinder Singh was BJP's puppet: Sidhu16:02: Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Rahul Gandhi "Babbar Sher", says he's grateful for being made PPCC president15:59: Sidhu takes the stage.15:55: Rahul Gandhi and the Congress made a Dalit man chief minister; no other party has done this: Sunil Jakhar.15:53: The road to India's central government goes through Punjab: Sunil Jakhar.15:50: Jakhar rakes up Lakhimpur Kheri incident, says Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi faced the wrath of UP police to visit aggrieved families but no leader from other parties bothered to go there.15:49: Sunil Jakhar first speaker at virtual rally. Jakhar says BJP, AAP, SAD hands-in-glove; calls them all anti-farmer.15:40: Rahul Gandhi reaches dais, pays tributes to Lata Mangeshkar. Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu were seated on either side.15:28: Rahul Gandhi leaves for Harsheela Resort.14:50: MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu and Amar Singh take seats on the dais at the rally venue.14:40: Party jingles played outside at the venue.13:30: Gandhi holds a closed-door meeting in Ludhiana’s Hyatt residence with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, AICC general secretary in-charge organisation KC Venugopal also present. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/live-rahul-gandhi-prepares-to-announce-congress-partys-cm-candidate-for-punjab-367567
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly elections: Sunil Jakhar dismisses reports of quitting Congress||Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar dismissed talks of quitting the party on Sunday after news reports said that he was upset at having been sidelined.Jakhar said on Sunday that he was still part of the Congress—a party he claimed had given him “so much”.Anybody doubting my commitment to the party is casting aspersions on me, he said, adding that he wasn’t actively campaigning for assembly elections because he wasn’t contesting.This comes days after a video surfaced of Jakhar claiming that he had over 40 legislators backing him for the position of chief minister after Captain Amarinder Singh quit last September, sending ripples across political circles.Reports said Jakhar was left out cold after the Congress did a volte-face over its chief ministerial candidate in the assembly elections.Punjab votes for its 117-member assembly in the third phase of elections on February 20.Jakhar was appointed Punjab Congress chief in May 2017—just after Punjab assembly elections—and served in that capacity until he was replaced by Navjot Singh Sidhu in July last year. #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-elections-sunil-jakhar-dismisses-reports-of-quitting-congress-367548
06-02-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Paint store gutted in fire in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, February 6A major fire broke out at a double story paint store on the Rahon road early Sunday morning.The entire building of Delhi Agencies paint store was gutted in the fire. Big cracks had developed in the two-story building of the paint store and the adjoining buildings.The fire broke out at 4.01 am and the fire brigade was informed. Within few minutes, fire tenders reached the spot and started dousing the flame. The firefighters had to first break the walls of the store so as to make way for smoke to come out. Later, they broke the side walls to start the firefighting operation.LPG cylinders were also kept in the store which exploded. A huge stock of inflammables was also kept in the store which escalated the fire.Sub-Fire Officer Aatish Rai said more than 50 fire tenders were used in the operation and around 10 fire tenders were still kept at the spot to completely douse the flame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/paint-store-gutted-in-fire-in-ludhiana-367547
06-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab polls 2022: In Sangrur it's minister Vijay Singla versus rest||Sangrur, February 5In the political contest in Sangrur constituency, candidates are from various sections of society — a businessman from New Delhi, a Cabinet Minister, a youth leader and a party spokesperson. However, it is turning out to be a “minister Vijay Inder Singla-versus-all contest” as all candidates are raising the chorus of “commission ki rajniti” (politics of commission), a narrative of “corruption” against Singla.Main target of all opponentsThe BJP has given its ticket to businessman Arvind Khanna, who had earlier won from here on Congress ticket, AAP to a youth leader, Narinder Kaur Bharaj, while SAD has given its ticket to its spokesperson Winnerjit Goldy.Though Khanna, Goldy and Bharaj have been accusing all their political opponents of wrongdoings, their main target is Singla, who is contesting election on the basis of development that he claims to have brought in Sangrur constituency.“Minister Singla has broken all records of corruption during the last five years of his government. Since I have come to Sangrur, I have been flooded with complaints. Singla and his team have robbed government money and allowed contractors to use poor-quality material in developmental works. Only construction of roads and streets is not development. Singla has failed to generate any employment here,” alleged Arvind Khanna.Similarly Goldy can be frequently heard saying, “Saat (seven) ka Singla”, inviting applause from area voters. “Minister Singla used to get seven per cent commission from all contractors of the PWD and he has only done ‘commission ki rajniti’ (politics of commission),” alleged Goldy.During the last Assembly elections, Congress candidate Singla got 67,310 votes and defeated AAP candidate Dinesh Bansal, who had got 36,498 votes. However, Bansal joined the Congress some days back and has been campaigning for Singla.“Corruption by Singla is the main election issue and I have already exposed the use of poor-quality material in many projects. Singla and his team pocketed commission and they did not care to ensure quality material,” alleged AAP candidate Narinder Kaur Bharaj.However, Singla rubbished these allegations and said, “I have brought industry to the area, constructed roads and streets and improved other facilities also. It is the first time that Sangrur constituency has witnessed equal development in rural and urban areas. Since my opponents have nothing against me, they are levelling baseless allegations.” #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-singla-versus-rest-in-sangrur-367384
06-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar East constituency: Moved on, says BJP candidate Jagmohan Raju on plaint against PMO officers||Amritsar, February 5Having complained against four senior IAS officials of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), retired Tamil Nadu-cadre bureaucrat Jagmohan Singh Raju, BJP candidate from Amritsar East, has moved on.Pitted against heavyweights PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia, Raju no longer wants to pursue his complaint filed in 2019. On its present status, he says: “Chorr aye woh galiyan” (I left those streets).Will revive agri in debt-ridden statePunjab is in debt. Either the Centre or multinational companies will have to invest. The BJP govt will be a boon for agriculture in state. —Jagmohan Singh RajuThe retired Additional Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu had accused the bureaucrats, including the senior-most, of thwarting his elevation due to his Dalit background. A visiting fellow at Cambridge, Raju had sent a legal notice to them for thwarting his career growth. He had alleged his batchmates were elevated as secretary while hewas denied the position. He had even tried to file a complaint at a police station in Tamil Nadu.Son of a Dalit rights activist, late Karam Singh Raju, a former Punjab bureaucrat, Raju authored critically acclaimed book “Ramrajya-People’s Welfare State” and travelled over 50 countries during his 35 years of service.On the democratic composition of his constituency, comprising urban, semi-urban, rural and Dalit voters, Raju says: “There is a natural affinity with the community. They certainly want a good candidate from their community to represent them.”On being pitted against the heavyweights, he says people are genuinely scared that if such leaders come to power, the lives of their children will be vulnerable to drugs.Only a few weeks into politics, Raju doesn’t feel he has been given a short duration to familiarise with voters. “It is the typical style of PM Narendra Modi — to keep his trump card ready for the last moment.”On farmers’ anger against the BJP, he says the agitation is an event of the past and people have moved on. “Agriculture is in a bad shape as it has reached the stagnation point. Water table is depleting. So modernisation has to take place and infrastructure needs to be created. From where will the funds come? The Punjab Government is in debt. Either the Centre or multinational companies will have to invest. The BJP government will be a boon for agriculture in state,” he adds. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moved-on-says-bjps-raju-on-plaint-against-pmo-officers-367385
06-02-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Punjab polls 2022: Badal away, Chautala, Harsimrat hold fort in Lambi||With former CM Parkash Singh Badal away to a Mohali hospital for a check-up, his daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal and aide-cum-former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala today held fort on his home turf of Lambi. Both separately visited a few villages seeking vote for Badal.Ex-cm Undergoes health check-upAddressing villagers, the INLD supremo asked voters to elect Badal to ensure development and harmony. “The BJP-led Centre is dividing people on communal lines. Further, the condition of farmers is dismal under the present regime. If you really want development, then vote for Badal.”Sources said the SAD had asked the INLD leadership to campaign in some constituencies sharing boundaries with Haryana. While Chautala campaigned in Lambi today, his son Abhay will campaign in some other constituencies. The INLD has also assigned election duties to its leaders.Asked about the SYL canal issue, Chautala said: “Our (Punjab and Haryana’s) brotherhood is very strong. There is no dispute between us. Some people wilfully try to stretch the dispute for their vested interests.” — #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-away-chautala-harsimrat-hold-fort-367388
06-02-2022||Faridkot||Kejriwal’s Delhi model ploy  to fool voters, claims Sukhbir||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government hadn’t given any social benefit to the people under its Delhi model and the party would end all social welfare assistance extended to Punjabis if voted to power.Addressing a gathering in favour of SAD-BSP candidates on Kotkapura, Faridkot and Jaito seats, he said while AAP had not extended social benefits like old-age pension, Atta-Dal and Shagun schemes in Delhi, it was subjecting the people to costly power at the rate of Rs 12 to Rs 13 a unit. He said AAP had also not extended the free power facility to farmers in Delhi.Cong reneged on poll promisesThe Congress has reneged on its last poll promises — be it full debt waiver, jobs in each household, unemployment allowance, increasing old age pension, etc. —Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD president“Also, Punjabis cannot trust AAP to implement any of the promises being made by it, including Rs 1,000 a month to all women and regularisation of contractual employees, when it was not fulfilling these promises in Delhi. Employees there have been protesting for long, demanding regularisation”.Badal said AAP was also trying to trick Punjabis into supporting it by asking them to give the party one chance. He said Punjabis were well aware that “it filed affidavits in the Supreme Court demanding Punjab’s river waters be given to Delhi and Haryana. It also demanded the closure of four thermal plants of Punjab besides calling for registering criminal cases against those indulging in stubble burning”.On the Congress government, he said it had closed down sewa kendras, besides ending the CM Teerath Yatra Scheme, distribution of sports kits and hosting of the Kabaddi World Cup. “Also, the ruling party had reneged on its poll promises — be it full debt waiver, jobs in each household, unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500 per month, increasing old age pension or Shagun scheme. — #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-delhi-model-ploy-to-fool-voters-claims-sukhbir-367391
06-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||In Dharamkot, Akali, Congress veterans  face tough contest from AAP debutant||Moga, February 5Veteran Akali leader Jathedar Tota Singh and sitting MLA of the Congress Sukhjeet Singh Lohgarh, alias Kaka, Lohgarh are pitted against a new entrant, Devinderjit Singh, alias Ladi Dhos, a 44-year-old young leader of AAP in the Dharamkot constituency of Moga.The campaign of the Akali leader is being handled by his son Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a Canadian citizen, who arrived here a couple of weeks ago, while that of Kaka is being managed by his brother Iqbal Singh, a US citizen.The sitting MLA entered the poll arena climbing the ladder of religious politics through the SGPC polls. He lost his first Assembly poll in 2012 to Tota Singh. However, in 2017, he defeated Tota.Now, Kaka faces a strong anti-incumbency in the area. Two influential Congress leaders of the area Harpreet Singh Hero, son of PCC ex-president Harcharan Singh Hero, and former secretary Gurwinder Singh Guggu had left the ruling party. Another PCC secretary, Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi Grewal, also left the Congress recently and is contesting the election on the Punjab Lok Congress’ ticket. Hero is contesting the election on Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’s ticket, while Guggu has joined hands with AAP.As compared to the aggressive campaign of the Congress and AAP, the SAD seems to be little defensive. Tota Singh, 80, hasn’t been in pink of health for the past few months. His campaign is mainly dependent on his son.AAP candidate Ladi Dhos began his campaign two months ago, giving him an advantage over his rivals. Another factor that goes in his favour is the political legacy of his father late Kuldeep Singh Dhos, who passed away a few months ago. There’s sympathy for the AAP candidate. Ladi was groomed as a youth leader in the erstwhile Peoples’ Party of Punjab (PPP). He was its youth wing president.Meanwhile, 163 villages and 2 urban settlements in the segment are located in the Sutlej basin, the absence of an effective flood management policy is a key poll issue. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-dharamkot-akali-congress-veterans-face-tough-contest-from-aap-debutant-367393
06-02-2022||Nangal||Punjab election 2022: Will put Nangal on tourism map, says AAP's Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann has promised to develop Nangal as the best tourist town after winning the Assembly elections.Mann today organised a roadshow from Bharatgarh to Nangal in support of Harjot Singh Bains, the party candidate from Anandpur Sahib constituency.Addressing the gathering, he said the town was destroyed due to apathy of successive governments. It had rivers which could attract a large number of tourists and no one thought of tapping the potential of the city, he added. — #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-put-nangal-on-tourism-map-367395
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Former Congress MLA joins AAP||Jassi Khangura, a former Congress MLA, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of party national convener Arvind Kejriwal today.After joining the party, Jasbir Singh ‘Jassi’ Khangura said people of Punjab were fed up with the Congress. “It has now become a party of opportunists and power-hungry people. The poor and common man are paying the price for the Congress leaders’ fight for the power,” he said. Khangura remained legislator from Qila Raipur between 2007 and 2012. — #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-congress-mla-joins-aap-367397
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||No common symbol for candidates: Sanyukt Samaj Morcha||AAP nominee’s kin trashes graft chargeMoga: AAP candidate Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora's husband Dr Rakesh Arora has termed the allegations of corruption levelled by former AAP leader Ashu Banger as 'false and baseless'. Banger, Congress candidate from Ferozepur Rural, had accused former AAP leader Navdeep Singh Sangha and Dr Arora of demanding money for a ticket. Dr Arora and Sangha denied the allegations saying the tape released by Banger was "fabricated". Sangha, who was also denied ticket by the AAP, is contesting as an SSM candidate from Moga. TNSLEADERspeakNo AAP wave, it’s just a hypeLast time, too, the surveys gave AAP 100 seats, but they ended up winningjust 20. Out of those too many MLAs deserted them. It is just a hype... people will bring back Congress with full majority. — OP Soni, Deputy CM #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-common-symbol-for-candidates-ssm-367399
06-02-2022||Aman Sood||CAMPAIGN TRAIL: Congress' Madan Lal Jalalpur banks on big-ticket projects to retain Ghanaur||Patiala, February 5It’s 6.30 am and people are queuing up at Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur’s palatial house, sipping hot tea and biscuits. The two-time MLA has formed over a dozen teams, which report to his son Gagandeep Singh Jolly Jalalpur. The teams visit villages and apprise people of the development works carried out in the past five years.Facing anti-incumbency and the AAP wave in this constituency that borders Haryana, Jalalpur faces a litmus test ever since he has parted ways with Patiala MP Preneet Kaur. “All these waves and anti-incumbency calls are only in the media. People here are with me as they know my family has always been there for them,” says Jalalpur, trying his electoral luck the fourth time from the constituency.No anti-incumbencyAll these waves and anti-incumbency calls are only in the media. People here are with me as they know that my family has always been there for them. —Madan Lal Jalalpur, Ghanaur MLAJalalpur, a supporter-turned-critic of Preneet Kaur, is known for his aggressive style of functioning and has been instrumental in getting a slew of projects for his constituency. “I have been serving the people here for over a decade. I contested in 2007 as an Independent and have been ensuring that all works of my constituency are done on a priority basis,” he says.“I have worked hard for my people and for the party during the Lok Sabha polls. You should see what this constituency was like 15 years ago and how it has transformed now,” he says, addressing his fifth gathering during a tour of villages.“I have brought a treatment plant for drinking water costing Rs 360 crore, industrial corridor project at six villages on 1,104 acres, a new Shambhu block, road widening on 550 km stretch worth Rs 162 crore, Rs 8.27 crore for upkeep of Civil Hospital, Rs 7.43 crore for ITI, Rs 5.20 crore for the renovation of Anaj Mandi and bus stand, a sewage treatment plant, etc.,” he reminds people. “My win is certain as I have been my people’s MLA. I am working hard for a good margin. These AAP and new political outfits pose no challenge,” he says.Politically, the Congress and SAD have remained neck and neck in this constituency, though Jalalpur has been managed a firm grip on the seat. However, with Capt Amarinder Singh not with the Congress any more, it will be a litmus test for Jalalpur to hold his vote bank intact.The seat is set for a tough fight as the SAD has fielded its senior leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, ignoring former MLA Harpreet Kaur Mukhmailpur, whose family enjoys a significant support. “My father has ignored his health, family and even personal ties to serve the people of the constituency,” says Jolly Jalalpur, addressing youth voters. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalalpur-banks-on-big-ticket-projects-to-retain-ghanaur-367400
06-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Social media spices up Punjab assembly poll scene||Bathinda, February 5Mobile phone and Internet-based social networking applications such as WhatsApp and Facebook among others have spiced up the canvassing for the 2022 Assembly polls this time.Fictional characters along with the superimposed faces of renowned political personalities taking potshots with well-articulated speeches converted into jokes is going viral on the social media.Videos, memes being widely circulatedThis is not the first time that caricatures and jokes in the form of videos, memes and photos are being circulated ahead of the polls. The only difference is this time these are being spread around more aggressively. —Gurpreet Singh, A bathinda residentEven major political parties are not staying away from this and are doing their best to use the virtual medium to reach out to voters. Animated clips are adding colour to the poll campaign as a two-part series titled: “The Thugs of Punjab”, was released by the SAD last month. It targets various Congress leaders. The party’s digital campaign focuses mainly on portraying both — the Congress and the AAP — as outsiders.On January 24, the Punjab Congress shared a 34-second meme video that was put up on its Twitter handle projecting its leaders as warriors in a scene straight out of Hollywood movie ‘Avengers: Infinity War’. In the video, the party’s choice of the animated warrior in lead role ‘Thor’ is Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu as ‘Captain America’, Rahul Gandhi as ‘Bruce Banner’ while PM Narendra Modi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as ‘aliens’.The use of social media in politics has dramatically changed the way campaigns are run and how people interact with political leaders. In this election, politicians are using the social media to reach out to the people. Moreover, political opponents are taking a potshot at each other on Twitter and Facebook, etc.The social media has become a key platform for reaching out to voters, especially the youth.Most politicians are also promoting their speeches, public meetings and events by posting photos and videos on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/social-media-spices-up-poll-scene-367402
06-02-2022||Barnala||Punjab polls 2022: Poll observers step up vigil to curb violations||To ensure quick action on violation of norms in Bhadaur, from where Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is contesting, Election Commission observers Harikesh Meena and Yashwant Kumar took feedback from representatives of various political parties on Saturday. Both assured quick action over complaints, even as some candidates expressed apprehension about misuse of money.“Since voters are fed up with the Congress, SAD and other such parties, they will not vote for these. Voters are looking for an alternative. But since these leaders have money, they will misuse it,” claimed Balvir Singh, Bhadaur candidate of the CPM.There are 77 villages in the constituency and two urban centres, including Tapa and Bhadaur. Lack of health, education, roads and other basic amenities are the main issues here. Residents allege both government hospitals at Tapa and Bhadaur have remained without any requisite facility. As many as 13 candidates are contesting from Bhadaur, out of which three are Independents, while the remaining are from the SAD, Congress, AAP, CPM, SAD Amritsar, Lok Insaaf Party, Punjab Lok Congress, Punjab Kisan Dal, CPI-ML and Punjab National Party.Both observers listened to the concerns of candidates’ representatives regarding the election process and resolved these on the spot. “All should fully abide by the instructions of the EC,” they said. — TNSPreparedness reviewed in MogaMoga: Election observers held a meeting with the district administration to review preparations for the Assembly elections in Moga district. General observers Amit Kumar Ghosh, Ved Pati Mishra and Krishan Kumar; expenditure observers Sunil N Ranote and Bhim Ratna Rawat; and police observer Sumanjit Ray met District Magistrate Harish Nayyar, SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal and returning and nodal officers of four segments. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-observers-step-up-vigil-to-curb-violations-367404
06-02-2022||---||ED raids: Not hard for agencies to plant money: Kanhaiya Kumar||Jalandhar, February 5Defending Chief Minister Charanjit Channi over the Enforcement Directorate raids on his nephew, Congress spokesperson Kanhaiya Kumar today said when the BJP is offering a good “post-retirement plan” to officials of its central agencies, there is no doubt they will work for the party till the time they stay in job.Backs CM on ED raidsEveryone knows the Congress is set to announce its CM face and Channi is a contender. So, the ED raid was clearly meant to upset his plans. —Kanhaiya Kumar, Congress spokespersonHere to campaign for the party ahead of the Assembly elections, the former JNU student leader, without naming anyone, cited the example of a former joint director of the ED who joined the BJP a few days ago and is expected to contest from Lucknow.Defending Channi and his nephew on the issue of recovery of cash, he said: “Do you think it is unusual for probe agencies to plant weapons, drugs or money at some place to show that a person is a criminal? That is no big deal for the agencies, which during elections handle inquiries in a political way, instead of adopting a legal methodology. Everyone knows the Congress is set to announce its CM face and Channi is a contender. So, the ED raid was clearly meant to upset his plans,” he said.Defending Channi over memes being circulated on the social media over odd jobs he had done in his early life, he said: “He is trolled for having put up tents, riding rickshaws, repairing power connections, selling crackers, etc. Even I have done odd jobs. I have been a volunteer for polio drop scheme. I have worked in a coaching centre. I have repaired ACs and fridges. Any youth from an average family can do odd jobs. He does not know as to where his fate will take him. It is the struggle of a poor man’s son that leads him somewhere. My aim was to crack the UPSC, but I turned out to be a politician. It is only the affluent people’s children who know since childhood as to what they will be like. A king’s son becomes a king one day and a doctor’s child becomes a doctor.” #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-hard-for-agencies-to-plant-money-kanhaiya-367406
06-02-2022||---||Punjab illegal sand mining case: ED likely to summon two more contractors||Jalandhar, February 5As the interrogation of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Honey by the Enforcement Directorate continued for the third day today in the alleged money laundering case related to illegal sand mining, there are reports that a few more persons linked to the business could be summoned in the coming days.Two sand mining contractors — one from Jammu and another from Chandigarh — could be summoned by the agency. The one from Chandigarh has reportedly been in the trade for many years and had been doing brisk business even during the Akali regime. The Jammu-based contractor, whom the ED officials intend to probe, was reportedly booked by the Punjab Police in a case of illegal sand mining last week and hence is on the radar.The ED officials said their probe was based around the source of Rs 8 crore recovered from Honey’s residence. They said all those named by him in his business connections could be summoned to take the probe forward.The officials said some information on the nexus was also pouring in through political leaders, who had been giving leads and vital information about the illegal sand mining racket ever since the raids took place on January 18. #ED #illegal sand mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-likely-to-summon-two-more-contractors-367407
06-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Suicide abetment involves mental process of instigating person: HC||Chandigarh, February 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed a first information report in an abetment to suicide case after observing that vague and general allegations had been levelled in the FIR and the suicide note.The High Court also made it clear that conviction could not be sustained in an abetment case without a positive act on part of the accused to instigate or aid the committing of suicide.Active or direct actThere has to be a clear ‘mens rea’ to commit the offence in order to convict a person for abetment under Section 306. It also required an active or direct act, leading to suicide. —Justice Vikas BahlJustice Vikas Bahl also ruled that abetment to suicide involved a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding him in doing a thing. Allowing the plea, Justice Bahl added the FIR and the suicide note’s perusal in the case in hand showed that no offence, much less under Section 306 of the IPC, was made out.“Mere vague and general allegations have been levelled in the FIR as well as in the suicide note. No incident has been detailed so as to show that any of the petitioners had instigated the deceased to commit suicide. No active role has been attributed to any of the petitioners…The alleged suicide is stated to have been committed on July 30, 2017 whereas the complaint in the present case was filed on August 31, 2017, after a delay of more than a month,” Justice Bahl observed.The assertion came in a case where the quashing of an FIR registered in September 2017 for abetment under Section 306, along with all other consequential proceedings, was sought on the basis of a compromise.The FIR, pertaining to a matrimonial dispute, was registered after the petitioners’ son-in-law ended his life. Justice Bahl, during the course of hearing, was told that wife, mother and father of the deceased got their statements recorded before a lower court regarding the compromise.Referring to a plethora of the High Court and the Supreme Court judgments, Justice Vikas Bahl added there has to be a clear “mens rea” to commit the offence in order to convict a person for abetment under Section 306. It also required an active or direct act, leading to suicide.Justice Bahl added the High Court in a judgment quashed an FIR and subsequent proceedings with regard to the petitioners on the basis of a compromise in an abetment to suicide case after the settlement was found to be genuine and bonafide.Justice Bahl referred to another judgment in which the High Court held it had power under Section 482 of the CrPC to allow the compounding of non-compoundable offence and quash the prosecution where the same was required to prevent the abuse of the process of law or to secure the ends of justice. This power of quashing was not confined to matrimonial disputes alone. #high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suicide-abetment-involves-mental-process-of-instigating-person-hc-367408
06-02-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda’s Reenat envoy to Netherlands||A native of Bathinda district and 1989-batch IFS officer, Reenat Sandhu, has been appointed India’s next ambassador to The Netherlands. Reenat hails from Multania village, where her father and Chandigarh-based businessman Amarjit Singh Sidhu owns land. She is currently serving as Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Sandhu had served as Ambassador to Italy and San Marino from 2017-2020. Besides she was a Minister (Commerce)/Deputy Chief of Mission at the Indian Embassy in Washington DC from 2014-2017. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathindas-reenat-envoy-to-netherlands-367409
06-02-2022||---||4L litres of illicit liquor seized along Sutlej||Ferozepur, February 5Following secret inputs related to illegal distillation of liquor going on unabated in border villages along Sutlej river from Harike to Hussainiwala (70 km riverine belt), which is inaccessible by the road, the Ferozepur police have carried out a special operation and used motorboats to recover over 4 lakh litres of lahan (country-made liquor).Ferozepur Senior Superintendent of Police Narinder Bhargav said, “We focussed on those villages, which are considered ‘notorious’ for illicit distillation of country-made liquor.”The SSP said motorboats drawn from the BSF and the SDRF were pressed into service to conduct the raid across the Sutlej along Indo-Pakistan border.He said the police have seized huge quantity of illicit liquor from Ruknewala, Bhoopewala, Vaddian Chakkian, Nikkian Chakkian, Mehmoodwala, Manumachchi, Ali Ke, Chakkar Wala.Bhargav added that over 4,15,000 litres lahan, 85 tarpaulins, eight drums, silver utensils, besides a boat was seized from the accused. He disclosed two separate FIRs have been registered under the Excise Act.The SSP said all this liquor would have made way for free distribution during the Assembly poll.A few days ago, the police and excise officials had used boats to bust ‘dens’ of illicit liquor. Cops had seized over 1 lakh litre lahan, besides other material.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the administration has set up special vigilance teams to keep check on such illegal activities in the border belt.“We are also meeting sarpanches and other prominent people to counsel them not to indulge in such activities,” he said and added that the district administration was taking support of the BSF and various other law enforcement agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4l-litres-of-illicit-liquor-seized-along-sutlej-367411
06-02-2022||---||Four workers mowed down by car||Muktsar, February 5A speeding car mowed down four MGNREGA workers and left one of their woman companion injured near Sangu Dhaun village on Bathinda Road today. The MGNREGA workers were sitting along the road when the mishap occurred around 3.15 pm.The deceased have been identified as Simranjit Kaur, Virpal Kaur, Chhinderpal Kaur and Pritam Singh.The injured has been identified as Sehajpreet Kaur, who has been admitted to a private hospital.The police said the car reportedly belonged to Sukhdeep Singh, a sewadar, at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here.Jasvir Singh, SHO, Muktsar Sadar police station, said, “Sukhdeep was heading back to his home in Badal village along with his wife, mother and kid, when the mishap occurred. He immediately dropped his wife, kid and mother at the spot and took all the injured to the Civil Hospital, where three of them were declared brought dead. He ran away from there. We are registering a case in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-workers-mowed-down-by-car-367412
06-02-2022||Mukesh Ranjan||Punjab borders favourite route of Pakistan arms smugglers: Data||New Delhi, February 5The cases of arms and ammunition seizure by the BSF along the International Border (IB) in Punjab have gone up drastically between 2019 and 2021.According to the data shared by the BSF reveals that in Punjab, there were only seven cases of arms haul in 2019, which shot up hugely to 42 in 2020 and continued an upward trend in 2021 with 58 cases. A BSF officer said in January, troopers guarding the border reported three such cases.The data reveals there were only 11 cases of arms haul from border areas of Jammu and Kashmir under the jurisdiction of the BSF in 2021. No such case has been reported from there this year so far.The officer said no arm seizure had been reported from the Rajasthan and Gujarat during this period.Elaborating on the reasons for Pak-based operatives choosing Punjab borders to push arms and ammunition into India, another BSF officer said, “The use of drone has made things easier for them. There has been a massive rise in such cases detected by the BSF.” Last year, security forces witnessed a new trend that drones carrying arms and drugs could carry more payload. Drones used in 2021 were much more advanced than the ones used in 2019-20, he said.The officer said the BSF had been gearing up to deploy technology-based counter-drone measures to deal with the menace.During a press interaction last month, Pankaj Singh, Director General of BSF, had also acknowledged these threats. “It is a cause of worry since the Taliban cadre is now free and they have weapons. We are alert and in touch with our sister agencies,” Singh had said. #BSF #punjab border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-borders-favourite-route-of-pak-arms-smugglers-data-367386
06-02-2022||New Delhi/Amritsar||Rahul Gandhi to announce Congress CM candidate for Punjab||The Congress is likely to bet on Charanjit Singh Channi as its chief ministerial candidate for the February 20 Punjab elections aiming to strengthen its pledge for Scheduled Caste empowerment in the state and the nation.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is expected to make the announcement at a virtual rally on Sunday. AICC sources said the party’s internal surveys had put Channi ahead of others “by a huge margin”. The Congress is learnt to have reached out to a cross-section of party workers, leaders and contestants to get a view on the issue.Meanwhile, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu hours before the rally tweeted. ''Nothing great was ever achieved without an act of decision …. Warm welcome to our leading light Rahul Ji , who comes to give clarity to Punjab …. All will abide by his decision !!!''Nothing great was ever achieved without an act of decision …. Warm welcome to our leading light Rahul Ji , who comes to give clarity to Punjab …. All will abide by his decision !!!  In Amritsar, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today asserted that the CM face, his character and morality would decide whether or not the party’s party’s 60 nominees would be elected as MLAs. Sidhu said only a person who had the roadmap for bringing Punjab out of mafia rule and economic crisis and having the people’s faith in him could ensure the victory of 60 candidates (59 magic mark in 117-seat House) in the poll. Emphasising that people should elect an honest leader at the top, he said the party high command was “mature enough to take the best decision”.“It’s time for the people of Punjab to make the big decision... to decide who has the vision and should be the face to win 60 MLAs and implement the roadmap to change the state’s future for the better. But, nobody is talking about the roadmap and issues concerning the people,” he pointed out.Sidhu, contesting from Amritsar East, was speaking to the media during a public meeting at Dashmesh Avenue where former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s grandson resides. The cricketer-turned-politician along with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi are frontrunners to be the CM face.Earlier, former AAP MP Dr Dharamvir Gandhi extended his support to Sidhu. — TNSSidhu: Cong’s victory will depend on itAICC sources said the party’s internal surveys show Channi way ahead of others. A source said some MLAs seen close to PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu too have batted for ChanniGAUGING THE MOODThe Cong is said to have made over 3,000 video-recordings of workers and voters to gauge the mood on the CM issue. #punjab congress #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-to-name-punjabs-cm-face-today-367373
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi to announce Congress CM face on Sunday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will announce the party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab on Sunday.The announcement will be made at 2 pm through a virtual rally that Gandhi will address from Ludhiana, an official tweet from the Punjab Youth Congress said.Gandhi is in the state to gather voter feedback to zero in on the chief ministerial candidate.Following this, a pre-recorded message through the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) was sent out to mobile numbers of voters across the state. Besides, feedback was taken through party candidates, AICC coordinators, survey teams spread across the 117 Assembly segments over the week.Voters have three choices to pick from— Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu or no CM face.Shri Rahul Gandhi Ji will announce the next CM face of Punjab Virtual rallyDate:- February 6, 2022Time:- 2:00 PMPlace:- Ludhiana'Aawaz Punjab Di'Live on all Social media platforms of IYC and INC#CongressHiAyegi pic.twitter.com/u8xG5W7bcg #cm candidate #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-to-announce-congress-cm-face-on-sunday-367321
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress CM's face to decide whether 60 contestants become MLAs, says Navjot Sidhu||A chief ministerial face will decide whether 60 candidates are elected as MLAs or not, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Saturday, referring to the number 60, one more than 59 lawmakers needed to form government in Punjab with 117-member assembly.Without naming any party, Sidhu made the remark ahead of the announcement of the Congress' chief ministerial face by the party's former president Rahul Gandhi during his visit to Ludhiana for the February 20 Punjab assembly polls.Sidhu also stressed that a person who has a roadmap for Punjab and who enjoys the people's trust can only ensure 60 contestants get elected as legislators.Notably, a party needs 59 seats out of a total of 117 assembly segments for forming the government in Punjab.For the last several weeks, both Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have, directly or indirectly, made a case for themselves to be declared as the party's nominee for the top post.Addressing the media in Amritsar on Saturday, Sidhu who is contesting from Amritsar East seat, said he was never a “worshipper of power”.“But today Punjab has to decide a big thing. A person will become CM if there are 60 MLAs. Nobody is talking about 60 MLAs. Nobody talks about on which roadmap the government will be formed,” he said.Sidhu again batted for his Punjab Model for bringing the state back on its feet.“It is not Sidhu's model but state's model and if anyone has a better model he will accept that too.He said, “Sixty MLAs will be made by that person who has a roadmap and enjoys people's trust. The truth is that the face will decide whether 60 (contestants) become MLAs or not.”Referring to his joining the Congress after leaving the BJP ahead of 2017 polls, Sidhu said he did not leave the party to join another for any post and in fact, he had given up his Rajya Sabha membership.“I came (into Congress) because I have concern for Punjab," he said. Sidhu said his fight has always been against those who have looted Punjab.“My fight is against those who are dishonest. When someone at the top is honest, the honesty percolates right down below,” he said."I have not waged any personal battle with anyone till today. I have always fought for Punjab," he said.Sidhu further said he never deviated from issues of politics, policy and budgetary allocation.“Has Sidhu opened his shop for business, quarry or liquor?” he asked. He said he was the only person whose earnings dipped sharply, in an apparent reference to what he used to earn from doing TV shows and cricket commentary.“I will be the only person whose income dropped by crores of rupees. But I have the satisfaction that income was nothing,” he said, adding people remember those who can change society for betterment.“My Punjab model is meant to change the lives of children, youths and people of the state,” he said.He further said this model will check those people who are looting the state.“Punjabis have to decide which face will implement this (Punjab model). On whose name, 60 (contestants) will be elected as MLAs. The biggest question is what is his policy, what is his character and what is his morality,” he asked. “Can a person, who is part of the mafia, stop it?” he further asked as he targeted the previous Akali and Amarinder Singh led regimes.“Punjab model is not of Navjot Sidhu. The Punjab model is an experience of Sidhu. It is not an experience of a person or a remote control sitting in Delhi,” he said as he targeted AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal.He said Kejriwal left his Delhi model and was now talking about the Punjab model. “I say you (Kejriwal) are fake Sidhu,” he said.  #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cms-face-to-decide-whether-60-contestants-become-mlas-navjot-sidhu-367319
