07-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: PM Modi to address virtual rally on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address his first virtual rally for the Punjab Assembly polls on Tuesday.In his rally, Modi will address people from 18 Assembly segments of Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib parliamentary constituencies, according to a statement issued by the BJP.The party has set up LED screens all over the 18 Assembly segments. About 50,000 people are expected to watch the PM’s address, it said.The party has scheduled some more rallies of the PM for the coming days, the statement said.Modi had visited Punjab on January 5 but he returned without dedicating development projects and addressing a rally as his convoy was stuck on a flyover due to a blockade by some protesters in Ferozepur.The BJP is fighting the state Assembly polls in alliance with the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-pm-modi-to-address-virtual-rally-on-tuesday-367883
07-02-2022||GS Paul||After losing out on 'CM candidate' race, Navjot Sidhu back to campaigning, goes door-to-door in Amritsar||Amritsar, February 7After skipping on the chief ministership, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said that his “Punjab model” would be implemented by CM Charanjit Singh Channi.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had declared to continue with Channi as the Congress' CM face in a rally in Ludhiana, after conducting a survey and taking workers and party MLAs into confidence.Sidhu has been eying the post since Capt Amarinder Singh's exit. Rahul has stated that the “people wanted someone who understands poverty, hunger, and fears of the poor” as their CM face.While campaigning door-to-door at Mudhal village falling under Amritsar East constituency, which he has been representing as a lawmaker and contesting again, Sidhu said that he never ran after “nakad narayan” (money) or ahuda Narayan (plum position), but for “jagat narayan” (people).He said that he had handed over the “Punjab Model” to his party and the leadership was free to pick up upright points from it.“The main focus was to transform Punjab. It was never necessary to have a post for this purpose. It was prerogative of the high command (Congress) to take a final call. Whatever was decided was acceptable. But fight over policies and accountability to bring change to the lives of the people, I will continue to 'fight for truth and rights' (haqatesachdi ladai),” he said.On the Punjab model, he said that he had no “copyright” over the Punjab model. It was shared for the entire state.“I intend to fight for people's welfare. Anyone can take up any good point from it, I've no objection. I've already handed it over to the party but Channi has the power to implement it," he said.Launching an attack on SAD, he said, “Our fight is with AAP only. SAD was nowhere in the picture. Yet, I aim to kill the ‘Jhota’ (bull, referring to SAD president Sukhbir Badal) not the chichar (worms),” he said. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-missing-out-on-cms-face-sidhu-campaigns-door-to-door-in-amritsar-bats-for-implementation-of-punjab-model-367841
07-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Lok Congress mocks Navjot Sidhu after Charanjit Channi is declared Congress's CM face||The Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress has taken a jibe at state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu after Charanjit Singh Channi was declared the chief ministerial candidate for the assembly polls.Using a hashtag ‘CurtainsForSidhu’ on its Twitter handle, it shared a picture in which Rahul Gandhi, Sidhu, Channi and Sunil Jakhar held each other's hands and raised them in the air. However, the face of Sidhu got covered accidentally for a few seconds because of his shawl.“A picture is worth a thousand words,” said the PLC in a tweet on Sunday.Further mocking Sidhu, the PLC said, “Thoko Thoko, Ruko!! Zor ke Thoko!,” a reference to Sidhu's penchant of saying "Thoko Tali".Before the announcement of the CM face, Sidhu had said in a tweet, “Nothing great was ever achieved without an act of decision….Warm welcome to our leading light Rahul Ji, who comes to give clarity to Punjab…All will abide by his decision !!!”.To this, the PLC replied, “You won't.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-lok-congress-mocks-navjot-sidhu-after-charanjit-channi-is-declared-congresss-cm-face-367828
07-02-2022||New Delhi||Punjab CM's nephew accepted he received Rs 10 crore in cash for sand mining, transfer in state, claims ED||Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, the arrested nephew of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, has "accepted" that he received Rs 10 crore in cash in lieu of facilitating sand mining operations and transfer or posting of officials in the border state, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) claimed in a statement on Monday.He was taken into custody by the federal probe agency in Jalandhar on February 3 as part of its money laundering investigation into alleged sand mining operations in Punjab.Honey is the son of Channi's sister-in-law and he is in ED custody till Tuesday.The agency had conducted raids against Honey and others on January 18 and seized about Rs 7.9 crore in cash from his premises and another about Rs 2 crore cash from a linked person, Sandeep Kumar.The agency said in a statement that it has recorded the statements of Kudratdeep Singh, Bhupinder Singh (Honey), Honey's father Santokh Singh and Sandeep Kumar during the searches and it was "established" that the seized Rs 10 crore "belonged to Bhupinder Singh s/o Santokh Singh.""Further, Bhupinder Singh accepted that he received the seized cash in lieu of facilitation in sand mining operations and transfer/posting of officials," the ED claimed.It said Honey was issued summons for his personal appearance before the agency on February 3 along with some documents."In response, he appeared and tendered his statement, wherein he, inter-alia, stated that he is involved in the mining-related activities, but took an evasive approach when confronted with incriminating data," it said.Honey, Kudratdeep Singh and Sandeep Kumar are stated to be the directors of a company called Providers Overseas Consultants Pvt Ltd that was raided by the ED last month in poll-bound Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-nephew-accepted-he-received-rs-10-crore-in-cash-for-sand-mining-transfer-in-state-claims-ed-367827
07-02-2022||Chandigarh||Actress Mahi Gill joins BJP ahead of Punjab election||With just a few days left for the Punjab polls, Bollywood actress Mahi Gill on Monday joined the BJP.बीजेपी में शामिल हुई माही गिलहरियाणा के मुख्यमंत्री मनोहर लाल केंद्रीय मंत्री गजेंद्र शेखावत जी, भारतीय जनता पार्टी के राष्ट्रीय महासचिव नेता दुष्यंत गौतम जी, पंजाब भाजपा के महामंत्री श्री सुभाष शर्मा जी की उपस्थिति में माही गिल ने ली बीजेपी की सदस्यता । pic.twitter.com/yJXJ6kPhUB  Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal welcomed Mahi Gill in the party by giving her a bouquet. Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat and Dushyant Gautam were also present. Punjabi actor Hobby Dhaliwal also joined the BJP.The Punjab Assembly Election 2022 will be held in a single phase on February 20 for 117 constituencies. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actress-mahi-gill-joins-bjp-ahead-of-punjab-elections-367820
07-02-2022||Chandigarh||Thousands of Indian students, mostly Punjabis, stare at bleak future as 3 Canadian colleges shut abruptly||Over 2,000 students mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat are allegedly left in the lurch with three private colleges in Canada’s Montreal city closing abruptly.Some of the students among them are learning online and some are on study visas. Canada’s CBC News has reported that all three colleges have filed for creditor protection.In the court filing, the colleges blamed the Covid-19 pandemic for some of their financial troubles. The three colleges first announced long winter vacations from November 30, 2021 to January 10, 2022. Then, just before closing, the authorities asked the students to deposit pending fees within one week. This amount of money ranged from Canadian $ 15,000 to 29,500, which come to between Rs 9 lakh and Rs 17.70 lakh.Some of the students have paid the hefty fee, reports the Wire.The three colleges are Collège de comptabilité et de secrétariat du Québec (CCSQ), College de I’Estrie (CDE) and M College.CCSQ has two campuses at Longueuil and Sherbrooke and offered courses in accounting, secretarial studies, medical, computing and legal studies.CDE offered six courses in business and administration and information technology. M College’ in LaSalle had four courses in business, health and technology.The students are aged between 18 and 22 years. Some are also from Haryana and Gujarat and had been eagerly waiting for on campus learning to begin.On January 29, 2022, left with no option, students under the banner of ‘Montreal Youth-Student Organization’ (MYSO) held a rally at Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar at LaSalle in Montreal demanding justice in their case. They also handed a letter in this regard to the Minister of Education of Canada, the Indian Ambassador to Canada, the Montreal MP and various ministers of the opposition.#JUSTICEFORINDIANMONTREALYOUTHSTUDENTORGANIZATION pic.twitter.com/KsM3E4WXNC#JUSTICEFORINDIANMONTREALYOUTHSTUDENTORGANIZATION pic.twitter.com/DNeCs02V6e#JUSTICEFORTHREEMONTREALCOLLEGESTUDENTS#JUSTICEFORMCOLLEGESTUDENTS#JUSTICEFORCDECOLLEGESTUDENTS#JUSTICEFORCCSQCOLLEGESTUDENTS.#WEWANTJUSTICE.🙏🏼 pic.twitter.com/PchJTV92uxAt the rally, the students demanded visa refunds for those in India, refund of fees, opportunity to complete studies for students in the three closed colleges, graduation of students with the Certificat d’Acceptation du Québec, a mandatory document for students to study and work in Quebec province, study permits and travel without any hassle to students who have obtained study visas. They threatened to intensify protests if their demands were not addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/thousands-of-indian-students-mostly-punjabis-stare-at-bleak-future-as-3-canadian-colleges-shut-abruptly-367812
07-02-2022||---||SAD candidate from Sanaur booked for violating election commission guidelines||Patiala, February 7Shiromani Akli Dal candidate from Sanaur, Harinder Pal Chandumajra, has been booked by Patiala Police for violating the guidelines of Election Commission of India (ECI).Harinder is said to have been booked for allegedly holding a roadshow on February 5, under Sections 188 and 283 of the Indian Penal Code. Besides, Section 133 of the Representation of People Act has also been slapped against the SAD candidate.It has been learned that he was first issued a showcause notice by the Returning Officer (RO) concerned; however, explanation by the candidate was not satisfactory. Consequently, the RO lodged a complaint to the police.As per the FIR, a march of around 100-125 bikes and 50-60 cars with party flags was held on Saturday, which was evidently a violation of the guidelines.The breach was caught by the general observer of the Sanaur block during a field visit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-candidate-from-sanaur-booked-for-violating-election-commission-guidelines-367809
07-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||When two melody queens from India and Pakistan met at zero line||Amritsar, February 6The passing away of Melody Queen Lata Mangeshkar rekindled memories of a few senior citizens in the city, who still remember her poignant meeting with Pakistan’s Mallika-e-Tarannum Noor Jehan at the zero line of Attari-Wagah Joint Checkpost in 1951, four years after the Partition.Naresh Johar, a senior citizen, while quoting this incident, recalled how it was the talk of the town. It so happened that while travelling through the city for some recording, Lata expressed her desire to meet Noor Jehan, who resided in Lahore, about 50 km from the holy city. Following this, calls were arranged between the two and both singers decided to meet at the zero line.Johar said noted composer C Ramchandra, who was also accompanying Lata, documented this momentous occasion in his biography stating: “Noor Jehan came running and the two embraced each other like long-lost friends. Both were weeping. We who were witness to this divine meeting were overwhelmed and could not stop the tears. Even soldiers on both sides of the border were weeping. After some time, they sat chatting. We had food. They had brought sweets from Lahore and us from India. Noor Jehan’s husband was also there. I shall never forget this scene in my life. A great testimony to the fact that music can break any barrier. After a few hours, we returned with wet eyes but with a divine and unique experience indeed.”India’s melody queen sung in 36 languages, including Punjabi, and rendered several gurbani shabads in her mellifluous voice. ‘Lata Sings Gurbani’ is a Punjabi album composed by Singh Bandhu, released in 1970. ‘Shabad Gurbani: Lata and Asha’ is another album that released in 2015.Arvinder Singh Chamak, a city-based art historian, said Lata Mangeshkar sung several shabads of the gurbani. Most of the shabads she rendered were banis of Guru Arjan Dev Sahib and Guru Gobind Singh. She sang the divine shabad of ‘Mitter Pyare Nu’ in Punjabi movie ‘Nanak Naam Jahaz’, which was a super hit movie of its time.Chamak recalled that Lata ji had chosen him to hand over her harmonium to famous Pakistani singer Abida Parveen. “This was probably an incident of 2016. After three months, I had the opportunity to hand it over to Abida ji in Islamabad.” He still remembers the parting words of Abida that it was the harmonium over which Lata had practiced for three decades....it became the Talk of the townNoted composer C Ramchandra, who was also accompanying Lata to Amritsar, documented this momentous occasion in his biography stating: “Noor Jehan (in pic right) came running and the two embraced each other like long-lost friends. Both were weeping. We who were witness to this divine meeting were overwhelmed and could not stop the tears. Even soldiers on both sides of the border were weeping. After some time, they sat chatting. We had food. They had brought sweets from Lahore and us from India. Noor Jehan’s husband was also there. I shall never forget this scene in my life. A great testimony to the fact that music can break any barrier. After a few hours, we returned with wet eyes but with a divine and unique experience indeed.” #india pakistan #lata mangeshkar #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-two-melody-queens-from-india-and-pakistan-met-at-zero-line-367784
07-02-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cyber criminals target people on pretext of Covid-19 vaccine registration||Ludhiana, February 6Changing the modus operandi according to the prevalent trend, cyber criminals have now started cheating people on the pretext of registration for Covid-19 vaccine.The police have also started receiving complaints where people lost money to cyber criminals by sharing one-time passwords (OTPs) or by downloading unsafe apps.To make people aware of the fraud, the Ludhiana Commissionerate has started posting informative graphics on social media.The recent image shared by the police on their official Facebook page reads, “Beware of coronavirus vaccine registration fraud. Don’t believe in calls in the name of Covid-19 vaccine registration. Don’t share OTP received on your mobile phone and avoid sharing credit/debit cards details with strangers”.A senior police official said: “Cyber criminals buy dump of mobile phone numbers from anti-social elements or scan phone numbers posted on social media accounts”.“Due to the pandemic, innocent people easily fall prey to fraudsters. People think they might have been approached by some government employee for the registration of the Covid vaccine,” a police official said, adding that after taking people into confidence, criminals send an OTP or a payment link on their mobile phone. When people share OTP with the caller or click on the payment link, money gets deducted from their account.Cyber criminals convince elderly persons by telling them that if they do telephonic registration, health officials will visit their house to administer the Covid vaccine and they don’t have to visit any centre for the same. They ask people to download remote desktop app to complete the formalities for the registration of Covid vaccine. Once the user downloads the app, entire mobile data gets visible to the fraudsters and they can easily access the OTP and withdraw money through apps.“Most of the people use payment apps these days and their mobile numbers are linked to these apps. Criminals can send OTP by identifying UPI ID easily,” said a police official.Ignore calls for KYC to cast vote: Cyber cell“Cyber criminals may call people to do their KYC required for casting votes in the upcoming Assembly elections. People should avoid such calls or they should report the matter to the cyber wing if they receive any such call,” said the Cyber Cell. Mandeep Singh, a transporter, said, “I received a call from an unknown number on Monday. The caller asked me to share OTP sent on my mobile so that mandatory KYC for casting vote in the Assembly elections can be done. Suspecting a fraud, I disconnected the call”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fraudsters-target-people-on-pretext-of-covid-19-vaccine-registration-367731
07-02-2022||Rajesh Sharma||Land in Punjab, Una farmers face power connection woes||UNA, FEBRUARY 6More than 100 families from Una district, living in villages near the Punjab border, are unable to get electricity connections to run motors for irrigating their agricultural land that lies on the other side of the border in Punjab.Talks after Punjab pollThe issue will be taken up with the new government in Punjab. The Chief Minister has assured them that the issue would be resolved after the Punjab elections. Satpal Singh Satti, Chairman, State Finance CommissionThis is because their address proofs, which show them as residents of Himachal Pradesh, are not admissible in Punjab for securing electricity connections for their tube wells. Only bona fide residents of Punjab can apply for power connections.Jaswinder Singh from Binewal village of Una district, who owns 24 kanals of land in the adjoining Punjab village, said he could not get a power connection for his tube well. Consequently, he was compelled to use a diesel motor, which is expensive to run.Similar is the story of several residents of Malukpur village, including Balwinder Singh who cultivates 20 kanals, Gurcharan Singh and Ranbir Singh, both have inherited 16 kanals of agriculture land each from their father Chajju Ram. They rued that power for tube wells was free in Punjab.Sanoli residents Bakshish Singh, Surinder Singh and Jagtar Singh, who own 48 kanals each in Punjab, said they had been approaching political leaders of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab for a long time, but there had been no solution to their problem. They said the cost of diesel was soaring and irrigation with the help of diesel pump sets was not feasible these days.Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said the problem had been brought to the notice of the district administration. Some farmers had also met Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary during his previous visit to Una. He said the minister had directed the administration to prepare a list of such farmers.The DC said 122 farmers living in four villages of Una district, Binewal, Malukpur, Sanoli and Majra, having their agriculture land in Punjab had been identified, adding that these farmers cultivate 1,190 kanals of land, for which they need irrigation power connections. The list had been forwarded to the Power Department.Meanwhile, Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti said the issue would be taken up with the new government in Punjab. He said the Chief Minister had assured them that the issue would be resolved after the elections.About the issueAbout 100 Una farmers have farmland that falls in bordering Punjab. But they cannot get power connections for their tube wells from the neighbouring state because they are not Punjab residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-in-punjab-farmers-face-power-connection-woes-367687
07-02-2022||---||Charanjit Singh Channi Congress's Punjab CM face||Ludhiana, February 6Ending the speculation, the Congress on Sunday named incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi as the ruling party’s CM candidate for the February 20 high-stakes Punjab Assembly polls.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi made the much-awaited announcement at a rally here. “Punjab and Congress chose a poor Dalit man as our CM face,” declared Rahul, making it clear that it was not his decision but one that he fully endorsed.No sooner did Rahul make the announcement, Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, who was also contender for the top post, and campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar got up and joined hands to welcome the decision.The announcement came after a closed-door meeting lasting over an hour between Rahul, Channi, Sidhu and Jakhar. AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary were also present. The decision was taken 10 days after the Congress high command had sought people’s opinion to decide its CM candidate through IVR (interactive voice response) calls. Rahul said, “The CM face of Punjab is Charanjit Singh Channi. We asked Punjab and you have given us the decision. It was a tough decision to make. Punjab needs a leader who can understand the poor, feel their anxiety.”“The Congress will now work towards the vision of transforming Punjab,” said Rahul, inviting Channi to say a few words after the announcement.“This is a big fight, which I can’t fight alone. I am thankful to Punjab for choosing me as the CM candidate. I sincerely thank the high command and people of Punjab for bestowing their trust in me. Just as you have seen us work so hard in the last 111 days to take Punjab forward, I assure you we will take Punjab and Punjabis on the path of progress with new zeal and dedication,” Channi said.Before announcing Channi as the CM face, Rahul said, “I asked him (Channi) what his father did for a living. Do you know his life? He understands poverty. Deeply so.”“Punjab is Hindustan’s shield. This state has to choose its leader on its own. My job is to hear and understand your voice. I can have an opinion, but your opinion matters most. All our leaders are gems and I was given the tough task of choosing one of them,” said the Gandhi scion.Jakhar, Sidhu and Channi also addressed the rally before Rahul made the announcement.Sidhu said, “I am thankful to Rahul Gandhi that he made me the Punjab Congress president in just the fourth year of my association with the party; my father also worked for this party. In my 13-year association with the BJP, I was only used as a campaigner. I respect Rahulji’s decisions, and will continue to do so.”Jakhar said Rahul had made the “biggest decision” of his political career when he made a poor SC man, Charanjit Singh Channi, the CM of Punjab. “It is the most historic decision you’ve (Rahul Gandhi) made. You will be remembered for it,” he added. #charanjit channi #Dalits #punjab polls 2022 #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-congresss-cm-face-367653
07-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Congress chooses Dalit leader Channi to fight anti-incumbency||Chandigarh, February 6The Congress high command, in a well-thought-out move, has chosen not to make changes at the top ahead of the Assembly elections. Whether or not the decision to declare Charanjit Channi as the CM face translates into votes from other communities is anybody’s guess. Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have held a one-on-one meeting with Sidhu, informing him of the party’s decision.‘Mandal moment’ in Punjab politicsChandigarh: Though Channi has served as CM for 111 days, the fact that the Congress has chosen him to lead the party in these crucial elections has enthused the socially disadvantaged sections, who feel they have finally got their due in politics.The Congress clearly aims to reach out to the underprivileged sections with Rahul stressing that the CM being from a ‘garib ghar’ could well understand hunger and poverty. “Political leaders are not made at TV debates. A person becomes a leader after years of struggle and the Congress has no dearth of such jewels,” said Rahul at the Ludhiana rally, a remark that insiders say was aimed at Sidhu.A senior leader claimed that Sidhu had been systematically cut to size in the past few months and he now had no political options. It is believed that the party used Sidhu to oust Capt and target the BJP and AAP and later picked a Dalit Sikh face to fight anti-incumbency. #charanjit channi #Dalits #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-chooses-dalit-leader-to-fight-anti-incumbency-367655
07-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Congress's CM face: Sending out a strong message beyond Punjab||New Delhi, February 6Last September when the Congress chose a low-profile and mild-mannered Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab CM replacing the flamboyant royal Amarinder Singh, the party sent a strong message of empowering the Scheduled Castes.Aiming revival of SC support baseBy announcing Channi as party’s CM face today, Rahul Gandhi walked the talk of strengthening the SC community, long neglected in Punjab. In a state where agrarian economy is shrinking and electoral equations dominated by Jat Sikhs changing, experts believe the occasion is ripe for political experiments. A research by Prof Surinder Jodhka, head of JNU’s Centre for the Study of Social Systems, reveals the percentage of people registered as cultivators was about 50 per cent in rural Punjab and 25 per cent in the entire state — a signal of a contracting agrarian economy, conventionally dominated by Jat Sikhs, who, in turn, also dominate the state’s electoral landscape.But with Channi’s projection today, the Congress has managed to further its well-crafted strategy to appeal to the shrinking SC support base not just in Punjab, but also in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.In Punjab, the Congress is aiming massive SC consolidation given a 31.9 per cent share of the community in the state’s population (2011 Census) and the fact that the Congress won 23 of the 34 reserved segments in 2017. The party, however, recorded a 10 per cent drop in SC Sikh vote — from 51 per cent in 2012 to 41 per cent in 2017. Channi belongs to SC Sikhs who make up the bulk of Scheduled Castes in the state.The Congress seeks to recover this lost support besides cementing its “pro-poor” narrative that Rahul Gandhi wove today, saying, “Everyone we consulted wanted that a leader from a humble background should be made the CM face, that Charanjit Singh Channi should be projected and I agree with that.”The party hopes Channi’s projection will help its national ambitions too and boost the sagging SC voter base. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress had managed just about 26 per cent of the SC votes as against NDA’s 41 per cent. #charanjit channi #Dalits #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sending-out-a-strong-message-beyond-punjab-367656
07-02-2022||---||Election Commission eases curbs on rallies, ban on roadshows stays||New Delhi, February 6Further relaxing norms for campaigning in the five poll-bound states, the Election Commission today decided to do away with the absolute number restriction of 1,000 people in open ground for physical rallies. It allowed political parties and candidates to hold such events with 50 per cent of capacity of indoor space and 30 per cent outdoor. The poll panel, however, decided to extend the ban on roadshows, padyatras and cycle and vehicle rallies. The maximum number of persons allowed for door-to-door canvassing remains 20 and the ban on campaign between 8 pm and 8 am also stays.The announcement followed the Commission’s meeting with the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to assess the Covid situation.It is learnt that the Ministry informed the Election Commission that Covid cases were fast receding and the poll-bound states were contributing a small proportion of the total cases. “Many special observers have also sent their reports stating that the Covid situation has improved substantially,” an official said.The Election Commission said open ground rallies would be held only in areas specifically designated by the district authorities and subject to compliance of all conditions of the SDMA. #assembly polls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-eases-curbs-on-rallies-ban-on-roadshows-stays-367657
07-02-2022||Batala||Punjab Diary: Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa battles on||Finding humourGurdaspur: Several senior Gurdaspur-based SAD leaders who have toured Amritsar East, from where two bigwigs — Bikram Majithia and Navjot Singh Sidhu — are pitted against each other, have some interesting things to say. These politicians claim despite being involved in a battle which may go right down to the wire, Majithia has not lost his sense of humour. A video clip doing the rounds has Bikram saying: “I request Navjot Kaur Sidhu not to cast her vote in favour of her totally incompetent husband and instead should vote for me.”Politics runs in bloodMuktsar: The proverb politics runs in the blood holds true for Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala, who owes it to his 15-year-old son Jairaj Singh, a student of Class X in Gurugram, for his return to the SAD fold after 12 years. Even SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal acknowledged this during his speech. “This boy used to call and ask me to bring his dad into the party fold. However, I always told him he would have to persuade his father. Finally, he managed to convince his father and the family rejoined the SAD.” On this, Fattanwala said, “My son had listened to stories of the SAD from his grandfather Gurraj Singh Fattanwala and always insisted me to rejoin the party. He had developed friendship with Sukhbir’s son as well.”Overcome with emotionsMuktsar: Emotions can have the better of anyone, even politicians. This came true for zila parishad member Simarjit Singh Bhina Brar when he was denied the Congress ticket from the Muktsar Assembly constituency. While addressing a gathering at his residence after the denial of ticket, his eyes welled up. Brar is the son of a former District Congress Committee president, Gursant Singh Brar.District gaffeMuktsar: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who visited Muktsar town on Wednesday, had a slip of tongue moment. While replying to the queries of mediapersons, Sukhbir said: “I have given the responsibility of Muktsar and Kotkapura districts to Bhai Sahib’s (former MLA Bhai Harnirpal Singh Kuku) family.” Kotkapura is a subdivision in Faridkot district.Divergent voicesSangrur: Some local Congress leaders are not ready to accept leaders from outside who visit the constituency to assist in the campaign of party nominee Vijay Inder Singla. This often becomes a matter of discussion at party events, leaving political bosses uneasy. While locals behind their back accuse them of diminishing their importance, they start planning for the campaign the moment these outsiders arrive at the venue. With divergent voices echoing at the party events, voters have been left confused. Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Archit Wats & Parvesh Sharma #fateh jung bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jung-singh-bajwa-battles-on-367654
07-02-2022||Abohar||Three held for bike thefts||1 killed, 2 injured in accidentAbohar: A person died and two others were left injured after a car they were travelling in overturned near Chak 8-A village on Padampur Road. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep (24), a resident of Chak 56-LNP village. The injured include Praveen (30), a resident of Beenjhbayala, and Bhim Sain (23), a resident of Chak 11-EEA village. The duo have been admitted to a private hospital in Sriganganagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-for-bike-thefts-367651
07-02-2022||Moga||Debt-ridden farmer attacks kids, kills self||Lal Singh, a 50-year old farmer, allegedly committed suicide by electrocuting himself after attacking his 12-year-old daughter and 7-year-old son with a hammer at Ramuwala Kalan village in Moga district on Sunday.The injured have been identified as Amanjot Kaur and Karanbir. The duo suffered injuries on their head and have been admitted to a private hospital in Moga where their condition was said to be critical.After injuring his kids, Lal Singh climbed on an electricity pole and touched the high-tension wires.The police have registered a case of attempt to murder against Lal Singh and started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.Preliminary investigations revealed that Lal Singh’s father had died yesterday, thus leaving behind huge debt, which was not possible for him to clear by tilling 3 acres. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-ridden-farmer-attacks-kids-kills-self-367650
07-02-2022||Karam Prakash||Punjab gets Punjab and Haryana High Court notice for 'not implementing' scheme for disabled||Patiala, February 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab on the alleged non-implementation of the Punjab Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Yojana (PDSY).The scheme was meant to empower around 6.5 lakh differently abled people in the state.The notice is said to have been issued in response to the writ petition filed in the HC by Vijay Walia (68), who is 100 per cent visually impaired.Depts unawareA majority of government departments that are the main stakeholders in implementing the Punjab Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Yojana are unaware of it. It is unfortunate that the vulnerable part of society has to move court for its rights. Vijay Walia, petitionerThe petitioner, who is a Patiala resident, had to take the legal course after he was denied the benefits under the scheme by the Departments of Health and Transport.It has been learnt that most of the departments are unaware of the scheme and they, therefore, don’t entertain the beneficiaries.In November last year, the Department of Social Security had, however, claimed that all the departments in the state were informed about the scheme.The Cabinet had approved the scheme in January last year and allocated funds for the same.The petitioner, Walia, said that the office of the Patiala Civil Surgeon could not provide him with health insurance benefits under the said scheme.“A majority of the departments that are the main stakeholders in implementing the scheme are unaware of it. I approached the Transport Department, which had already expressed its ignorance about the scheme. It is unfortunate that vulnerable chunk of society has to move court for its rights,” the petitioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-gets-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-for-not-implementing-scheme-for-disabled-367649
07-02-2022||---||Farm union starts nukkad nataks to sensitise electorate in villages||Bathinda, February 6Firm over not taking a political plunge or lending direct support to any political party in the 2022 Assembly elections in the state, the BKU Ekta Ugrahan has started an awareness drive in villages to sensitise voters ahead of the voting on February 20.As a part of the drive, the farm union members organised “nukkad nataks” and held meetings in various villages in Malwa. They raised slogans such as “Sarkaaran te na jhak kro, aapni rakhi aap kro” (don’t look upon the government, protect yourself on your own).The farm leaders have been exhorting voters in the villages to stand firm to get their demands met and put forth questions before the candidates seeking votes.Shingara Singh Mann, general secretary, BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said, “The bugle for voter awareness drive has been sounded in Malwa. We are mobilising residents to ask questions from candidates regarding issues plaguing the growth and their roadmap for the development of the state. We are getting overwhelming response in villages.”Jhanda Singh Jethuke of the union said, “To mobilise voters, we have been holding ‘nukkad nataks’ in villages.”The farm union has prepared 15 questions for every political party based on their previous performance and their vision for future. Some questions evolve around lack of complete debt-waiver, drug menace, unemployment and sacrilege incidents.A play on agrarian crisis was showcased at Chak Fateh Singhwala village, which is home town of former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s in-laws. The “nukkad natak” was also held at Burj Sema village. #BKU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-starts-nukkad-nataks-to-sensitise-electorate-in-villages-367648
07-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Groundwater in 78% blocks 'overexploited' in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 6Groundwater in at least 78 per cent blocks of the Punjab is overexploited said Minister of State for Jal Shakti Bishweswar Tudu in a reply to a query posed by Anandpur Sahib Member of Parliament Manish Tewari during the ongoing Lok Sabha session. The minister said out of 150 blocks, as many as 117 have been categorised as “overexploited”.The minister said as per the 2017 groundwater assessment carried out jointly by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) and the state government as many as 109 blocks were found to be “overexploited”.The reply mentioned that “Groundwater levels are declining because of continuous withdrawal necessitated by increased demand of freshwater for various uses, vagaries of rainfall, increased population, industrialisation and urbanisation etc.”It’s worth mentioning that the study conducted by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), conducted from 1998 to 2018, had found that groundwater declined by over a metre every year in 18 of the 23 districts. The report, which was submitted to the state government recently, highlighted that groundwater, which was available at a depth of three to 10 metres around two decades ago, has fallen below 30 metres.Barring four districts—Faridkot, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Muktsar— and a few blocks in Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Ropar and Mansa, groundwater has been found to be “overexploited” in the state.The reply of the Minister of state for Jal Shakti read that “information received from the state government of Punjab indicates that 790 habitations (from rural areas) spread across 17 districts are affected with arsenic out of which 29 habitations (with arsenic contamination ranging between 0.11 mg/litre to 0.46 mg/litre) are in Ropar district alone”. Research results have shown that the long-term exposure to arsenic from drinking water and food can cause cancer and skin lesions.Water being a State subject, initiatives on water management, including preventing contamination of groundwater is primarily the responsibility of the state. The minister added that the Centre had simultaneously initiated different steps to revive the falling levels of groundwater.Level falling down rapidly #groundwater||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/groundwater-in-78-blocks-overexploited-367647
07-02-2022||Faridkot||Schools reopen today for class VI onwards in Punjab||The state government today decided to reopen all higher educational institutes and coaching centres along with schools (class VI onwards) from February 7.Schools have been asked to ensure that students above 15 years of age group are partially vaccinated (first dose). While attending physical classes, students can opt to attend classes online.The instructions issued by the Principal Secretary (Home) today, reads, “All universities, colleges (including medical and nursing colleges), schools from class VI onwards, polytechnics, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes (whether government or private) are allowed to open from February 7.”On February 4, the Education Department had issued instructions, ordering the closure of schools till February 8 in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in the state. However, on February 5, schoolteachers and parents staged protests against the state government, thus warning the authorities that they would not exercise their franchise in the Assembly poll.Irate protesters stated that if political gatherings can be allowed, closure of schools does not makes any sense. — TNSCommence all classes: UnionsChandigarh: Farm unions have claimed victory over reopening of schools from class VI onwards. Members of the unions said they would start agitation from today to press for reopening schools from primary classes. Members said they would block all roads in the state from 12 pm to 2 pm in order to pressurise the state government to reopen schools for all classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-reopen-today-for-class-vi-onwards-in-punjab-367646
07-02-2022||Anirudh Gupta||Supreme Court-formed team visits PM Modi 'security breach' site||Ferozepur, February 6A high-powered team set up by the Supreme Court under the former judge, Justice Indu Malhotra (retd), arrived here this morning to investigate the alleged lapses in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during his visit to Ferozepur on January 5. The PM was forced to return without attending the official function and BJP’s rally.The court-appointed team visited the overbridge near Piareana village on the Ferozepur-Moga road where the PM’s cavalcade remained stuck for almost 20 minutes, triggering a nationwide debate over the “breach” of security.The team stayed there for around half an hour to inspect the site. Later, it visited Ferozeshah village where farmers had assembled to start a protest march, but were prevented by the police to move towards Ferozepur due to which they staged a protest on the road itself. Besides, the team visited the rally site to piece together the sequence of events. The member held a closed-door meeting at the BSF Sector Headquarters.The team did not share any details about the investigation. Police officials also remained tight-lipped about the visit.On January 13, the SC had set up the five-member committee under Justice Malhotra (retd), which also included the IG, National Investigation Agency; the DGP, Chandigarh, the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Additional DGP (Security) of the Punjab Police, to probe the matter and ascertain alleged lapses in PM’s security, and to further fix the accountability of erring officials.The court had also stayed the inquiry committees set up both by the Centre and state to investigate the alleged security breach.The court had directed the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to provide all documents related to the security arrangements made by the state government to the panel head.Earlier, a team constituted by the Ministry of Home Affairs had visited the site on January 7, two days after the incident and had summoned several senior police and civil officials, including Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, ADGP Nageshwar Rao besides 13 other officials who were deployed for PM Narendra Modi’s security. The officials were asked to appear before the team in person at the BSF Sector Headquarters, 10 km from the spot where the incident took place on the NH 5. However, the inquiry was halted following the intervention of the SC. The MHA team had also served show-cause notices to district officials of Ferozepur and Bathinda.Even Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had constituted a committee comprising of Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (Retd) and Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, to conduct an investigation.Convoy stranded for 20 minutes #modi security breach||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-formed-team-visits-pm-security-breach-site-367645
07-02-2022||Faridkot||POLL NUGGETS||Stop waterlogging, get votes: TradersMuktsar: Angered at the poor drainage system in the town and the apathy of successive elected representatives towards it, some shopkeepers here have come up with a novel way to make nominees accountable. On famous Bank Road here, some shopkeepers have put up hoardings, asking all candidates that whoever would pledge to end the perennial problem of waterlogging, they would vote and support him or her. Whenever it rains, this road gets flooded with rainwater. TNSLEADERSPEAKPunjab lags because of mafiasPunjab lags behind national growth. Sand and liquor mafias are to blame for this. Have you ever heard of such mafia in any of the BJP-ruled states? The strong leadership of the BJP doesn’t allow any mafia to take root. — Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-367644
07-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: Youth Congress block chief joins AAP||The Congress suffered a setback in Fazilka as Youth Congress block president Surinderpal Singh Ghoga along with a large number of office-bearers and supporters resigned from the party and joined the AAP here on Sunday. Considered close to district Congress committee president Ranjam Kamra, who was denied the ticket from Fazilka, Ghoga said all parties had given ticket to outsiders, barring the AAP, which had fielded Narinderpal Singh Sawna, a local. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-block-chief-joins-aap-367643
07-02-2022||Chamkaur Sahib||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi's supporters celebrate in Chamkaur Sahib||Congress workers broke into celebration at Chamkaur Sahib as soon as sitting MLA Charanjit Singh Channi was declared the chief ministerial face today. In Morinda, too, a large number of workers danced to drum beats outside the CM’s residence.Supporters burst crackers, distributed sweets amid dhol beats in the grain market, where a large screen was installed for the rally. The family members of the MLA, including wife Dr Kamaljit Kaur and son Navjit Singh Navi, who were also present went to Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib to pay obeisance.A few days ago, Channi had told supporters to instal a large screen and be ready for celebrations, indicating his name was likely to be announced by Rahul at the Ludhiana rally. Congress workers gathered at the grain market, where folk singers enthralled the audience before the rally was telecast live from Ludhiana. They were later joined by the CM’s family members. — #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channis-supporters-celebrate-in-chamkaur-sahib-367642
07-02-2022||GS Paul||Navjot Sidhu vs Bikram Majithia: Amritsar East may not be cakewalk||Amritsar, February 6With the Congress high command betting on Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to lead the party in the polls, the situation seems to have become more peculiar for PCC president Navjot Sidhu on his home turf Amritsar East, from where he is competing against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia.Neck & neckIt’s a wait and watch scenario. The fight will be neck and neck. One who can garner floating vote will tilt the balance in his favour. Prof Jagroop Singh Sekhon, Ex-head, dept of Political Science, GNDUNo impactChanni becoming CM face will not affect Sidhu’s position. The state Congress president is an equally influential position. Dinesh Bassi, Congress leaderExperts feel the fight between the two stalwarts will be decided by a very thin margin. Several Congress leaders believe Sidhu’s failure to become the CM face has dented the prospects of it being a ‘one-sided’ affair for him in the constituency.Prof Jagroop Singh Sekhon, former Head, Department of Political Science, GNDU, said the fence-sitters (the neutral ones) would be the deciding factor in the contest. “It’s a wait and watch scenario. The fight will be neck and neck. Earlier, Sidhu faced ‘soft’ opponents, but this time it won’t be a cakewalk. Sidhu’s recent behaviour and his absence from the constituency, hampering the overall development of the area, may go against him. One who garners the floating vote, which could be allured at the eleventh hour, will tilt the balance in his favour,” he said.Congress leader Dinesh Bassi said: “This is a Congress-dominated seat and Sidhu has a firm vote bank. Still, it will be naïve to consider any election as a cakewalk.”Verka-based Sarbjit Singh, an advocate, said Sidhu’s rejection as ‘CM’ candidate would affect his vote bank by 4-5 per cent and put AAP candidate Jeevan Jyot in an advantageous position.“Disappointment is there as Sidhu was being looked upon as the upcoming CM. On the other hand, the SAD has been contesting for the first time from this constituency. The BJP would secure its vote bank for its candidate Dr Jagmohan Singh Raju and it would be a disadvantage for Majithia. Those who speak about change could opt for AAP this time,” he said. #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-east-may-not-be-cakewalk-367641
07-02-2022||---||Gun stores in Punjab make hay in election season||Patiala, February 6Gun shop owners in almost all districts of Punjab are making hay with the Election Commission ordering residents to deposit arms ahead of the Assembly elections.With the malkhanas (store rooms) of police stations full to capacity, weapon owners are turning to private gun houses to deposit firearms as per the EC guidelines.Another reason for choosing private gun stores is the cumbersome process of getting the weapons released after the polls and worries about the proper upkeep in malkhanas.“Getting a weapon released from a police station is a task. Therefore, it is better to pay a private gun house to store your firearms,” said a weapon owner. Many have chosen to deposit their firearms with gun shops for Rs 2,500-4,000 fee.With the state accounting for maximum arms licences in the country, the Punjab Police are also facing a daunting task of making space for storing nearly 4 lakh weapons.However, security at private gun stores has always been under scanner. In 2019, 68 pistols and revolvers were stolen from a gun house in Jandiala Guru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gun-stores-in-punjab-make-hay-in-election-season-367640
07-02-2022||Moga||AAP's Delhi model sham: BJP Moga nominee Dr Harjot Kamal||Moga BJP candidate Dr Harjot Kamal today lashed out at AAP for seeking votes on the basis of Delhi model which he termed as “sham”.He told this to the media after a prominent leader of the AAP business cell district president Kewal Singh Brar joined the BJP. “The health and education system of Punjab was much better than that of Delhi. Also, air pollution was the highest in Delhi as compared to other cities. There was a scarcity of potable water and the garbage management system was also an utter failure,” he said.Dr Harjot said he met BJP president JP Nadda recently. The BJP government at the Centre would soon declare Moga a ‘Smart city’ and sanction grants for its development, he added. “I have also demanded a PGI-like medical institution and an industrial hub of agro-based industries,” the MLA added. — #BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-delhi-model-sham-bjp-nominee-367639
07-02-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Parkash Singh Badal’s kin take charge in Lambi||SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal has roped in relatives and lieutenants on his home turf Lambi for campaigning. While the former CM himself toured villages, he is away to Chandigarh for his post Covid health check-up. He is, however, reaching out to party activists over the phone.With Badal and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal assigning election duties to close relatives, including Major Bhupinder Singh Dhillon, his son Amarvir Singh Bawa Dhillon, Paramjit Singh Lalli Badal and Pawanpreet Singh Bobby Badal, the latter have been holding door-to-door campaign in villages.Meanwhile, AAP candidate Gurmeet Singh Khudian has been touring villages of the constituency. The Congress has fielded Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana, whose family members are going door to door in villages. #akali dal #Lambi #parkash singh badal #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badals-kin-take-charge-in-lambi-367637
07-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sucha Singh Chhotepur traverses 'difficult' Batala seat||Batala, February 6He is the most accurate weathervane of Punjab politics. In his 55-year-long political life, two-time legislator Sucha Singh Chhotepur has developed an uncanny ability to see through people and things.Makes light of rivalsI enjoy a clear advantage because Congress men are busy fighting each other. The BJP and AAP are non-starters, while the farmers’ party has failed to make its presence felt. Sucha Singh Chhotepur, SAD nomineeHe knows when to jump the ship and when to continue his journey in the same ship. From being an Independent to joining the ranks of the SAD and then the Congress and then back to the SAD, the 77-year-old has seen it all. In between, in 2014, he joined AAP and became Kejriwal’s go-to man.He is contesting from Batala on the SAD ticket. This may not be one of his traditional seats, but in no way he is an unknown figure. In the 2014 General Election, Chhotepur, contesting from Gurdaspur on the AAP ticket, secured nearly 30,000 votes from the Batala Assembly segment.Scores of supporters gather at his rented house before the break of dawn every day and discuss the future and fortunes of their rival parties over cups of tea.While getting ready, he enquires from a loyalist which villages and municipal wards he will be visiting during the day. “For many reasons, Batala is a difficult seat to contest. Nevertheless, I enjoy a clear advantage because Congress men are busy fighting each other. The BJP and AAP are non-starters, while the farmers’ party has failed to make its presence felt. Moreover, as compared to other candidates, I am the proverbial early bird and have already covered a lot of distance,” he says.Notwithstanding the fog, Chhotepur and his entourage visit labyrinthine lanes of the city. He plans his tour in such a way that he touches the areas which have a fair number of Hindu voters. “The voters in villages have rejected all parties. I have the support of Hindu voters. Some SC leaders have also assured me of their backing. That is why I am in a win-win situation,” says Chhotepur.While touring the city, he shows you the dug-up sewerage system. “The entire city has been dug up, following which people have a harrowing time in commuting,” says Chhotepur. #sucha singh chhotepur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sucha-singh-chhotepur-traverses-difficult-batala-seat-367636
07-02-2022||---||SAD-BSP deserves a chance: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Amloh/ Patiala, February 6Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the SAD-BSP alliance alone deserved a chance to serve Punjabis again to bring back the era of development and all-round peace and prosperity.Stand by promisesWe have always stood by our commitments. The SAD-BSP alliance is committed to giving Rs 2,000 a month to women heads of BPL families and five-marla plots to the homless. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD chiefThe SAD president, who was addressing public gatherings in favour of party candidates Harpal Juneja in Patiala and Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna at Mandi Gobindgarh, said the erstwhile SAD-led government made the state power surplus, created world-class roads and even established air connectivity.“The Congress wasted the last five years. Now we have another player, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is trying to dupe Punjabis,” he said.He asked people not to be taken in by the guarantees of AAP, which it hadn’t implemented in Delhi. He also lambasted AAP for filing affidavits in the Supreme Court demanding Punjab’s river waters be given to Delhi and Haryana and calling for registration of criminal cases against those indulging in stubble-burning. #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-deserves-a-chance-sukhbir-singh-badal-367634
07-02-2022||Patiala||Fight to save Punjab from mafia: Bhagwant Mann||AAP state chief and party’s CM face Bhagwant Mann today said his party was fighting to save Punjab from corruption and various mafia, and pull the youth out of the clutches of drugs.Development paramount for usThis is a fight to save Punjab’s farmers. We have to win this battle at all cost for the development. The responsibility of this battle lies with you till February 20. After that, the responsibility will be ours. Bhagwant Mann, AAPSpeaking at a gathering in the Patiala Rural segment, Mann said: “This is a fight to save Punjab’s farmers. We have to win this battle at all cost. The responsibility of this battle lies with you till February 20. After that, the responsibility of Punjab and its people will be ours.”He toured various parts of the constituency, including Talliwala Chowk in Rajpura, Urban Estate, Phase II, Patiala, and party office in Tripuri. The gathering led to a blockade on the road opposite Gurdwara Kashmiriyan.District Electoral Officer-cum-DC Sandeep Hans said the administration’s flying squad team had taken note of the rally. “A notice regarding EC is being issued by the returning officer,” he said. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-to-save-state-from-mafia-bhagwant-mann-367632
07-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Key Seat: Kabaddi players lock horns in Dirba battlefield||Dirba, February 6Two kabaddi heavyweights have locked horns in the Dirba Assembly constituency and they are likely to eat into the votes of each other.Gulzar Singh Moonak, a prominent kabaddi player in the area, is contesting on the SAD ticket, while his senior in the game, Soma Singh, is in the electoral field on the SAD (Sanyukt) ticket.Soma Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) nomineeGetting good responseI am getting a good response as neither AAP nor the Congress nor the SAD have brought development to the area. Our party is the beacon of hope.“Soma is my senior in kabaddi and I respect him. I would never target him personally, as I have always respected my senior players. But I will expose his party, the SAD (Sanyukt), which is hand in glove with the BJP,” said Moonak.The two candidates have been attracting a good number of youth. Besides attacking each other’s political outfits, they accuse sitting AAP legislator Harpal Singh Cheema of failing to develop the segment.“I am getting a good response as neither AAP nor the Congress nor the SAD have brought development to the area. Our party is the beacon of hope. Apart from politics, the youth discuss sports with me during my campaign,” said Soma.Gulzar Singh Moonak, SAD candidateWill expose SAD (S)Soma Singh is my senior in kabaddi. I will never target him, but will expose his party, which is hand in glove with the BJP.As for Leader of Opposition Cheema, he is hopeful to be re-elected. Though he has failed to bring big industry to the constituency, he never misses a chance to accuse the state government of “ignoring” his letters demanding projects for his segment.During the last Assembly elections, Cheema had polled 46,434 votes, while Congress candidate Ajaib Singh Ratolan was at the second place with 44,789 votes.“Residents are aware about my efforts for developing the Dirba constituency. Since I am the Leader of Opposition, the government ignored my requests. I am getting a good response and I will win,” Cheema added.The SAD (Amritsar) has fielded Mandeep Singh, while the Congress has again given ticket to Ratolan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-seat-kabaddi-players-lock-horns-in-dirba-battlefield-367631
07-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab election: Parties bank on the young & educated||Bathinda, February 6This time, political parties have fielded several educated nominees who are making their debut in the poll arena. They say it is an opportunity for them to develop the state, change people’s perception about politics and root out corruption.Ranvir Kaur Mian (31), the Congress candidate from Budhlada in Mansa district, is the most educated nominee. She has a doctorate in English and holds two MBA degrees in finance and human resources. She has completed M Ed as well and worked as a lecturer in a private college.Ranvir Kaur told The Tribune, “I want to open new avenues for higher education in Budhlada, which is educationally backward.”“A weak education system is a curse for the state. Drugs and unemployment are rampant. If given a chance by the electorate, I would bring good educational institutes and try to create job opportunities — these are the basic demands of the people,” she said.During the campaign, Ranvir Kaur emphasises on women’s empowerment. She appeals to women voters to exercise their franchise on February 20 so that women’s issues could be addressed on priority. “If I get the mandate, I wish to lead and guide rural women towards empowerment,” she added.Another first-timer Malvika Sood Sachar (38) is a software engineer. She is sister of actor Sonu Sood. The Congress has fielded her from Moga.Sandeep Jakhar (45), nephew of former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, is taking the electoral plunge from the family’s home turf Abohar. He is an alumnus of Mayo College, Ajmer, and Florida International University, US.AAP’s Dakha candidate KNS Kang has a PhD from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), while party’s Sangrur nominee Narinder Kaur Bharaj (27) is a law graduate. She has also done MA from Punjabi University, Patiala.Paramjit Singh, SAD-BSP candidate from Samrala, holds a master’s degree in international business from the University of Greenwich, England.BJP candidate from Ludhiana West Bikram Sidhu has also mentioned his qualification as LLB. He has also done M Sc (maths).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-bank-on-the-young-educated-367628
07-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Charanjit Channi's nomination: Euphoria among SCs in Doaba||Jalandhar, February 6There is a sense of euphoria among Dalits who feel Channi’s selection as CM face has cemented their leader’s position both in the party and state. While 40 per cent of the state’s Dalit population resides in Doaba, groups and ideologues from the community say the decision will have a significant bearing on state’s politics. However, some term it a populist measure which won’t change the ground reality of Dalits.Problems persistChanni as the CM face doesn’t necessarily translate to Dalit emancipation. The ground problems persist. -- Chiranji Lal Kangniwal, historianChiranji Lal Kangniwal, a historian who has researched extensively on state’s history of Dalit agitations and the Muzahra Movement, says: “There have been three watershed movements which have had an impact on the state’s dynamics ahead of these elections. The first was the ‘kisan andolan’, the second Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal on January 26 that gave a new momentum to the farmers’ protest and the third, Channi taking on the PM after cancellation of his Ferozepur rally. The incident cemented Channi’s face not just in the state’s but also in national discourse. These incidents will impact the poll.” He adds: “However, Channi as CM face doesn’t necessarily translate to Dalit emancipation. The ground problems remain the same.”Tarsem Peter, president, Pendu Mazdoor Union, says: “How can Dalits be happy with a dispensation that denies them their land rights? Landless peasants have been agitating on the issue for long.” #charanjit channi #Dalits #Doaba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/euphoria-among-scs-in-doaba-367625
07-02-2022||Archit Watts||Eyeing win, AAP Malout nominee doubles as doctor while canvassing||Muktsar, February 6It’s the “call of the duty” that still drives AAP Malout candidate Dr Baljit Kaur (46). No matter how hectic her poll schedule is, the state awardee eye surgeon always examines anyone approaching her during public meetings.The daughter of former Faridkot MP Prof Sadhu Singh, she had served at Civil Hospital, Muktsar, for nearly eight years before she took premature retirement last year. Her husband is an executive engineer in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).In her public speeches, Baljit Kaur stresses she started free eye surgeries at the Civil Hospital. “At that time, a campaign was launched against me by some private hospitals. However, I succeeded in my efforts and won the trust of area residents. Similarly, now I am in politics and my political rivals have launched a campaign against me and my party. I am sure I will get success this time as well,” says Dr Baljit Kaur in her public address.The AAP candidate’s speeches primarily revolve around women empowerment and better healthcare and educational facilities. She urges people to make an informed decision and vote for the future of the next generation and bringing a change in the system.She focuses on drugs menace and unemployment as well. “The youngsters are not sure of jobs. Many of them are hooked to drugs. Arvind Kejriwal has done a lot of work for all sections of society, especially the poor. Just trust the AAP leadership and vote for us to bring the change,” says Baljit Kaur. As her family is settled at Faridkot town, when someone asks her if she will stay in Malout after winning the elections, she says, “I have served in this area for a long time and aware of all issues. It does not matter who stays where. I am habitual of commuting to Muktsar from Faridkot, so this issue doesn’t even arise here.”Baljit Kaur faces the challenge from SAD former legislator Harpreet Singh (44) and Congress’ Rupinder Kaur Ruby (33). #AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eyeing-win-aap-nominee-doubles-as-doctor-while-canvassing-367622
07-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Channi's nomination as CM face historic, but may backfire: Experts||Chandigarh, February 6The jubilation seen in many parts of the state post the announcement of Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM face of the Congress signifies the “Mandal moment” in Punjab politics driven by the caste factor. Though Channi has served as the CM for 111 days, the fact that the Congress has reposed faith in him to lead the party in the elections is what has enthused the socially-disadvantaged sections of society, who feel they are finally getting their due politically.Tasting power after long timeIt is after a long time that the socially disadvantaged sections are getting a taste of power — after rise of Kanshi Ram in 1980s. -- Prof Manjit Singh, social scientistUpper castes to vote elsewhereWith 38.5% Hindus being denied power and 21% Jat Sikhs feeling threatened, there will be counter-consolidation of upper caste vote. -- Ronki Ram, political scientistSocial scientists call this a historic moment for Punjab, which has over 32 per cent of its population from the Dalit community, including 39 castes such as Ravidassias (Channi is from this caste), Valmikis, Mazhabis, Ad dharmis, Rai Sikhs, Ramdassias.They feel though the traditional parties will now try to break the Dalit vote bank to limit its impact on the poll prospects for the Congress, the prospect of getting power is likely to keep it together. The Akali Dal-BSP alliance may also be countered by the move, say these social scientists.Prof Manjit Singh, a political scientist, says Channi’s elevation to lead the ruling party is symbolic of their empowerment. “Though 34 constituencies are reserved, it is after long that the socially disadvantaged sections are getting a taste of power — after the rise of Kanshi Ram in early 1980s, when the BSP was formed,” he says.Another social scientist, Prof Rajesh Kumar, who is Head, School of Social Sciences at GNDU, Amritsar, says it is undoubtedly a “Mandal moment”, where a member of the Dalit community is getting a prominent role in the Jat Sikh-dominated politics. But not everyone is as enthused. Political scientist Ronki Ram says though the move will consolidate the floating Dalit vote, the community will not vote in one direction and many will go with the other parties too. #charanjit channi #Dalits||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/historic-but-may-backfire-experts-367621
07-02-2022||---||Nomination of Charanjit Channi as Congress CM face won't change fortunes: Opposition||Patiala/ Chandigarh, February 6The Opposition today downplayed the nomination of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief ministerial face of the Congress. They said the announcement won’t impact their poll prospects and turn round the Congress’ fortunes.Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD presidentMafia has prevailedIt is shocking that the sand mafia has even prevailed over the Congress high command and foisted its candidate on the party.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said Channi’s nomination as the CM face of the Congress was a victory for the sand mafia, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the announcement will not make any difference to the fate of the party that is already doomed. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the Congress had made the mockery of the common man by choosing a person who faced allegations of links with sand mafia.Bhagwant Mann, AAP CM face‘Tainted’ has been chosenThe Congress’ decision has proved they wanted to rob the people of Punjab again as it has chosen a person who is tainted.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was in Patiala to campaign in favour of party candidate Harpal Juneja, said: “It is shocking but true that the sand mafia has even prevailed over the Congress high command and foisted its candidate on the party. However, the people will see through this move to strengthen loot and corruption in Punjab. They will definitely give a befitting response to the Congress on February 20.”Union Minister for Jal Shakti and BJP incharge for Punjab, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said: “The Congress is in a state of ruins owing to misgovernance, rampant corruption and internal squabbling and not even a miracle can save it now.Gajendra Shekhawat, Union MinisterCongress is doomedThe Congress is doomed beyond redemption and announcing someone as the CM face can never redeem the fate of the party.“The Congress is doomed beyond redemption and announcing someone as the CM face can never redeem the fate of the party,” he said, while adding, the infighting in the party will further intensify after today’s announcement.He said “nominating one person as the CM face is not going to wash off the party’s sins of omission and commission during all these years”.AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann said the Congress' decision had proved they wanted to rob Punjab again as they had chosen a person who’s personality is stained. “It is inexplicable how the Congress is claiming Channi a poor Chief Minister, whose relatives drove the luxury cars and are caught with piles of money belonging to mafia and transfer-posting," said Mann.The AAP leader said Congress and its leaders had always used poor people and Dalits for their vote bank but never thought about their upliftment. Taking a jibe on Channi's statement that he will not own any property in his name and his wife, Mann said by giving everything to his sons and nephews, Channi couldn't mislead the people of Punjab, who will see right through his lies. #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-change-fortunes-opposition-367620
07-02-2022||Nitin Jain & Manav Mander||Will return to power with big majority: Charanjit Singh Channi||Ludhiana, February 6Exuding confidence after being announced the Congress CM candidate, Charanjit Singh Channi today claimed the party would return to power with a thumping majority.Talking to The Tribune, Channi, 58, who replaced Capt Amarinder Singh as CM in September last, said: “I will not accumulate any property or run business in my or my wife’s name in future. You have seen us work hard in the last 111 days. I assure you to take Punjab and Punjabis on the path of progress with new zeal and dedication… This is a big battle which I can’t fight alone. I don’t have the money, courage to fight this battle. The people of Punjab will fight it and I will be the medium.”Done no wrongMy political career is blot-free. I have done no wrong in my entire life... I will not accumulate any property or run business in my or my wife’s name in future. Charanjit Singh Channi, CMTerming the allegations of his involvement in sand mining and other wrongdoings through his nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey “false and baseless”, the state’s first Dalit CM said: “My political career is blot-free. I have done no wrong in my entire political career. My predecessor (Capt Amarinder) initiated various inquiries against me for four years, but nothing was found against me.” He blamed the AAP for propaganda and alleged all his opponents had joined hands to tarnish his image.Earlier, no sooner had Rahul Gandhi made the announcement, Channi, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu and state campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar immediately got up from their seats and raised their hands together to welcome the decision. Sidhu hailed Rahul, saying only he could have made a Dalit as CM of Punjab. During Sidhu’s speech, Channi got up and embraced him, putting to rest reports of differences between them.Campaign song outHours after being declared the CM face, Channi released his campaign song ‘Sada Channi, Sada CM’. The video song enlists decisions taken by him as CM. Channi not only got over 75% votes in his favour, but also got overwhelming support from most of the party candidates, including Sidhu loyalists. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-return-to-power-with-big-majority-charanjit-singh-channi-367619
