08-02-2022||Kapurthala||AAP woman activist attempts suicide in protest against Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh||An Aam Aadmi Party woman activist Tuesday allegedly tried to commit suicide by pouring acid on herself, accusing Punjab Technical Education Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh of having her beaten up for hurling a shoe at his poster last November.Identified as Sushma Anand, the 55-year-old Kapurthala resident poured acid on herself during an AAP demonstration on the Kapurthala-Sultanpurlodhi road before the Sadar police station.Following the incident, she was rushed to the local civil hospital by police and her condition was described as “safe” by Dr Arsh treating her.In her statement to the police, she said she took the extreme step because the police did not lodge a complaint against her assailants, the minister’s men and Congress leaders, who beat her up at the behest of the minister after she threw the shoe at his poster.She doused herself with the acid amid an AAP workers’ demonstration in protest against the arrest of two party workers who were pasting posters earlier during the day.During the demonstration, AAP’s Kapurthala candidate Manju Rana, a retired additional district and sessions judge, lay flat on the road along with party workers in protest against the arrest of the two workers under the alleged pressure of the Congress sitting MLA Gurjit Singh.They were demanding the transfer of the entire police team and district administration staff, alleging they were working under political pressure.Kapurthala Superintendent of Police Jagjit Singh Soraya later said the police freed one AAP worker but arrested the second one as he was a proclaimed offender in a criminal case registered in 2017.Manju Rana lifted dharna after seven hours following an assurance by Kapurthala returning officer-cum-SDM Jai Inder Singh to take action on her complaint against city DSP, city SHO and ‘munshi’ (writing constable) of the Sadar police station for allegedly working under political pressure. —  #rana gurjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-woman-activist-attempts-suicide-in-protest-against-punjab-minister-rana-gurjeet-singh-368178
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s wife Navjot questions Punjab CM Channi’s humble background image, says Rahul was ‘misled’||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur on Tuesday tore into Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s humble background image, saying party leader Rahul Gandhi was “misled” to consider him as poor.AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann too questioned separately Gandhi’s description of Channi as belonging to “gareeb ghar”, asking “from which angle, is he poor”.With the Congress picking up Channi over Sidhu as party’s CM face for the February 20 polls, Kaur said irrespective of the fact that the cricketer-turned-politician was her husband, he would have been a better choice and would have transformed Punjab within six months.While Bhagwant Mann was speaking to reporters in Bathinda, Kaur was interacting with the media in Amritsar.Rahul Gandhi had on Sunday declared Charanjit Singh Channi as his party’s chief ministerial face for the high-stake Punjab assembly polls, a recognition that was also coveted by Navjot Singh Sidhu.Before declaring Channi’s name, Gandhi had said, “People of Punjab said we need a chief minister who is from a ‘gareeb ghar’ (humble family), who understands poverty and hunger. It was a tough decision, you (people) made it easy.”Notably, even Channi during his poll campaigning often refers to his humble background.When asked if Channi will connect with the poor more than Sidhu because of his humble background, Kaur quipped, “He (Channi) is richer than us, he is a very very rich man, his (IT) returns also show that. So, it is not good to label him as poor.” “He has a huge bank balance, which is more than us, and so he is not a poor person,” Kaur said.At the same time, she said money is no criteria “for putting a person at such high position”.“I think only your particulars, your merit, your education, your work, your honesty, all these things should be counted. Merit has to be counted, otherwise, the state will never prosper,” she said.When asked if Sidhu would have been a better choice, she replied, “Yes, irrespective of him being my husband. I would have never said so if he was not capable. His (Punjab) Model is so good that within six months Punjab would have been out of this (various problems).”Asked if she thinks Rahul Gandhi was misled somewhere, Kaur quipped, “Yes”.Attacking Channi, Bhagwant Mann, also the AAP’s Punjab unit president, said, “Rahul Gandhi came to Punjab two days ago and said people of Punjab need a CM who is from a gareeb ghar.”“That poor person (Channi) who is contesting on two seats from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadhaur has assets worth crores of rupees,” he added.“Maybe in eyes of Rahul Gandhi Channi is poor,” said Mann, asking “from which angle Channi is poor”.Bhagwant Mann also attacked Channi over the arrest of his nephew by the Enforcement Directorate.“The person from whose nephew’s house Rs 10 crore is seized and the CM who admits that it was his mistake that he could not keep an eye on his relatives, then how will such a person keep an eye on Punjab,” Mann asked.Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, the arrested nephew of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, has “accepted” that he received Rs 10 crore cash in lieu of facilitating sand mining operations and transfer or posting of officials in the border state, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) claimed in a statement on Monday.Honey is the son of Channi’s sister-in-law and he is in ED custody till Tuesday.Mann said Punjab needs an honest government which only AAP can give.“I have been touring Punjab and people are eagerly waiting for a change and they want to bring AAP to power,” said Mann.The ED had conducted raids against Honey and others on January 18 and seized about Rs 7.9 crore cash from his premises and another sum of about Rs 2 crore cash from a linked person identified as Sandeep Kumar.Two days ago, Channi had hit out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal, saying how can he call himself an ‘aam aadmi’ (common man) while staying in expensive hotels whenever he visits Punjab.Channi had targeted Kejriwal earlier, calling him a self-proclaimed “aam aadmi (common man) who is least bothered about the interests of commoners. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhus-wife-navjot-questions-punjab-cm-channis-humble-background-image-says-rahul-was-misled-368161
08-02-2022||---||Maj Gen Chhibber takes over as NCC Additional Director General||Chandigarh, February 8Major General Rajiv Chhibber took over as the 9th Additional Director General of the National Cadet Corps’ Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh Directorate here on Tuesday.In his 33 years of service, he has held prestigious command and staff assignments, including a foreign tenure as adviser to Commander, Botswana Defence Forces, where he ensured military training on the Indian pattern, thus negating the influence of other Asian countries.Besides commanding an infantry battalion in Jammu and Kashmir and an Assam Rifles sector in the north-east, Gen Chhibber has held critical assignments at division, corps and Army Headquarters level. A veteran of the 1999 Kargil conflict, he was awarded the Sena Medal for controlling insurgency and trans-border trafficking in the northeast.The Chandigarh-based Directorate comprises eight Group Headquarters located in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, covering 56 districts and imparts training to almost 1.5 lakh cadets in 2,000 colleges and schools. #ncc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/maj-gen-chhibber-takes-over-as-ncc-additional-director-general-368152
08-02-2022||New Delhi||ED custody of Punjab CM Channi's nephew Honey extended till Feb 11||A Special Court in Jalandhar on Tuesday extended the ED custody of Bhupinder Singh Honey – nephew of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi arrested in a money laundering case, till February 11, officials said.Honey was presented in the court after his ED custody expired on Tuesday. The prosecution moved a plea before the court seeking more custody.He was arrested in a money laundering case pertaining to illegal mining in Punjab.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) told the court that Honey was required to be questioned more.On the other hand, the counsel appearing for Honey opposed the prosecution's move, saying there was no need for more custodial remand.Honey was arrested by the ED during the intervening night of February 3 and 4 which later got his custody till February 8.Sources have claimed since Honey was close to Chhani, he was using the political connection to earn huge profit.According to ED documents accessed by IANS, Honey has confessed that it the Rs 10 crore case recovered by the ED during raids belonged to him.ED has alleged that he was getting money from illegal mining too.On January 18, ED had conducted raids at ten different locations including Homeland Heights which is the residence of Honey. IANS #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-custody-of-punjab-cm-channis-nephew-honey-extended-till-feb-11-368145
08-02-2022||Nikhil BhardwajLudhiana||Lok Insaf Party MLA Simarjit Bains arrested for Monday’s clash in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police on Tuesday arrested the Lok Insaf Party MLA from Atam Nagar, Simarjit Singh Bains.He was arrested for Monday’s clash at Gill market, Shimlapuri, in which Congress workers supporting the party candidate from Atam Nagar constituency were attacked allegedly by the LIP workers.Bains, his son, and 32 others were booked on charges of attempt to murder and other sections after the incident.In the incident, Toyota Fortuner of Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal was badly damaged, allegedly by the LIP workers. Even bullets were allegedly fired in the air.Bains on Tuesday had gone to attend a meeting called by the lawyers at lawyers’ chamber in the court complex.When the meeting was going on, police officials entered the meeting room but when lawyers objected to the arrest of Bains from the complex, police covered all exit points of the court. When Bains along with his supporters came out, he was arrested.LIP workers tried to stop the police vehicle in which Bains was taken from the court complex but after a few minutes of protest, the police managed to take the MLA along.A case under Sections 307, 427, 148, 149, 506 and 188 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, and Section 127 of the Representation of People's Act was registered against Bains and 33 others.Cop suspendedA policeman was suspended over the incident.A press note from Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said Shimlapuri Station House Officer Sub-Inspector Labh Singh was suspended with immediate effect and will face a departmental inquiry over the incident. #PunjabElections2022 #SimarjitSinghBains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-insaf-party-mla-simarjit-bains-arrested-for-mondays-clash-in-ludhiana-368130
08-02-2022||Nitin Jain||Indiscipline is intolerable but we're flexible: Rahul Gandhi||Ludhiana, February 7“Indiscipline is intolerable but we are flexible,” the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said.In an exclusive chat with The Tribune after announcing the incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi as the ruling party’s chief ministerial candidate for the February 20 high-stakes Punjab Assembly polls in Ludhiana on Sunday evening, he admitted that some leaders in the Congress sometimes exceed their limits while speaking on public forums, which is considered as indiscipline.“There should be discipline in the party and indiscipline should not be tolerated at any cost but we are flexible enough to hear all what our leaders have to say,” Rahul said, adding, “We accept all such comments and statements made by our leaders that are considered indiscipline only because we believe in democracy and want to hear all voices no matter how positive or negative they are as we don’t believe in one-man rule or dictatorship.”Calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as “rajas” (kings), who, he said, are acting as “dictators” and are one-man rulers for their parties, Rahul said, “No country or state can be ruled like this…there are different voices and opinions of different people in the same party and even in the family, which we need to respect and hear all of them to make a collective decision instead of imposing what a king or a ruler has said, which is considered irreversible or writing on the wall in the BJP and other parties, but the Congress is an exception.”Endorsing Channi as CM face and reiterating that it was a collective decision taken by the state’s people and the party’s leaders but not him, the Congress leader said, “We have given a new vision and roadmap for the betterment of Punjab and welfare of its people.”Rahul vowed to provide power, water, road, food, clothing and housing for all in Punjab under the chief ministership of Channi and collective leadership of Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar and other leaders, who, he claimed, will drive together to take the border state to new heights.“I have known Sidhu for four decades, Jakhar, Ravneet Bittu and other state leaders for long as well…they all are competent and experienced, many of whom I have seen rising, but the people of Punjab chose a poor Dalit man Channi as their leader,” he said, while trying to dissuade the palpable uneasiness among Channi’s contemporaries, who could not make it to the choice for CM face.Exuding confidence that all, especially Sidhu, will work as a cohesive force to retain Punjab, Rahul said, “Since Channi is Punjab’s choice, the Congress will return to power with an unprecedented majority.”“While the CM remains leader of the House, the party president has a major role to play as a leader among the masses,” Rahul Gandhi added, while striking a balance between the two leaders. #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/indiscipline-is-intolerable-but-were-flexible-rahul-368024
08-02-2022||---||Chinese string leaves four injured in a week in Jalandhar city||Jalandhar, February 7Four persons, including a school student, suffered serious injuries due to Chinese string used by kite flyers in the past one week in the city.Ram Prakash Gandhi, a resident of Krishna Nagar, said he suffered grievous injuries after the killer Chinese string got stuck around his leg when he was going to his office on his scooter.He said he was immediately rushed to hospital as the cut was severe. Another victim Ravi Jain, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, said he suffered minor injuries on his nose and neck when he was going to the industrial area. He said his alertness saved him as he immediately took a turn seeing the string attached to the kite coming towards him.Similarly, a student, Pawanpreet Singh, and Kavita Sharma received injuries on their hand and face, respectively, while they were standing on the terrace of the house on the day of Basant Panchami.Meanwhile, ADCP Suhail Mir said Jalandhar police had already launched a drive to confiscate the Chinese string and been taking strict action against the sellers of the banned string. He said a case had been registered against an unscrupulous seller. Besides, the drive would continue to protect people from the lethal Chinese kite flying threads. He also requested the residents to cooperate with the police and not to buy the Chinese string. #chinese string #kites||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chinese-string-leaves-four-injured-in-a-week-367977
08-02-2022||GS Paul||Day on, Navjot Sidhu back on crease||Amritsar, February 7Day after losing out to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on being the chief ministerial face, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today canvassed in his Amritsar East constituency, where he said his “Punjab model” would be implemented by the CM.Not after postThe main focus is to transform Punjab. It is not necessary to have a post. It was high command’s prerogative to take a call. What has been decided is acceptable. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefWhile going door to door in the constituency, from where the PCC chief is seeking a re-election, Sidhu said he had never run after “nakad Narayan” (money) or “ahuda Narayan” (plum position), but committed for “jagat Narayan” (service to masses).“The main focus is to transform Punjab. It is not necessary to have a ‘post’ for this purpose. It was the prerogative of the high command (Congress) to take a call on it (decision on CM face). What has been decided is acceptable. I have been with the high command from day one, yet I am concerned more for the welfare of Punjab. My fight for ‘haq ate sach di ladai’ (fight for truth and rights) over policies and accountability to bring change to the lives of the people will continue,” he said.He said he had handed over the “Punjab model” to his party and the leadership was free to adopt it. He said he had no “copyright” over the model as it belonged to the entire state, adding he would make it public shortly and post it on his Facebook page too.“Anyone can take up good points from it, I’ve no objection. I’ve already handed it over to the party. Now Channi sahib has the power to implement it,” he said. Asked about Opposition’s remarks over the party’s choice of CM face, keeping in view the alleged involvement of Channi’s nephew in sand mining, Sidhu quipped: “Kuch to log kahenge, logon ka kaam hai kehna.”Launching an attack on the SAD, he said: “Our fight is only with the AAP, not the SAD, which had pledged the state for vested interests. We aim to target the ‘jhota’ (referring to the Badals), not the ‘chichar’ (worms),” he said.LEADERSPEAKCongress encouraging corruptionThe Congress high command and Rahul Gandhi have put their stamp of approval on the corrupt activities of Charanjit Singh Channi by declaring him as the party’s chief ministerial face in the elections. — Harsimrat Kaur Badal, SAD leaderPOLL NUGGETSCPI leader ‘assaulted’ during campaignFazilka: CPI district secretary Hans Raj Golden on Monday alleged that he was assaulted by supporters of a proclaimed offender, Aman Kamboj Skoda, at Bandiwala village in Jalalabad when he was campaigning in favour Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) candidate Surinder Singh Dhandian. He said he had also filed a complaint at Chack Vairoke police station in Fazilka district. He claimed he had already informed the Election Commission about the apprehension of assault. OCBJP divisive, anti-poor, claims CongressMoga: Veteran actor and Congress leader Baldev Khosa has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being “anti-poor” with the lone agenda of “dividing” the country on communal lines. He said agencies, such as the Enforcement Directorate, had become tools in the hands of the Central government to harass Opposition leaders. Khosa, while campaigning for party candidate Malvika Sood, accused the BJP-led Centre of supporting industrialists and ignoring the common man. TNSFacility for voters with special needsChandigarh: In order to make the polls accessible for persons with disabilities (PwDs), Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju on Monday organised a webinar on sensitisation and training of poll volunteers for facilitation of PwD voters. There are 1,58,341 PwD voters in the state. Additional CEO DPS Kharbanda said: “We will ensure transport facility to the PwDs on February 20, besides ensuring priority access to them.” He said every polling booth would have at least one wheelchair and 10 volunteers would be deployed at each booth for assisting the PwDs. TNS #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-sidhu-back-on-crease-367909
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Opposition sharpens attack on Navjot Singh Sidhu||Day after Navjot Singh Sidhu was pushed out of the race for the CM face, Opposition parties sharpened their attack on the PCC chief even as no senior Congress leader is rallying behind him. On the other hand, former AAP MP Dharamvira Gandhi has come out in Sidhu’s support.Name ministers running mafiaSidhu claims to be anti-mafia. I challenge him to make public the names of Congress ministers who have been patronising and running the mafia in Punjab. — Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP LeaderTaking a jibe at Sidhu, Capt Amarinder Singh-led PLC used hashtag ‘CurtainsForSidhu’ on its Twitter handle and shared a picture of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Sidhu, CM Charanjit Channi and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar holding each other’s hands in the air with Sidhu’s face covered by his shawl. “A picture is worth a thousand words,” said the PLC in a tweet.Party insiders say knowing his vulnerability after not being considered for the CM face, the Opposition BJP, Punjab Lok Congress and SAD will target Sidhu. Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has in the past stated he will ensure Sidhu does not win. Though Sidhu has been saying his “Punjab model” will be implemented by CM Channi and that he will abide by the party decision, all eyes are now on his next political move.Rahul, in his one-on-one meeting with Sidhu, appears to have prevailed upon the PCC chief. Sources in the party say Sidhu’s assertion that he is not after any position comes after an assurance of a key role to him if the party retains power in the state. Besides meeting Sidhu, Rahul also met Channi and minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu separately. — #capt amarinder singh #dharamvira gandhi #harpal cheema #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-sharpens-attack-on-pcc-chief-367910
08-02-2022||---||Sunil Jakhar: Out of active politics, not Congress||Chandigarh, February 7Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar has said he has quit electoral politics but will continue to remain with the party. “I am out of active politics as I am not contesting the Assembly polls. But I am very much part and parcel of the Congress,” Jakhar said.Replying to a query on whether he would continue to be in politics, he said he had decided to quit active politics over “unsavoury politics” by certain top leaders on the basis of caste and religion. A few days ago, Jakhar had claimed 42 MLAs wanted him to be the chief minister after the exit of Capt Amarinder Singh.Jakhar was among the frontrunners for the top post, but the party preferred Charanjit Singh Channi, who became the first Dalit CM of the state. Jakhar’s nephew Sandeep Jakhar is contesting elections as a Congress candidate from the Abohar seat. #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jakhar-out-of-active-politics-not-congress-367911
08-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa banks on 'good work' to carry him through||Dharowali (Gurdaspur), Feb 7In this seat named after the first Sikh Guru, there is a saying that “Randhawa is the Congress and Congress is Randhawa.” The maxim seems to be true as there is no Congressman worth Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s salt who can match his political stature.His native Dharowali village is commonly referred to as “Santokh da pind”, an obvious reference to his father Santokh Singh Randhawa.The moment Sukhjinder steps out of his ancestral home, half a dozen commandos carrying semi-automatic guns encircle him. Not a fly can go near the man. That is till he himself breaks free of the cordon and starts meeting people. Even as he is discussing the day’s plan, a middle-aged woman walks towards him and seeks money for “extending her help during electioneering”. A composed Randhawa asks her as to why she makes her presence felt only during elections.“I am no longer your benefactor. Go to Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa who is your latest mentor,” says Sukhjinder as the woman is shooed away by the security. Randhawa may no longer be her benefactor but for many he still is.In the run up to the construction of the Kartarpur corridor, which is barely 4 km away, the Punjab Government released a grant of 172 crore to beautify the area. The corridor actually came as a blessing in disguise for Sukhjinder. He launched several developmental projects with the money. He hopes the voters will remember how the corridor indirectly has changed their lives.He tells with pride how he brought the world-class sugarcane institute to Kalanaur. He also informs you that he has improved the infrastructure of the Dera Baba Nanak Civil Hospital and also of the 15 odd dispensaries of his seat.As a parting shot, he reminds you that the Lachhman Singh Dharowali degree college was established in Kalanaur due to his “untiring efforts”. He, however, laments that his pet project — a sports school — could not see the light of the day. “There is always a tomorrow,” he quips. #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/randhawa-banks-on-good-work-to-carry-him-through-367912
08-02-2022||Anandpur Sahib/una||Jobs, education, health top priorities: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi||Day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi announced Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s chief ministerial face, the latter paid obeisance at Takth Sri Kesgarh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib and Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib at Chamkaur Sahib.Channi visited the gurdwaras after paying obeisance at Naina Devi temple in Himachal Pradesh. The Chief Minister also paid obeisance at the Baba Bal Ashram in Kotla Kalan village, near Una, and met Sikh spiritual leader Baba Sarabjot Singh Bedi at Qila Baba Bedi.In Anandpur Sahib, accompanied by sitting MLA and Congress candidate Rana KP Singh, the Chief Minister said the party would get absolute majority in the elections. He said the next Congress government would develop Anandpur Sahib as a IT hub. At Chamkaur Sahib, he said education and health facilities along with generating new employment opportunities would be their top priorities.In Una, CM Channi visited Baba Bal Ashram, which has a considerable following in adjoining areas of Punjab. Channi also paid obeisance at the gurdwara located in the Qila Baba Bedi. Interacting with mediapersons, the Chief Minister promised free education and health facilities to people if voted back to power.Channi said the party high command had reposed faith in him and he was certain of party’s victory. He said both Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and him were working in tandem to ensure party’s success at the hustings. He said there was no substantial opposition to the Congress from any other political party. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobs-education-health-top-priorities-cm-367913
08-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Caste pot stirred in poll-bound Punjab||Chandigarh, February 7It has taken 40 years since the first movement to consolidate the largest population group in Punjab — the Dalits — to come out of the shadows of the dominant Sikh and Hindu upper castes and be handed over the reins of a ruling party to lead it into a multi-cornered election.Not homogeneous group in stateDalit doesn’t exist as homogeneous category in Punjab. Thus, caste will not be sole criterion for making a choice for them in these elections. — Dr Pramod Kumar, Director, IDCAcceptance in upper castesEven upper castes have accepted Channi’s leadership, especially after his counter-offensive against PM Modi, post his Ferozepur rally debacle. — Des Raj Kali, AAP LeaderThe enthusiasm of a Dalit face being selected to lead the Congress is palpable in Doaba, even as it has had some impact in Malwa and Majha. This is because for the first time since 1981, the caste pot has been stirred in the state and attempt to consolidate the 39 sub-castes of Dalits is being made.It was in December 1981 that DS4 — Dalit Shoshit Samaj Sangharsh Samiti — was formed. Its founder Kanshi Ram is widely quoted as saying DS4’s objective is to organise Bahujan voters and prepare them for politics so that they can take up leadership roles. The DS4 later became a parent party for the BSP, but it took 15 years for the party to taste power, when in 1996, three of its representatives were elected as MPs.But its political fortunes in Punjab never paralleled. The reason, say political observers, was the BSP increasingly became representative of just one group of Dalits — the Ravidassias (Charanjit Singh Channi too is from the same caste) — while other major groups — Mazhabis (30% of Dalits), Ad Dharmis (11%), Valmikis (10%), Rai Sikhs (6%) and remaining 19% of other sub-castes were left out. As a result, the consolidation never happened and the Dalit vote bank was often split. “Even this time, it will only be a consolidation of Ravidassia/Ramdassia votes. This is because Dalit as a homogeneous category does not exist in Punjab,” reasons Dr Pramod Kumar, director, Institute of Development and Communication.This, however, is denied by writer Des Raj Kali, who has been chronicling the Dalit movement in Punjab. “Even the upper castes have accepted his leadership, especially after his counter-offensive against PM Modi, post his Ferozepur rally debacle.”The voting pattern of the Dalits in the past four elections — two each General and Assembly since 2014 — based on the data by a Delhi-based research group from select districts of Doaba and Puadh shows Hindu Dalits have always preferred the Congress (58% preferred in 2019), while Sikh Dalits have remained almost equally split between the Congress and Akali-BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caste-pot-stirred-in-poll-bound-state-367914
08-02-2022||Ludhiana/Fatehgarh Sahib||Sukhbir Badal trains guns on CM Charanjit Channi over 'mafia'||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was the kingpin of sand mafia and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was the biggest liar who sold the ticket.Kejri sold ticketKejriwal talks about giving ticket to the common man, but sold them to 65 defectors. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentAddressing public gatherings in Ludhiana North, he said a CM whose nephew possessed Rs 10 crore in cash, gold and ill-gotten property papers of Rs 56 crore, could not be called poor or a common man by any yardstick.He said Channi had not only betrayed Punjabis but even the Scheduled Caste community as well as weaker sections of society. “Channi was a Cabinet Minister for nearly five years before becoming the Chief Minister. However, he did not raise voice to protect the interest of 4.5 lakh SC students whose scholarship money was embezzled.” — #charanjit channi #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-trains-guns-on-cm-over-mafia-367915
08-02-2022||---||CPM: Take action against parties naming CM face ahead of Punjab Assembly elections||Ropar, February 7CPM state secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon has termed the announcement of chief ministerial face by political parties ahead of the Assembly elections as unconstitutional. Sekhon said the Constitution did not allow direct election of a Chief Minister, adding capitalist parties were hand in glove with each other and wanted to divert the attention from real issues concerning the common man.The CPM leader urged the Election Commission to take cognisance of this and take action against the parties concerned. The party is contesting on 14 seats and supporting Independent candidates from Ropar Bachittar Singh Jatana and Angad Saini from Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cpm-take-action-against-parties-naming-cm-face-367916
08-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Bhagwant Mann outsider, voters won't be fooled: Congress MLA Goldy||Dhuri, February 7With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) raising the stakes in Dhuri by fielding CM face and MP Bhagwant Mann, local Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy has been keeping his cool and countering Mann and other candidates on all points being raised against him.Prove seriousness, resign as MPIf Mann wants to serve my area, he should first prove his seriousness by resigning as the MP. However, he won’t do so as he knows that he will face defeat in Dhuri because voters have seen through his false claims. — Dalvir Singh Goldy, Congress MLA“Even after winning the parliamentary polls twice, Mann has done nothing for Sangrur and now he has come to fool Dhuri voters,” says Goldy, addressing Balian villagers.Since he has been active in the area even before being elected as the MLA, Goldy has a direct connect with the elderly, youngsters and other voters of his constituency. He knows most of his voters by name and even their family history.“I feel great when you call me Goldy and not Dalvir because I am your son and brother. You all are my family and that is why I approach you bare feet. But what can you expect from Mann, who does not even alight from his vehicle. Next time when he comes to our village, ask him whether he has given grant to any school or hospital and also take the details because a majority of his claims are false as he has done nothing for this constituency,” he adds.On Monday, while visiting various villages, including Kumbhadwal, Dhandiwal, Rangiya, Sultanpur, Alaal, Mullowal and Rajomajra. In each village, Goldy challenges the AAP candidate to an open debate on development.“If Mann has the guts, he should sit with me for an open debate. I challenge him to pick a time and place of his choice and come prepared with the details of the development that he has carried out in the area. I will share mine. Why is Mann not responding to my challenge?” the Congress MLA asks.There are a total of 74 villages with Dhuri city being the only urban area in the constituency. Farmers’ issues and lack of development are the main electoral agendas in this rural constituency. There are a total of 1,64,322 voters here of which 86,593 are male, 77,721 female and the remaining eight are third gender.Apart from sharing the details of development works, including the upgrade of schools and construction of sports grounds among others, Goldy also stresses on raising a chorus of ‘Dhuri da putt’ (son of Dhuri) versus outsiders.“Mann is from Satauj village of the Dirba constituency, SAD-BSP candidate Parkash Chand Garg belongs to Bhawanigarh while BJP’s Randeep Singh Deol to the Sangrur segment. I am the only one who belongs toPunnawal village and is residing in Dhuri along with my family. Beware of outsiders, who will never come to you again after the elections,” Goldy concludes. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-outsider-voters-wont-be-fooled-367917
08-02-2022||Archit Watts||In Lambi, Bhagwant Mann asks locals to end dynastic politics||Lambi (Muktsar), February 7AAP’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann today appealed to the voters to end the political career of the Badals by exercising their franchise in favour of the AAP candidate from Lambi, Gurmeet Singh Khudian, on February 20.Time to oust BadalsBadals claim that Lambi is their traditional constituency. You have the opportunity to end their dynastic politics. Earlier, Sangrur voters have shown their power to the Dhindsa family. — Bhagwant Mann, Aap CM candidate“The Badals claim that Lambi is their traditional constituency. You have the opportunity to end their dynastic politics. Earlier, Sangrur residents have shown their power to the Dhindsa family, which claimed that it was their traditional constituency,” said Mann, while addressing the public during his roadshow in different villages here.He further said: “The 94-year-old Badal is still contesting the election and not ready to sit at home. He himself needs the help of four people to get on stage. At this age, people pray and stay home with their families, but Badal is begging votes just because of his son Sukhbir. He should give a chance to younger people or his workers, but now you will have to give them a chance by defeating Badal. If you want good hospitals, schools, employment, end of drugs menace and mining mafia, then elect honest people. The other political parties may try to lure you, but don’t fall in their trap.”The state AAP president further targeted Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for the alleged involvement of his close relative in corrupt practices. He further said the broom symbol’s button on the EVM would change the fate of the public for the coming 30-40 years.Later, he took out a roadshow in Malout town and some villages. Thereafter, he campaigned in the Gidderbaha Assembly segment, said, “You people better understand how to change the system. Now, it’s the time to bring real change in the system by bringing AAP to power in the state.” #bhagwant mann #Lambi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-lambi-state-aap-prez-asks-locals-to-end-dynastic-politics-367919
08-02-2022||Kotkapura (Faridkot)||Congress willfully didn't act against Bargari sacrilege culprits: Bhagwant Mann||The AAP today accused the Congress of deliberately not taking any action against the culprits of Bargari sacrilege incidents and Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing.Party’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann said: “The Congress’ purpose was only to take the political advantage of it. The Congress and Badal family have colluded and the victims didn’t get justice.”Mann said if the perpetrators of the previous sacrilege incidents had been punished severely, no one would have dared to commit such a crime again. He further said the law and order in Punjab had deteriorated under the weak Channi government.Campaigning for AAP’s Kotkapura candidate Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Mann said both the Akali and Congress had betrayed the people of Punjab. “For two decades, the youth had been protesting for employment. But, Akali and Congress leaders were busy amassing money and property for themselves.”  #Bargari #behbal kalan #bhagwant mann #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-willfully-didnt-act-against-sacrilege-culprits-367920
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Actors Mahie Gill, Hobby Dhaliwal in BJP fold||Bollywood actress Mahie Gill and veteran Punjabi actor Hobby Dhaliwal today joined the BJP in the presence of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Minister and Punjab BJP incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.At a separate fucntion, Amarjit Singh Tikka and Sukhwinder Singh Bindra of the Congress joined the BJP. Another prominent Congress leader Daaman Bajwa, national secretary of the Indian Youth Congress, who has been active in the student and youth wing of the party earlier, also joined the BJP.While Tikka was the chairman of the Punjab Medium Industry Development Board, Bindra was heading the Punjab Youth Development Board and Bajwa is a youth leader from Sunam, who earlier served as the state president of the NSUI.Capt Gurjinder Singh Sidhu, president, ex-servicemen wing of the SAD, Jagdeep Badal, grandson of veteran Akali leader Gurdev Singh Badal, and Nishan Singh, president of the Sunam Nagar Council among others also joined the BJP today.Welcoming the actors into the party fold, Khattar said there was a strong BJP wave building up in Punjab and the party was set to form the government here. He said with popular artistes and young leaders were joining the BJP as they were fed up with other political parties. Talking to the media, Gill said: “I’ve always felt that my home was calling me back. I want to serve it and didn’t find any better party than the BJP.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actors-mahie-gill-hobby-in-bjp-fold-367921
08-02-2022||Amritsar||SGPC questions parole to Gurmeet Ram Rahim||The SGPC has strongly objected to the Haryana Government’s decision of granting a 21-day furlough to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.Also read: Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim gets furlough ahead of Punjab electionsDera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim will have to surrender on February 27Undergoing imprisonment in murder and rape cases, Sirsa dera head was released on parole from Sunaria jail in Rohtak today. The 21-day furlough (February 7 to 27) comes barely 13 days ahead of the voting for the Assembly poll.SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “The decision is detrimental to the communal harmony of Punjab and it should be revoked immediately.” He said the dera head had been serving sentence on serious charges. “Ram Rahim was directly linked to the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari in 2015."Dhami said the BJP was not shying away from spoiling the atmosphere of the country, especially Punjab, for gaining political advantage in the Assemby poll.Dhami said, “Many Sikh political prisoners have been languishing in jails, despite completing their sentence. What is the need to release dera Sirsa chief when Punjab heads to poll? It is being done by the BJP to garner votes in Punjab little realising that it can vitiate peace.” #dera sacha sauda #harjinder singh dhami #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-questions-parole-to-sirsa-dera-chief-367922
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||EC urged to review curbs on big rallies||Farmers’ political outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) will release its manifesto on Tuesday. Senior morcha leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, would release the manifesto, said Prof Manjit Singh, chief spokesperson.He said the “Iqrararnama”, a promise with the people, would be different from usual manifestos. He also urged the Election Commission to review the curbs imposed on holding big rallies in the state. He said the EC team should review the situation on a daily basis and not weekly, as was being done now, since new parties were adversely affected by these decisions.The restrictions imposed on roadshows, bike and car rallies should be done away with. “When the universities and colleges have been opened, there’s no logic behind imposing curbs on holding public rallies and roadshows,” Rajewal said. — #balbir singh rajewal #sanyukt samaj morcha #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-urged-to-review-curbs-on-big-rallies-367923
08-02-2022||Aman Sood||Pitted against runners-up, tough fight for Sadhu Singh Dharamsot||Nabha, February 7A cracker of a contest is expected in the Nabha (reserved) constituency where five-time Congress MLA and former Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot faces a stiff challenge from two men eager to make a debut in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, besides anti-incumbency. The three were locked in a bitter battle in 2017 too, when Dharamsot managed to register a comfortable win.Equations changed after Capt Amarinder’s exitInterestingly, all three are outsiders but promise to serve Nabha as their home seat. In 2017, Dharamsot won the seat, defeating Gurdev Singh Dev Mann of the AAP by 18,995 votes.Though the seat is considered a Congress stronghold, situations have changed ever since former CM Capt Amarinder Singh quit the party to float his own political outfit. While the SAD-BSP has again fielded turncoat Kabir Dass, a senior deputy mayor during the previous Congress rule in Patiala, the AAP has reposed trust in Mann, son of a cycle mechanic.While the AAP nominee is be banking on anti-incumbency, Kabir Dass, a pointsman for Dera Sachkhand Ballan, is focussing on development, besides relying on the community vote bank. Dass is quite vocal about his Ravidassia background. The community has more than 35,000 votes in Nabha, while the Baazigar community represented by Dharamsot is under 6,000. “You should decide for yourself as to who should be your MLA,” he adds. He had finished a dismal third in the 2017 elections, polling 32,482 votes.“I belong to a poor family and whatever I have achieved in my life is all because of my father’s hardwork. Nabha has suffered a lot due to the Congress MLA who went on to become a Cabinet minister but did nothing for the constituency, which is still struggling with open sewerage, improper garbage disposal and clean drinking water,” Mann tells voters.In 2012, Dharamsot had defeated SAD’s Balwant Singh by 22,548 votes. In 2007, he had won from Amloh. #sadhu singh dharamsot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pitted-against-runners-up-tough-fight-for-dharamsot-367925
08-02-2022||---||Mansa residents miffed as strays cattle menace missing from party manifestos||Mansa, February 7The residents of Mansa have voiced their concern over political parties and their candidates not talking about providing a permanent solution to stray cattle menace.Irked residents said other than disrupting daily life, stray cattle have claimed numerous lives. Earlier, locals had started a protest against the administration and the government over the issue, which later spread to other parts of the state.A committee comprising activists and various non-governmental organisations (NGOs) was formed to get rid of strays.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, a member of the committee, said, “Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had announced that stray cattle menace will be resolved within three months. He had sent Cabinet minister Gurpreet Kangar to Mansa to talk to the residents. After that we called off our indefinite stir. Now, more than two years have passed, and no solution is in sight.”Another resident said, “No political party has mentioned about stray cattle menace in their manifesto. Candidates are not even discussing one of the major issues.”Mahal said, “AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann, legislators Aman Arora and principal Budh Ram had participated in a candlelight march organised for people who died in accidents due to stray cattle. Now, as voting is around the corner, nobody has shared any roadmap to provide the solution. Similarly, SAD, SSM and BJP, have maintained silence on this matter.”He added that every year many people lose their lives, but no political party was keen to address the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-residents-miffed-as-strays-missing-from-party-manifestos-367926
08-02-2022||Abohar||Painting expo brings forth history of Abohar||An exhibition titled “Timelines of Abohar” was organised recently at an open-air theatre to revisit the city’s history. “Hamaro Abohar” was the theme of the art competition, which witnessed a good number of participants.Dr Yogesh Snehi of Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) said according to the research carried out so far, Abohar was a city of migrants. Historians discussed about the visits of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Lala Lajpat Rai, during the freedom struggle to Abohar, he said.Initially, Bhatti Rajputs settled in Abohar. Later, the Muslim community also settled here on a large scale, but migrated during Partition in 1947. The tourists had discussed about natural beauty of Abohar, due to which it was called “Abha Nagri”.MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said more such exhibitions would be organised.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/painting-expo-brings-forth-history-of-abohar-367927
08-02-2022||Moga||Over 1K litres of  lahan seized, three nabbed||The police have busted an illicit liquor manufacturing unit and recovered at least 1,000 litres of lahan at Melak Akalia village located on the Sutlej basin in Dharamkot sub-division today.The accused has been identified as Balbir Singh, a resident of Sanghera village. He was involved in the business of distilling and selling illicit liquor. A case under Sections 61, 11 and 4 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused. In another incident, the police have recovered around 100 litres of lahan from Madheke village. The peddler has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Madheke.Meanwhile, cops seized 168 bottles of liquor were recovered from Jaswinder Singh, alias Gola, a resident of Baghapurana. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-1k-litres-of-lahan-seized-three-nabbed-367928
08-02-2022||Abohar||Four killed in accidents||Home for destitute womenAbohar: The Arya Mahila Propkarini Sabha has established “Samarth old-age ashram” for elderly women. Shri Balaji Manav Seva Samiti has agreed to run the ashram at old Greenland Public School complex in Nai Abadi area. OCFraud: Ex-sarpanch, GDO heldAbohar: Former sarpanch Satyapal Rahad of Ratanpura and GDO Shiv Bhagwan Kukana were held for committing a property fraud. IO Vijay Meena said on March 28, 2021, complainant Mohinder Singh told that lease of his house in Ratanpura was transferred fraudulently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-killed-in-accidents-367929
08-02-2022||---||Enforcement Directorate: Bhupinder Singh Honey accepted he got Rs 10 crore for mining operations||New Delhi, February 7The Enforcement Directorate today claimed that Bhupinder Singh Honey, the nephew of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi who is in the agency’s custody, has “accepted” that he received Rs 10 crore in cash in lieu of facilitating sand mining operations and transfers of officials in the state.Statement comes 3 days after arrest Bhupinder Singh Honey accepted that he received the seized cash for facilitating sand mining operations and transfer and postings of officials. ED statementBhupinder was arrested by the agency in Jalandhar on February 4 as part of its investigation under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a case relating to illegal sand mining operations in Punjab. He was remanded in ED custody till February 8. In an official statement, the ED said it had conducted raids against Bhupinder and others on January 18 and seized about Rs 7.9 crore cash from his premises and another Rs 2 crore from a person identified as Sandeep Kumar.The ED said it had recorded the statements of Kudratdeep Singh, Sandeep Kumar, Bhupinder and his father Santokh Singh during the searches. It was “established” that the seized Rs 10 crore “belonged to Bhupinder Singh”.In the statement, the ED claimed: “Further, Bhupinder Singh accepted that he received the seized cash in lieu of facilitation in sand mining operations and transfer/postings of officials.”It also said Bhupinder was issued summons for his personal appearance before the agency on February 3.“In response, he appeared and tendered his statement, wherein he, inter alia, stated that he was involved in mining-related activities, but took an evasive approach when confronted with incriminating data,” the statement read.Bhupinder, Kudratdeep Singh and Sandeep Kumar are stated to be the directors of a company called Providers Overseas Consultants Pvt Ltd that was raided by the ED last month in poll-bound Punjab, the agency said.The ED filed a PMLA case in November last year after taking cognisance of a Punjab Police (Rahon police station, SBS Nagar) FIR of 2018 that pressed charges under various sections of the IPC and the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) Act, 1957, to probe allegations of illegal sand mining.In this police FIR, the ED said, it was mentioned that a team comprising officials of the Mining Department, civil administration and police made a surprise check in March 2018 based on a complaint received at the Rahon police station about illegal sand mining. “Consequently, it was found that several mines were being excavated by various machines and mining was being carried out beyond the designated area,” it added.“Accordingly, several tippers/trucks, porcelain machines and JCB machines were seized by the investigating team. The seized tipper or trucks were also found to be overloaded with sand,” the ED said, quoting the FIR.As per the FIR, the ED said, apart from Malikpur, illegal mining activities were also carried out at Burjtahl Das, Barsal, Lalewal, Mandala and Khosa.What investigating agency said #bhupinder singh honey #charanjit channi #ED||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enforcement-directorate-bhupinder-singh-honey-accepted-he-got-rs-10-crore-for-mining-operations-367902
08-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||3 Canadian colleges shut, Indian students in lurch||Bathinda, February 7The closure of three Canadian colleges run by a family with a chequered history has left nearly 2,000 students, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat, in the lurch with the immigration status of at least half of them under threat.The three private colleges — Collège de comptabilité et de secrétariat du Québec, College de I’Estrie and M College in Montreal city — and a recruiting firm, all owned by the Mastantuono family, filed for creditor protection in mid-January. After spending lakhs on fee and travel, the students have lost their student status and their visa and other documents have become invalid.According to information, 1,173 students were studying in person at the three colleges in Montreal while 637 were pursuing online classes from home in Punjab and other places. They had been eagerly awaiting on-campus learning to begin to shift base to Canada. While some of the parents lost their life’s savings, others had raised loans to send their wards abroad.Talking to The Tribune, Manjot Singh of Amritsar, who was pursuing a course in network administration, said his parents had raised Rs 17.52-lakh loan for his college fee. Nisha Rani of Moga too rued that after attending online classes for 18 months and paying Rs 8.73 lakh as fee, her study visa was rejected last year.Amanpreet of Ludhiana paid Rs 8.82 lakh for a business administration course in 2020. In February 2021, she opted for an online course. Before her study permit could be approved by the Canadian federal government, her college was put under investigation over its shady recruitment practices.She decided to withdraw from the college and sought a refund, but was assured only Rs 4.29 lakh, half of what she had paid. But even that hadn’t come despite waiting for six months, she regretted.Raising the issue with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, CPI MP Binoy Viswam said the students had been forced to take collective action seeking refund of visa and tuition fee and the opportunity to complete their education.Surrey-Green Timbers MLA Rachna Singh said the Quebec government should hold an investigation and find out how the colleges got their licence. “In Canada, the federal government regulations are different while the provincial governments have their own rules. The parents too must be cautious while sending children abroad,” she said.CPI MP Binoy raises issue with JaishankarRaising the issue with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, CPI MP Binoy Viswam said the students had been forced to take collective action seeking refund of visa and tuition fee and the opportunity to complete their education. #Canada #punjab students||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/3-canadian-colleges-shut-indian-students-in-lurch-367900
08-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim gets furlough ahead  of Punjab elections||Chandigarh, February 7Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has been granted a 21-day (February 7-27) furlough to enable him to meet his family in Gurugram. He was shifted from the Sunaria jail to Gurugram under tight security this afternoon.Also read: SGPC questions parole to Gurmeet Ram RahimDera chief will have to surrender on February 27His release at a time when electioneering in Punjab is picking up is significant as deras in the state have the potential to influence polling. However, both Haryana CM ML Khattar and Dushyant Gautam, the Punjab BJP in-charge, denied any link between the sect leader’s temporary release and the Punjab elections on February 20, calling it a coincidence. But the Congress sees it as a BJP ploy to “help the SAD” in Punjab’s Malwa belt.“The furlough granted to Dera Sacha Sauda chief ahead of the elections in Punjab shows a tactical understanding between the BJP and Akalis. We are assessing the situation and will change our poll strategy accordingly,” a Congress spokesperson said. Punjab has six big deras with a sizeable following — Dera Sacha Sauda, Noormahal dera (Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan), Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Dera Sachkhand Ballan, Sant Nirankari Mission and the Namdhari dera.These deras play a decisive role in the poll outcome in 68 constituencies, at least. Dera Sacha Sauda can turn the tables in at least 27 Malwa constituencies.Sirsa dera Can turn tables in 27 seatsSangrur | Dirba | Sunam | Dhuri | Barnala | Bhadaur | Mehal Kalan | Mansa | Sardulgarh | Patiala | Rajpura | Samana | Bathinda Urban | Talwandi Sabo | Bucho | Mansa | Rampura | Bathinda Rural | Budhlada | Kotkapura | Jaito | Muktsar Patiala Rural | Gidderbaha Sanaur | Moga & Faridkot #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-dera-chief-gets-furlough-ahead-of-punjab-elections-367899
