09-02-2022||---||BJP will do much better in Punjab this time than ever, says PM Modi, silent on Ferozepur security lapse||New Delhi, February 9Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said he will not comment on the January 5 lapse in his security in Punjab and claimed that the BJP would do much better in the February 20 state elections than ever before. He termed the BJP as the most credible party in Punjab election fray.“I have maintained stoic silence on the security lapse issue. The Supreme Court is looking at the issue. The SC panel will reveal out the truth. We should wait until then,” the PM said in an interview to a news agency.Speaking to @ANI. Watch. https://t.co/z0ybGugG6V  He said since British times if anyone had done the most to honour the bravery of Sikhs it was the BJP government.“The Congress of course did nothing,” he said recalling his experience of Punjabi hospitality and how a Sikh farmer family once hosted him at their house when his vehicle broke down in the dead of the night during terrorism days.Explaining BJP’s inability to find a foothold in the state, PM Modi said, “BJP’s past strategies in Punjab were inspired by the need to maintain peace and stability here. The BJP kept Punjab above its vested interests and made compromises. We wanted peace for Punjab and were ready to pay the price. Today the BJP is the most credible party in Punjab. Stalwarts like Capt Amarinder Singh and SS Dhindsha have joined us. The BJP will do much better this time than ever in the past.”The PM said the government had ensured direct benefit transfer to Punjab’s farmers and small farmers were "singing praises of the government".“There are over 1,000 videos showing farmers surprised at receiving the cash and saying their farm is the same size and their produce is the same. Then what has changed?” said PM.He recalled his association with the Sikhs of Kuchh and how after the earthquake there he worked to restore Lakhpat Gurdwara Sahib to its original glory. “I am aware of the bravery and warmth of Punjabis. The Sikhs of Kuchh are like family to me,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/pm-modi-maintained-silence-over-ferozepur-security-breach-issue-as-sc-looking-into-matter-368474
09-02-2022||New Delhi||Congress appoints Ravneet Singh Bittu as chairman of Election Management Committee of Punjab||The Congress on Wednesday appointed party MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu as the chairman of its Election Management Committee of Punjab.The development comes days before the February 20 Punjab Assembly elections.“Congress president has approved the proposal for the appointment of Ravneet Singh Bittu as chairman of Election Management Committee of Punjab,” an official party statement said.The Congress is seeking to retain power in Punjab. It is pitted against the AAP, the SAD-BSP and the BJP that has joined hands with former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt).   #punjab polls #ravneet bittu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/congress-appoints-ravneet-singh-bittu-as-chairman-of-election-management-committee-of-punjab-368471
09-02-2022||---||Rahul insulted common man by justifying Channi’s CM candidature as vote for ‘aam aadmi’: Amarinder||Patiala, February 9Lambasting the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Akalis for sowing the seeds of caste and religious dissension in the state, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the move would backfire on these parties, who were compromising the peace and security of the border state to further their narrow political interests.In an attack on the alleged attempt by these parties to polarise the harmonious Punjab society, the former chief minister said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had started the divisive campaign by announcing a Dalit deputy CM if elected to power, triggering a mad race to follow suit. The Congress, which had fallen unthinkingly for the Akali ploy, will pay for its mistake in announcing its CM face on caste lines, he warned.“Have these parties ever thought about the consequences such divisiveness could have on a border state like ours,” asked Amarinder, adding that none of these parties will be able to reap the benefit of their separatist policies.It will be the NDA alliance that will form the government in the state, he asserted confidently, adding that the PLC-BJP-SAD Sanyukt coalition will consolidate the votes lost by these parties in the coming days.Interacting with mediapersons after a public meeting in Sanjay Colony, Patiala, the PLC chief termed as unfortunate the fact that the Punjab polity was currently revolving around casteist and religious narratives. He recalled how caste/religion was never an issue during his childhood days, but with these parties playing the caste card, Punjab was, for the first time, getting divided on such divisive lines.In any case, Channi’s anointment as chief ministerial candidate by Rahul Gandhi amounted to sheer insult for ‘aam aadmi’ (the common man), considering the crores of sand mafia money seized from his kin, said the former chief minister.Promising continuation of the development saga he had initiated in Patiala during his chief ministerial tenure, Amarinder stressed that the development of the region and the state were linked with a strong Centre-State alliance, which his party was offering in coalition with the BJP and SAD (Sanyukt). The Prime Minister had planned to announce Rs 43,000 crore worth of development projects at the Faridkot rally which the Channi led government damaged by allowing the security breach, he added.“The Prime Minister had personally told me that our alliance will transform Punjab for the better,” he said, adding that the NDA can provide a strong government necessary for development and security of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-insulted-common-man-by-justifying-channis-cm-candidature-as-vote-for-aam-aadmi-amarinder-368469
09-02-2022||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu again leaves for Mata Vaishno Devi||Amritsar, February 8Ahead of Assembly polls, the PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu again left for Mata Vaishno Devi shrine atop Trikuta hills in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir.Amid the electoral contest heating up in the state,it was Sidhu’s second visit to the Shrine within a span of one week.The officials said Sidhu would stay for the night at the shrine to participate in the morning prayers before returning to his state on Thursday.Confirming this, Jasmeet Singh Sodhi, staffer who looks after his poll schedule said, “Sidhu saheb has gone to Mata Vaishno Devi and would return the following day”.Sidhu is contesting against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia from Amritsar East which is considered to be the most hottest seat and facing tough competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-again-leaves-for-mata-vaishno-devi-368428
09-02-2022||---||Punjab polls: Congress MP ‘Dimpa's' brother joins SAD||GS PaulAmritsar, February 9Ahead of Punjab polls, the Congress suffered a jolt in Majha belt as Harpinder Singh Gill ‘Rajan’, the brother of Lok Sabha MP Khadoor Sahib Jasbir Singh Gill ‘Dimpa’ joined the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal in Amritsar.Along with him, various sarpanch, panch, block level leaders of the Congress too switched over their loyalty with the SAD.In the backdrop, MP, who had skipped Rahul Gandhi’s recent visit to the Golden Temple and other shrines in Amritsar, was dejected after the Congress had rejected a ticket for Harpinder from Khadoor Sahib Assembly constituency for the ensuing polls.Ironically, the MP had got filed nomination papers for Harpinder as ‘Congress candidate’ from Khadoor Sahib, parallel to the Congress candidate and two-time MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki on February 1, but their candidature was rejected for want of an authority letter from the party.The MP had taken to Twitter to express his disgruntlement then. “What should be done if your party ignores hard work, loyalty and honesty & prefers stacks (sic),”Earlier, Sikki whose name was on the list of AICC, had already filed his nomination papers on January 29. SAD has pitched its stalwart and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura.Interestingly, Sikki has filed his two nominations from the seat — one as an independent and the other as a Congress nominee.Party leaders, on condition of anonymity, said that the MP can cause damage to the Congress candidates from the Baba Bakala, Khadoor Sahib and Jandiala assembly constituencies where he has a substantial sway.In a clear sign of resentment, the MP, on Wednesday tweeted an advice for the people to vote for the most honest candidate irrespective of which party he or she belongs to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-congress-mp-dimpas-brother-joins-sad-368417
09-02-2022||Mumbai||Sonu Sood rescues 19-year-old accident victim in Punjab's Moga||Film actor Sonu Sood saved the life of a 19-year-old youth after the latter was involved in a serious road accident on Monday in Moga, Punjab. The accident took place at a flyover Sonu was passing through.The actor, upon seeing the state of the crashed car, stepped out and rescued the youth, who was in an unconscious condition. What made the matter tricky was that the car had a central lock. Hence, it took some time to get the victim out of the car but soon he was rushed to the nearest hospital.Every Life Counts ??@SonuSood pic.twitter.com/veu5M6fcqUThe youth received timely medical treatment at the hospital and is now doing fine. Earlier too, Sonu worked to help the country fight Covid during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-rescues-19-year-old-accident-victim-in-punjabs-moga-368413
09-02-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||LIP MLA Simarjit Bains allowed to go after 8 hours of questioning||Ludhiana, February 9Ludhiana police questioned Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains for eight hours before letting him go on Wednesday in a clash that took place at Shimlapuri on Monday.In the clash at Gill market, Shimlapuri, Congress candidate from Atam Nagar Kamaljit Singh Karwal and his supporters were attacked allegedly by the Lok Insaaf Party MLA, his son Ajaypreet Singh and 32 others.Bains was rounded up from the court complex on Tuesday by JCP rural Ravcharan Singh Brar and other cops.Bains was taken to the PAU police station where his questioning continued for over eight hours.Brar said Bains was rounded up in connection with the murder bid case registered against him after Monday's violence.During the preliminary questioning, the police came across some facts which need to be verified before putting the arrest of Bains officially."We have taken a written undertaking from Bains that he has to appear before the police whenever his presence is required in the case and let him go. We have got video evidence of the incident which needs to be verified," added Brar.Simarjit said he was taken into custody from the court complex without any evidence against him. After he satisfied the police and assured them to cooperate in the probe, they let him go, he added.Bains claimed that around 20 people named in the FIR were not even present at Gill market.Meanwhile, the election commission on the recommendation of the police commissioner has suspended Shimlapuri SHO Labh Singh for dereliction in duty. #simarjit bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lip-mla-simarjit-bains-released-after-ec-intervenes-368397
09-02-2022||Avneet Kaur||Punjab CM Channi violates EC norms in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 8Giving two hoots to the EC guidelines, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and local Congress MLAs blatantly violated norms by campaigning in the late hours and doing a roadshow on Tuesday. Administration a mute spectatorThere’s a 12-hour ban on campaigning from 8 pm to 8 am and clear-cut guidelines were issued by the EC on the same two days back. However, Channi, who was scheduled to visit Jalandhar around 4.30 pm today, reached the city at 9.05 pm, and thereafter started holding public meetings in favour of Congress candidates from all four Assembly seats – Jalandhar Cantt, West, North and Central.The Congress had announced to hold a roadshow of the CM in the city in all four Assembly segments, the permission for which was reportedly denied by the district administration. But still Channi himself chose to ride a bike through the city past 10.30 pm as a part of the roadshow. Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku rode pillion with him. Paying obeisance at Kabir Temple, he moved to Maqsudan for another rally in favour of Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry in Maqsudan.Owing to five-hour delay of programme of the CM, much confusion prevailed. Earlier in the day, Congress workers on their cars and bikes holding flags and posters kept waiting for the CM at Garha road, Cheema Chowk, Workshop Chowk and other places for several hours. There was also confusion among the party workers, as many said the CM’s visit has been cancelled, and later on with no clear information in hands, the workers returned to the meeting venues.Much behind his scheduled visit time, CM Channi’s first stopover was at a marriage palace in Rama Mandi here where he addressed the public meeting in favour of Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri. Many Congress workers, including MP Santokh Chaudhary, were present. Addressing the locals, he boasted about his work that he has done in his 111-day tenure as the CM.Channi also spoke in favour of Pargat, saying he will win from the Cantt seat with a thumping majority. He hailed Pargat for being bold and outspoken when it comes to Punjab’s development and people’s welfare. He said Pargat never hesitated to criticise his own party when people’s issues are not resolved. He said it was Pargat who first criticised former CM Capt Amarinder Singh over failing to act over sacrilege case and not fulfilling pre-poll promises. His second halt was at Guru Ravidas Dham in Bootan Mandi.As 40 per cent of the state’s Dalit population resides in Doaba region, CM’s meeting was considered crucial for the Congress candidates as Channi has been now officially announced the party’s CM face for the ensuing Assembly elections.The Congress MLAs, meanwhile, termed the decision of the party high command for naming Channi as CM candidate historic. They said Congress is the first national party ever who has given the top most position to a Dalit Sikh. “The decision will result in social justice and open new doors of empowerment for the community and other disadvantaged sections,” they added. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/channi-violates-ec-norms-368320
09-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Rana Gurjeet vs Navtej Cheema, Sukhpal Khaira getting nastier with each passing day||Kapurthala, February 8The fight between Cabinet minister and Kapurthala Congress candidate Rana Gurjeet Singh and other party MLAs of Kapurthala district is getting nastier by each day.On Tuesday as a woman attempted suicide in Kapurthala by pouring acid on herself, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema launched an attack on Rana saying; "The minister was levelling allegations of lawlessness in Sultanpur Lodhi, represented by me, whereas the reality of ground situation of high-handedness of Rana Gurjeet Singh has come known to everyone in Kapurthala just before the elections. A woman was today forced to attempt suicide as the police was not acting on her complaint against Congress leaders at the behest of Rana."Cheema went to the extent of saying: "Outsiders have come to Punjab and were using the UP-style of ruling here. People will surely give mandate against Rana and his son". The minister's son Rana Inder Partap is contesting as an Independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi against sitting Congress MLA Navtej Cheema.Cheema has the support of Bholath ex-MLA Sukhpal Khaira. Khaira had campaigned in favour of Cheema in Sultanpur Lodhi two days back wherein he had challenged Rana Gurjeet Singh saying that he too would contest against him from Kapurthala in the next elections. In response, Rana Gurjeet Singh had said: "Khaira will not even survive in politics for that long. "Khaira should better care about Bholath this time where he is certain to lose his deposit than dream of fighting against me in Kapurthala," he advised Khaira.Rana Inder Partap, who is a novice in politics, is also not mincing any words. His common narrative in his campaigns is: "I had come to Sultanpur Lodhi to get beetroot sown by the farmers, but I think I will be uprooting Cheema from here."While Rana Inder Partap has been promising that he would bring in specialists from AIIMS and other hospitals as visiting doctors for free treatment of poor patients, Cheema has begun counter questioning him. "Rana's son should first go and see the condition of THE Kapurthala Civil Hospital. The family has been representing Kapurthala since 2002 and in 20 years they have not been able to give good medical facilities here. How can they claim betterment of health facilities in Sultanpur Lodhi? It is all a farce." #ranas gurjeet singh #sukhpal khaira||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ranas-vs-cheema-khaira-getting-nastier-with-each-passing-day-368322
09-02-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court allows anticipatory bail to 3 AAP MLAs of Punjab||Chandigarh, February 8A local court has granted anticipatory bail to three MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party, Punjab, in a two-year-old case registered against them by the Chandigarh Police.Gurmeet Singh Haher, Manjit Singh and Jai Krishan Singh approached the court for pre-arrest bail through counsel Ankur Chaudhrie.The Chandigarh Police had registered a case against 10 AAP leaders, including Bhagwant Mann, Gurmeet Singh Haher, Manjit Singh and Jai Krishan Singh, for allegedly pelting the police with stones during a demonstration held opposite the MLA hostel on January 10, 2020.The police alleged that the AAP workers, instigated by the leaders, pelted them with stones when they were stopped near the MLA hostel. The leaders were going towards the official residence of the Punjab Chief Minister when they were stopped due to the imposition of Section 144. Mann has already been granted pre-arrest bail by the court. While allowing the applications, the court directed them to join the investigation within next 10 days.Ankur Chaudhrie, counsel for the AAP leaders, argued that the applicants were members of the Punjab Legislative Assembly. The present FIR is an outcome of the political vendetta of the party in power just to attach a stigma to their reputation as the elections were due in near future. The police had registered the present FIR in haste without properly verifying the facts and the allegations levelled against them were purely a work of fiction.The public prosecutor argued that the accused, along with other workers, had committed the offense of rioting, disobeying the DM’s orders and assault on public servants, which were serious in nature.After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, while allowing the applications, directed them to join the investigation before the IO/SHO concerned within 10 working days.In the event of arrest, the applicants are ordered to be released on bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs50,000 with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the SHO/arresting officer, subject to conditions that the applicants will make themselves available in the investigation/trial of the case as and when required, they will not influence the prosecution witnesses in any manner and they will not leave the country without the prior permission of the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-allows-anticipatory-bail-to-3-aap-mlas-of-punjab-368314
09-02-2022||Ferozepur||Chinese string claims life||Two held for Rs10 lakh fraudAbohar: The police have arrested two persons for fraudulently withdrawing Rs10.20 lakh from the account of an Army personnel by impersonating as bank employees. The police said Havildar Jitender of Bihar had filed a complaint against unknown persons in this regard. The accused, Rohit and Vikas Rajvanshi of Bihar, have been remanded to seven-day police custody. TNS28K sedative tablets seizedAbohar: After seizing 21,000 sedative tablets on Monday from Shubham Baghla, who runs a medicine shop in Sriganganagar's Gharsana segment, the police on Tuesday seized 7,000 intoxicating pills from his son Joginder in a raid. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered. #chinese string #kites||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chinese-string-claims-life-368242
09-02-2022||---||Don't fall prey to Arvind Kejriwal's promises, says BJP's Shazia Ilmi||Abohar, February 8Former Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) activists and leaders addressed a series of meetings in the sub-division on Monday evening.Shazia Ilmi, a founder member of the AAP, said she was relieved on quitting the party. She said she was happy that the BJP had fielded a highly educated woman, Vandana Sangwal, from the Balluana constituency.Delhi MLA Anil Vajpayee and former MLA Col Devinder Sehrawat also lashed out at Arvind Kejriwal at the meetings. “All those who trusted Kejriwal initially felt cheated later. Not only did he betray the leaders and party workers, but also left no stone unturned to deceive the people. Apart from demanding huge money from its own MLAs, the AAP had so far wasted about Rs 500 crore public money, eying Punjab polls,” they said.Shazia said Kejriwal’s bandwagon had promised state-of-the-art infrastructure in the health and education sector but in Delhi, the AAP-led government failed in providing the same in both the sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-fall-prey-to-arvind-kejriwals-promises-says-bjps-shazia-ilmi-368241
09-02-2022||---||Behbal Kalan Case: 2 ministers, 3 MLAs declared 'tankhaiya'||Amritsar, February 8Akal Takht’s ‘parallel’ acting jathedar Dhian Singh Mand today pronounced two Cabinet ministers and three MLAs ‘tankhaiyas’ (guilty of religious misconduct), holding them guilty of conspiring to distort the Bargari morcha against the sacrilege and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015.Mand condemned the erstwhile Capt Amarinder-led Congress government for not fulfilling the assurances on the basis of which the morcha was lifted that lasted for nearly six months between June 1 and December 10 in 2018.Those who have been declared ‘tankhaiya’ include Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, besides three MLAs — Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon.They were a part of a five-member panel constituted by the government to hold talks with the organisers of Bargari morcha. On behalf of the state government, they had committed to bring justice and nab those behind the sacrilege and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan.The Bargari morcha had also demanded the release of Sikh detainees languishing in various jails or their transfer to those in Punjab. #akal takht #behbal kalan #dhian singh mand #sukhjinder randhawa #tript rajinder bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-case-2-ministers-3-mlas-declared-tankhaiya-368225
09-02-2022||Bathinda||Phone, drugs recovered from inmates||The security arrangements fell flat after the police recovered narcotics, sharp-edged weapons and mobile phones, from gangsters lodged at Bathinda Central Jail during a special search operation.Bathinda SSP Amneet Kaundal said ahead of the voting on February 20, a special drive has been launched to maintain the law and order, and tighten noose around anti-social elements in the district.The SSP said eight teams conducted checking in all the security zones and barracks at 6.30 am. She said each team was supervised by the DSP. A smartphone was recovered from gangster Baljinder Singh Billa. Ganja and tobacco was recovered from gangster Kirpal Singh. Apart from this, some iron material was recovered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/phone-drugs-recovered-from-inmates-368223
09-02-2022||Jalandhar||Punjab CM nephew Bhupinder Honey's remand extended||The District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Kaur Chahal today extended the remand of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Honey for three more days (February 11).Had Channi’s supportHoney had all facilities that are available to a minister. The CM was supporting Honey in whatever he was doing. The recovered money belonged to Channi. Raghav Chadha, AAPThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials brought Honey to the court at 10.45 am and took him back around 4.30 pm. The ED officials had sought 10-day remand for Honey from the court claiming non-cooperation from his side.Honey’s case was put up before the court by ex-Advocate General (Punjab) APS Deol. His lawyer claimed that he was never booked by the Punjab Police and that he was a victim of political vendetta.The ED officials have gone on record to claim that Honey has confessed that Rs 8 crore recovered from his place had come from illegal mining and transfers of government officials.Honey was arrested on February 4 after being summoned by the ED. On February 5, the ED had got a four-day remand of Honey.The ED officials have reportedly issued summons to around ten more persons in the case. #bhupinder honey #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-nephews-remand-extended-368222
09-02-2022||---||Publish criminal record of candidates in newspapers, electronic media in time, says Punjab CEO||Chandigarh, February 8Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Dr S Karuna Raju on Tuesday reiterated that political parties and contesting candidates must not miss the deadlines to publish criminal antecedents in newspapers and electronic media fixed by the Election Commission of India.He said the deadline to publish first advertisement to declare criminal antecedents of contesting candidates in newspapers and television had expired on Tuesday.As per the directions, it is mandatory for a contesting candidate and the political party concerned to declare the criminal antecedents of the candidate in newspapers and television thrice and the first advertisement has to be published within first four days of the withdrawal of nominations.Dr Raju said as per the schedule, second advertisement could be given between fifth and eighth day of the withdrawal of nomination. While, the third advertisement could be given from ninth day till the last day of the campaign (the second day prior to date of poll), he added.The CEO said the concerned political party and candidates would have to get the declaration published in newspapers in a particular region in 12 font size at appropriate place.He said advertisements had to be appeared in at least one national daily newspaper having circulation beyond 75,000 as stated by the DAVP/Audit Bureau of Circulation in publicity available records and one local vernacular daily newspaper published within geographical territory of a state/UT, in the local vernacular language, with a circulation of at least 25,000, as stated by the DAVP/Audit Bureau of Circulation in publicity available records.The same must be telecasted for at least seven seconds in a prescribed format for TV channels to ensure the implementation of the directions in letter and spirit, he said, while adding that the publicity of information regarding criminal past of the candidates should be telecasted on TV channels from 8 am to 10 pm in local language or English.He also clarified that those candidates, who have not been either convicted or there is no pending criminal case against them need not publish such advertisements.Dr Raju also directed the District Election Officers (DEOs) and Returning Officers (ROs) to keep a watch on all political parties and candidates that they are publishing the criminal antecedents in given time period and maintain the record.Mandatory step for candidates, parties||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/publish-criminal-record-in-time-says-ceo-368221
09-02-2022||Ropar||Furlough to Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim BJP's poll ploy, say Akalis||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged that the BJP was behind the furlough given to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.At a function organised to welcome local AAP leader Jarnail Singh Aulakh into the SAD, Sukhbir said it was an election stunt. “The BJP is using all tactics to take advantage in the Assembly elections. It, however, won’t be able to get any benefit out of such conspiracies,” he added."SGPC’s double standards"Strange that SGPC questions BJP-led Hry Govt for granting furlough to dera chief, 13 days before voting. It didn’t object when Panthic Punjab Govt filed a cancellation report in a case against him for dressing up like Guru Gobind Singh, only 3 days prior to 2012 voting. -- Sunil Jakhar, former PCC ChiefReplying to a query over the announcement of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Congress CM face, he alleged that it was for the first time that the party had chosen a mafia king for this post in Punjab.Lashing out at Channi, Sukhbir alleged he had ruined Ropar by digging it’s rivers as well as hills. Though the Congress was claiming that a Dalit had been chosen for the CM post, the fact was that students from Dalit families were deprived of scholarships and their BPL cards were cancelled during the party’s regime, he alleged.Move won’t benefit saffron party: INLDAbohar: INLD leader Abhay Chautala on Tuesday said the furlough given to Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh won’t prove beneficial to the BJP. During a visit to his maternal grandparents’ house in Panjkosi village here, he said the SAD-BSP would form the next government in Punjab as people wanted a change and only this alliance could bring it. OC #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/furlough-to-sirsa-dera-chief-bjps-poll-ploy-say-akalis-368219
09-02-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Day after assault on Congress nominee, MLA Simarjit Singh Bains held||Ludhiana/Chandigarh, Feb 8Day after Congress’ Atam Nagar candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal and supporters were allegedly attacked by Lok Insaaf Party supporters in a Shimlapuri market, the police today arrested MLA Simarjit Singh Bains from the courts complex here.Conspiracy, prove chargeIt’s a conspiracy by the Ludhiana police at Congress’ behest. I challenge the Police Commissioner to resign if the murder bid charge is not proven. I vow to leave politics if it is proven. Truth will prevail. Simarjit Singh Bains, MLAAn attempt to murder case was registered against 34 persons, including Bains, his son Ajaypreet Singh Bains, at Shimlapuri police station yesterday.In the incident, bullets were allegedly fired and an SUV of the Congress candidate and a Jeep were damaged by LIP workers.Bains was taken into custody by police officials, led by Joint Commissioner of Police (Rural) Ravcharan Singh Brar, while he was attending an election meeting organised in the lawyers’ chamber at the court complex. A posse of police personnel and anti-riot police was deployed at the venue.As the police entered the meeting room to arrest the MLA, lawyers resisted the move. Police then secured the exist points of the complex and arrested Bains as he along with supporters emerged. He was taken into a police vehicle amid pushing and shoving by supporters. They tried to resist his arrest by confronting the cops and even laying in front of the vehicle.Bains had recently got a stay order from the Supreme Court after a non-bailable arrest warrant was issued in a rape case.In his complaint to the police, Karwal’s aide Gurvinder Singh Prinkle claimed when he along with the party nominee and other workers was going for an election meeting yesterday, MLA Bains, his son Ajaypreet along with supporters hurled bricks at them. He alleged Bains and his son also opened fire with intent to kill, but they escaped.An hour before the arrest, his elder brother and sitting MLA Balwinder Bains had met the Police Commissioner, seeking an inquiry into a “politically motivated” case registered against his brother. After the meeting, Bains decided to hold an election meeting with lawyers.Meanwhile, Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, S Karuna Raju has appointed Inspector Kulwant Singh as the SHO of Shimlapuri Police Station. A spokesperson said as per a report received from the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, SHO Sub-Inspector Labh Singh was present on the spot when the clash took place, but failed to handle the situation, leading to deterioration of law and order. The SI had been suspended and transferred to the Police Lines, Ludhiana, over dereliction of duty. A departmental inquiry has been initiated. #lok insaaf party #simarjit bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-assault-on-cong-nominee-mla-bains-held-368218
09-02-2022||Fazilka||Saffron party workers, farmers clash in Fazilka||A scuffle broke out between BJP workers and farmers in Theh Kalandar village of the district during the visit of BJP nominee Surjit Kumar Jyani.After the police took six persons into their custody, enraged farmers gheraoed Sadar police station.BJP councillor Ashok Jairath said when Jyani went to the village to seek votes, some persons started asking unwarranted questions and created obstacles.Sources said both the groups entered into a scuffle and levelled serious allegations against each other.SHO Nirmaljit Singh said six farmers were taken into the custody. Farmers led by Harish Nadha, president, BKU (Dakaunda), staged a protest and gheraoed the police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saffron-party-workers-farmers-clash-in-fazilka-368216
09-02-2022||Ludhiana||Will build 'nawan Punjab', says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday promised a new Punjab if the BJP was voted to power in the border state. Addressing his maiden virtual rally for voters of Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib, PM Modi blamed the Congress and AAP for “all ills afflicting the state”. In his over 20-minute address, he did not mention BJP’s old ally Akali Dal even once.Takes on rivalsWe worked for the state and opened a passage to the birth place of Guru Nanak Dev. — Narendra Modi, PM“Our goal is to create a ‘nawan Punjab’ by freeing the state of all ills, ensuring all-round development and welfare of all sections of society, mainly the farmers and industrialists. The NDA has the vision, roadmap and track record of delivering,” he said.Beginning his address by greeting viewers with “Waheguru Ji Ka Khalsa, Waheguru Ji Ki Fateh” and paying tributes to Guru Gobind Singh’s Sahibzadas, the PM said, “Punjab needs a stable and progressive government which only the BJP can give. Its double-engine dispensation will ensure all-round development.” He alleged, “The Congress engineered massacre of Sikhs and could not keep Kartarpur Sahib in India. Some people let terrorism thrive in Punjab to remain in power.”He claimed, “On the contrary, we punished the killers of Sikhs, worked for peace and development of the state and opened a direct passage to the birth place of Guru Nanak Dev.”The PM promised the constitution of a border area development authority, introduction of “one district, one product” scheme and grant of special status of “textile hub” for Ludhiana and “steel city” for Mandi Gobindgarh.“I will visit Punjab very soon to meet its people,” he said, adding “we will work towards realising the goal of ‘nawan Punjab’”. — #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-build-nawan-punjab-says-pm-368192
09-02-2022||Moga||BJP to focus on uplifting vulnerable sections: Hans Raj Hans||Sufi singer and BJP MP Hans Raj Hans today campaigned for party candidate Dr Harjot Kamal, who is seeking a repoll from the Moga constituency.Praising PM Narendra Modi, Hans said the BJP-led Centre had brought out several welfare schemes for the poor, Dalits and OBCs.Lashing out at the state Congress government, he alleged the vulnerable sections of society had been oppressed in the past five years. “Several parties did politics on caste-based issues and talked about Dalits, OBCs and poor, but did little to uplift them.” “The BJP will ensure all-round development. It is working to ensure equal opportunities to these communities. Ensuring benefits to the needy is the priority of the Modi government.”Meanwhile, Kamal said the Centre had promised to make Moga a ‘smart city’. “Since, the BJP is in power at the Centre, it can easily bring funds for local development.”  #hans raj hans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-to-focus-on-uplifting-vulnerable-sections-hans-raj-hans-368215
09-02-2022||Archit Watts||Campaign Trail Gidderbaha: My work speaks for itself, says Amrinder Singh Raja Warring||Gidderbaha, February 8After becoming the Transport Minister, he usually runs much behind schedule, say people waiting for two-time MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring at a public meeting in Buttar Shrinh village in the Gidderbaha constituency of the district.Be wary of other partiesVote for me only if I have done development works. You can even compare my work with that of the Akalis... The Cong has made a Dalit man the CM, which no other party could do. Just be wary of them. Amrinder Singh Raja Warring“It is about 1.30 pm and we were told that Warring will reach here around 12.30 pm. We are waiting patiently to listen to him. He has done a lot of development in the area. Though some of his trusted men have created differences among the party workers in some villages, yet he is a nice man and a good orator. However, the SAD and AAP candidates are posing him a serious challenge this time, but he may win if he works hard in coming days and manages to take everyone along,” say commoners sitting in the village common land.In the meantime, Warring’s cousin Honey, who has come from the US, arrives at the venue and tells everyone that the minister was reaching in the next few minutes. Thereafter, a team of youths and bouncers led by Warring’s close aide from Mohali arrives. They inspect the venue and leave immediately after Warring arrives at 2.15 pm at his fourth event of the day in a Fortuner along with two Scorpios of the police and an Innova in his cavalcade.After alighting from his vehicle, Warring greets some elderly people by touching their feet and then starts his speech from a portable speaker, which he carries in his SUV. Meanwhile, a pickup vehicle fitted with a screen shows video clips of CM Charanjit Singh Channi to the audience.In his nearly 30-minute long speech, Warring says: “Kayi hun menu chhad ke ja rahe hai, kyuki mai hun 10 saal purana model ho gya! (Some people are leaving me just because I have been spent 10 years in this constituency!) However, have a look at the development in Gidderbaha other villages. A number of poor people in the region have received cheques to construct their houses. I started several government buses in just about two months after taking charge as the Transport Minister.”“The Akalis have only flourished their own business during their government. I am a strong critic of the Badals. I impounded their buses and that’s why they are now running behind me. They target my family, but I want to tell them that a real man fights the election on the basis of his works. I was also about to win the MP election from Bathinda, but was backstabbed.”Highlighting the development works done by the Congress government, he stresses on the decision of the Capt Amarinder Singh government to start free bus travel for women. Some Congressmen say sometimes Warring sings, dances and uses Bagri language too in his public speeches to strike a chord with the commoners. He has also used the slogan of “Vikas di raftaar, Raja Warring fer es vaar” on his posters.He is facing SAD’s Hardeep Dimpy Dhillon and AAP’s Pritpal Sharma this time. #raja warring||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-trail-gidderbaha-my-work-speaks-for-itself-amrinder-singh-raja-warring-368214
09-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha promises Rs 25K monthly farm income, NDA full waiver||Chandigarh, February 8Putting Punjab farmers on a pedestal, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) and BJP-led NDA alliance, both at different ends of political spectrum, have promised farm debt waiver, free power for irrigation and easy access to loans.The ideological dichotomy between the two is jarring, considering the SSM is the outcome of the year-long farmers’ struggle against the BJP-led Centre’s three farmer laws (these have since been withdrawn). In spite of this, being in the election fray has propelled both to come up with almost similar agendas for key constituent, the farmer, the same day.This is the first time that such a pro-farmer poll agenda has been brought out in Punjab, even though it was necessitated in the agrarian state, where elections are being held in the shadow of a year-long agitation, which led to nearly 700 farmers losing their lives.In all previous polls, the agendas have talked of debt waiver, power subsidy and crop diversification for farmers. But inability to fulfil debt waiver (it has been partially fulfilled by the Congress) and crop diversification (it has remained a non-starter) has often led to resentment among this segment of voters.The promises made by the BJP to farmers today are as much a necessity for them as for the SSM. The latter, which is largely perceived in Punjab as being anti-farmer, has no choice but to come up with a pro-farmer rural manifesto to get political credence here.The BJP has gone all out by promising a complete debt waiver for farmers (all types of debts) having less than 5 acres and a guaranteed MSP on fruit, vegetable, pulses and oilseeds.The SSM’s “ikrarnama” does not promise a waiver, but a minimum monthly income of Rs 25,000 for each farmer family (there are 10 lakh operational landholdings) and opening of farm trade via land route with Pakistan, through Wagah and Hussainiwala. Its manifesto also promises streamlining work of the revenue department; annulment of PPAs with private companies; toll-free highways; ending “mafia raj”; and setting up an accountability commission, among other things.Both have tried to give a futuristic agriculture agenda — promoting the agriculture/farmer entrepreneurship and taking proactive steps to stop the depleting groundwater table, providing shamlat land to landless farmers; and promoting cooperative farming.SSM assurancesBJP manifesto #NDA #sanyukt samaj morcha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-promises-rs-25k-monthly-farm-income-nda-full-waiver-368212
09-02-2022||GS Paul||Navjot Singh Sidhu was apt choice for Punjab CM face: Navjot Kaur Sidhu||Amritsar, February 8Two days after the Congress announced Charanjit Channi as the CM face, party leader Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu today questioned the move saying her husband and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was apt for the post, adding party leader Rahul Gandhi has been “misguided”.Income hit, may practise medicineWe were financially hit after Sidhu quit his entertainment career. In present circumstances, I will have to practise medicine. Dr Navjot Kaur SidhuNavjot said she never opposed the decision but wanted that “whosoever occupies the CM’s chair, must work with dedication and implement the ‘Punjab model’”.Before announcing Channi’s name on February 6, Rahul had said “people wanted someone who could understand poverty”. He had said the decision was based on a public survey after taking party MLAs and workers into confidence. Navjot, however, claimed no such criteria was followed by the Congress.“He (Channi) is very rich. His I-T returns submitted during filing of papers suggests his income is higher than ours,” she claimed, adding as her husband’s income had been affected, she would have to return to her profession to earn a livelihood. “Had Sidhu not given up his career, we would have made Rs 250 crore.”“Instead of ‘rich’ or ‘poor’, merit, education, honesty, loyalty, intelligence, capacity to work and vision for development should have been the main criteria,” she added.Canvassing for Sidhu in Amritsar East, which she represented between 2012 and 2017, Navjot said her husband’s ‘Punjab model’ could steer the state out of the crisis within six months. “His model is good,” she said, adding Rahul had been “misled”.Sidhu, who after the CM face announcement had said it was high command’s prerogative, chose to reserve his comments on the issue or on criticism of Channi in various quarters over his wealth. “I won’t comment. Channi is my younger brother, he knows how to respond,” he said.He said he used to earn Rs 20-30 crore per annum through motivational talks, commentary and entertainment shows. “Today, I have an income of just Rs 60,000-Rs 70,000 per month. In 1995, I had purchased showrooms in Patiala and the rented income runs the domestic affairs. But we are contented. We have been fighting ‘dharma yudh’ without any expectation in return,” he said.Asking voters to defeat “mafias”, he said his “Punjab model” was conceptualised for the state and had been handed over to the party. Asked if Channi would implement it, he said: “Let anyone implement it.”Giving a glimpse of the model, he said: “It recommends fast-track court to deal with sacrilege issues in a time-bound manner. It speaks about generation of jobs, urban employment schemes, women welfare schemes, how to curb mafia.” #navjot kaur sidhu #navjot sidhu #punjab model||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-was-apt-choice-for-punjab-cm-face-navjot-kaur-sidhu-368211
09-02-2022||Faridkot||POLL NUGGETS||Rs 393 cr items seized till Feb 7: ECChandigarh: After the model code of conduct came into force in the state for the Assembly polls, various enforcement teams have seized valuables worth Rs396.03 crore in violation of code till February 7. Giving details, Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Dr S Karuna Raju on Tuesday said the surveillance teams had seized 41.39 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs23.51 crore. Similarly, the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to Rs313.69 crore, besides confiscating unaccounted cash of Rs24.83 crore, he added. tnsPublic property defaced, case filedMuktsar: The Gidderbaha police have booked some unidentified persons for allegedly defacing public property with publicity material of the SAD, Congress and AAP in Gidderbaha town. A flying squad team incharge lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. Thereafter, a case under Section 3 of the Punjab Prevention of Defacement of Property Act was registered. TNSCongress’ Ruby faces villagers’ ireMalout: Congress candidate from Malout Rupinder Kaur Ruby on Tuesday returned from Ramgarh Chungha village without replying to the queries of residents. A large number of villagers had gathered on getting the information that Ruby had come there. They later claimed that the Congress candidate failed to give reply to them for the poor condition of the village. TNSLEADERSPEAKWhy no Punjabi in Delhi Govt?AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann must clarify his stand on the total exclusion of Punjabis from the AAP govt in Delhi. Will he ask Kejriwal why there is not a single Sikh or Punjabi in the Delhi Cabinet? — Harcharan Bains, Principal Adviser to SAD Chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-368210
09-02-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda Congress leader joins AAP||Congress leader and Bathinda Zila Parishad vice-chairman Guriqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday joined the AAP in the presence of party affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha. AAP leader Amarjit Mehta said the party would be strengthened in Bathinda Urban and Rural segments with Chahal’s joining. Chahal had also been the president of the Bathinda District Bar Association twice. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-congress-leader-joins-aap-368208
09-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Key Constituency Lehra: Two heavyweights slug it out for sixth term||Lehra, February 8Two political heavyweights — SAD(S) leader Parminder Dhindsa and ex-CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal — have locked horns in the Lehra segment.Dhindsa is seeking a victory for the sixth time — he has won four times from Sunam and once from Lehra. Similarly, Congress veteran Bhattal has won five times from the seat and is seeking a re-election for the sixth time. She had lost the last election to Parminder.AAP has fielded Barinder Kumar Goyal, while the SAD has fielded SGPC ex-chief Gobind Singh Longowal from the seat.The constituency is located on the Punjab-Haryana border. Lack of health, education, roads and other amenities are the issues facing the constituency. Area residents claim with health centres being referral points, they are forced to visit Haryana hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-constituency-lehra-two-heavyweights-slug-it-out-for-sixth-term-368206
09-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Campaign Trail Pathankot: Ashwani Sharma working ‘doubly hard’ to make comeback||Pathankot, February 8The first thing that strikes you about Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma is the honesty with which he judges himself as a politician. He says he is reminded about that Greek mythological creature, Icarus, the one who forgot its limitations and got its wings burnt while trying to reach the sun.“I have my limitations. I am not at all perfect. Had I been so I would have been re-elected in 2017 after becoming a first time legislator in 2012. I brought so many developmental projects, including the government degree college at Lamini, a state-of-the-art auditorium and a stadium in the government boys’ school. Despite this, I lost. In 2017, I worked hard. In 2022, I am working doubly hard. I have found the more hard work you put in, the more luck you have!” he says.He is relying on an elaborate plan charted out by his go-to man Dr Samrendra Sharma. Ashwani is a busy man. He juggles his time between door-to-door campaigning and simultaneously ensuring that the PM’s rally slated to be held here on February 14 goes off with clockwork precision. He ends the discussion by saying, “As the D-day approaches, there will be obstacles and there will be doubters. I intend to obliterate all these with hard work.” #ashwani sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-trail-pathankot-ashwani-sharma-working-doubly-hard-to-make-comeback-368205
09-02-2022||Chandigarh/Bathinda||‘Secret’ collusion to stop AAP from winning, alleges Bhagwant Mann||AAP chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann today alleged the SAD, BJP and the Congress had once again joined hands to prevent his party from coming to power.Mann claimed the growing support for the AAP in Punjab had made traditional parties “anxious and apprehensive”, making them collude against AAP. He appealed to Punjabis to be aware of this “nefarious alliance”, which had been looting Punjab for 70 years.Will free police from interferenceIf AAP comes to power, the police will be freed from any political interference. All politically motivated FIRs against any party leader will be cancelled. Bhagwant Mann, AAP State ChiefReferring to the 2017 Assembly elections, Mann alleged: “The SAD and Congress had jointly contested the elections under the “Dubai Agreement”, under which Capt Amarinder Singh and Ravneet Singh Bittu contested from Lambi and Jalalabad to ensure the victory of the Badals. He said this agreement was confirmed by the media as well as Naresh Gujral, an Akali MP in Rajya Sabha.The AAP CM candidate said the ‘secret pact’ was entered into to save each other in the cases pending in the courts. “That’s why no action was taken against Akali leader Bikram Majithia in drugs case by the state and nor by the ED. Similarly, there was no action in sacrilege and police firing incidents,” he claimed.Meanwhile, in Bathinda, Mann lambasted AICC leader Rahul Gandhi for saying CM Channi was poor. Mann said Channi had declared the family's assets to the tune of Rs 170 crore in his affidavit to the EC. “Such a man can be poor for Rahul, but not the common man,” he said.In Faridkot, the AAP CM candidate accused the SAD and Congress of betraying the youth of Punjab by making false promises to them, and giving jobs to the near and dear ones of their MLAs and ministers.  #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/secret-collusion-to-stop-aap-from-winning-alleges-bhagwant-mann-368204
09-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Now, race in Punjab Congress for its Jat face||Chandigarh, February 8With Charanjit Singh Channi being picked as the chief ministerial face of the Congress, race is now on within the party over who the Jat face would be after the Assembly elections. Irrespective of whether the party repeats the government or not, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is facing trouble from Jat leaders in Majha, who do not want him to win, suggest ground reports.Sidhu, who was a contender for the CM face, is facing SAD leader Bikram Majithia on home seat Amritsar East. Even as the Opposition parties have sharpened their attack on the PCC chief, no senior Congress leader is seen rallying behind him.After the exit of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, churning has begun within the party on filling the vacuum in the Jat leadership. After Channi’s elevation as the CM, Sukjinder Randhawa (Jat face) and OP Soni (Hindu face) were elevated as his deputies.Sidhu, also a Jat face, is already the PCC chief. Due to his clean image, Sidhu is a major hurdle for other Jat leaders who want to take the place of Capt Amarinder.Party insiders say after the announcement on CM face, party strategists are anxiously waiting for the Dalit card to translate into votes. The party is ascertaining as to how workers and voters from other castes are reacting to the announcement. A senior party leader said the SAD, AAP and BJP were trying to provoke the upper castes against the Congress. The narrative in the 72 hours before the polling would set the agenda for voters, it is being pointed out.With Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim out on a 21-day furlough, party leaders feel he may sway dera votes, mostly from the under-privileged sections of the society in the Malwa region.Others see Sidhu as impediment #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-race-in-congress-for-its-jat-face-368203
09-02-2022||Aman Sood||Capt Amarinder Singh: AICC's move on caste lines a mistake||Patiala, February 8Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt Amarinder Singh today said the Congress had made a mistake by announcing its chief ministerial face on the basis of caste. “A CM should be decided on the grounds of capability, not on the metric of caste, be it Scheduled Caste, Jat Sikh or Hindu, which they have done,” he said, while interacting with mediapersons after a public meeting in the Patiala Rural segment.CM fooling peopleChanni claims he has done everything in 111 days. He’s fooling people. Every project has a gestation period and takes months to start. Capt Amarinder Singh, PLC ChiefPointing out that Punjab had never before been divided on the caste or religious lines, Capt Amarinder said: “CM Charanjit Channi does not have a CM’s calibre,” adding his tall claims could not fool people of the state. The former CM warned of an “explosion” soon from PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had been discarded by his own party in favour of Channi, saying he was “too ambitious to stay quiet for very long”.Claiming that leaders like Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa had backstabbed him and misled the high command after he had supported them in their political careers, the PLC chief said such leaders could not be trusted. “They will compromise the interests of Punjab to further their agenda,” he warned. He recalled how he had inducted Channi into the Congress and helped him become an MLA and ensured Randhawa a seat in the last elections.To a query, the former CM said there was no comparison between PM Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in terms of their political experience. “I have known Modi for long and used to meet him frequently in Delhi when we were both CMs,” he said, adding the Modi government had helped him whenever Punjab was in dire straits.“We have to work with them to ensure a safe future for Punjab,” he stressed. “The future of Punjab depends on these polls,” he said, underlining the need for close Centre-state coordination to secure the state’s interests. To a question on whether his wife, MP Preneet Kaur, would campaign for him, Capt Amarinder said it was for her to decide. “Politics is different. My mother was in the BJP and I was in the Congress. We sat on opposite benches in Parliament,” he remarked. #capt amarinder singh #punjab lok congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-aiccs-move-on-caste-lines-a-mistake-368202
09-02-2022||---||Only our party can give stable govt, claims Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Batala, February 8Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi held rallies in favour of Congress candidates in the Dera Baba Nanak, Bhoa and Batala Assembly segments.The Chief Minister castigated the Opposition, saying none of them could form a stable government. “Only the Congress can provide stability,” he said.He added despite differences, he would ensure all senior leaders, including Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, came on a joint platform. In Dera Baba Nanak, the party has fielded Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while in Bhoa, sitting MLA Joginder Pal is the candidate.By the time CM Channi addressed the rally in Batala, he was already three hours late. Disgruntled workers threatened to leave the venue and it was left to party candidate Ashwani Sekhri to smother frayed tempers. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-our-party-can-give-stable-govt-claims-punjab-cm-368201
09-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab CM face desperate bid  by Congress to revive fortunes: Mayawati||Nawanshahr, February 8In her first joint rally with alliance partner Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Tuesday described the Congress’ decision to announce Charanjit Singh Channi as its chief ministerial face in Punjab as a desperate attempt to revive its sinking fortunes in the state.Focuses on RavidassiasChanni paid obeisance at a temple in Himachal. We have no objection to it. But it would have been more befitting had he visited Guru Ravidas temple also. All Guru Ravidas followers should make Channi realise the power of the saint.Invokes Kanshi RamThe BJP, too, is on its way out as people have realised its anti-farmer and pro-corporate mindset… fulfil the last dream of BSP founder Kanshi Ram of bringing the party to power in Punjab.She arrived at the Nawanshahr grain market in a private chopper to address her rally in support of the SAD-BSP candidates. Lambasting the Congress, the BSP supremo said: “When this party goes through the phase of ‘achhe din’, it never thinks of doing anything for the Dalits. Even as it has appointed a Dalit CM, the remote control remains in the hands of the high command in Delhi. Though the Congress is not coming to power, even if it does, Channi will not be appointed the CM.”Training her guns on Channi, she said: “After being declared the CM face, Channi, too, seems to have gone overboard in his excitement. He went on to pay obeisance at a temple in Himachal Pradesh. Our party has no objections to that, but it would have been more befitting had he visited Guru Ravidas temple also to seek the blessings. I think it is time all Guru Ravidas followers voted for the SAD-BSP alliance to make Channi realise the power of the saint.”She again attacked the Congress for its caste politics for electoral gains. “Remaining at the Centre for long, its leaders never thought of awarding Bharat Ratna to the architect of the Constitution, Dr BR Ambedkar. The Congress, which was at the helm at the time of the death of Kanshi Ram, did not even announce a day’s mourning even as he was credited with having taken forward Dr Ambedkar’s movement.”During the start of her speech, she appreciated former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s spirit to contest the polls at his age. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said after Mayawati’s visit to Punjab, the alliance had got a major boost. He said the blue cards, old-age pension and shagun scheme denied to some deserving beneficiaries would be restored. He said the pending work of a memorial coming up at the meditation site of Guru Ravidas at Khuralgarh Sahib would be completed soon.While Mayawati said Sukhbir would be the CM face of the alliance, the latter reiterated that a BSP leader would get the Deputy CM’s post. State BSP president Jasvir Singh Garhi, Punjab BSP incharge Randhir Beniwal and all candidates of the alliance were also present on the occasion. #charanjit channi #Dalits #Mayawati||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-as-punjab-cm-face-desperate-bid-by-congress-to-revive-fortunes-mayawati-368198
09-02-2022||---||Amarinder warns of explosion soon from 'discarded' Sidhu after Congress picks Channi as CM face||Patiala, February 8Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the Congress had made a big mistake by announcing a CM face, as “a chief minister should be decided on grounds of capability and not on the metric of caste, be it a SC, Jat or Hindu, which they had done”.Pointing out that Punjab was never before divided on caste or religious lines, Amarinder said “Charanjit Channi does not have the calibre of a chief minister,” and his tall claims cannot fool the people of the state.“Channi claims he has done ‘everything’ in 111 days, he’s fooling the people. Every project has a gestation period and takes months to start,” he noted, warning the people against getting carried away by such brazen lies since all the projects that Channi talks of were initiated by his (Captain Amarinder’s) government.Interacting with the media after a public meeting in support of the Patiala Rural PLC candidate, Sanjeev Kumar Bittu, the former chief minister warned of an explosion soon from Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had been discarded by his own party for chief ministerial candidature in favour of Channi, saying the PPCC president was too ambitious to stay quiet for long.Pointing out that leaders like Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa had backstabbed him and misled the Congress high command after he had supported them in their political careers, the PLC chief said these men could not be trusted. “They will compromise the interests of Punjab to further their own,” he said, in response to questions.Answering a question, the former chief minister said there was no comparison between Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi as far as political and public life experience goes. He had known Modi for long and used to meet him frequently in Delhi at a time when they were both chief ministers, he said, adding that the Modi government had helped him whenever Punjab was in dire straits. “We have to work with them to ensure a safe future for Punjab,” he stressed. “The future of Punjab depends on these polls,” he said, underlining the need for close Centre-State coordination to secure the state’s interests.To a question on whether his wife, MP Preneet Kaur, would campaign for him or the Congress, Amarinder said it was for her to answer that. “Politics is different... my mother was in BJP and I was in the Congress. We sat in opposite benches in Parliament… politics politics hoti hai pyaar pyaar hota hai,” he remarked.Urging the people to vote for “vikas” (which only the NDA could provide) and not “vinaash”, (which the other parties would push Punjab towards), Amarinder earlier expressed the confidence that the people of the state would look after their interests and vote accordingly. He trashed the surveys favouring the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), saying such polls were conducted even in 2017 and had proven to be false.While he could not predict the number of seats they would get, his party in alliance with BJP and SAD (Sanyukt) was set to form the next government, he asserted.Addressing the public meeting at Tipri chowk, Patiala Rural, where several sarpanches and local Congress leaders joined his party and the BJP, the former chief minister said the smiling faces of the people were a clear indication of the Patiala Rural voters. Pointing to the PLC symbol of Hockey, Amarinder said it was time to score goals with the hockey stick.The Patiala Rural candidate, Sanjeev Kumar Bittu, said if the Punjab and central governments work together, they can change the face of the state and of Patiala. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-warns-of-explosion-soon-from-discarded-sidhu-after-congress-picks-channi-as-cm-face-368159
09-02-2022||Chandigarh||BJP and NDA always stood with Sikh traditions, have the vision for 'Nawan Punjab': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is only the National Democratic Alliance that has a vision of a ‘Nawan’ (new) Punjab to develop its agriculture and industry and the state does not need the “hollow promises” of other parties.Addressing a virtual rally for assembly segments of Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib parliamentary constituencies, Modi said the BJP and NDA allies have always stood with Sikh traditions and can take them forward with the right intention.Attacking the Congress, he accused the grand old party of indulging in the massacre of Sikhs. “But we got the guilty of genocide punished,” said Modi, in an apparent reference to the 1984-anti-Sikh riots.“Congress could not keep Kartarpur (Sahib) in India. But we opened the way to Kartarpur,” he said.The NDA has a vision of ‘Nawan’ Punjab and a track record of delivering on the ground, he said, adding that Punjab does not need hollow promises of new parties.Punjab needs modernisation at every level, which is beyond the capability of Congress and least of those who want to convert Delhi into “jhuggi jhopdi” (slum), he said, in a veiled attack on the Aam Aadmi Party.He urged the voters to be cautious of those”who made lofty speeches on the menace of drug addiction, but instead of helping the people, they took the disease to Delhi”.“For some people, Punjab has only been a tool for power,” he said and asked what had the parties which ruled the state for decades done for the farmers.“These parties do not have any roadmap to free the farmers of Punjab from debt, from barren land, from the cancer-giving drinking water,” he said.The farmers of Punjab need modern facilities for seeds, markets, cold storage, food parks and food processing industries, he said.“Farmers need the best connectivity to export their produce. Our double engine government will work faster on all these areas,” he promised.Modi said a Border Area Development Authority will be constituted to develop the areas near the frontiers and Rs 1 lakh crore will be spent only on infrastructure in the state in the next five years.“Today, I am seeking your cooperation for the development that Punjab deserves... We have to work towards building a new Punjab while following the teachings of equality and common good given by our Gurus,” he said.“Working for Punjabiyat and Sikh tradition is an act of service and privilege for me, he said.The BJP is fighting the state assembly polls in alliance with the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-and-nda-always-stood-with-sikh-traditions-have-the-vision-for-nawan-punjab-pm-modi-368156
09-02-2022||---||BJP promises entire debt waiver for farmers with less than 5 acres as party releases poll manifesto||Chandigarh, February 8The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday promised to waive off the entire debt of all sorts of all the farmers with less than five acres of landholdings in Punjab.Besides it also promised “Mehnat Da Pakka Mull” under which the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers growing fruits, vegetables, pulses, and oilseeds will be guaranteed as part of the Central Governments MSP extension programme.For sustaining the crop diversification and making it more rewarding the alliance promised a dedicated annual budget of Rs 5,000 crore for agriculture.Briefing reporters after release of the manifesto here, Union Minister and BJP in-charge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, along with Shiromani Akali Dal-Sanyukt leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and BJP state general secretary Subash Sharma said, this was a futuristic manifesto that is set to revolutionise the rural and agricultural economy in Punjab.The alliance promised that one-lakh acres of ‘Shamlat Land’ in the state will be allocated to rural landless farmers for cultivation. Besides, every landless farmer in the state would be given an annual financial assistance of Rs 6,000 under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sanman Yojana.For ‘Sustainable Green Revolution’, the manifesto promised an annual budget of Rs 5,000 crore to support Sustainable Agriculture and Organic Farming in the state.For special emphasis to protect Punjab’s depleting water table, free of cost rainwater harvesting units will be installed. Subsidy will be given for alternative automated and smart irrigation systems, which will help in water conservation. The irrigation department will be investigated for corruption, and the corrupt officials will be brought to justice.To promote dairy farming, an organised milk marketing system shall be developed by establishing milk chilling centres in every village and milk processing units in a cluster of every 30 villages. Veterinary aid centres, artificial insemination and breeding centres will be established in every tehsil.It promised that subsidies and loans will be provided to women and those belonging to Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Economically Weaker Sections to start businesses in Dairy Farming, Poultry Farming and Beekeeping.The manifesto promised subsidies to agro-based industries under the Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme. Tax exempted agro-based Industrial Clusters comprising small and medium enterprises shall be formed to attract investment in rural areas. Mega Food Processing Parks will also be established.To promote rural entrepreneurship the “Samriddh-Pind”, scheme will be launched and funds will be allocated annually to promote rural startups. To promote MSMEs, interest and collateral-free loans will be given to the rural youth with an easy payback mechanism.To improve the healthcare system in villages, under the “Healthy Villages” scheme, each village will have Aarogya Kendras (clinics) with 24x7 doctor facility and laboratory, in which all kinds of tests can be done.Availability of “108 ambulance” service will be ensured in all rural areas within 15 minutes. Permanent drivers will be recruited to achieve this endeavor.Under the “Pakki Chhatt - Har Ik Da Haqq (Housing for All) scheme Permanent Homes will be provided to all economically weaker sections of the society.Under “Har Ghar Jal”, clean and safe piped drinking water facilities will be provided to every household.All villages will have a 24X7 power supply. The government will provide free electricity up to 300 units to each household and above it, the electricity tariff will be Rs 3 per unit for domestic purposes.High-quality smart schools will be set up in the villages with modern classrooms, computer labs and playgrounds. Annual stipend will be given to EWS and handicapped students and all girls belonging to Scheduled Caste till Class 10.To promote sports in rural areas, playgrounds will be developed at the village level to encourage youngsters to participate in sports. To promote sportsmanship from the school level, sports kits will be given free of cost to all the registered sports clubs and government schools.World class facilities will be provided for grooming international level hockey players. Kabaddi will be encouraged through rural tournaments.Amount of cash rewards given to medal winners in the important International and National Games will be revised on the lines of Haryana.Gold Medal winners in Olympics/Paralolympics will get Rs 6 crores each, silver medalists Rs 4 crores each, bronze medalists Rs 2.5 crores each and those participating in these events will get Rs 15 lakhs each. Anyone qualifying for these games will get at least Rs 15 lakhs.For the Asian/ Para Asian Games it will be Rs 3 crores, Rs 1.5 crores, Rs 75 lakhs and 7.5 lakhs for gold, silver, bronze medal and participation respectively.For Commonwealth Games/ Para Commonwealth it will be Rs 1.5 crores Rs 75 Rs lakhs 50 lakhs and Rs 7.5 Llakhs for gold, silver, bronze medals and participation, respectively.For National Games/ Para National Games the prize money for gold, silver and bronze medals will be 5 lakhs 3 lakhs 2 lakhs, respectively, while for the state level games it will be Rs 21,000, Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively for the gold, silver and bronze medals. #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-promises-entire-debt-waiver-for-farmers-with-less-than-5-acres-as-party-releases-poll-manifesto-368129
