10-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Govt announces paid holiday on February 20||The Punjab government on Thursday said it has declared a paid holiday in the state on February 20 on account of polling.“The date of polling shall be a paid holiday in respect of all persons employed in any business, trade, industrial undertaking or any other establishment situated in the state of Punjab and entitled to vote in the election to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha-2022 on this day,” an official statement read.Voting in the state’s 117 Assembly seats will be held in a single phase and the counting will take place on March 10.  #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-govt-announces-paid-holiday-on-february-20-368747
10-02-2022||---||Surprised at Congress nominating Channi as CM face after arrest of his nephew, says Capt||Sanaur/Banur, February 10Launching yet another scathing attack on the Congress over the nomination of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief ministerial candidate even after his kin was caught with alleged mafia earnings, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday declared that he will not retire till he has rid the state of such corrupt people.The former chief minister expressed surprise at his former party, the Congress, fielding all MLAs involved in the sand mining mafia as candidates in these Assembly polls and termed it a clear endorsement of widespread corruption in the party.Stating that he had decided to ally with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and continue to work for Punjab, in the interest of its peace and security, Captain Amarinder expressed concern over the threat from across the border as well as the recent sacrilege incidents in the state. “We will not let the social fabric of Punjab be destroyed,” said Captain Amarinder, terming the recent spate of sacrilege incidents in the state, including at Darbar Sahib and a Patiala temple, as unfortunate and aimed at dividing the society.Addressing a series of public meetings in support of PLC and BJP candidates from Sanaur and Banur, Captain Amarinder pointed out that Channi’s nephew, arrested by the Enforcement Directorate, had reportedly admitted that the Rs 10 crore seized from his possession was earned from illegal sand minings as well as transfers and postings. “How can Channi then claim to be a poor aam aadmi!” he equipped.Asserting that he planned to continue fighting for Punjab and the nation, the PLC chief said with security paramount for the border state, his party’s alliance with the BJP would help fulfill their collective responsibility to make India secure. “We have to save ourselves from our enemies from across the border and not let people like Navjot Sidhu, who had been going around the Pak Army chief, compromise our security,” he stressed.Punjab also needs the central government’s support for its economic revival, which the PLC-BJP-SAD Sanyukt alliance would help achieve, said Captain Amarinder, noting that the state has no money for development, which will remain a far cry under the false promises of parties like Congress, AAP and SAD, who were not willing to work in coordination with the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surprised-at-congress-nominating-channi-as-cm-face-after-arrest-of-his-nephew-says-capt-368722
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Arvind Kejriwal’s wife, daughter to seek votes for Bhagwant Mann in Dhuri||AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's wife and daughter will visit Dhuri in Punjab on Friday to seek votes for party's candidate and chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann for the February 20 state assembly polls.Mann is fighting the elections from the Dhuri assembly constituency.“Tomorrow I am going to Dhuri with my daughter to seek votes for my 'devar' Bhagwant Mann,” Arvind Kejriwal's wife Sunita Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Replying to her tweet, Mann said, “Bhabhi ji, welcome to Punjab...people of Dhuri are eagerly waiting for you….”Talking to reporters in Amritsar, Mann said he was happy that she was coming to Dhuri.The Congress has fielded sitting legislator Dalvir Singh Goldy, while the Shiromani Akali Dal has named Parkash Chand Garg from Dhuri.Dhuri is one of the assembly constituencies of the Sangrur Parliamentary seat, from where Mann is a two-time MP. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwals-wife-daughter-to-seek-votes-for-bhagwant-mann-in-dhuri-368699
10-02-2022||---||NRI effect: Charanjit Channi garlanded with dollars during roadshow||Jalandhar, February 9The midnight campaign of Chief Minister Charanjit S Channi was unique from various aspects. Besides the unusual timings for holding rallies, even the NRI special effect could be seen.A picture of Channi sitting on a car’s roof as it passed through the lanes of Jalandhar West became went viral this morning. In the photograph, Channi is seen wearing a huge garland of US dollar currency notes. Offering garlands of Indian currency notes to politicians at the time of elections is common but presenting garlands of dollars is peculiar only to NRI-dominated Doaba region. The RBI has time and again issued guidelines against the use of currency notes in garlands.Congress leaders, accompanying the CM, said the garland was presented to him by a supporter when he had gone to pay obeisance at Guru Ravidass Dham at Guru Ravidass Chowk on Tuesday night. Besides the dham, Channi’s also visited Kabir Mandir along with Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku. The video footage of the mandir visit was shared by the MLA on his Facebook page as well.The visit assumes importance as the constituency has a huge following of over 30,000 voters from the Bhagat community and there has been a buzz of vote consolidation with BJP candidate Mahinder Bhagat in the area. The visit to the temple was clearly an attempt to break any such consolidation which could have damaged the prospects of Rinku.The CM’s campaign continued past 1 am after which he stayed for over an hour at the residence of his relative and ex-minister MS Kaypee near Model Town. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-effect-channi-garlanded-with-dollars-during-roadshow-368631
10-02-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Author of a book, this rickshaw-puller is unhappy with Punjab's political scene||Amritsar, February 9Known for penning the book "Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi", Rajbir Singh, a rickshaw-puller, is unhappy with political parties and candidates for ignoring the economically weaker section after attaining power.Despite having an interest in politics, he doesn’t campaign for any candidate.“I keep myself updated politically, but stay away from such activities. I don’t want to support any party or candidate openly,” said Rajbir, who had penned a book on his life experiences.Kuwar Vijay Partap Singh is the only candidate, who is known to me. He was the one who released the second edition of my book and appreciated my work. I am his well-wisher. My vote is registered in Amritsar West and hence I cannot help him much either,” he said.Talking about the current political arena, Rajbir expressed his disappointment. “The well-off candidates can’t imagine the struggle of the common man for livelihood. We cast vote for the MC, Punjab Assembly and Lok Sabha after every two years. There is no change in the lives of common people. They are hopeless and disappointed. Most of the passengers, who sit on my rickshaw also have a similar expression when I ask them about politics,” said Rajbir.The book is a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20-year experience as a rickshaw-puller, meeting people of different ages and mindset. The book has painful but inspiring stories of many poor mechanics, rickshaw-pullers and daily wagers who live a hard life to run their families. He has also installed a donation box in his rickshaw to collect money for the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-author-of-a-book-this-rickshaw-puller-is-unhappy-with-punjabs-political-scene-368649
10-02-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: 19% of 116 candidates in fray have criminal antecedents||Amritsar, February 9Of the 116 candidates contesting elections from the 11 Assembly segments in the district, at least 23 have mentioned one or more criminal cases that have been registered against them in the affidavits filed with the Election Commission. As such, around 19 per cent of the candidates have criminal antecedents.The percentage of candidates with criminal antecedents, however, is slightly less than the overall in the state, where 306 of the total 1,271 have mentioned criminal cases. A total of 24 per cent candidates in the 117 Assembly segments of the state have criminal antecedents.As far as different political parties are concerned, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have highest number of five candidates each with criminal cases registered against them. Simranjit Singh Mann-led SAD (Amritsar) and Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) share the runner-up position with four candidates each having cases registered against them. Besides three Independent candidates, the Congress and the BJP, too, have one candidate each with cases pending against them.Of the candidates with serious charges, Jasmeet Singh Randhawa, an Independent from Majitha segment, has four cases — two for attempt to murder, one for assault and one for trespassing. Next in the line are Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal of AAP from the Ajnala constituency, who has a case under Section 302 of the IPC; Gurnam Singh Daud (Jandiala seat); and Charanjit Singh (Ajnala) (both of SSM) with a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and Navjot Singh Sidhu (Amritsar East) with a case under Section 304 A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. As per Dhaliwal’s affidavit, his arrest has been stayed by the High Court.Three candidates — Sukjinder Singh Lalli (Majitha) of AAP, Bikram Singh Majitha of SAD (Amritsar East) and Jeevan Jyot Kaur of AAP (Amritsar East) — have cheque-bounce cases against them. Constituency wise, Amritsar East has the highest number of five candidates with criminal cases.Other prominent candidates who have cases against them include Anil Joshi (Representatives of Peoples’ Act, Talbir Singh Gill (violation of Covid guidelines and causing hurt) and Inderbir Singh Nijjer (Section 420 of the IPC and others). Most of the other candidates have cases registered for violation of Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and disobeying government orders.Make an informed choiceWith so many criminal cases being registered against politicians, the ECI has taken a number of measures this time to make the electorate aware of the antecedents of those contesting, so that they can make an informed choice. The ECI has launched a KYC mobile application, so that voters can know about the candidates. The candidates have to reveal the criminal cases registered against them. Failing to do so, they are liable to face action, if an objection is filed by anyone. #criminals in politics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-19-of-116-candidates-in-fray-have-criminal-antecedents-368640
10-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab poll 2022: Pargat Singh harps on '111 days of governance'||Jalandhar, February 9Unlike other politicians, Punjab minister and Congress candidate Pargat Singh does not don a kurta-pyjama while campaigning in various villages under Jalandhar Cantonment constituency.Attired in jeans and jacket, the hockey Olympian says: “A pair of jeans is the most comfortable dress. The best part is that it does not get crumpled.” There is yet another dissimilarity in his style of campaign vis-à-vis other politicians. He does not bend down to touch the feet of elderly. At the most, he greets them with folded hands, and rarely hugs them. As his SUV comes to a halt at Jamsher, his supporter introduces him to a needy woman. She tells her story that she has a family of five but there is no washroom in her house. He tells her to see him in his poll office the next morning. Before he reaches the venue of his rally in the village, a folk artiste keeps the villagers entertained with political satire. Pargat takes the mike, saying: “You have seen our 111 days of governance, the party has again announced Charanjit Singh Channi as CM face… hope you all are upbeat about it.” He gets a resounding applause, as he reminds them of his tough political stance to oust ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh.Quickly, he goes on to target his rivals. “You have seen another Olympian pitted against me from AAP,” he says, referring to retired IG Surinder Sodhi. “Hope you are aware of his work as Nawanshahr SSP. You must be also familiar with SAD’s Jagbir Brar, who has proven to be an opportunist by changing his party four times. I know that you will not side with Sarabjit Makkar, who has moved from the Akali Dal to the BJP, which is against farmers.”Before leaving the site, he admits that some development works in the villages have been delayed. “Our system needs an overhaul and it will certainly be improved when you will give me my third chance to serve you,” Pargat says, seeking support to make a hat-trick as he leaves to attend a wedding in Jandiala and then for two rallies in the village. #pargat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-harps-on-111-days-of-governance-368519
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||Prime Minister Modi to address Punjab rallies on February 14, 16, 17||To further boost the NDA campaign in Punjab, PM Modi will address three rallies in Punjab on February 14, 16 and 17, covering all three regions of Malwa, Doaba and Majha.BJP general secretary Subash Sharma said PM Modi would address a rally in Jalandhar on February 14 and then in Pathankot on February 16 and Abohar on February 17. He said the rallies would help boost the confidence of NDA candidates.In Punjab, the BJP has stitched an alliance with PLC and SAD (Sanyukt). — #narendra modi #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-to-address-punjab-rallies-on-feb-14-16-17-368520
10-02-2022||New Delhi||Will do much better in Punjab this time: PM Modi||“I have maintained stoic silence on the security lapse. The Supreme Court panel will reveal the truth. We should wait until then,” he said. He claimed while the BJP government had done the most to honour the brave Sikhs, the Congress had “done nothing”.PM Modi recalled how a Sikh family had hosted him at their house when his vehicle broke down in the dead of night during the days of terrorism. Explaining BJP’s inability to find a foothold in the state, the Prime Minister said, “BJP’s past strategies in Punjab were inspired by the need to maintain peace and stability. The Bharatiya Janata Party kept Punjab above vested interests and made compromises. We wanted peace for Punjab and were ready to pay the price. Today the BJP is the most credible party in Punjab. Stalwarts like Capt Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa have joined us. The BJP will do much better this time than ever in the past.”He pointed out that the government had ensured direct benefit transfer to Punjab’s farmers and small farmers were “singing praises” of the government. “There are over 1,000 videos showing farmers surprised at receiving the cash,” he said.He recalled his association with the Sikhs of Kutch and how after the earthquake he had worked to restore Lakhpat Gurdwara Sahib to its original glory. “I am aware of the bravery and warmth of the Punjabis. The Sikhs of Kutch are like a family to me,” he added. #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/will-do-much-better-in-punjab-this-time-modi-368501
10-02-2022||Abohar||3 snatch car at gunpoint, held||The police have nabbed three members of an interstate gang of robbers who allegedly snatched scribe’s car (Creta) at gunpoint.The accused have been identified as Parvinder Singh, alias Tiger of Chola Sahib Tarn Taran, Bhairu Singh of Pemasar Bichhwal and Hitesh Jangid of Nawalgarh.Investigating officer (IO) Ashok Chaudhary said that on January 30, Sudhir Bishnoi, a Jodhpur-based journalist, was robbed of his car.The IO said the accused were hiding at Jangid’s relatives’ house in Jorkian village. The miscreants stopped the car after hitting it near Batdanau village in Laxmangarh. After analysing dump data of mobile calls, cops raided Jorkian village and nabbed Bhairu. Later, Parvinder and Hitesh, were also held. The vehicle has not been recovered yet. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-snatch-car-at-gunpoint-held-368517
10-02-2022||Moga||Actor Sonu Sood rescues accident victim in Moga||Bollywood actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood saved the life of a 26-year-old man who met with an accident in Moga on Tuesday night.Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Bukkanwala village in the district, fell unconscious after his car rammed into another four-wheeler on the Kotkapura bypass.Sonu Sood, who was crossing the flyover after campaigning for his sister Malvika Sood, stopped his car and rescued the victim. Video of the incident has gone viral wherein Sonu Sood can be seen pulling the unconscious man out of the car and rushing him to a hospital.Malvika, who is contesting from Moga, also reached the hospital to meet the victim who gained consciousness after receiving first aid and medication. The doctors said Sukhbir was out of danger. — #sonu sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-sonu-sood-rescues-accident-victim-in-moga-368516
10-02-2022||---||Political prisoners to be released soon: Minister||Jalandhar, February 9A 13-member coordination committee for the release of political prisoners met Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and BJP leader Vjay Sampla at Phagwara today.It sought the release of Sikh prisoners still languishing in jails despite having served their sentence.The assuranceDevinder Pal Singh Bhullar and Gurdeep Khera will be out soon. The process for commuting Balwant Singh Rajoana’s death sentence will also be initiated. - Gajendra Shekhawat, Union MinisterThe panel sought implementation of the letter dated October 11, 2019, issued by the Centre on the eve of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, for the release of eight Sikh prisoners and commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner.The Union Minister talked to Home Minister Amit Shah on the phone in their presence. He then assured them that the notification would be implemented soon.He said political prisoners Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and Gurdeep Singh Khera would be released soon and the process for the commutation of Balwant Singh Rajoana’s death sentence to life imprisonment would also be initiated.The committee members also submitted to Shekhawat a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. #balwant singh rajoana #devinder pal singh bhullar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/political-prisoners-to-be-released-soon-minister-368515
10-02-2022||Moga||47K litres of liquor seized along Sutlej||The Moga police have busted two illicit liquor manufacturing units along the Sutlej river in ‘Mand’ area of Dharamkot subdivision.Cops seized around 47,000 litres of lahan, 317 bottles of distilled liquor and a boat.Senior Superintendent of Police Charanjit Singh Sohal said jawans from paramilitary forces were also part of the raiding team.He said they received a tip-off that Buggi Singh, a resident of Gatti Jattan village, had set up an illicit liquor manufacturing unit.Around 24,000 litres of lahan, 200 bottles of distilled liquor, a tube, four drums, two metal pots and a boat were seized. The boat was allegedly used to ferry illicit liquor to Kapurthala and Jalandhar districts, said locals. The police Buggi managed to escape. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/47k-litres-of-liquor-seized-along-sutlej-368512
10-02-2022||---||BSF fires at drone; RDX, arms seized||Amritsar, February 9The Border Security Force (BSF) today foiled a smuggling bid by a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Gurdaspur area.In a press release, a BSF official said that troops deployed in the Panjgrain area of the Gurdaspur sector heard a buzzing sound of a suspected flying object coming from Pakistan around 1 am. The troops subsequently fired at the drone.During the search operation in Ghaggar and Singhoke villages, two yellow packets containing 4.75 kg of RDX, six detonators, steel cycle balls, four polarised cells, a China-made pistol, two magazine, 22 rounds, Rs 1 lakh Indian currency and two rolls of nylon thread were seized.It was suspected that the drone dropped the packets, said the official. The spot is about 2,700 m from the International Border.Pakistan-based anti-national elements have been regularly using drones to smuggle arms or drugs in the Indian territory. The BSF and the Punjab Police regularly bust modules which smuggle arms from Pakistan.342 kg drugs seizedAbohar: The police seized 342 kg of poppy husk from a vehicle that crashed into a tree in Rajiyasar segment of Sriganganagar. At a naka, an SUV was signalled to stop, but the driver dodged the cops and sped away. It later hit a tree. The driver fled. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-fires-at-drone-rdx-arms-seized-368511
10-02-2022||---||Barnala: Mob attacks police team, two injured||Barnala, February 9An irate mob attacked a police team from the Tapa police station, when they went to conduct a probe illegal slaughtering of cows at Ghunas village. A sub-inspector and a constable were injured in the incident. The official vehicle of the police was also damaged.As per information, the Tapa police had registered a case under Sections 11 and 12 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act-1960 and Sections 428, 429 and 295-A of the IPC against Jagseer Singh, Mohd Salim, Gugi and Billa from Ghunas village on Tuesday.In the FIR, it has been alleged that the accused used to kill cows and sell their meat. Though the police have arrested Jagseer, raids are being conducted to nab the other accused.According to information, on Wednesday, when the police went to Ghunas village to conduct further probe into the case and recover parts of cows, a mob of area residents attacked the police with sticks and hurled stones and bricks on the police personnel. Some unidentified persons also attacked Jagseer, who was taken to the spot by the police, and tried to thrash him.“Sub-Inspector Renu and constable Mahinder Singh have suffered injuries in the incident. The mob wanted to thrash accused Jagseer. We are conducting further probe and will register another FIR in the case,” said Investigation Officer Kuldeep Singh.Cow slaughter link||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mob-attacks-police-team-two-injured-368510
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||30 years on, justice for discharged Punjab Police official at last||It is justice at last for a Punjab Police official, discharged from the service over 30 years ago. Deprecating the police officials concerned for their conduct, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed his appeal, filed in 1997, paving way for his reinstatement.Law doesn’t give unbridled powersThere is no doubt that the law vests immense powers in the Superintendent of Police to act against a subordinate officer, but that does not bestow upon him unbridled powers. High Court BenchThe judgment by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came on ex-constable Massa Singh’s appeal filed through counsel Kapil Kakkar. The Bench was told that the appellant was recruited as a constable in the Punjab Police in December 1988. He proceeded on sanctioned leave from October 5, 1990, to October 8, 1990, but applied for extension till January 3, 1991, as he fell ill during his leave.His counsel Kapil Kakkar and Shreesh Kakkar argued that he was not allowed to join and intimated about his discharge from the service vide order dated November 12, 1990. After adopting due process of law, he preferred a suit for declaration, challenging the order dated April 29, 1991, passed by the Jalandhar Cantt DIG, whereby his representation dated November 28, 1990, was declined. Directions were sought for setting aside of the same after terming it to be illegal, mala fide against the rules. The trial court, vide judgment dated October 10, 1992, decreed his suit, but the Jalandhar Additional District Judge, allowed the state appeal and set aside the trial court’s judgment/decree.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the appellant was posted at various places from 1988 to 1990. The lone incriminating document brought on the record was a departmental inquiry file, pertaining to vague allegations of having consumed liquor in 1988. It was not supported by medical evidence and “did not hold good”. It was a stale allegation and not valid after a long time. None of the ACRs were suggestive of any undesirable conduct.Referring to a column in the lone document on which discharge order was passed, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted it showed an entry was sought to be made much after the writing of the form. It overlapped with the comments underneath and created a strong suspicion of deceptive intent in the court’s mind. It was an afterthought and a subsequent incorporation to strengthen the department’s case, for “which the concerned police officials’ conduct needs to be deprecated”.“The entries not only appear to be false and fabricated by cooking up the records to advance the case of the department, but are also mala fide to achieve a motivated cause…There is no doubt that the law vests immense power to the Superintendent of Police to act against a subordinate police officer, but that does not bestow upon him unbridled powers which are against the canons of justice,” the Bench concluded. #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-years-on-justice-for-discharged-police-official-at-last-368508
10-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Trial court can frame charges in absence of sanction: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the trial court can frame charges in the absence of prosecution sanction if the offence was committed by employee-accused during the course of the service, but not in the discharge of official duties.The assertion by Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi came in a case where the counsel for the petitioner-accused, among other things, argued that the trial court could not have framed the charges as sanction for prosecution under Section 197 of the CrPC was refused by the Railways Department, of which the petitioners and the complainant were employees.The matter was placed before Justice Bedi’s Bench after the accused filed a petition quashing order dated December 20, 2019, passed by a Chief Judicial Magistrate, whereby charges for criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy under Sections 409 and 120-B of the IPC were ordered to be framed. Also challenged was another order dated November 29, 2021, passed by an Additional Sessions Judge, whereby their revision was dismissed.The Bench was told that the case had its genesis in a complaint alleging that the accused took away and tampered with the “relevant record pertaining to service period of the complainant” to involve him in a case. It resulted in the complainant being charge-sheeted.Justice Bedi asserted committing an offence under Section 409, for which the petitioners had been charge-sheeted, was not a part of one’s official. Admittedly, the offence was committed during the course of the service, but not in the discharge of official duties. The petitioners’ act in taking away the document, as alleged, could never be a part of their official duty. As such, prior sanction for prosecution under Section 197 was not required.Referring to a plethora of the Supreme Court and the High Court judgments, Justice Bedi added that the magistrate was required to examine the final investigation report or the charge-sheet under Section 173 of the CrPC and the attached documents “to frame charges or not”.Even otherwise, only a prima facie case was to be seen at the time of framing charges. A high degree of suspicion was sufficient to frame charges. The court was not to examine the statements/documents in the report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC so as “to record a judgment of conviction or acquittal”.Dismissing the petition, Justice Bedi asserted there was no illegality in either the registration of an FIR, the framing of charges or in the sessions court dismissing the criminal revision against the order framing charges.High Court’s contentionJustice Jasjit Singh Bedi asserted the offence was committed during the course of the service, but not in the discharge of official duties. The petitioners’ act in taking away the document, as alleged, could never be a part of their official duty. Prior sanction for prosecution was not required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trial-court-can-frame-charges-in-absence-of-sanction-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-368507
10-02-2022||---||47 terror modules busted in 3 years: Minister in Parliament||New Delhi, February 9Forty-seven terror modules related to Khalistani separatists were busted in Punjab in the past three years, Minister of State (MoS) for Home Nityanand Rai informed the Parliament today.The Union Minister also said that eight persons died in Khalistan-related terror incidents in 2019, 2020 and 2021.“As regards the Khalistani separatist activities, in the year 2019, seven terror or radical modules were busted in Punjab as against 15 in 2020 and 25 modules in 2021. No loss of property was reported during the period,” he said.Rai said two persons died in Punjab during 2019 in Khalistan-related terror incidents, as against three in 2020 and three (one victim and two perpetrators) in 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/47-terror-modules-busted-in-3-years-minister-in-parliament-368505
10-02-2022||Archit Watts||Key Constituency Muktsar: Congress nominee Karan Kaur slugs it out for homecoming||Muktsar, February 9Former Chief Minister Harcharan Singh Brar’s daughter-in-law Karan Kaur Brar is in fray from her family’s pocket borough, facing a tough challenge from SAD legislator Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi and AAP’s Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar.Karan Kaur (70) had won the seat in the 2012 elections, but lost to Rozy Barkandi by 7,980 votes in the subsequent poll (2017).The Congress announced her ticket just a fortnight ago, while the SAD had announced the candidature of Rozy Barkandi about six months ago.Karan Kaur, who hails from Sarainaga village of the Muktsar segment, is the second richest candidate in fray, with total assets worth more than Rs 162 crore.She is seeking votes in the name of her family’s contribution to the constituency. However, some Congress men say that Karan Kaur could not keep party workers together. Some senior Congress leaders left the party recently.As for Rozy Barkandi (50), Muktsar SAD president and a close aide of Sukhbir Singh Badal, he is harping on the works done during the SAD-BJP government.The SAD snapping ties with the BJP notwithstanding, the recent joining of former legislator Bhai Harnirpal Singh Kuku and PCC general secretary Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala has given a boost to Rozy Barkandi’s campaign. The morale of Akali workers is upbeat.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) nominee Kaka Brar (55), who was once a SAD councillor, has been working hard on the ground for the past few years. In the 2017 elections, he had polled 33,201 votes and was the second runners-up. The AAP candidate is getting a good response in both rural and urban areas.The BJP candidate, Rajesh Pathela (52), is a local businessman who has served as the district BJP chief. His father Satpal is the lone BJP councillor in the town. The Pathelas enjoy a good reputation.Sanyukt Samaj Morcha candidate Anuroop Kaur (29), who chronicled the death of farmers during the protest at Delhi borders, was little disappointed till a few days ago and sought suggestions from the public whether or not she should contest. Later, she decided against withdrawing her papers.Locals say successive state governments have failed to provide basic civic amenities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-constituency-muktsar-congress-nominee-karan-kaur-slugs-it-out-for-homecoming-368504
10-02-2022||Cong appeases sulking Bittu||POLL NUGGETS||Chandigarh: The Congress on Wednesday reached out to MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, grandson of late CM Beant Singh, by appointing him as a chairman of the Election Management Committee. Bittu was reportedly unhappy over being sidelined in the Punjab election campaign and planning. He was also reportedly peeved at being ill-treated during Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Ludhiana. Congress president Sonia Gandhi ordered his appointment. Sources said by doing so, the Congress has reached out to its traditional voters among Sikhs and Hindus, who keep late Beant Singh’s family in high esteem. TNSNotice to AAP’s Sanaur candidatePatiala: The Sanaur Returning Officer, Jasleen Kaur Bhullar, has sent a notice to the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanaur candidate Harmeet Singh Pathanmajra to publish information regarding a pending criminal case against him in a newspaper or on a television channel. The official said it had received a complaint from Jarnail Singh and Sanaur SAD candidate Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra regarding the matter. Bhullar said the AAP candidate had not submitted any information regarding a pending criminal case against him in his affidavit submitted to the election office. TNSBadal yet to return after check-upMuktsar: Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal (94), who is in the electoral fray from his home turf Lambi, is yet to return to Badal village. Notably, he had gone to Chandigarh for his post-Covid health check-up on Saturday. Sources said Badal was fine and was likely to return to the constituency by Friday. Meanwhile, his close relatives have planned a road show in the segment on Thursday, said sources. TNSPost code, 176 drug cases filed in BathindaBathinda: After the model code of conduct came into force in the state, the Bathinda police have registered 105 cases of liquor smuggling and 71 of drug peddling. The police have seized 32,645 intoxicating tablets, among other intoxicant substances, including heroin, poppy husk and opium, at inter-state check posts. TNS12,600 litres of hooch destroyedLambi (Muktsar): In a joint operation, the sleuths of the Excise Department and the police on Wednesday seized 12,600 litres of hooch, buried on the banks of a water channel at Kattianwali village in Lambi here. Excise Inspector Gurbinder Singh said the raid lasted for nearly five hours. The hooch was destroyed. Notably, a number of raids have been conducted in the past at this place, but there has been no end to the illegal practice. TNSLEADERSPEAKNDA’s manifesto full of liesThe manifesto, issued by BJP, Capt Amarinder and Sukhdev Dhindsa’s alliance, is full of lies. It has nothing for the farmers, labourers, traders, industrialists, students and youth of Punjab. — Bhagwant Mann, AAP leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-368502
10-02-2022||---||Bhagwant Mann broke his 2019 promise  to give up alcohol, says Charanjit Singh Channi||Moga, February 9Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has alleged AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann has reneged on his promise of giving up alcohol.“In 2019, Mann publically took an oath in his mother’s name to give up drinking. But he shamelessly broke the vow. How can a drunkard run the affairs of the state?” the CM told the media today.AAP leader can’t run stateHe shamelessly broke the vow he took in his mother’s name. How can a drunkard run the affairs of the state? - Charanjit Singh Channi, CMCong stands for progressThe quantum of work done by CM Channi in just 111 days is unmatchable. Electricity bills were halved and farmers’ loans were waived. The Congress stands for state’s progress. - Rajeev Shukla, Cong incharge for HPHe was in Baghapurana and Moga to campaign for party candidates Darshan Singh Brar and Malvika Sood, respectively.The CM has targeted Mann at a time when most of the surveys are hinting that AAP has an edge in the February 20 elections. He even claimed that the AAP leader consumed alcohol during the day. “He goes to Parliament and religious places in an inebriated condition. He is drunk even while campaigning,” he claimed.At a rally in Jaito, Channi said, “If Mann becomes the Chief Minister, he won’t be accessible to people after 6 pm. He is an uneducated leader who reads Rs 1.69 lakh as Rs 169 crore.”The remark was made in reference to Mann’s allegations that Channi possessed assets worth Rs 169 crore.He also trained the guns at BJP and SAD saying that the people of Punjab will never vote for these parties. #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-broke-his-2019-promise-to-give-up-alcohol-says-charanjit-singh-channi-368499
10-02-2022||---||Over 2,800 FIRs for poll code violation in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 9Muscle power, and free flow of liquor, narcotics and arms seems to have posed a challenge to conduct free and fair elections in Punjab. In all, 2,815 FIRs have been registered since the model code of conduct came into effect last month. On an average, around 100 cases were registered daily.As per the data compiled by the Election Commission (EC), 1,788 cases — the highest — were registered under the Excise Act. In other words, liquor has been flowing freely to influence voters.The banned psychotropic substances are also being used to win over voters, as 741 NDPS cases have been registered during the same period. Besides, 145 cases have been filed for property defacement and 62 cases for possessing illegal arms. And 51 cases have been registered under the IPC. Interestingly, two cases have been filed for violating Covid safety norms. Both cases were registered in Tarn Taran district.In a district-wise break-up, the Amritsar police registered the highest number of cases (362). It was followed by Jalandhar (223), Ludhiana (208), Mansa (202) and Mohali (199). The lowest number of cases were registered in Kapurthala (13). In all, 31 cases have been filed in Ropar, 37 in Barnala, 40 in Fatehgarh Sahib and 49 in Pathankot.The EC received 5,019 complaints through various modes — 4,811 have been disposed of and 208 are pending.Till February 8, enforcement teams seized valuables worth Rs 399.64 crore in violation of the model code of conduct.Surveillance teams have seized 41.66 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 23.70 crore. Psychotropic substances amounting to Rs 314.75 crore have been recovered, while unaccounted cash of Rs 25.63 crore has also been confiscated.Maximum seizures under excise, NDPS ActsRs23.70 cr worth of liquorRs314.75 cr worth of psychotropic substancesRs25.63 cr unaccounted cash1,356 vulnerable hamlets3,884 probable troublemakers112 unlicensed weapons seized||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-800-firs-for-poll-code-violation-in-punjab-368497
10-02-2022||Jalandhar||Sant Samaj to back SAD-BSP in Punjab Assembly election||The Gurmat Sidhant Pracharak Sant Samaj today announced support for the SAD-BSP alliance and urged all to support it for the welfare of Punjab. The decision was taken at a meeting of around 300 Sikh preachers that was presided over by Damdami Taksal chief Sant Harnam Singh Khalsa. The meeting was attended by Sikh preachers from different sects, including Udasin, Nirmale, Kar Sewa Wale and Nihang Singh representatives. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sant-samaj-to-back-sad-bsp-368496
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann attends Lok Sabha session, raises farmers' issues||Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann, fulfilling his responsibility as an MP, raised various issues pertaining to farmers in the Lok Sabha today. Leaving his Assembly poll campaign, he left for Delhi to participate in Parliament session today.He said about Rs 1.25-crore dues have not been paid to sugarcane farmers for 2020-21 and about Rs 20 crore for 2021-22. This has put financial burden on families of farmers. He appealed for the early release of farmers’ dues with interest.He said cotton growers had not been paid any compensation for the losses due to the pest attack. Mann also appealed that the government should acknowledge the sacrifice made by farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the farm laws. #bhagwant mann #farmers #lok sabha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-attends-lok-sabha-session-raises-farmers-issues-368495
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar denied Punjab CM post due to caste politics: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||The BJP today cornered the ruling Congress over the quitting of active politics by its campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar in the midst of the election campaign.“Jakhar has quit the active politics. This is primarily because he was refused the chief ministership for being a Hindu, something that, from his own admission, has hurt him badly,” said Union Minister and BJP state affairs incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.He added a majority of the MLAs had supported Jakhar for the chief ministership, but the Congress high command chose not to appoint him, because he was a Hindu. “The fault does not lie with the people of Punjab, but the Congress, which is trying to divide people along the communal lines,” he said.  #gajendra singh shekhawat #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-denied-punjab-cm-post-due-to-caste-politics-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-368494
10-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Poll duty ‘leaves’ employees ill, Sangrur DC forms medical board||Sangrur, February 9After being flooded with applications requesting exemption from the election duty on medical grounds, Sangrur District Electoral Officer (DEO) and Deputy Commissioner Ramvir has decided to conduct medical examination of applicants from a medical board.The DEO has decided if the application is found false, he would recommend negative remarks in the annual confidential report (ACR) of the person concerned. The ones found genuine will be sent to higher authorities for further action.Some sources said after the announcement of elections, it seems many employees have suddenly developed health problems. The exact number is not confirmed as more applications are coming daily.“Many are complaining of blood pressure and sugar problems while others are complaining of Covid aftereffects. Since Covid causes multiple problems in the body, it’s difficult to ascertain quickly whether employees are telling the truth or not. But it’s causing a lot of problem,” said a senior officer on anonymity.Apart from submitting applications for medical leave, there are many who are trying to get exemption through their connections with the high-ups. “Since political interference could not work these days, many employees are trying to get exemption through their connections with senior authorities,” said another senior officer.The Sangrur DC confirmed that he had set up medical board and the medical examination of all employees, who have submitted applications for medical leave, will be conducted after February 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-duty-leaves-employees-ill-sangrur-dc-forms-medical-board-368493
10-02-2022||Archit Watts & PC Nagpal||Punjab election: Leaders busy, daughters hold the fort||Muktsar/Fazilka, February 9With top leaders of various political parties busy campaigning across the state, their scions are holding the fort in their absence to ensure victory on home seats.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s son Anantveer has been campaigning in favour of his grandfather Parkash Singh Badal in the Lambi Assembly constituency. Though he is not delivering public speeches, wherever he goes, people take selfies with him.Notably, 94-year-old Badal is yet to return from Chandigarh, where he had gone on Saturday for his post-Covid health check-up.Similarly, Sukhbir’s elder daughter Harkirat Kaur Badal, 23, held campaigning for the former in the Jalalabad constituency. She along with SAD leaders Ashok Aneja, Prem Valecha and women leaders went door to door in different wards. “I was enthused to see works carried out by my father,” she said.Sukhbir is busy campaigning for party candidates across the state. In his absence, his lieutenants and local party leaders are holding the reigns of his election campaign in Jalalabad.Similarly, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s son Arjun Badal and daughter Rhea are campaigning in Bathinda. While Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s daughter Aekom has been campaigning in Gidderbaha, SAD’s Muktsar legislator Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi’s daughter Khushmehar Kaur has been canvassing in Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaders-busy-daughters-hold-the-fort-368492
10-02-2022||Aman Sood||NDA can ensure security, economic revival: Capt Amarinder Singh||Patiala, February 9Punjab Lok Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh today said the state needed the NDA government for security as well as economic revival as the Modi government was here to stay for another seven years.Akalis started divisive campaignThe SAD started the divisive campaign by announcing to anoint a Dalit Deputy CM if voted to power. It triggered a mad race to follow suit. Capt Amarinder Singh, PLC ChiefTaking a dig at the Congress, he said the party named Charanjit Channi as its CM face despite allegations of corruption after seizure of Rs 10 crore from his nephew’s possession. Talking to The Tribune, he said, “The NDA has released an agriculture-specific manifesto, promising guaranteed MSP for alternative crops and debt waiver for the farmers with less than five acres of land.” “The farming community will benefit from the state-Centre partnership. The BJP is here to stay at the Centre and it will be in the interest of Punjab to have an NDA government,” he said.At a function organised by the District Bar Association, he said: “We need a government that will take the security challenge seriously and work in close coordination with the Centre,” he said. #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nda-can-ensure-security-economic-revival-capt-amarinder-singh-368491
10-02-2022||Ludhiana||Simarjit Singh Bains released after 8 hours of questioning||A day after he was held in an attempt to murder case, Lok Insaf Party MLA from Atam Nagar Simarjit Singh Bains was on Tuesday released, as his questioning failed to yield any evidence against him.Will examine proofBains was rounded up on the basis of an FIR. Videos of the spot and eyewitnesses’ account will be examined to know the truth. Ravcharan Singh Brar, Joint CP (Rural)The police said Bains was questioned for over eight hours, but no such incriminating evidence was found against him, leading to his release. The LIP MLA, his son and 32 others were booked on the complaint of Congress leaders, who had alleged that supporters of Bains led by his son Ajay Preet damaged the Toyota Fortuner of party candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal, a Bolero of another leader at Gill market in Shimlapuri on Monday. The FIR also mentions that the MLA had fired gunshots at Karwal.“Bains was rounded up by the police from the court complex on the basis of the FIR. Videos of the spot will be examined and eyewitnesses will be questioned to know the truth. For the time being, Bains has been released. He will join the investigation when required,” said Joint CP Rural Ravcharan Singh Brar.On Wednesday, Bains went live on his Facebook page. He claimed: “We did not attack Karwal and his supporters, rather we were attacked. Let the police conduct the probe, truth will come out. We have also written to the EC regarding this.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjit-singh-bains-released-after-8-hours-of-questioning-368490
10-02-2022||---||Doaba's senior Dalit  leader Avinash Chander in BJP fold||Jalandhar, February 9Former Akali leader Avinash Chander today joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and senior BJP leaders in Jalandhar. A prominent and influential Dalit leader of Doaba, Chander mentioned the agenda of “upliftment of Dalits” as the prime reason for his embracing the BJP.The two-time MLA won the Kartarpur and Phillaur seats in 2007 and 2012, respectively. Following his name figuring in a high-profile ED probe and the Akali Dal cold-shouldering him, Chander resigned from the SAD in 2016. He had been keeping distance from active politics ever since.In 2014, the BJP pressured the former ally, SAD, to oust Chander when his name figured in an ED probe during the ongoing synthetic drug racket case. However, today Shekhawat along with senior BJP leaders warmly welcomed him into the party.Speaking on the Bhola drug case, Chander said: “The guilty have been caught and those who had to be punished have been punished in the case.”Close to Dera Sachkhand Ballan #Dalit #Doaba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doabas-senior-dalit-leader-in-bjp-fold-368489
10-02-2022||---||Congress MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa's brother Harpinder Singh Rajan joins SAD||Amritsar, February 9The Congress suffered a jolt in Majha as Harpinder Singh Gill ‘Rajan’, the brother of Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill Dimpa, joined the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and general secretary Bikram Singh Majithia here today. Rajan was appointed general secretary of the SAD.Along with him, sarpanches, panches and block-level leaders of the Congress switched loyalty to the SAD.Lok Sabha member Dimpa, who had skipped Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s January 27 visit to the Golden Temple, was dejected after the party fielded sitting MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki from Khadoor Sahib.Rajan said, “For the past four generations, my family has been associated with the Congress. Having said that, the principles for which the party stood have been thrown to the wind as persons with mafia links have been fielded. Party tickets were sold. All this forced me to quit the Congress.” Rajan and Dimpa’s son Gursant Updesh Singh Gill had filed nomination papers as “Congress candidates” from Khadoor Sahib on February 1, the day Sikki filed his papers. Their candidatures were, however, rejected for the want of an authority letter from the party.The disgruntled MP had taken to Twitter to express his dissatisfaction. “What should be done if your party ignores hard work, loyalty and honesty?” he had tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-brother-joins-sad-368488
10-02-2022||GS Paul||Amid campaign, Navjot Singh Sidhu leaves for Vaishno Devi shrine again||Amritsar, February 9With the electoral contest heating up in the most-keenly watched Amritsar East constituency, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu again left for Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi, J&K. It is his second visit to the shrine in a week.With Sidhu away, his better half Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu is meeting residents of the constituency which she represented between 2012 and 2017. Dr Sidhu had yesterday expressed her discontentment over the criterion followed by the Congress high command to select the CM face. She said since Sidhu was performing party duty across the state, she was holding the fort. She claimed several people had lodged complaint against SAD candidate Bikram Singh Majithia for threatening them.Nonetheless, it is learnt that Sidhu will stay for the night at the shrine to participate in the morning prayers before returning on Thursday. A week ago, on February 2, prior to the Congress seeking public opinion on the CM candidate, Sidhu had gone to pay obeisance at the shrine.On the political front, Sidhu is pitted against Majithia in a neck-and-neck fight. “The constituency has a substantial Hindu population. Each and every vote matters. Sidhu’s repeated visits to the Hindu shrine could be an attempt to woo the community,” said Sarbjit Singh Verka, a local.Meanwhile, the PCC chief on his social media page today posted a video titled ‘Honour lies in honest toil’. In the five-and-a-half-minute video, Sidhu through ‘old clips’ explain that he chose to quit the plum political posts for the sake of Punjab and justice in sacrilege incidents. It also contains shots of his visit to Pakistan during the opening of Kartarpur corridor.Mentioning about the 1988 fatal road rage case, it was subtitled in the video that the High Court in 2007 had given him relief, followed by his acquittal by the Supreme Court.The video also has a brief of his political posts, including winning as MP for the BJP thrice, how the Badals conspired to shunt him out to pave way for Arun Jaitley from Amritsar seat in 2014. The video also shows him offering monetary aid ‘out of the way’ from his own pocket.Posts ‘Honour lies in honest toil’ video #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-campaign-navjot-singh-sidhu-leaves-for-vaishno-devi-shrine-again-368487
10-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Campaign Trail Gurdaspur: Raman Bahl's aim — Sweeping changes||Gurdaspur, February 9Modern day politics requires ruthlessness, ferocity and lots of lies. The reticent and restrained Raman Bahl of AAP fails to tick any of these boxes. Nevertheless, after a lot of dilly-dallying the man has now changed his mind. From being apolitical, he has decided to become political. He says one of the disadvantages of staying away from politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors. And that is the last thing he wants.“Just because you do not take an interest in politics does not mean politics will not take an interest in you. I have come to cleanse the system with a broom. A new broom sweeps clean. And an old one sweeps all the corners clean. I have both, so better watch out,” he quipped.At precisely 10 am, he starts off from his home. By 8 pm, he has covered six to eight villages. This has been going on for the last two months. Once the rural areas are done with, he reaches out to urbanites in the evening.From the next week, he will be visiting each and every one of the 29 municipal wards the city has. “I see corruption all around me. Like the municipal committee workers, better put politicians on minimum wage and then see how things change,” maintains Bahl.He addresses gatherings at Langah, Mustafabad and Bakhatpur villages. “False FIRs have been registerd against many. You can see a sense of trepidation and fear among people particularly those living in the rural areas. Leaders have been promising the moon to the poor villagers but at the end of the day they get zilch. This time people, wizened by time, are going to vote for the change,” he said. Bahl, an upper caste Hindu, is banking on the Jat Sikh and the floating SC vote to pull him through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-trail-gurdaspur-raman-bahls-aim-%E2%80%94-sweeping-changes-368486
10-02-2022||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||PM Modi to address election rallies in Punjab on February 14, 16, 17||To give further boost to the National Democratic Alliance campaign in Punjab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address three public rallies in Punjab the state on February 14, 16 and 17 covering all the three regions of Malwa, Doaba and Majha.Cancelling the virtual rally to be held on Wednesday for 27 Assembly seats of Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Bathinda, the BJP said PM Modi will hold an election rally in Jalandhar on February 14.Modi had started a series of virtual rallies on Tuesday. He had held the rally on Tuesday for the constituencies of Ludhiana and Ferozepur. As on Wednesday arrangements had been made for the next virtual rallies, it was announced that he would visit here for a physical rally, which would most likely be held at the PAP grounds.“In 2017 also, the party had chosen this venue and will most likely keep it the same this time,” said ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia.The decision to hold a physical rally comes after it was being felt that the impact of virtual rally is not much and that it fails to sway the voters in the party's favour.Modi had come to Punjab for a rally in Ferozepur on January 5 but could not address it owing to the alleged security breach as his passage got blocked by agitating farmers. State BJP general secretary Subash Sharma said PM Modi will address the second rally in Pathankot on February 16 and third one in Abohar on February 17.He said the Prime Minister’s rallies will change the political atmosphere in the state and further boost the confidence of all the NDA candidates fighting elections.This way the Prime Minister will cover all three regions of the state Jalandhar in Doaba, Pathankot in Majha and Abohar in Malwa. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-narendra-modi-to-hold-rally-in-jalandhar-on-february-14-368421
10-02-2022||New Delhi/Amritsar||BSF fires at Pakistan drone, foils drugs, weapon smuggling bid in Punjab||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday recovered over 4 kg of RDX, a pistol and bomb-making items dropped in two packets by a drone that flew from Pakistan into an Indian farm along the Punjab border.A spokesperson of the paramilitary force said troops fired after they heard a "buzzing sound of a suspected flying object coming from the Pakistani side to the Indian side" around 1 am in the Panjgrain area of Gurdaspur sector.A search was later conducted in the wheat farms of Ghaggar and Singhoke villages along the border and the BSF party recovered two yellow-coloured packets, lying about 20 m apart embedded in the wet soil, he said.Initially, it was thought that the packets may be containing narcotics but when they were opened, about 4.7 kg RDX, a China-made pistol, two magazines with 22 bullets, three electronic detonators, timer device, detonating cord (cordtex wire), splinters, cells, steel container, nylon thread, plastic pipe, packing material and Rs 1 lakh cash were recovered, he said.An official said the recovered items are used to make RDX powered improvised explosive devices (IEDs) or bombs like the ones recently used in a Ludhiana court in December last year and the one found in the Ghazipur flower market in Delhi last month.RDX or research department explosive is a black coloured military grade explosive.The drone that dropped the packets about 2.7 km into the Indian side from the border fence is suspected to have escaped to the Pakistani side, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-fires-at-pakiatan-drone-foils-drugs-weapon-smuggling-bid-in-punjab-368400
