11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress MLA Balwinder Laddi rejoins BJP||Days after returning to the Congress fold, sitting Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi rejoined the BJP on Friday evening.Laddi had left the Congress and joined the BJP on December 28. He, however, quit the BJP within six days and returned to the Congress. He now again has rejoined the BJP as the Congress ticket has been given to a low-profile party leader and village sarpanch Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal, who is loyal to minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.“The Congress doesn’t value its leaders. Therefore, I am forced to return to the BJP,” Laddi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-balwinder-laddi-rejoins-bjp-369033
11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi’s nephew sent to 14-day judicial custody in illegal sand mining case||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey has been sent to judicial custody for 14 days on Friday in connection with Enforcement Directorate's investigation into an illegal sand mining case.Honey will be spending his judicial remand in Kapurthala jail.He was arrested on February 3 on money laundering charges less than a fortnight after the ED conducted searches at his properties in Ludhiana and Mohali.Channi has called the allegations a "witch-hunt" done at the behest of the BJP. #CharanjitChanni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channis-nephew-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-in-illegal-sand-mining-case-368991
11-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||57 Punjab constituencies have 3 or more candidates with criminal cases in fray, says survey||Chandigarh, February 11Punjab Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) have analysed the self-sworn affidavits of 1,276 candidates out of 1,304, who are contesting the Punjab Assembly elections.The report was released by Jaskirat Singh, trustee, ADR, Parvinder Singh Kittna, Punjab Election Watch, and Harpreet Singh here on Friday.Of the 1,276 candidates analysed, 228 are from national parties, 256 from state parties, 345 from registered unrecognised parties and 447 candidates are contesting independently.Punjab Election Watch and ADR could not analyse 28 candidates as their affidavits were either badly scanned or complete affidavits were not uploaded on the ECI website.Of the 1,276 candidates analysed, 315 (25 per cent) candidates have declared criminal cases against them. It includes 218 or 17 per cent with serious offences.In the 2017 Punjab Assembly election, of the 1,145 candidates analysed, 100 (9 per cent) had declared criminal cases against them, including 7 per cent with serious offences.Among the major parties, 65 (68 per cent) out of 96 candidates analysed from SAD, 58 (50 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from AAP, 27 (38 per cent) out of 71 candidates analysed from the BJP, four (29 per cent) out of 14 candidates analysed from Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), three (15 per cent) out of 20 candidates analysed from the BSP, 16 (14 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from the Congress and three (11 per cent) out of 27 candidates analysed from Punjab Lok Congress have declared criminal cases against them.Among the major parties, 60 (63 per cent) out of 96 candidates analysed from SAD, 27 (23 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from AAP, 15 (21 per cent) out of 71 candidates analysed from the BJP, three (21 per cent) out of 14 candidates analysed from Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), three (15 per cent) out of 20 candidates analysed from the BSP, nine (8 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from the Congress and two (7 per cent) out of 27 candidates analysed from Punjab Lok Congress have declared serious criminal cases against them.Fifteen candidates have declared cases related to crime against women. Of these, two candidates have declared cases related to rape, four to murder and 33 candidates have declared cases related to attempt to murder against them.As many as 57 (49 per cent) of the 117 constituencies in the state are red-alert constituencies. Red-alert constituencies are those where three or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against them.Of the 1,276 candidates, 521 (41 per cent) are crorepatis. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly elections, of the 1,145 candidates, 428 (37 per cent) were crorepatis.The role of money power in our elections is evident from the fact that all major political parties give tickets to wealthy candidates. Among the major parties 89 (93 per cent) out of 96 candidates analysed from SAD, 107 (92 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from the Congress, 60 (85 per cent) out of 71 candidates analysed from the BJP, 16 (80 per cent) out of 20 candidates analysed from the BSP, 11 (79 per cent) out of 14 candidates analysed from the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), 81 (69 per cent) out of 117 candidates analysed from AAP and 16 (59 per cent) out of 27 candidates analysed from Punjab Lok Congress have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore.The average assets per candidate contesting the Punjab Assembly elections are Rs 4.31 crore. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly elections, the average assets per candidate for 1,145 candidates were Rs 3.49 crore.Among major parties, the average assets per candidate for 117 Congress candidates analysed are Rs 13.27 crore; 96 SAD candidates have average assets of Rs 12.69 crore, 71 BJP candidates have average assets of Rs 7.69 crore, 117 AAP candidates have average assets of Rs 7.03 crore, 14 Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) candidates have average assets of Rs 5.36 crore, 27 Punjab Lok Congress candidates have average assets of Rs 5.27 crore and 20 BSP candidates have average assets of Rs 4.27 crore.The highest assets among the candidates in the fray are those of Kulwant Singh of AAP from SAS Nagar, at Rs 238 crore, Sukhbir Singh Badal of SAD from Jalalabad at Rs 202 crore, Karan Kaur of the Congress from Muktsar at Rs 155 crore.Five candidates have declared zero assets; 653 (51 per cent) candidates have declared liabilities in their affidavits. Among the candidates who have declared highest liabilities are Rana Gurjit Singh of the Congress at Rs 71.75 crore, Sukhbir Singh Badal of the SAD at Rs 66.95 crore, and Aman Arora of AAP at Rs 22.88 crore.Candidates who have declared highest annual income are Kulwant Singh of AAP from SAS Nagar at Rs 16.33 crore, Aman Arora of AAP at Rs 5.66 crore, and Manpreet Singh Badal of the Congress at 3.15 crores.As many as 695 (54 per cent) candidates have declared their educational qualifications to be between fifth standard pass and 12th standard pass while 483 (38 per cent) candidates have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above; 24 candidates are diploma holders; 21 candidates have declared themselves to be just literate and 49 candidates are illiterates; four candidates have not given their educational qualification.As many as 349 (27 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 25 and 40 while 671 (53 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 41 and 60. There are 254 (20 per cent) candidates who have declared their age to be between 61 and 80 and two candidates have declared that they are above 80.As many as 90 (7 per cent) women candidates are contesting the Punjab assembly election. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly election, 81 (7 per cent) of the 1,145 candidates analysed were women. #adr #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/57-constituencies-have-3-or-more-candidates-with-criminal-cases-in-the-fray-adr-368983
11-02-2022||Patiala||Punjab Assembly poll: Sanour AAP candidate booked for 'false affidavit'||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Sanour has been booked by the Patiala police for allegedly submitting a false affidavit when he filed his nomination papers for the Punjab Assembly election.Harmit Singh Pathanmajra has been booked under Sections 191 and 199 of the IPC and Section 125-A of the Representation of People Act.The FIR has been registered on a complaint filed by the returning officer.In the complaint, the returning officer said the candidate, in his nomination papers filed on January 31 did not disclose about the criminal case against him.The candidate is said to have a criminal case pending against him, in Barnala district where he had been declared a proclaimed offender.Mohammad Shakeel, who's contesting the elections as an independent candidate from Malerkotla, has been arrested for election fraud. Punjab's Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said he was booked under sections 193/199 of the IPC and 125A Representation of People Act, at PS City-1 Malerkotla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanour-aap-candidate-booked-for-false-affidavit-368970
11-02-2022||PK Jaiswar||14 years on, Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh finally opens for public||Amritsar, February 10The Summer Palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, situated in the historic Rambagh, popularly known as Company Bagh, has finally opened for public after 14 years of conservation work.The building is currently under the possession of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Department. A museum has come up, where artifacts and weapons, including swords, katars and rifles of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh era has been displayed for public.The multimedia touch panels in Punjabi, Hindi and English languages have also been installed inside each gallery, from where visitors can get information about the artifacts kept in the respective galleries.At the entrance, visitors can see the mannequins of Maharaja Ranjit Singh sitting on his throne (replica of original throne) and his coterie. The original artistically-carved roofs have also been fixed, which further adds to the attraction.Rambagh was declared a “protected monument” in 2004. However, even after the notification, it was never fully handed over to the ASI. The ASI has the possession of the garden and carries out conservation work at the entrance, four watch towers, hamamghar, Chhoti Baradari and machhighar.The main Summer Palace building, where the Maharaja used to stay, was in the custody of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Board that carried out its preservation work. Before the conservation, which started in 2007, there was a museum in the building. During the conservation work, the heritage artifacts belonging to the Maharaja Ranjit Singh era were shifted to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama and brought back to the museum.“The department has put up a ticket for entering the museum — Rs10 for adults and Rs4 for children,” said an official. He said a few people are currently visiting the museum due to lack of publicity. #maharaja ranjit singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-14-years-on-summer-palace-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-finally-opens-for-public-368943
11-02-2022||Parveen Arora||RPO writes to DGPs of Haryana, Punjab over fake passport cases||Karnal, February 10After surfacing of flaws in the police verification that led to making of passports on fake documents across the region, the Regional Passport Officer (RPO), Chandigarh, has written to the DGPs in Haryana, Punjab and UT for the implementation of complete police verification process of the applicant.Visit residence of applicantsThe police official has to verify the address and documents by visiting the house of the applicant and inquire from the neighbours. I have written to DGPs for the implementation of the complete verification to check malpractice. Sibash Kabiraj, Regional passport officer, chandigarhThe RPO said ensuring proper procedure would help in tightening the noose around fraudsters.As many as 200 passports, which were made with the help of fake documents such as address proof, qualification certificate and others, have been detected in the region. Of them, 160 were from Punjab and 40 from Haryana.In the past week, 21 cases of passports made on fake documents have been detected in Karnal. Earlier, some cases also surfaced in Fatehabad and Ambala, the police said.The RPO has suggested that during the police verification, the official must visit the residence of the applicant and inquire from neighbours as well whether the applicant was a resident of the area or not.As per the sources in the Police Department, at present, in majority of cases, instead of going to the residence of the applicant, the police called the applicant along with two witnesses to the police station for completing the verification process.“The police official has to verify the address and documents by visiting the house of the applicant and inquire from the neighbours. I have written to Haryana, Punjab and UT DGPs for the implementation of the complete police verification to check malpractice,” said Sibash Kabiraj, 1999 batch Haryana cadre IPS officer posted as RPO at Chandigarh.He also suggested the use of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) to check the crime record of applicant instead of checking it manually only at one police station.“The crime record of the applicant has to be checked with the help of CCTNS. Presently, the police are verifying the record only at the local police station. The CCTNS verification will verify whether the applicant has any criminal record across country. It will help us to determine the complete criminal history of the applicant,” Kabiraj added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rpo-writes-to-dgps-of-haryana-punjab-over-fake-passport-cases-368833
11-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||HC's show-cause notice to Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari||Chandigarh, February 10Nearly seven months after the state of Punjab said decision on granting sanction in a scam allegedly involving two ex-ministers, their two personal assistants, and three IAS officers, would be taken expeditiously, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a show-cause notice to Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, and other officers. They have been asked to explain why proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act should not be initiated against them.The notice by Justice BS Walia came on a contempt petition filed against Tiwari and other respondents by Harmit Singh through senior advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu with counsel Himmat Singh Sidhu. The case has its genesis in a petition filed in public interest by Harmit Singh and other petitioners.As the PIL came up for hearing in July last year, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli was told by the petitioners that the state was dragging its feet in the investigation of an FIR registered on August 17, 2017, for cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 406, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471, 477-A and120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, at Vigilance Bureau police station, Phase 1, Mohali.It was added that the authorities had taken cognisance of the matter and had conducted the investigation. But necessary sanction for prosecution had not been granted. The state counsel, on the other hand, had submitted that the matter would be examined by the authorities and necessary action and decision, if so required, on the representation/legal notice filed by the petitioners would be taken by the authorities expeditiously in accordance with law.Disposing of the matter, the Bench on July 14, 2021, asserted: “In the circumstances and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the petition is disposed of with a direction that the authorities shall look into the grievances/concerns that are being raised by the petitioners and take the necessary measures/decision on the petitioners’ representation/legal notice… The petitioners may also and if so advised file a representation before the appropriate authority in respect of any action on the complaint before the Enforcement Directorate.”Appearing before Justice Walia’s Bench, Baltej Singh Sidhu contended non-compliance of order dated July 14, 2021, amounted to willful, intentional, deliberate violation of the orders passed by the High Court. As such, they had made themselves liable to be punished under the Contempt of Court Act. The case will now come up for further hearing on February 22.‘Non-compliance’ of july 2021 orderAppearing before Justice Walia’s Bench, advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu contended non-compliance of order dated July 14, 2021, amounted to willful, intentional, deliberate violation of the orders passed by the High Court. As such, they had made themselves liable to be punished under the Contempt of Court Act. The case will now come up for further hearing on February 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hcs-show-cause-notice-to-chief-secy-368813
11-02-2022||---||Sriganganagar man arrested for sharing info with Pakistan intelligence agency||Abohar/Sriganganagar, Feb 10A youth has been arrested in Sriganganagar for allegedly sharing information related to strategically important locations in the Indian territory with Pakistan-based intelligence agencies through social media, by posing as a fake soldier.A counter intelligence team of the CID (special branch) was keeping an eye on the suspicious activities of Shakti Pal Jat of Chak 6LPM village for a long time. He was taken into custody today after getting evidence. Shakti Pal has been taken to Jaipur for interrogation.The police said the accused had created accounts on Facebook and WhatsApp, impersonating as an Army personnel. Through these, he was reportedly in contact with Pakistan Intelligence Operatives (PIO). He used to share information related to the Army with the PIO handler. He not only bought Army uniform, badges and belts illegally, but also used them to establish himself as a soldier. By grabbing canteen cards of familiar military personnel, he allegedly prepared in a coded manner with their names and photos. For displaying official military correspondence, he also prepared fake papers in the name of various military institutions by arranging fake seals.During interrogation, photographs of Indian Army vehicles, units and soldiers at various places have also been reportedly found from his mobile phone. A case has been registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC.Impersonated as Army manThe accused had created accounts on Facebook and WhatsApp, impersonating as an Army man. Through these, he was reportedly in contact with Pakistan Intelligence Operatives (PIO). He used to share information related to the Army with the PIO handler. #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-arrested-for-sharing-info-with-pak-intelligence-agency-368816
11-02-2022||Sameer Singh||Cancer a 'non-issue' for parties in Malwa||Bathinda, February 10On an average, five to seven cancer patients die of cancer every year in Chathewala village of Bathinda, situated at the tail-end of Talwandi Sabo block, for the past many years. Of around 500 families in this village, over 150 are afflicted with the deadly disease. It is one of the several villages in various districts of the Malwa region, which is infamous as the cancer belt in the state.The agony of seven-year-old Harnoor Singh’s (name changed) parents, who lost their only child to blood cancer three years ago at Chathewala village, can’t be imagined. Harnoor’s father, a marginal farmer, had sold one acre of land to bear the cost of his treatment at private hospitals in Bathinda and later in Ludhiana, but could not save his life.Leaders busy luring votersLeaders of political parties are busy luring voters with freebies while campaigning but they do not have any roadmap to address one of the gravest issues facing the state. Let alone address it, they are not even bothered to talk about it. —Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, Cancer care society ambassadorSimilarly, Sukhmandar Singh (45) of the same village, had lost his mother (six months after the diagnosis) to cancer over a year ago. He said: “Not even a single political party has shared a comprehensive roadmap or its vision for early diagnosis (as maximum cases are detected at the third or fourth stage), prevention or to provide quality medical treatment for cancer patients. One of the major concerns of the state is, shockingly, a non-issue for the political parties.”Sukhmandar said: “Due to lack of proper mechanism in place to ensure early diagnosis and treatment, the fatality rate is higher in the state. Moreover, lack of awareness among people and concerted efforts by the government are also a cause for concern.”The number of cases, due to polluted groundwater and overuse of pesticides, is high in the Talwandi Sabo constituency villages, Jeon Singhwala, Nasibpura, Bhagi Bandar, Mahi Nangal, Laleana, Natt, Mansa Kalan and Deon villages of Bathinda. The rate of cases reported in Mansa, Muktsar, Sangrur and Ferozepur districts is also high.As per the data of the Advanced Cancer Hospital that caters to cancer patients of not only Bathinda and other Malwa districts, but also those from neighbouring Haryana and Rajasthan, 6,233 cancer patients visited the outpatient department (OPD) unit for treatment in 2016 and the number notched up to 14,802 patients in 2018. In 2019, it further increased to 18,616 and in 2020, the patient inflow increased to 30,768. Owing to Covid restrictions, the inflow remained somewhat static and 30,459 patients (new and follow-ups) visited the hospital for treatment.According to data accessed from the Advanced Cancer Institute-cum-Hospital, there is almost fivefold increase in patient inflow, both at OPD and IPD sections, in the past four years but the cancer facility is grappling with acute shortage of staff, thereby taking a toll on quality of treatment being provided there. #Malwa #malwa cancer belt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancer-a-non-issue-for-parties-in-malwa-368819
11-02-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Students protest outside Canadian consulate, demand refund||Chandigarh, February 10Members of the Indian-Montreal Youth Students Organisation today protested outside the Canadian consulate and demanded refund from three Montreal-based Colleges, which were shut abruptly.The institutes include Collège de comptabilité et de secrétariat du Québec (CCSQ), College de I’Estrie (CDE) and M College, owned by the Mastantuono family. The family had filed for the creditor protection. The agitating students raised slogans against the Canadian Government and sought immediate refund.‘Youth being sent abroad as donkeys’Husan Bawa, a student, said, “Soon after learning about the status of these colleges, we requested refund. As per rules, refund process should be initiated within 45 days. These colleges kept us in dark all this while.”M College and CDE College were among 10 private colleges investigated for their doubtful recruitment practices. The process had put a hold on the processing of Quebec Acceptance Certificates (CAQ), a document international students have to obtain for their study permit.Another student, Simranpreet Kaur, said, “This all started last year. Students asked for refunds. The college authorities and even the agents kept us in dark. The college asked students to carry on with online classes.”Lovepreet Singh, another student, said, “In 2014, members of the Mastantuono family were arrested by Quebec’s permanent anti-corruption unit (UPAC) for an alleged set of the Lester B Pearson School Board. The students have paid nearly Rs 10 lakh each for their admissions and other permits.”Meanwhile, the protesting students met Canadian consulate officials in Chandigarh today.“The officials ensured us of a solution within a week. If things don’t work out, we will organise a huge protest in Ludhiana on February 23,” said Simranpreet, a student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-protest-outside-canadian-consulate-demand-refund-368826
11-02-2022||---||Teach history of Sahibzadas in Delhi schools, demands DSGMC||New Delhi, February 10The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has urged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to include the history of the four Sahibzadas — children of Guru Gobind Singh — in the school curriculum in Delhi.In a letter written to Kejriwal on the issue, DSGMC president Harmeet Singh Kalka and general secretary Jagdeep Singh Kahlon said the Government of India had officially declared to observe “Veer Baal Diwas” on December 26 every year to commemorate the unparalleled martyrdom of the Sahibzadas — Ajit Singh, Jujhar Singh, Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh.A chapter on the Sahibzadas should be included in the textbooks of the schools of the Delhi Government so that children can learn about them, said the DSGMC. The letter also demanded that a chapter on “Delhi Fateh Divas” should be included in the textbooks of the Delhi Government schools to educate children about the time when native Indians defeated Mughal Emperor Shah Alam-II in 1783. #DSGMC #guru gobind singh #sahibzadas #Sikhs #veer baal diwas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teach-history-of-sahibzadas-in-delhi-schools-demands-dsgmc-368829
11-02-2022||Sangrur||Bank staffer suspended over poll code violation||A clerk-cum-data entry operator, Vikramdeep Singh, posted at the Branch Office of Cooperative Bank, Sangrur, has been suspended for violating the model code of conduct.As per the suspension orders issued by the District Manager of the bank, in violation of the poll code, Vikramdeep was found involved in political activities and is thus suspended with immediate effect. The suspension order states that during the period of suspension, he would report to the Lehragaga branch headquarters and would not leave the office without an approval of the competent authority.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Ramvir has directed all officers and employees, involved in the election process, to strictly follow the instructions of the EC. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bank-staffer-suspended-over-poll-code-violation-368832
11-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||In Bhadaur, Opposition counters 'poor' Charanjit Channi||Bhadaur, February 10The Congress’ attempt to highlight the poverty and Dalit connection of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to get votes has given more ammunition to all candidates, who are contesting from Bhadaur reserved constituency against him.Earlier, it was the ‘outsider tag’ on Channi, but now ‘bechara garib CM’, ‘aisa garib rab sab nu banave” and “gariba da majak bana ke rakh dita” narratives are gaining ground in Bhadaur. Majority of political opponents of CM Channi have started exerting their all energy to counter the poverty claims of Channi.Congress has trivialised PovertyThe Congress has made the poor a butt of jokes. The poverty of CM Charanjit Singh Channi is not an issue here as all know the definition of poor. —Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD-BSP candidateCrorepati projected as CM faceThe Congress has hurt the sentiments of the poor by trying to project a ‘crorepati CM’ as poor. I come from a poor family and know their pain. — Bhagwant Singh Samaon, CPI (ML) candidate“There are many poor who do not have enough money to buy flour, but the CM and his relatives have property worth crores. The Congress has hurt the sentiments of the poor by trying to project their ‘crorepati CM’ as poor. I come from a poor family and know their pain,” said Bhagwant Singh Samaon, the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) candidate.He has Rs 5,000 cash and Rs 1000 in his bank account. But his liabilities are Rs 15,000. As per the affidavit of CM Channi, he has assets of worth Rs 6.17 crore, of which Rs 4.71 crore are immoveable and remaining Rs 1.46 crore moveable.“The Congress has made the poor a butt of jokes among the middle and elite class. The poverty of CM Channi is not an issue here as all know the definition of poor. The Congress will face defeat from here,” said Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD-BSP candidate. In their every function, political opponents are targeting CM and his party.“Our CM Charanjit Singh Channi cannot claim to be poor,” says Labh Singh Ugoke, AAP candidate from Bhadaur.As per revised electoral rolls, there are total 1,56,566 voters, including 73,549 women. There are total 77 villages in the constituency and has two urban areas, including Tapa and Bhadaur. The lack of health, education, roads and other basic amenities are main issues here. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-bhadaur-oppn-counters-poor-channi-368781
11-02-2022||Abohar||AAP pinning hope on turncoats: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi||Taking a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said about 50 defectors from other parties who were fielded by the AAP won’t be able to convert its dreams into a reality.Addressing a gathering here today, Channi said what the Badals-led alliance couldn’t do in 10 years and Capt Amarinder Singh in four years, was done by his government in just 111 days. “More than 150 long-pending problems were resolved in a short span of time. Power bills worth Rs 1,500 crore were waived, while the water bills distributed this month are a testimony to the fact that the promise of giving 50 per cent discount to the consumers has also been fulfilled. Farmers were given relief by reducing the diesel price and now, Punjab has the lowest electricity rate,” the CM added.Giving credit to the family of former Lok Sabha Speaker Balram Jakhar for the multifaceted development, he said the Jakhars always safeguarded public interest. “If the Congress forms the government again, then along with free education in government schools and colleges, scholarships will be given to the SCs and STs, besides subsidy to families of the general category and owners of land up to 5 acres.”Meanwhile, BKU (Rajewal) district head Gunwant Singh, AAP leader Varinder Singh Khalsa and trade unions’ leader Baldev Singh joined the Congress. — OC‘Handling state & stage different’Fatehgarh Sahib: Campaigning for local candidate Kuljit Singh Nagra, CM Channi lashed out at AAP’s CM face Bhagwant Mann, saying there was a difference between handling a “stage” and “state”. Anyone can conduct a stage, while running a state requires great skill, educational qualification and a clean image. “I am pursuing PhD, while Mann has passed class XII and remains inebriated most of the times,” he said. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-pinning-hope-on-turncoats-cm-368783
11-02-2022||Nitin Jain||Up against newcomers, Gurkirat Kotli eyes hat-trick||Ludhiana, February 10Industries Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli looks to register his third straight victory in an unprecedented five-cornered contest from the Khanna Assembly constituency, the Asia’s largest grain market.Having won his two previous polls in 2017 and 2012, an exception in Khanna, the Congress nominee, who became a minister in the rejigged Punjab Cabinet in September, has been pitted against new faces — Tarunpreet Singh Sond (AAP), Jasdeep Kaur Yadu (SAD-BSP), and Sukhwant Singh Tillu (SSM).Lone to log two wins in a row from seatThe BJP has fielded turncoat Gurpreet Singh Bhatti, who had contested from Amloh on the AAP ticket in 2017 and Khanna on Manpreet Badal’s PPP in 2012. He had recently joined the saffron party.While Kotli, grandson of CM Beant Singh, is banking on the 111-day performance of the Channi-led regime and his own services for the constituency, his opponents are raising the issues of lack of basic civic amenities, haphazard growth, alleged involvement in illegal distillery case, disconnect with the locals and discontent among a group of councillors.Jasdeep Kaur, wife of controversial YAD leader Yadwinder Singh alias Yadu, who was facing multiple criminal cases, has replaced party heavyweight Ranjit Singh Talwandi, who had finished third in 2017 and had parted ways to join the SAD (Sanyukt).Tillu, who was the national general secretary and halqa incharge of the SAD (Sanyukt), had quit the party after being denied a ticket. His wife Inderjit Kaur Pandher was president of the Dhindsa outfit’s women wing.Bhatti is having a tough time persuading the local cadres of the BJP and its allies to move along. Sond is a leading businessman and had joined the AAP in January 2016.Besides, Paramjeet Singh Rinka of the SAD (Amritsar), Sukhmit Singh Khanna of the Punjab Kisan Dal, Karnail Singh Ikolaha of the Revolutionary Socialist Party and two Independents — Raj Kumar and Paramjeet Walia — were also in the fray.With an increase of over 6 per cent voters since 2017, Khanna has 1,69,510 voters, including 89,081 male, 80,427 female, and 2 third gender.In 2017, Khanna had scripted history when Kotli retained the seat by defeating AAP’s Anil Dutt Phally by 20,591 votes. In 2012, Kotli had trounced SAD’s Ranjit Singh Talwandi by 7,278 votes. #gurkirat kotli||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-against-newcomers-kotli-eyes-hat-trick-368785
11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Six over 80 in the fray, Parkash Singh Badal oldest||At 94, SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal is the oldest candidate in the fray, while Munish Kumar, contesting from Bhoa, is among the youngest. Six candidates over 80 and nine candidates aged 25 are in the fray for the upcoming Assembly elections.Besides Badal, contesting from Lambi, the other five oldest candidates in the fray are Ranjit Singh Brahampura, 84, (Khadoor Sahib); and Om Parkash Jakhu (Hoshiarpur), Tota Singh (Dharamkot), Bidra Ram (Malout) and Baldev Mann (Sunam), all 80 years old.Nine candidates aged 25 year included Munish Kumar (Bhoa), Tarun Mehta (Amritsar South), Dr Sukhmandeep Singh Dhillon (Tarn Taran); Parmjeet Walia (Khanna), Gurjinder Singh (Gidderbaha); Harsimranjot Singh (Kotkapura); Rampy Kaur (Talwandi Sabo); Raj Kumar (Mansa); Supinder Singh (Mehal Kalan).He said there were 24,740 polling stations in 14,684 polling locations. Of these, 2013 polling stations at 1,051 locations had been identified as critical. All polling booths would be covered under webcasting on polling day.He said a minimum half-section of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and remaining force from the Punjab Police would be deployed at critical polling locations as per norms prescribed by the EC.Notably, the state has a total of over 2.15 crore voters, including over 1.13 crore male, 1.02 crore female, 727 third gender, 1.58 lakh disabled, 1.09 lakh service employees, 1,608 NRIs and 5,09,205 above 80 population. — TNSCONTENDERS1,304 candidates in fray2 transgenders 93 women #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-over-80-in-the-fray-badal-oldest-368788
11-02-2022||Anandpur Sahib/Hoshiarpur||Congress believes in vendetta politics: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the Congress will have to “pay the price for compromising” the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his January 5 Ferozepur visit not only in Punjab but all over the country.Thakur, who was in Anandpur Sahib to campaign for BJP candidate Dr Pariminder Sharma, alleged the Congress believed in vendetta politics. He also addressed rallies in Garhshankar and Dasuya of Hoshiarpur district in favour of party nominees.Blaming the Congress government for the drug menace, he said it had ignored the youth of the state as a result of which they had fallen prey to narcotics.Lashing out at the AAP, the HP CM said the claims made by Arvind Kejriwal regarding development in Delhi were misleading. He said AAP leaders should visit Himachal to witness “real” development.He also announced that an MoU for a ropeway from Anandpur Sahib to Naina Devi had already been signed and work would begin soon.Addressing a gathering at Binewal Jhungian in support of Garhshankar nominee Nimisha Mehta, he claimed if people wished to make Punjab drug-free, the BJP-led alliance must come into power. He said a network of four-laned roads would be set up between Anandpur Sahib and Naina Devi. — #jai ram thakur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-believes-in-vendetta-politics-thakur-368791
11-02-2022||GS Paul||Must defeat mafia, drug traders: Navjot Sidhu||Amritsar, February 10With the battle for the Amritsar East constituency going right down to the wire, main contenders PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia are pulling out all the stops, including playing the “religion” card, to woo voters.While Sidhu met people from the Christian community after returning from the Vaishno Devi shrine today, Majithia paid obeisance at the Durgiana Mandir.Amid chanting of “Hallelujah” from the dais, Sidhu sought support of the community to strengthen him to “fight the evil”. Citing his Vaishno Devi visit, he said: “There is only one law that teaches every religion. To embrace all but fight against wicked forces. Like ‘Yeshu Mashi’ teaches to help the needy, this fight is alike. The ‘rashtra dharam’ (sense of nationality) is the biggest religion. It is the fight between the good and evil, like the Mahabharat. On the one hand, there are those who have an agenda to transform Punjab, on the other, there are the mafias, dacoits, extortionists and drug traders who have to be defeated,” he said.Citing the case of SAD leader Anwar Masih, who was booked under the NDPS Act, Sidhu claimed it was testament to SAD’s involvement in prospering drug trade. If the aim was to change the lives of people by following a roadmap, then he would be there, he said, adding: “But, if the motive is just to grab power by selling ‘lies’, he won’t be there.”At Durgiana Mandir, Majithia offered prayers and was honoured with a portrait of the shrine by committee president Ramesh Kumar and others. He later canvassed in ward No. 28 of Amritsar East, where members of the Punjab Brahmin Sabha received him and assured support.Majithia said if the SAD-BSP was voted to power, a Deputy CM’s post would be reserved for a Hindu representative and that a ‘Brahmin Bhalai Board’ would be on their agenda with grant for the welfare of the community. #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/must-defeat-mafia-drug-traders-sidhu-368792
11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Probe distribution of ticket: Shamsher Singh Dullo to Congress||Days ahead of the Assembly elections, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo has sought a high-level probe into alleged conspiracy to sideline traditional Congressmen in distribution of party ticket for the polls.Blaming Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the screening committee for selection of candidates, Dullo said: “As a result of wrong distribution of ticket, many traditional Congress leaders have been forced to leave the party or sit at home.”Many forced to quitAs a result of wrong distribution of ticket, many Congress men have been forced to leave the party or sit at home. —Shamsher Singh Dullo, Congress MPHe cited the examples of senior leaders HS Hanspal, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Raman Behl, Malkit Singh Dakha, Jagmohan Singh Kang, Amrik Dhillon, Joginder Singh Mann, Kewal Dhillon, Harminder Jassi, KK Bawa, besides Daaman Bajwa, most of whom had joined other parties or were sitting at home in protest.To lodge his protest and seek a probe, Dullo claimed he had urged the party high command to review the candidates after the first list of candidates was announced, but nothing happened.He said the party would face the consequences for “sidelining and insulting” the traditional Congress leaders. “Rather, leaders having links with liquor mafia have been given the ticket. The MLAs who have links with mafias have been fielded by the party,” he asserted.The former PCC chief said the party high command was kept in the dark and misled about the choice of candidates, citing winning ability of the candidates. — #shamsher singh dullo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-distribution-of-ticket-dullo-to-cong-368793
11-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||BJP mobilises cadre for PM Modi's Jalandhar rally on February 14||Jalandhar, February 10After the January 5 Ferozepur rally fiasco, a massive campaign is on by the BJP to mobilise workers ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s Jalandhar rally on February 14.From mobilising party workers to door-to-door campaign by the BJP youth wing, the party is going all out to ensure a huge turnout at the upcoming rally. The PM will address public rallies on February 14, 16 and 17 in Jalandhar (Doaba), Pathankot (Majha) and Fazilka (Malwa), respectively. In Jalandhar, the PM is expected to hold a rally at the PAP Grounds. Party leaders said a crowd of 40,000 to 50,000 people is expected to be mobilised for the rally.Party leaders are seeing the visit as a “game changer” for the state. A team of BJP leaders, including Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, ex-Mayor Sunil Jyoti and district BJP chief Sushil Sharma, have visited the venue. Meanwhile, party leaders said from mandal presidents and organisation secretaries to party candidates, everyone had been asked to mobilise cadre.Members of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) also held a door-to-door campaign in the district and disbursed leaflets. The campaign will go on until February 13.Jalandhar rally incharge Jyoti said: “We are planning a massive rally for the PM. At least 12 to 15 constituencies of Doaba are involved... The rally will have an impact on the floating voter.”BJYM state media incharge Arjun Trehan said: “We have begun a door-to-door campaign today to apprise people about the rally.” State vice-president and virtual rally incharge Rakesh Rathour said: “We are confident it will change the mood of the state. The preparations are being made in accordance with the Covid protocol.”Khali joins partyDelhi: WWE star Dalip Singh Rana, also known as ‘The Great Khali’, on Thursday joined the BJP at its headquarters in the presence of Union Minister Jitendra Singh and general secretary Arun Singh. Ex-cop praised the PM for leading the country on the “path of development”. TNS #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mobilises-cadre-for-pms-feb-14-rally-368795
11-02-2022||Amritsar||Bhagwant Mann launches digital outreach||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief ministerial candidate and state president Bhagwant Mann today launched a digital door-to-door campaign from Amritsar today.In addition, a song sung by playback singer Sukhwinder Singh, “Punjab da putt jitauna hai”, was also released on the occasion. In the song, Mann could be seen meeting people, listening to their problems, embracing children and elder ones.Addressing media, Mann said under the digital campaign, people can give a missed call on 9882798827 or ask questions on 11 important issues of Punjab which will be answered by AAP national convener Kejriwal and his team.After giving a missed call, a message from the AAP will be sent on people’s mobiles. With a click, Kejriwal and Mann will digitally ‘knock on their door’ to know their questions. People can ask them questions on Punjab’s 11 important topics, including electricity, women’s safety, law and order, agriculture, health, drug trafficking and unemployment. Mann said the people of Punjab were fed up with the corrupt politics of traditional parties; hence they want a change now. — TNSKejriwal’s family in dhuri todayAAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s wife Sunita and daughter Harshita will visit Dhuri to campaign in favour of Bhagwant Mann on Friday. Kejriwal and Mann’s family will directly have an interaction with women concerning their issues in a programme ‘Lekha mawan dhiyan da’ #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-launches-digital-outreach-368796
11-02-2022||Batala||AAP candidates no aam aadmi: Sukhbir Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s today lashed out against the AAP leadership, saying Arvind Kejriwal had not given ticket to the common man, as was the motto of the party when it was formed.“Instead, turncoats and criminals have been fielded after money exchanged hands. In Ludhiana district, a majority of the AAP candidates have criminal cases registered against them,” he said, while campaigning in Dinanagar, Gurdaspur and Batala Assembly seats for his party candidates. This is Sukhbir’s second visit in recent weeks to these seats.“As many as 65 ticket out of 117 have been given to known turncoats. Look at Mohali candidate Kulwant Singh. How can you term a person who has assets of Rs 2,000 crore as an aam aadmi?” he claimed.In Dinanagar, Sukhbir campaigned for BSP candidate Kamaljit Chawla, while in Batala, he canvassed for Sucha Singh Chhotepur, who is locked in a fierce battle with Ashwani Sekhri of the Congress, Fateh Jung Bajwa of the BJP and Sherry Kalsi of AAP. — #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-candidates-no-aam-aadmi-sukhbir-368797
11-02-2022||Sanaur||Won't retire till Punjab rid of corrupt: Capt Amarinder Singh||In a yet another attack on the Congress over the nomination of Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM face despite his nephew’s arrest over illegal sand mining, Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt Amarinder Singh today said he would not retire till he rid the state of such “corrupt” people.The ex-CM expressed surprise at his former party fielding MLAs allegedly involved in the mining mafia and termed it a “clear endorsement of widespread corruption” in the party. Stating that he had decided to ally with the BJP in the interest of peace and security in Punjab, Capt Amarinder expressed concern over the threat from across the border as well as the sacrilege incidents.Addressing a series of public meetings in support of PLC candidate from Sanaur Bikramjit Inder Singh Chahal, son of Capt Amarinder’s associate and adviser BIS Chahal, the former CM pointed out Channi’s nephew, arrested by the ED, had reportedly admitted that the Rs 10 crore seized from his possession was earned from illegal sand mining as well as transfers and postings. “How can Channi then claim to be a poor aam aadmi?” he said. — #capt amarinder singh #punjab lok congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-retire-till-state-rid-of-corrupt-capt-amarinder-singh-368798
11-02-2022||Moga||Moga Congress working district president Gurmeet Mukhija quits||Congress working district chief Gurmeet Mukhija, who is also a councillor of the Dharamkot Municipal Council, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today.Even vice-president of the Dharamkot MC Balraj Singh Kalsi and councillors — Krishan Hans and Amarjit Singh Bheera — also joined the AAP. The move may affect electoral prospects of the Congress in Dharamkot, Moga and Baghapurana segments.Mukhija said Congress MLA Sukhjeet Singh Kaka Lohgarh was working in an autocratic manner, thus he decided to leave the ruling party. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-congress-working-district-president-quits-368803
11-02-2022||Bathinda||Punjabis fed up of mafia rule: Raghav Chadha||AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha today campaigned in favour of Sukhveer Singh Maisarkhana in Maur segment.Chadha appealed to the electorate to vote for the AAP candidate. He said Punjabis were fed up with mafia rule of the Congress and the Akalis.Chadha said people of Maur need an honest man like Maisarkhana, not a gangster.He said, “Voting for Maisarkhana will give your children a safe and secure future. In the last 50 years, the Congress and the Akalis looted and ruined the state. For Punjab’s development, give a chance to the AAP. If we don’t do better work, we’ll not ask for votes next time.”“Arvind Kejriwal does what he says. If the AAP government is formed in Punjab, all the guarantees announced by Kejriwal will be fulfilled.” — #raghav chadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-fed-up-of-mafia-rule-chadha-368805
11-02-2022||Ropar||Akalis demand action over 'fake' post on Gurmeet Ram Rahim||SAD leaders on Thursday lodged a police complaint seeking action against three suspects for an alleged fake post on the social media in an attempt to defame party candidate Daljit Singh Cheema.Addressing mediapersons, SAD general secretary Ravinder Kheda said the three suspects, including one from abroad, had posted a message on the social media that Cheema had welcomed the release of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on furlough.Posting such a message on the social media during the polls was aimed at harming the interests of Cheema, they said, adding a case under Sections 295A, 298, 505, 506, 389 and 420, IPC, must be registered and suspects nabbed.  #daljit cheema #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-demand-action-over-fake-post-368807
11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Priyanka Gandhi to address rallies in Dhuri, Dera Bassi, Kotkapura on Feb 13||Govt declares paid holiday on Feb 20Chandigarh: The state government has declared a paid holiday on February 20 (Sunday) on account of voting for the 2022 Assembly elections. A spokesperson said February 20 would be a paid holiday in respect of all persons employed in any business, trade, industrial undertaking or any other establishment situated in Punjab and entitled to vote in the Assembly elections on the day. #priyanka gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/priyanka-to-address-3-rallies-on-feb-13-368809
11-02-2022||The Congress has now given Sunil Jakhar’s poll campaign responsibility to Bittu. After showing ungraceful exit to Jakhar by denying him the chief ministership||Congress adding insult to Sunil Jakhar's injury: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||#gajendra singh shekhawat #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-adding-insult-to-jakhars-injury-368810
11-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab election: Not on anyone's agenda, laments industry||Chandigarh, February 10The industry in poll-bound Punjab is feeling left out from the agendas of almost all mainstream parties in the fray for the electoral battle due on February 20.Even though the industry contributes to 25% of the Gross State Domestic Product of Rs 5.29 lakh crore, which is exactly the same as being contributed by the agriculture sector (25%), state ndustrialists are feeling left out from the agendas of most parties.‘Parties need to help us too’It’s just assumed that industrialists are rich and taken care of. In reality, demonetisation, GST rollout and Covid-induced meltdown has brought the industry to its knees. It’s time that the political parties realise that we, too, need hand-holding. —Industrialists“The ideological/voter-seducing considerations in elections tends to blank out the industry. So, no one is speaking of industry, because we are a small vote bank. What the political class does not realise is that they need to handhold industry to help it grow, so we pay taxes that can then be used for the overall development and social security to the other segments of society,” says AS Kohli, senior vice-president, Punjab Chamber of Small Exporters, who runs a unit in Phagwara.Notably, Punjab has nearly 2 lakh MSMEs and 586 large and medium industrial units. The industry has been growing at around 5.8% in the state, against a growth of over 14% in the country. No public sector large industry has come up in the state in the past several years. Rather, in the past two years, since the pandemic began, over 8,800 MSMEs have shutdown in the state.“But still, we do not figure in the agendas of any party. Taxes are paid by us, but all subsidies and doles are for farmers. We have seen the governments run by two parties here in the past 15 years, and a government in another state by a third political player. None has worked for either promoting industrial investment or growth. The only thing they claim to offer us is cheaper power. But the actual power tariff to industry is 50% more than the promised Rs 5 per unit, at Rs 7.50-Rs 9 per unit. In a nutshell, we have got nothing from any party in the past two decades,” says Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.Supporting his views, Ludhiana industrialist SC Ralhan rued leave aside the subsidised power, the inability of the government to ensure adequate supply to the industry in August-September last year had a crippling effect on the latter, which was trying to recover from the Covid-induced economic meltdown.Hoping that some positive agenda, other than the claims of cheaper power and ease of doing business, was promised for the uplift of the industry, says Rampura Phul-based steel casting unit owner Deepak Saraf, adding that when everyone was talking of “nawan Punjab”, concrete promises to this sector that runs the economy must be made and fulfiled. “We are not asking for doles, but action is needed on reforms, if we want state’s futuristic growth.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-on-anyones-agenda-laments-industry-368812
11-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab poll 2022: In Bathinda Urban, silent voter holds the key||Bathinda, February 10As campaigning heats up for the Assembly poll in Punjab, the silent voters hold the key in the multi-cornered contest for Bathinda Urban seat.AAP, BJP candidates are ex-Congress leaders The defection of leaders to rival camps to fight poll has left the average voter perplexed and disillusioned.Congress senior minister Manpreet Badal is seeking re-election from here. Sitting senior councillor Jagroop Singh Gill, who quit the Congress to join AAP, is now contesting as AAP candidate against his former party colleague Manpreet. Similarly, Raj Nambardar, who also left the Congress, is contesting as BJP candidate from here. Former MLA Sarup Chand Singla is contesting on SAD ticket from this seat.The Congress has held sway in the city with the support of Hindu votes and its traditional supporters. However, the BJP’s entry this time is threatening to wean away a major chunk of the Hindu votes, which could hit both the Congress and SAD’s prospects. Manpreet Badal is banking on the development done by him in the past five years. At public meetings, he has been highlighting the upgrading and renovation of government schools and the Rs 400 crore spent on the development of the city. His opponents, however, target him for not fulfilling the promise to restart the Bathinda thermal plant and regularise contractual staff.AAP’s Jagroop Singh Gill mentions drugs, unemployment and waterlogging as the major issues in the city as he assures that they would be resolved if his party comes to power. SAD’s Sarup Singla is promising to make Bathinda No. 1 city in the state by providing employment to youth and creating more educational facilities, while Raj Nambardar is talking of poor law and order and corruption in the city. He has kept “Na Dar Na Bhrashtachar, Is Bar Raj Nambardar” as his poll slogan. The hesitancy of the common man to share their political preference ahead of Assembly elections is palpable here. Except the odd voice here and there, there’s an army of silent voters. From bus stops to tea stalls, from glittery markets to local parks, from trains to eateries, the political debates are missing.At the same time, the silence does not seem too hard to accept. Since most voters are unsure of the final outcome, they prefer to be silent. They don’t want to be caught on the wrong side when the results are out, says a political observer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-bathinda-urban-silent-voter-holds-the-key-368769
