12-02-2022||Aparna BanerjeeJalandhar||Punjab polls: Domicile quota, better MSP, better sports infrastructure on NDA manifesto||Reservation for the locally domiciled youth in both private and public sector jobs, better infrastructure in the state, and better minimum support price featured large on the National Democratic Alliance’s manifesto that Union Minister Hardeep Puri unveiled on Saturday.Bharatiya Janata Party, Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Akali breakaway Sanyukt Akali Dal are fighting the election together. Punjab is scheduled to vote in the third phase of elections on February 20.Unveiling the manifesto, which Puri and the NDA called ‘The Vision Document’, Puri said that the government’s focus would be to get industrial investments into Punjab, close down illegal mining operations, and fight illegal drug trade in the state.The Industry has wrapped up in Punjab,” Puri said in his speech. “Sand mafia and land mafia wreaking havoc in Punjab. Synthetic drug manufacturing on large scale in cities. Capt tried to curb it. But in cities, where does it come from?”“The vision document answers it all,” he said.Among NDA’s promises are 50 per cent reservation for local youth in private jobs and 75 per cent reservation for government jobs.The NDA also promised a massive infrastructure push to help revive Punjab's economy: it promised an infrastructure development fund of Rs 1 lakh crore to be spent over a period of five years.NDA’s promisesInfrastructure—Infra projects worth 1 lakh crore will be given to Punjab—300 units of free electricity— Guru Arjun Dev mission for free electricity and water to smaller sections— Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Bathinda to be developed as metro cities—Green belts to be developed—State roads to be laid—Inter-state and intercity buses to be increased by 400 to 500—Flights from Amritsar and Mohali to US, UK and AustraliaIndustries—Rs 100 crore for the handloom industry— Industrial clusters to be tax-free—World-class industry hub in Kandi Belt and Mohali—One-time settlement offer for pending assessments—White paper for special relief coronavirus packageEmployment generation—Reservation in jobs for locally domiciled youth. 75 per cent in government jobs and 50 per cent in the private sector—Rs 4000 monthly unemployment allowance for graduates—Skill development centres at block levelsAgriculture—Rs 5,000 crore commitment for MSP and crop diversificationSports—Impetus to sports. Sports facilities to be upgraded at educational institutions. Pools and turfs will be upgraded—SAI centres in Doaba and Majha—Sports university in the state to be named after the legendary Milkha Singh—Local-level committees for female athletes—Jalandhar to be made sports capital of India—A new international station in Jalandhar to be named after Hockey legend Udham S Singh Kular—Free sports kits—World-class facilities for grooming hockey players— Cash awards for sportspeople. Rs 6 crore for Olympic gold medallist, Rs1.5 crore for commonwealth medallist; Rs 21,000 for state-level gamesHealth—Arogya centres, medical clinics in village and wards—PGI satellites centre in Doaba and Majha—Medical and nursing college in every LS constituency—Free cancer treatment in select hospitals—Arrears for Covid warriors—Filling up vacant seats for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff—250 additional ambulance fleets—Shitala Mata Health Infrastructure mission will be launched—Community Health Centres developed—New app for medical from the comfort of their home—50 bus fleet for early-stage cardiac cancer disorders—Identifying clusters of cancer and health problems—Nurses, Safai workers to be regularised—Saksham Yuva scheme to give 250-hour work for youthInfrastructure— Delhi to Amritsar-Katra ExpresswayLaw and order—Taskforce for drugs ferrying—Electric fencing, drone to be strengthened—Commission for militancy-related grievances—5 lakh compensation for terror victims—Taskforce for cross border terror and arms smuggling—Fitness centres for cops—Skill centres for kids in drugs—Leaders contesting elections, whether panchayat or MP, will be dope testedEducation and women—Skill-based education for students—ROs, specially-abled women washrooms—Sanitary pad sending machines—3 state universities as per international parameters—2 new Sainik schools in Punjab—Skill development university—One government college in every tehsil with industry and professional courses—New law: Right to Skill Training Act —Vocational training for boys and girls—Free-coaching for SC/ST OBC Economically Weaker Students—Recruiting retired teachers—Credit of Rs 5 lakh for higher education—Anganwari centres to be upgraded. Rs 10,000 pay for anganwari workers, Rs 6,000 for their helpers—Rs 1.5 lakh work of retirement benefits for Asha workers—Special emphasis on 35 per cent reservation for women in government and contractual jobs—Fast track courts for domestic violence cases—Special law for abandoned NRI brides—Childcare leave of 2 years for contractual women workers—Strict enforcement of law in foeticide and PNDT cases—Women run businesses to get aid.  No collateral needed for bank loans up to Rs 10 lakh.For SC/ST, backward classes—Pending dues of Rs 50,000 to be pardoned—Free hostel facilities for graduate, postgraduate students—50 per cent subsidy on two-wheelers for university students—Aid for startups—Anusuchit Jati Vikas Board to be set up—EWS Housing project—Guru Kirpa canteen for schools where food to be available at Rs 5 to eligible blue card holders—Effective implementation of Post-matric scholarship scheme—New EWS taskforceGovernment employees—7th Pay Commission to be implemented—  Employees to be paid their full salaries— DC rate labourers and safai karmcharis to be regularised—Economically weaker sections, SC, BC sections to be aided through schemesDeveloping Punjab’s culture—Punjabi Virsa Sambhal project—Financial help for maintenance and revival of religious places—Phulkati, punjabi jutti, woideorks, toys professions will be encouraged—A new Punjab Culture University proposed for artistes from the state— Health insurance scheme ‘Sehat Beema Yojna’ for musicians and poets—New Punjabi bhasha commission proposed—Engineering and medical courses in Punjabi—Punjabi Mahautsav for Punjab film and kusicn industry; special awards for them— E-library for Punjabi literature—Navi film Neeti 2022—A new proposed Punjab film city—Proceedings in Punjab in Haryana High Court and all courts in the state in PunjabSmall businesses— Property tax of small businesses to be pardoned —Subsidised loans—Vapari durghatna and beema yojnas (insurance schemes for calamities)—Strengthening labour welfare boardLabourers and daily wagers—DC rate workers to regularised— Labourers to get benefits for labourers pensions—Mobile schools for their children—Punjab street vendor policies and city level vending committeesMiscellaneous—Vacant ex-servicemen posts will be filled—Salary for the Home Guard to be raised to Rs 20,000 a month—Numberdaar Maan Vhatta to be increased to 3,000—Special facilities for persons with disabilities—Scholarships to go up from 400 to 500—Transgendered people to be included in backward categories and special effort to be made to stop crimes against them #BJP #capt amarinder singh #NDA #punjab lok congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/domicile-quota-better-msp-better-sports-infrastructure-on-bjp-punjab-lok-congress-agenda-369293
12-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court tells authority concerned to look into complaint against Jalandhar poll candidate||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday directed the authority concerned to take action in accordance with law after looking into a complaint against a candidate contesting the assembly election from Jalandhar West constituency.For the purpose, Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi set a four-week deadline.The direction by Justice Bedi came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Surinder Paul through counsel RS Bajaj and Sidakjit Singh Bajaj.Among other things, RS Bajaj on the complainant’s behalf alleged that candidate Sheetal Angural did not disclose full particulars of all the criminal cases pending against him and also forged and fabricated an academic result card.Bajaj sought directions to Jalandhar commissioner of police to take action on his complaint dated February 2 against the respondent-candidate.“At the outset, the counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner would be satisfied if his complaint is looked into by the authority concerned and action thereon is taken within four weeks from today. In view of the same, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the present petition is disposed of with a direction to the authority concerned to look into the complaint of the petitioner and an action thereon be taken within a period of four weeks from today in accordance with law,” Justice Bedi concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-directs-authority-concerned-to-look-into-complaint-against-jalandhar-candidate-369248
12-02-2022||Jalandhar||Punjab Police destroyed heritage material: Bhai Baldeep Singh||Renowned Gurbani sangeet exponent Bhai Baldeep Singh today took on the ruling Congress government, alleging that both Chief Ministers Capt Amarinder Singh and Charanjit S Channi failed to give him justice on the incident of destruction of heritage material.He was referring to an incident wherein the Punjab police teams had removed all his belongings from Qila Sarai on May 13, 2018, which also housed the office of Anad Foundation. The foundation is run by him. The historical building incidentally houses the office of the Sultanpur Lodhi police station.“At the place where I was pioneering revival and conservation project focused on GurSikh heritage in over 170 years, the Punjab Police committed acts which amount to cultural genocide. The priceless, irreplaceable, handwritten manuscripts had been destroyed. The musical instrument-making tools and GurSikh musical instruments, including the rabab handcrafted by me, were mutilated and stolen,” he recalled the incident showing its videos and pictures.A conservator of heritage, Bhai Baldeep Singh, had joined AAP in its initial phases but got suspended. He said that he had taken up the matter, then Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh assured him of looking into the matter, but nothing happened.Bhai Baldeep has alleged that not even an FIR had been lodged into the matter as the complaint was against the police. He demanded that the damages and losses incurred by him and the Anad Foundation should be quantified by experts from the United National Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and compensation be decided. #bhai baldeep singh #capt amarinder singh #punjab police #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-destroyed-heritage-material-369195
12-02-2022||---||Lakhimpur Kheri killings: Tarn Taran farmers burn effigies of Amit Shah, UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Tarn Taran, February 11Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee, Punjab, organised a protest on Friday and burnt the effigy of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath against releasing Ashish Mishra on bail, who is the main accused in the killings of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in UP on October 3 last.The farmers gathered near Rasulpur village and lodged protest against releasing Mishra on bail, who was facing murder charge.Satnam Singh Manochahal, district president of the organisation said Mishra is the main accused in the killing of four farmers , a newsman and injuring a number of other innocent farmers who were returning home after a peaceful protest on October 3 last when they were hit by a convey of vehicles led by Ashish Mishra.The leaders alleged that the Union and the UP Government were playing foul play in the killings of farmers and others and were depriving the victims of the justice .The leaders said in the normal cases no accused was released on bail in such cases when Ashish Mishra had been granted bail on the special efforts of the UP Government .The leaders condemned not to arrest Ajay Mishra alias Tanny, the father of the main accused Ashish Mishra who had been nominated as the co-accused in the case under section 120 B IPC in the case. Fateh Singh Piddi, Lakhwinder Singh Plasaur, Jatinderpal Singh Raju were among the others who addressed on the occasion.‘Struggle to continue’Amritsar: Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh committee protested against the bail of Ashish Mishra, who has been facing trial for Lakhimpur Kheri episode. The farmers burnt the effigy of Centre government to mark the protest at Vallah and Jandial villages.The leaders said the farmer’ struggle would continue till Ashish Mishra not get punished. Various farmer leaders addressed the gathering. #amit shah #ashish mishra #lakhimpur kheri #yogi adityanath||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-farmers-burn-effigies-of-amit-shah-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-369206
12-02-2022||Chandigarh||Justice Ajit Singh Bains dies at 99||A former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Ajit Singh Bains, breathed his last today. He was 99.Justice Bains, a human rights activist, had served as the High Court judge from October 1974 to May 1984. He founded the Punjab Human Rights Organisation. Members of the Bar expressed condolences over his demise. — #phro||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-bains-dies-at-99-369115
12-02-2022||Bathinda||Punjab Government misled us: Pensioners||The UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front held a protest march in the city on Friday. The protesters raised slogans against the government for failing to fulfill its promises.Ranjit Singh, leader of the union, said, “The state government’s pro-corporate policies and 6th Pay Commission report’s implementation has affected employees and pensioners. The state government has also misled people by promising to regularise servcies of 36,000 contractual employees.” He said, “ Similarly, the government created hurdles for hike in honorarium and minimum wages. The Finance Minister had promised that Bathinda thermal plant would be made operational before elections in 2017, but it has been closed down permanently. The old-pension scheme has not been revived as per the promise.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-misled-us-pensioners-369113
12-02-2022||Manav Mander||Hospitals again shut door on Ayushman beneficiaries||Ludhiana, February 11All private hospitals empanelled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Ayushman scheme) have once again decided to stop admitting new patients with immediate effect.The decision was taken by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) today as Rs 130 crore reimbursements to the empanelled hospitals are still pending.The move, however, will affect a lot of poor patients as they would not be able to avail treatment at a majority of the healthcare facilities empanelled under the scheme in the state.Rs 130 cr claims dueWe suspended the scheme in October. But after govt assurance, we started admitting patients. Some amount was reimbursed. Now, Rs130 crore is pending. —Dr Manoj Sobti, Ex-president, IMA PunjabUnder the Ayushman scheme, patients in Punjab were getting free treatment from the empanelled private hospitals, who were given the payment for their services by the SBI, third party administrator, through the Punjab Government.“Due to the termination of the SBI’s contract with the state government, the empanelled hospitals are not getting the reimbursements,” said Dr Manoj Sobti, ex-president, IMA, Punjab.“Almost every hospital has a lot of pending claims that now it’s impossible for smaller and medium facilities to meet their day-to-day expenses in the form of salaries and electricity bills among others,” said Dr Sunil Katyal, honorary state secretary, IMA.“All PMJAY empanelled hospitals are working hard with the government to pass on the benefits of the scheme to the weaker sections of the society, who otherwise could not think of getting treatment at quality private hospitals. But the way the insurance companies are implementing the schemes is quite appalling. The present insurance company has turned the situation really ugly as it has failed to settle the claims,” Dr Katyal added. #ayushman scheme #ima||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hospitals-again-shut-door-on-ayushman-beneficiaries-369109
12-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: Bravery award conferred on BSF jawan for saving three lives||Constable B Lal Chhuanawma of the Border Security Force (BSF) has been conferred “Jeevan Raksha Padak” award. Chhuanawma, who is a resident of Dinthar village, Aizawl (Mizoram) while performing his duty in Fazilka sector had saved three lives.Four personnel during maintenance sustained electric shock. Head Constables Satpal Singh and Ram Sewak fell unconscious. Chhuanawma immediately gave Cardiopulmonar Resuscitation (CPR) to Satpal as a result of which he regained consciousness. Later, he rushed towards Sewak and repeated the CPR therapy. He rushed all the four injured to the hospital where Sewak succumbed to his injures, while three others were saved.  #BSF #cpr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bravery-award-conferred-on-bsf-jawan-369107
12-02-2022||---||RTAs implement old bus timetable, Roadways stare at Rs 10 lakh per day loss||Patiala/Bathinda, Feb 11The state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and the Punjab Roadways are likely to suffer a loss of more than Rs 10 lakh per day.Reason: Many Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) have implemented the old timetable from February 8, thereby, allegedly favouring private bus operators.On December 23, 2021, Transport Minister Amrinder Raja Warring, had repealed the old orders and implemented a new roaster, which gave a breather to the PRTC and Punjab Roadways.Patiala rta takes u-turnKeeping in view the model code of conduct and in larger public interest, the orders issued on February 8 are kept in abeyance till further directions. —Naman Marken, Patiala RTAoperators use influenceA family having a considerable political influence has deputed its men at different bus stands who ensure that their buses run as per the old timetable. —Sandeep Grewal, Union leaderThe PRTC officials, including General Managers (GMs), claimed that the format implemented in December last year, was prepared after a lot of brainstorming.Besides, the PRTC wrote to the Patiala RTA, and stated that permits of many private bus operators had been terminated by the High Court, therefore, how can they be included in the timetable.A senior GM of the PRTC on the condition of anonymity said, “The old timetable, which will now be operational, favours only private players. Private buses will get three times extra counter-time at bus terminals as compared to the PRTC buses.”Following the recent orders, the PRTC staff along with their senior officials held a protest march today and started a chain hunger strike.The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC) in this regard.Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convenor, PRTC Workers Action Committee, said they would hold protests in other districts so that the RTAs concerned also withdraw the orders.In Bathinda, the protesting staff parked their buses and blocked the road outside the city bus stand, which led to a massive jam.The agitators alleged collusion of the Transport Department officials with private operators and accused them of favouring the latter.Sandeep Grewal, a union leader said, “A family having considerable political influence has deputed its men at different bus stands who ensure that buses run as per the old timetable and if we raise our voice then they resort to hooliganism So, we are left with no other alternative than to launch the stir. The Transport minister had introduced the new timetable, which aimed at ending the monopoly of a few private bus operators, but after the model code of conduct came into affect, private operators again started operating as per the old timetable, thus causing losses in lakhs on a daily basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rtas-implement-old-bus-timetable-roadways-stare-at-10l-per-day-loss-369106
12-02-2022||---||Sacrilege: Sikh bodies question Bibi Jagir Kaur||Jalandhar, February 11A poster seeking comment from Bholath candidate Bibi Jagir Kaur on the sacrilege cases has been released by some Sikh groups.Ahead of the polls, Sikh groups led by Darbar-e-Khalsa’s Bhai Harjinder Singh Majhi and Harjit Singh Dhapai today posed questions to former SGPC president on the issue of sacrilege cases. A jatha of the Sikh organisations today approached the SAD leader and Panthic matriarch at her residence in Bholath. The posters were pasted in front of her office and a “Lahnat Pattar” was also handed to the office-bearers present on the occasion. The jatha later decided to embark on a door-to-door campaign to raise the issue.Members of the organisation had earlier ran a campaign for the release of Sikh prisoners, on which they were recently given assurance by Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Addressing Bholath residents, Bhai Harjinder Singh sought an answer from Bibi Jagir Kaur on the vilification of peacefully protesting Sikhs. He said the same questions had been asked from her at Sangrur’s Jauliyan village on 29 June, 2021, while she was still the SGPC president. They said despite of assuring a written reply on the issue, Bibi Jagir Kaur instead held a panthic gathering at the secretariat of the Akal Takht on July 26 to cast aspersions on the peaceful protesters, instead of punishing those guilty of sacrilege.The team of the Darbar-e-Khalsa also disbursed the posters in the constituency. #bibi jagir kaur #sacrilege #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sikh-bodies-question-bibi-jagir-369104
12-02-2022||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court adopts odd-even formula for hearing cases physically||Chandigarh, February 11Adopting an odd-even formula, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that all its Benches would hear civil and criminal cases on a physical platform following decline in Covid cases. While 21 Benches would hear cases in physical mode on odd days, the remaining 20 would function offline on even days.An order issued this evening on behalf of the Chief Justice by Registrar (Vigilance) Vikram Aggarwal made it clear three Division Benches would function daily.From Feb 14The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao would function on odd dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice GS Sandhawalia would function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth.The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, would hold court every Monday, Wednesday and Thursday.Six single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 12 single Benches would take up criminal matters during the odd dates.On even dates, five single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, while 12 single Benches would take up criminal matters. The arrangement would come in force from February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-adopts-odd-even-formula-for-hearing-cases-physically-369103
12-02-2022||---||Poll code can't restrain Centre, state from doing their duty: EC||Chandigarh, February 11A month after the State Election Commission’s response was solicited on ensuring ‘drug-free polls’, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju has submitted before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the EC did not supplant the state or the Centre’s functioning.In an affidavit placed before the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain on the EC’s behalf through counsel Namit Kumar, the CEO submitted that the government and other statutory authorities continue to be responsible for the general administration in a state where the model code of conduct was in force.He added the state and the Centre were not absolved or restrained from performing their obligations following the conduct of elections or the enforcement of the poll code. The Bench was also told that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was the central law enforcement and intelligence agency involved in combating drug trafficking and the use of illegal substances in the country.The Bench was further told that the commission had time and again reiterated its zero tolerance towards all forms of intimidation, threat, influence and bribing of electors. It was added that the commission, during its visit to the state in December last year for reviewing the poll preparedness, issued strict instructions to the enforcement agencies to step up vigil to prevent interstate and cross-border movement of drugs, liquor and cash.It was added that the commission had deployed 15 nodal officers in the state for “more effective” election expenditure monitoring. It had also appointed about 15 former civil servants as special observers for the Assembly polls.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Jain on the previous date of hearing had asserted that the picture showing gold-smoked mustard fields with the proud prosperous farmer would showcase this land of five rivers. But Punjab today was related to a portrait of wailing mother holding her son’s corpse, who died of drug overdose.The Bench had also directed the state to specify whether it had a roadmap in place to fight the drug menace; whether state-sponsored scientific study by any government or non-governmental organisation had ever been conducted on the cause and the effect of addiction and whether the state had ever mapped the menace and found out the most-affected areas/districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-code-cant-restrain-centre-state-from-doing-their-duty-ec-369101
12-02-2022||---||Candidates from Sanaur, Malerkotla proclaimed offenders, booked for concealing info||Chandigarh, February 11Two candidates have been booked for concealing information about being proclaimed offenders (POs) while filing nomination papers for the Assembly elections.Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said a case had been registered against candidate Harmeet Singh Pathanmajra, alias Harmeet Singh Dhillon, from the Sanaur constituency under Section 125A of the Representation of the People Act and Sections 193 and 199 of the IPC at Julkan police station.He said the case was registered after receiving a complaint that Harmeet was declared a PO in 2019 by a Barnala court under Section 174 of the IPC. He, however, furnished false information in form 26A (affidavit) while filing the nomination. He said the District Election Officer and SSP during investigation found the complaint true and an FIR was registered.Similarly, Mohammad Shakeel, an Independent candidate from Malerkotla, had been booked under the same sections at the PS City-1 Malerkotla. Shakeel had also been arrested.During a probe by a poll official, it was found Shakeel, declared a PO in 2019, did not disclose the information in his papers. He said under Section 125A, a violator could get imprisonment up to three months or penalty or both. Also, Sections 193 and 199 provided for three to seven years of imprisonment along with penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-nominees-booked-for-concealing-info-369097
12-02-2022||---||Bathinda: Congress leader joins AAP, says workers ignored||Bathinda, February 11In a setback to the Congress, former councillor Sat Pal Doad joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha here today.Doad was the vice-president of the District Congress Committee from Faridkot. Besides, he had been the president of the Block Youth Congress, Jaitu.After having joined the AAP, Doad said: “People of Punjab are fed up with the corrupt policies of the Congress. Party workers have been ignored, while outsiders are being given importance.”Chadha said, “The electorate has made up its mind to vote out the Congress. Ever since the Congress declared Charanjit Singh Channi the CM candidate, party leaders have been disappointed and accepted defeated.”AAP leader Amarjit Mehta said Doad’s joining would benefit the party in the Jaito, Kotkapura and Bathinda Urban segments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leader-joins-aap-says-workers-ignored-369096
12-02-2022||Chandigarh||Ferozepur City SHO transferred||A step towards voter awarenessAbohar: Under the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation Programme (SVEEP), students of Government High School, Diwankhera village, staged a nukkad natak. Director Deepak Kamboj said the aim was to spread voter awareness and promote poll literacy. Through the street play, voters were awakened to exercise their franchise without any greed and fear in the Assembly poll. Nukkad nataks were staged at Diwankhera, Panjawa and Rani Jhansi Market, near Abohar railway station. OCOn duty, officers lead by exampleMuktsar: At a time when a number of government employees are trying to skip election duty, some senior officers in the district administration have set an example by skipping their family functions and other obligations in the view of the poll. Recently, ADC (General) Rajdeep Kaur, the Returning Officer for Lambi, skipped the wedding of a relative. Besides, she skipped the funeral of another relative. Similarly, Muktsar SDM Swaranjit Kaur joined the duty a day after her husband got injured in a road accident. He is still under treatment in Ludhiana. TNSRSS activists join Cong in AboharAbohar: Local RSS activists joined the Congress on Friday, as they said the party helped migrants during the Covid pandemic. RSS activist Anju said, “Massive migration from urban areas led to a humanitarian, healthcare and logistical crises. Only Congress workers and volunteers supplied food packets to them. The state government made travel arrangements to UP and Bihar. So, we have decided to quit the BJP and join the Congress.” OCFarm union withdraws support to SSMMansa: Trouble continues to mount for the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) as the Punjab Kisan Union has withdrawn its support to the party in four districts — Mansa, Muktsar, Bathinda and Barnala. The decision was taken during a state-level meeting in Mansa. Of the 22 farmers’ unions that lent its support to the SSM earlier, nine have already backed out. Meanwhile, a section of the leadership is still standing with the SSM, vowing “wholehearted” support to the newly formed outfit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-city-sho-transferred-369093
12-02-2022||If the Delhi model is implemented in Punjab||Delhi model can’t work in Punjab: Parkash Singh Badal||#parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-model-cant-work-in-punjab-369089
12-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Bassi Pathana: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi common factor between brother, legislator||Bassi Pathana, February 11With just over a week left for polling, an intriguing political battle is unfolding in the Bassi Pathana Assembly segment. The din symbolic with campaigning is missing here as the winds of change seem to be sweeping through. This reserved Assembly segment is perhaps the only constituency in the state where two opponents are seeking votes in the name of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Riding on the general perception of change, AAP candidate Rupinder Singh Happy is giving a tough fight to Congress candidate and sitting MLA Gurpreet Singh GP. The presence of Sankuyt Samaj Morcha nominee Dr Amandeep Kaur Dolewal and Punjab Lok Congress candidate Dr Deepak Jyoti has made the contest multi-cornered, with each having their pockets of influence.Reaching outElecting me means you have elected the CM. Like Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana will get special focus. It will be like CM’s constituency. —Dr Manohar SinghThis apart, an interesting battle is being witnessed between MLA Gurpreet GP and Independent candidate Dr Manohar Singh. While the MLA, in a bid to tide over anti-incumbency, is listing works done by the Channi-led government in 111 days, the latter, being CM’s younger brother, too is wooing voters using the Channi card, besides citing the service rendered by him as a government doctor in the area.“Electing me means you have elected the CM. Like Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana will get special focus. It will be like CM’s constituency,” Dr Manohar Singh tells a gathering at Nandpur Kalaur village. Urging voters to repeat history by ensuring his victory, he says Channi entered politics in 2007 as an Independent and went on to become the CM.He has hired a five-member troupe of Delhi-based artistes to reach out to voters. Dressed in black and green robes, the team led by Jatinder Gupta goes from one village to another singing jingles such as “Jhoot bole jhadu (AAP) wale, Congress walon se dario, mein to television (Dr Manohar’s poll symbol) par button dabaun, tum dekhte rahio.”Amid the undercurrent for change, Sukhdev Singh, who runs a dhaba on the Chunni-Bassi Pathana road, admits people have made up their mind for change. A few kilometres away, Roopinder Singh, a resident of Kheri Beer Singh village, is upset with the government for not regularising his job as a pharmacist. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-common-factor-between-brother-legislator-369088
12-02-2022||Amritsar||Education infra in tatters: Bhagwant Mann||AAP’s CM face Bhagwant Mann today targeted traditional parties, including the SAD, BJP and Congress, saying these have ruined Punjab over the past 70 years. “Unemployment has increased manifold, while the education infrastructure is in a shambles. The youth are forced to go abroad in the absence of job opportunities,” he said.Meanwhile, Mann was forced to halt campaigning for a few minutes after an ‘object’ reportedly hit him in the eye in Attari. Amid reports of foul play, AAP officials said a flower had hit him. He subsequently resumed canvassing. — #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/education-infra-in-tatters-bhagwant-mann-369084
12-02-2022||Amritsar||Congress: Centre 'misusing' ED to contain Charanjit Channi||Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu today accused the BJP-led Centre of misusing central agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate, to create a “terror-like” situation in the poll-bound Punjab.At a press conference, Bittu said the BJP could not digest the fact that the Congress had fielded a Dalit, Charanjit Channi, as the CM face.Referring to the ED arresting the CM’s nephew over alleged sand mining and claiming to have recovered crores of rupees from him, he said such tactics were being adopted to tarnish the image of Channi for political gains at the behest of the BJP.“A relative of Channi who had met his nephew disclosed the ED had tortured him. Though the EDcould not establish any concrete proof in the case, his remand was being sought repeatedly. I am sure he would be kept in custody only till the polls,” he added.Bittu also objected to “undue” security being provided to the BJP candidates for the elections. — #charanjit channi #ED||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-centre-misusing-ed-to-contain-channi-369083
12-02-2022||Chandigarh||No fixed norm for allocating ticket: Sunil Jakhar||Former PCC chief and campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar on Friday said there were no fixed parameters for ticket distribution and decisions in politics were taken on limited facts.Rebutting MP Shamsher Singh Dullo’s charges of anomalies in the ticket distribution, Jakhar said the allegations have to be substantiated with facts and could not be taken on face value. He reminded Dullo that in 2007, there were differences between him and Capt Amarinder Singh over “wrong” ticket distribution.Accompanied by media and communication incharge of the Punjab Congress Pawan Khera and party leader Himanshu Pathak, Jakhar said the best tribute that one could pay to the martyrs was to defeat the anti-farmer forces in the elections. Jakhar further said the BJP and the AAP were the two sides of the same coin.Showing the AAP website, Pathak said it clearly reflected that the party was fighting against the BJP, not against Modi. — #shamsher singh dullo #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-fixed-norm-for-allocating-ticket-jakhar-369079
12-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna & Parvesh Sharma||Arvind Kejriwal’s wife, daughter strike a chord in Dhuri||Tribune News ServiceDhuri, February 11The rather elusive family members of Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal — wife Sunita Kejriwal and daughter Harshita Kejriwal — on Friday campaigned in support of party’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann, contesting from this rural constituency.Talking of women empowerment and better education facilities, Sunita made an emotional connect with women of Dhuri by reminding them how they were being forced to mortgage their land to pay for their children’s passage to other countries.In this AAP stronghold, the only thing missing in the party campaign was the “family push” and a connect with women voters. Though Mann’s mother Jaspal Kaur and sister Manpreet Kaur have been canvassing for him as he criss-crosses the state to campaign for other candidates, they have not been able to match the aggressive campaigning by Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Mann’s opponent Dalvir Singh Goldy.Thus, the two women from Delhi converged here for an entire day of campaigning. While Sunita sought votes for her “devar” Mann, Harshita made an instant connect with both young and old women, as she talked of how if they vote for her Chacha ji, their children would get higher education and jobs in Punjab itself, rather than being forced to send them abroad. “When I used to campaign for my father, people would tell me how education and health services in Delhi have improved by leaps and bounds. Give the AAP a chance, you won’t regret it and won’t be forced to send your children away. The Rs 1,000 promised by the AAP to all women above 18 years of age, may be a small amount, but it will help you have some extra cash and your daughters will have money to pay for their books and for the bus fare to reach college. It will lead to your empowerment,” she said.As Sunita exhorted people to vote for Mann and the party, she asked them to be the decision makers for their families in this election, where a switch from traditional parties could change the future of women and their children. “If you want good schools for your children and employment for them, then vote for the AAP,” she said.The campaign today also harped on the blatant drug abuse in rural areas and the lathi-charges on protesting teachers in neighbouring Dhuri — the issues that found favour with the audience. Mann’s mother and sister too sought votes for the party, highlighting their rural background. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-wife-daughter-strike-a-chord-in-dhuri-369076
12-02-2022||---||PM security lapse grave failure: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Jalandhar, February 11Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said Charanjit Singh Channi should have resigned as CM on moral grounds after the “grave security lapse” during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5. He added the Channi-Sidhu experiment of the Congress would fail and there would be a “blast” in a few days.Addressing a public meeting at Talhan village in support of party’s Jalandhar Central nominee Manoranjan Kalia, Thakur said: “The Channi-Sidhu tussle is stalled only for a few days. There will be a blast soon. The Congress’ experiment with Channi and Sidhu will fail. Consequences of this will be visible when the results come.”Channi must own responsibilityThe PM Modi’s ‘security breach’ was a gross failure of law and order as he could not reach the rally venue. Instead of owning moral responsibility, CM Channi boasted about it. —Jai Ram Thakur, Himachal CMReferring to the “security breach” incident, he said: “It was a gross failure of law and order as the PM could not reach the public event venue. Instead of owning the moral responsibility, Chief Minister Channi boasted about it.”Thakur urged people to beware of those who had pushed Punjab’s youth into drugs. He said state’s youth were known for valour and courage and maximum number of soldiers who had laid down their lives defending the country on the borders were from Punjab. “We will ensure that those trying to play with that pride are banished forever,” he said.The BJP is going all out to mobilise party workers ahead of the Prime Minister’s visit. While marathon meetings have been going on at the party’s election office here, a steady stream of BJP leaders have embarked on campaigning in Punjab.While Thakur canvassed for Kalia today, in the evening, Union Minister Hardeep Puri addressed traders’ here. #jai ram thakur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-security-lapse-grave-failure-369074
12-02-2022||---||Flip-flop: Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi back with BJP||Batala, February 11Balwinder Singh Laddi, Congress MLA from Sri Hargobindpur, rejoined the BJP in the presence of party general secretary Tarun Chug here today.On December 28 last year, he and Congress MLA from Qadian Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa had joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi.Six days later, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi prevailed upon Laddi to rejoin the Congress.Forced to returnThe Congress doesn’t value its leaders. Therefore, I am forced to return to the BJP. I committed a blunder by joining back the Congress. —Balwinder Singh Laddi, MLASources say he was promised a ticket from the Sri Hargobindpur segment.The Congress, however, fielded low-profile leader and sarpanch Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal, who is close to minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.Subsequently, Laddi had claimed that “he was feeling suffocated in the party set-up”.After joining back the BJP today, he said: “The Congress doesn’t value its leaders. Therefore, I am forced to return to the BJP... I committed a blunder by joining back the Congress. Fateh Jung insisted that I return to the BJP fold. I feel the Congress had nothing to give to me and I had nothing to offer to the party. Hence, I parted ways. The BJP is a national party and its ideology appeals to me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flip-flop-congress-mla-laddi-back-with-bjp-369071
12-02-2022||GS Paul||Ravneet Bittu to aid of Navjot Sidhu, warns dissidents||Amritsar, February 11Amid reports of differences within the Congress, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who is also the chairman of party’s election management committee for Punjab, held a closed-door meeting with “disgruntled” leaders of Amritsar, asking them to support PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other party candidates in their campaign.Local Congress leaders have been conspicuous by their absence during campaigning by Sidhu in the high-stakes Amritsar East constituency, where he is pitted against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. Similarly, in Amritsar North, sitting Congress MLA Sunil Dutti has expressed displeasure and sought support from party colleagues.Better Fall in line or face musicThis is our last attempt to convince leaders. Those who go against party’s principles will face action. If anyone wishes to quit can do so. — Ravneet Bittu, Chief, Cong poll MGMT panelWill seek votes for pcc presidentDifferences surfaced prior to candidates’ selection, but once poll process got going, these were sorted out. I will soon join him in his campaign. — Gurjeet Aujla, Cong MPSidhu, who has been single-handedly campaigning in his constituency, canvassed in favour of Dutti today.A senior Congress leader, who attended the meeting with Bittu, said local party leaders had expressed resentment over Sidhu not approaching them for assistance.MP Gurjeet Aujla said the party was united and that he would support any candidate unconditionally. He agreed though he was never approached by Sidhu, he would soon join him in his campaign.“Differences occurred prior to candidates’ selection, but once the election process got rolling, these were sorted out. Sidhu, being a star campaigner too will campaign across Punjab as and when required by the high command,” he said.Bittu said he had tried to convince the leaders who had not been supporting party candidates in the fray, adding those who still won’t cooperate would have to face the music.Meanwhile, Bittu visited the Amritsar East constituency and shared dais with Sidhu last night. Seeking support for the PCC chief, he said the fight was not between Sidhu and Majithia, but between truth and evil. Nonetheless, Sidhu today visited Mudhal village falling under his home turf, where he cited development works executed during his five-year term. “If you think I have not carried out development in your village or have implicated anyone in fake police FIRs, don’t vote for me,” he told residents.He said the Akalis had business interests and had been luring residents with “ill-gotten” money. “They have been terrorising people using political clout and hiring outsiders for their rallies,” he said.Cautioning the residents against monetary allurement, Sidhu said he would spare Rs 1 crore for the village if elected. Sidhu claimed among 12,500 villages in the state, development works executed at Mudhal were the highest in the past five years. When Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, his wife, represented the constituency (during the SAD-BJP regime), Rs 43 crore grant was sanctioned for the village.Attacking Majithia, he said he would soon be behind bars over his links to the drug trade. #gurjeet aujla #navjot sidhu #ravneet bittu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bittu-to-aid-of-sidhu-warns-dissidents-369070
12-02-2022||Arun Sharma||Illegal mining: Ropar administration's clean chit to Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Ropar, February 11The district administration and the police have given a clean chit to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi overthe allegations of illegal mining in his Chamkaur Sahib Assembly constituency.Governor Banwari Lal Purohit had asked the DGP to probe the matter after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state co-incharge Raghav Chadha had on January 24 submitted a memorandum to him, demanding an inquiry into Channi’s alleged role in illegal mining at Jindapur village near Chamkaur Sahib.In a report submitted to the ADGP-cum-Enforcement Director, Mining, Ropar Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sonali Giri has said neither illegal mining was done at Jindapur village nor any complaint/report was found in the records of the administration.The authorities were supposed to probe four issues, including illegal mining on government forest land, transfer of a forest officer and role of CM’s relatives.The allegations of CM patronising illegal mining were levelled by the AAP on December 4 after Range Forest Officer Rajwant Singh wrote a letter to the Chamkaur Sahib SHO on November 18, 2021, alleging that Iqbal Singh, a resident of Shalapur village, and some unidentified people, using Poclain machines, were lifting sand from government forest land near the Sutlej. The officer also claimed that 530 saplings were also damaged due to the illegal mining.Writing a similar letter to the Chamkaur Sahib SDM on November 22, Rajwant said the police didn’t take any action in the case. Though no action was taken on the complaint, a few days later Rajwant was transferred from Chamkaur Sahib.On December 4, Chadha along with AAP workers reached riverbed near Jindapur village and alleged that illegal mining was rampant in the area under the CM’s patronage.The name of Channi was again dragged when the Enforcement Directorate conducted raids against his nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey in an illegal mining case on January 18 and recovered Rs 10 crore.On January 22, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia during a press conference presented pictures of Channi at the home of Iqbal Singh, a suspect in illegal mining at Jindapur.According to the report, forest guard Daljit Singh informed the inquiry committee that Iqbal Singh was not present on the mining spot and Rajwant named him because the machine driver had mentioned his name.The report also claimed that the Forest Department was not sure whether the land in question belonged to the government. The DC also said Rajwant’s transfer was done on his request on medical grounds.Judicial remand for nephew honeyJalandhar: The court of District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Chahal on Friday sent Bhupinder Honey, CM Charanjit Channi’s nephew, to a 14-day judicial remand in the alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Honey, who was summoned by the ED last week and was arrested thereafter, has remained in custody for seven days. tns #charanjit channi #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-ropar-administrations-clean-chit-to-chief-minister-369066
12-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||3-fold rise, 25% candidates in Punjab face criminal cases||Chandigarh, February 11Candidates with criminal cases have risen by almost three times in Punjab with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) fielding the highest number of such nominees.The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Punjab Election Watch claimed this in a report after analysing the self-sworn affidavits of 1,276 candidates of the total 1,304 in fray.521 crorepatis, up 4%107 of them from Congress | 89 SAD | 60 BJP | 16 BSP | 11 SAD (S) | 81 AAP | 16 PLCA Mere 7% women candidates in the frayThe report was released today by ADR Trustee Jaskirat Singh and Parvinder Singh Kittna and Harpreet Singh of Punjab Election Watch. Of the 1,276 candidates analysed, 315 or 25 per cent have declared criminal cases against them. The figure was 100 or 9 per cent (out of 1,145) in the 2017 elections. Among the 315 candidates, 65 belong to the SAD, 58 AAP, 27 BJP, 16 Congress, four SAD (Sanyukt) and three each BSP and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC).At least 218 candidates (17 per cent) have cases with serious offences. Of them, 60 belong to the SAD, 27 AAP, 15 BJP, nine Congress, three each SAD (Sanyukt) and BSP and two PLC. Besides, 15 candidates have declared cases related to crime against women, including two of rape. Four candidates have cases related to murder, while 33 have attempt-to-murder charges against them. At least 57 (49%) of 117 constituencies are in the “red alert” category. Such constituencies are those where three or more contestants have criminal cases against themselves. Also, 521 (41%) candidates are crorepatis. In 2017, 428 (37%) of 1,145 candidates were crorepatis.The role of money power in elections is evident from the fact that all major political parties have fielded wealthy candidates. Of 521 such nominees, 89 belong to the SAD, 107 Congress, 81 AAP, 60 BJP, 16 each BSP and PLC and 11 SAD (Sanyukt). #criminals in politics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-fold-rise-25-candidates-face-criminal-cases-369056
12-02-2022||Chandigarh||Justice Ajit Singh Bains dies at 99||A former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Ajit Singh Bains, breathed his last on Friday. He was 99.Justice Bains, a human rights activist, had remained a judge of the High Court from October 1974 to May 1984. His son RS Bains is a senior advocate. His grandson Utsav Bains is also an advocate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-ajit-singh-bains-dies-at-99-369050
