13-02-2022||GS Paul||Amit Shah holds closed-door meeting with Akal Takht Jathedar||Amritsar, February 13During the course of his political tour in Amritsar, Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and held a closed-door meeting with the officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Harpreet Singh.Though Shah was accompanied by other BJP leaders, including Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who is in Amritsar to campaign for BJP candidates, BJP national secretary Tarun Chugh, BJP leader Iqbal Singh Lalpura and Manjinder Singh Sirsa, but they were not present during the meeting held at the Akal Takht Secretariat that carried on for around 40-45 minutes.This was probably the first meeting between Shah and Jathedar after Modi government assumed power at the Centre.Meanwhile, Jathedar honoured Shah, presented him with a small replica of the Golden Temple and a siropa (robe of honour).Jathedar’s PA Jaspal Singh said the Jathedar had asked Shah to hold permanent post of a ‘Granthi’ (Sikh priest) in the paramilitary forces, on the lines of provision of ‘Maulvi’ in the forces.Jathedar also apprised Shah that the Sikh personnel in the forces themselves arrange for Sikh rituals during the gurpurbs or other Sikh occasions.It is learnt that the Jathedar has also taken up the issue of Sikh political prisoners languishing in the jails despite completion of their sentence.On another issue of protection of Sikh Shrines, including Gurdwara Gian Godri at Uttrakhand and Gurdwara Gurudongmar in Sikkim, being vandalised or illegally encroached upon by the locals. It is learnt that the Jathedar also asked for furnishing notification of gurdwara that comes under Section 87.Meanwhile, Sirsa tweeted the meet as “Blessings and Guidance of Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib Harpreet Singh Ji for @AmitShah Ji who shared his vision for peace and prosperity in Punjab and value-addition to the nation”.Though Jathedar occupies the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, yet he often used the religious platform to bat for the Badal-led SAD.At the ‘Panthic Ikath’ held on January 2 at Golden Temple in the presence of SAD leadership led by Sukhbir Singh Badal against the sacrilege incidents, the Jathedar had urged the community to strengthen the Akal Takht and the SGPC as it will automatically make the SAD stronger. He had advised the SAD leadership to conduct ‘Punjab to Panth’ march so that no one could disassociate ‘son’ (SAD) from its mother (SGPC).Jathedar’s appeal had fumed the Opposition parties and the Congress minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had even lodged his protest in writing against it.Earlier in 2020, during the 100th foundation day of SGPC, Jathedar had attacked the BJP government at the Centre calling it an “EVM elected government” and had advocated the SAD to start a journey “Punjab to Panth” march.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amit-shah-holds-closed-door-meeting-with-akal-takht-jathedar-369615
13-02-2022||GS Paul||Kejriwal says Channi will not be the CM after poll result||Amritsar, February 13AAP has expressed confidence that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi could lose the ‘CM tag’ after March 10.Accompanied by AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Singh Mann in Amritsar today, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal said the party has been conducting poll surveys across the state.Citing his party’s survey reports emerging from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur constituencies, both being contested by Channi simultaneously, Kejriwal claimed that he (Channi) was on the verge of losing both the seats.“If Channi was not going to be an MLA, how could he be the CM? We had conducted surveys not once but thrice on both the seats. In Chamkaur Sahib, AAP candidate is having an edge with 52 per cent liking by residents whereas only 35 per cent favoured Channi. Similarly, 48 per cent residents of Bhadaur preferred AAP candidate and Channi could catch the fancy of only 30 per cent residents. So, Channi would just remain the ‘CM’ face,” he said.Kejriwal said the residents of Chamkaur Sahib, from where Channi was two-time MLA, were annoyed with him, especially in the context of allegedly patronising illegal sand mining in the area. He wondered over the reports that surfaced about the ‘clean chit’ given to Channi in the illegal sand mining scam in which his nephew was nabbed by the Enforcement Directorate.“It was another magical wonder of Channi who got himself ‘clean chit’ within four days of an inquiry conducted by the officers who belonged to the same place. It was as if those officers must have been involved in the illegal sand mining too,” he said while pointing towards Mann, sitting next to him, stating that “the true investigation would be done only when he occupies the CM chair”.Questioning ED’s role, he claimed that the accused (Channi’s nephew) has said before the ED that the money recovered from him belonged to Channi and that the ill-gotten money was accumulated in lieu of obliging the officers’ transfers. “Where was the hitch to arrest Channi? He has to be arrested and interrogated by the ED,” Kejriwal said.He emphasised that the AAP is working like a team and has focused on the agenda conceptualised for the welfare and development of Punjab for the next five years.“On the other hand, the internal conflict between the Congress party was an open secret. We have seen the four-and-a-half-year term of Congress-led government by Capt Amarinder and 111-day governance of Channi too. How could such a party deliver for the Punjab welfare which could not resolve its internal bickering?”Launching a scathing attack on PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘Punjab Model’, Mann said his model was never approved by the Congress high command.He said AAP had given the ‘guarantees’ and prepared a proper roadmap for Punjab with a programme to generate revenue and its utilisation. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-says-channi-will-not-be-the-cm-after-poll-result-369593
13-02-2022||Sangrur||Navjot Singh Sidhu refuses to take the stage at Priyanka Gandhi's Sangrur rally||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu did not address Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s rally at Rajomajra in Dhuri Assembly segment on Friday.Sidhu, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, and Congress veteran Sunil Jakhar were among those leaders who accompanied Gandhi to the rally in support of Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy. Sidhu refused to address the crowd despite being called on stage by Simrat Khangura.Goldy is fighting Aam Aadmi Party's chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann.“A comedian cannot defeat me,” Goldy told the crowd.Charanjit Channi, who addressed the rally, criticised Mann---a Member of Parliament from Sangrur---for not having done much for the development of the area.Dhuri falls under the Sangrur Parliamentary constituency.Congress had announced its chief ministerial candidate to be Charanjit Channi at a rally last week. Sidhu's refusal to take the stage comes days after his wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, said her husband was an apt choice for the chief minister's position and that Rahul Gandhi, who made the announcement last week, was "misguided". #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/navjot-singh-sidhu-refuses-to-take-the-stage-at-priyanka-gandhis-sangrur-rally-369556
13-02-2022||Nitin Jain||Punjab not safe under Channi regime, says Amit Shah at Ludhiana rally||Ludhiana, February 13Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday addressed an election rally in favour of the BJP alliance candidates at Daresi ground here.Highlights*Amit Shah, sporting a saffron turban and a shawl, begins speech by raising ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogan and exhorting public to raise both hands to pledge drug-free Punjab*Introduces BJP allies candidates by making them stand on the dais*Remembers tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh*Punjab is India's soul as it made India self-sufficient in food production*Shah pays tributes to Kartar Singh Sarabha*Ensure victory of BJP allies candidates, we will ensure Ludhiana's bicycle go worldwide*Raises unemployment, drugs and farmers' plight as main issues faced by Punjab*Targets CM Charanjit Singh Channi and AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal, accuses them of ruining Punjab*Says if Kejriwal comes, he will release all terrorists*Punjab needs a serious, sensitive and powerful government, it's no comedian's job*Raises national security issue*Punjab youth is omnipresent across the countryOROP given by PM Narendra Modi, not by Congress, which ruled India for over 3 decades*Modi raised defence budget three-times in India*The person (Channi) who cannot ensure safe route of PM, can he secure entire Punjab and its people*Channi has no moral authority to rule for even a second*Punjab needs a government that strengthens the hands of Modi at the Centre*If you elect NDA government in Punjab, will free border state of drugs in five years*Parties that ruled Punjab so far have made the soil barren*We will change crop pattern to once again Punjab soil fertile*Modi government spent Rs 300 crore to celebrate Guru Gobind Singh's 350th birth anniversary, opened Kartarpur Corridor and initiated several other steps to recognise the contribution of Sikhs and Punjab*Announced Veer Baal Diwas to remember Sahibzadas every year*Raises Sikh genocide, terming as heinous crime by Congress*Recalls Rajiv Gandhi's statement that when big tree falls, the earth shakes*BJP ensured justice to Sikh riots' victims*Ludhiana was made Smart City by Modi*The Modi Government made maximum purchase of crops on MSP and paid farmers directly through their bank accounts*Raises issue of conversions, this cannot be stopped by Channi or Kejriwal, only BJP can stop it*If BJP votes to power in Punjab, will throw out practice of conversions from state*Ridicules Kejriwal's promise to make Punjab drug-free, he instead made Delhi liquor city*Modi has planned to develop Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar as industrial hubs and make them regain their lost glory of industrial capitals*Will set up NCB regional centres in four main cities in Punjab to check international drug trafficking in border state*Announces special incentives to MSMEs*Will also check mafias dealing in sand, drugs and other trades with iron hand*Will eliminate all such menaces within five years*Will develop nawaan Punjab*Raises slogans of Jai Shri Ram, Sat Sri Akal and Bharat Mata Ki Jai*Says Punjab not safe under Channi regime*Concludes his 26-minute speech by urging voters to elect the NDA Government in Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-not-safe-under-channi-regime-says-amit-shah-at-ludhiana-rally-369541
13-02-2022||Jalandhar||Special train carrying 1,500 devotees leaves Jalandhar for Varanasi in UP||Over 1,500 devotees on Sunday left for Varanasi in a special train -- Begumpura Express — from the city railway station ahead of Guru Ravidas’ birth anniversary on February 16.Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was expected to arrive at the PAP here today and his plan was to walk down to the railway station along with devotees to flag off the train. However, his visit was cancelled due to his hectic campaigning schedule.Meanwhile, the Punjab Assembly elections, too, were put off from February 14 to 20 because of the occasion.The railway station reportedly turned into a sea of people as thousands of devotees gathered there to catch a glimpse of Dera Sachkhand Balan head Nirajan Das, who was leading the pilgrimage. BJP candidate from Jalandhar Central, Manoranjan Kalia, among other political leaders were present at the railway station to seek blessings of the Dera head.A ‘kirtan’ was performed at the station before the departure of the train. Besides, a special arrangement for langar was made at several places.Talking to The Tribune, Seth Satpal Mal, a follower and an organiser, said 1,700 devotees left for Varanasi, the birthplace of the revered guru, for the celebrations. He said last year due to Covid-19 surge, they couldn’t get permission for the special train, but the situation has improved this time and the permission for the special train was taken two months ago.He said another special train with over 1,000 devotees will leave tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-train-carrying-around-1-000-devotees-set-to-leave-jalandhar-for-varanasi-in-up-369531
13-02-2022||If I become the Transport Minister again||Won’t let private buses operate in state, says Amrinder Singh Raja Warring||#leaderspeak #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-let-pvt-buses-operate-in-state-369389
13-02-2022||Patiala||Parties have ignored SCs, alleges group||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-have-ignored-scs-alleges-group-369390
13-02-2022||Amritsar||As Punjab poll campaign picks up pace Amritsar train tragedy victims’ kin feel let down||The families that lost their dear ones in the Dasehra train tragedy of 2018 are reluctant to vote for PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is seeking a re-election from the Amritsar East constituency.The government offered them jobs last year, but they say they got these after a prolonged struggle. The tragedy had taken place near Joda Phatak, twin railway crossing, which falls in the constituency.Kavita lost her 18-year-old son Deepak in the tragedy and a family member got a job on compassionate grounds. “Getting the job wasn’t easy. Sidhu had promised us employment but didn’t fulfil the promise,” he says, adding none from the legislator’s family have approached them during the ongoing campaigning. “Even those families that were adopted by Sidhu after the tragedy have not been approached,” he adds. — #amritsar east #amritsar train tragedy #navjot sindhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/train-tragedy-victims-kin-feel-let-down-369396
13-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab poll 2022: 6 years later, sacrilege-hit Faridkot villages decide to move on||Burj Jawaharsinghwala/Bargari, February 12It has been more than six years since the “Bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from this (till then) non-descript village of Burj Jawaharsinghwala and its “angs” were later strewn in Bargari, falling just 5 km off the Kotkapura-Bathinda highway.Now, enveloped in the election colours of three main political parties — the Congress, AAP and SAD — the people of this village have clearly left behind the incident and are hoping for change.“What happened is very painful, but one has to move on,” says 70-year-old Karamjit Kaur of Bargari. “When drug abuse is rampant and there is unemployment, does one have time to think of other things? My son has done his master’s and several other courses. But there are no jobs here and he works in the fields. My daughter, too, has done her post-graduation, but she is still on a contract job of schoolteacher. In this election, these are the issues,” she tells The Tribune.Sukhpreet Kaur of Burj Jawaharsinghwala, whose husband Harbans Singh had been “falsely implicated” in the theft of the “Bir” and had died of shock after being allegedly subjected to torture during investigation, says: “The only solace we have is at least I have got a job in a factory in Kot Shamir and my young son, who was also tortured, is working at a petrol station nearby. We are making both ends meet. With elections around, some people are trying to rake up the issue again. They must realise we will not get closure till we move on.”Village sarpanch’s brother Gobind Singh tells The Tribune the villagers have decided not to rake up the issue, especially as most of the dera ‘Premis’ in the village have embraced Sikhism, after the arrest of the dera chief in 2017. “We want to live peacefully and focus on bettering our lives,” adds Raja Singh, a cycle repair shop owner.Ajit Singh Brar of Bargari and Hardeep Kaur, too, express similar sentiments. “We want to see our children get good education, a control on the open sale of drugs that is snuffing out the lives of the young; and, employment opportunities here. What happened in 2015 is in the past,” they say. The families of the two victims of police firing on those protesting against sacrilege then — Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjeet Singh Bittu Sarawan — at nearby Behbal Kalan village have been staging a dharna for the past 58 days in front of a memorial gate erected to the victims.Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan, and Sadhu Singh, father of Gurjeet Singh, tell The Tribune they are sick of the political spectacle that has been made of the incident. “More than six years on, the investigation is headed nowhere. Our kin were publically shot, but the charges have not even been framed. This dharna is to seek justice. Those responsible for sacrilege are out on furlough because it’s election time and parties want to milk it for votes,” they say.However, some residents prefer not to be reminded of the incident. Resham Singh and Bangal Singh Dhillon, both elders in Behbal Kalan, say the incident occurred because of some miscreants. “Nobody in the village wants to rake it up. As politicians come to seek our support, we only hope for better education and health facilities here and employment for youth, so they do not have to go abroad. The youngsters here prefer a change, but the older generation wants to stick to the traditional parties, irrespective of the fact that these failed to give closure to the incidents of 2015,” they say. #Bargari #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-years-later-sacrilege-hit-fkot-villages-decide-to-move-on-369399
13-02-2022||Kotkapura (Faridkot)||Drive against liquor ‘allurement’||With liquor being used to influence voters in the area, the Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle (GGSSC), a socio-religious organisation, has started a campaign against this illegal practice.As political parties reach out to voters by hiring vehicles, vehicles of the GGSSC fitted with loudspeakers and large hoardings are making rounds of localities, asking people to not fall prey to the liquor “allurement” of various parties.“While parties have been using drug menace as a poll issue to garner votes, free flow of liquor to influence voters reveals their true agenda,” says a senior functionary of the GGSCC. “We are trying to raise our voice against the use of drugs or any other intoxicant to influence voters,” he adds. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drive-against-liquor-allurement-369400
13-02-2022||Batala||Bodies of 2 soldiers killed in avalanche cremated||The mortal remains of Sepoy Gurbaj Singh were cremated with full military honours at his native village of Massanian falling in Batala police district today.He was among the seven Army men killed in an avalanche in Arunachal Pradesh.Officials of the district administration and the Army were present.Ashwani Sekhri, a three-time Batala MLA and now a Congress candidate from the city, and AAP candidate Sherry Kalsi, too, were present. Sekhri said he would ensure the family gets all benefits from the government.In Sujanpur, the mortal remains of Rifleman Akashya Pathania were cremated at Chakker village in Dhar Kalan tehsil of Pathankot district. Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu and district and Army officials were present in strength. He was cremated with full Army honours. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bodies-of-2-soldiers-killed-in-avalanche-cremated-369401
13-02-2022||Sangrur||RO orders FIRs against minister||The Returning Officer-cum-SDM has written two letters to local DSP seeking registration of two FIRs against Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla over violation of the model code. Singla, however, denied any violation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ro-orders-firs-against-minister-369403
13-02-2022||---||Days ahead of polls, Navjot Sidhu unveils his ‘Punjab Model’||Amritsar, February 12Days ahead of Congress’ manifesto, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, seeking a re-election from the Amritsar East seat, released his ‘Punjab Model’ on the social media today.The model comes days after party leader Rahul Gandhi announced Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s CM candidate. Rahul had said features of Sidhu’s model would be incorporated into the party manifesto.Releasing the blueprint of his model, he said it drew inspiration from the Gurmat philosophy of Guru Nanak Dev besides incorporating vision of former PM Rajiv Gandhi to empower panchayats and urban local bodies.Key proposalsThe 13-point agenda involves raising farm income, women empowerment, healthcare, labour reforms, governance reforms, social reforms, skilling and entrepreneurship, industry, law and order, environment and civic amenities, law and order, stress on digitalisation, and education.Roadmap to prosperityNew system erases mafia from Punjab, fills coffers to double them for people’s welfare. —Navjot Sidhu, PCC ChiefIt suggests a government portal to announce its financial condition; corporations for liquor and sand mining; plying of buses on long routes only by PRTC and PUNBUS; licences for rural youth to ply short-route buses; and advertisement and publicity policy.It further bats for funding to panchayats for creating storage facilities; MSP on oil, oil seeds and maize; besides subsidy for diversification and equipment procurement to farmers owning less than five acres.For women, it envisions providing tablets to schoolgirls; Rs 2,000 and eight LPG refills a year; no registration fee for properties; interest-free loan to women entrepreneurs.The document says five lakh jobs will be created in the next five years and offers pay hike for ASHA, anganwadi and mid-day workers. Besides, Rs 5 lakh health insurance will be provided to all.Reacting to the PCC chief’s ‘Punjab Model’, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, "it is misleading. The bad condition of his constituency reflects his true model."Farmers free to protest: DikshitAfter Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu asked PM Narendra Modi to come to the state for canvassing by air and avoid road travel, AICC secretary Sandeep Dikshit called upon farmer leaders to stage protests during his upcoming visit to Punjab. Dikshit was here to campaign for Sidhu in Amritsar East. He said while anyone could canvass freely in the state, farmers were also free to express their resentment over non-fulfulment of demands. #navjot sidhu #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-ahead-of-polls-sidhu-unveils-his-punjab-model-369358
13-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Campaign Trail 2022: Tightrope walk for Balbir Singh Rajewal in Samrala||Macchiwara, February 12Talking to a small group of potential voters, mostly farmers, at Raipur village of the Samrala Vidhan Sabha constituency, 78-year-old CM candidate of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) Balbir Singh Rajewal says: “Buoyed with the success of forcing the Centre to withdraw the controversial farm laws, workers have dragged me to contest the election. They say we are fully charged up to usher in a change in politics.”Others in frayThe BKU (Rajewal) president says: “I know we are fighting a tough battle. The Congress and SAD camps and even a prominent Independent candidate (referring to sitting Congress MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon who has been denied the party ticket) are attempting to buy voters with cash and liquor. However, people tell me they will vote for taking away power from all traditional politicians.”Fight still onOur fight for farmers is not over yet. We have only suspended our movement. If our issues arern’t addressed, we will protest again. —Balbir Singh Rajewal, SSMRelaxing on a sunny winter afternoon, less than 100 m from the gathering, Meet Singh says: “This battle is different from the one we fought in Delhi. Throughout the movement, we were told that ours is not a political front. Certain leaders, now, have become ambitious. I am not going to them. Trust me there are many more like me who are disillusioned.”Replying to a question on the allegations of an attempted tie-up with the AAP, Rajewal replied, “AAP leaders came to me and later floated all kinds of baseless rumours of a tie-up. I never made any commitment. I met them in January after we had called off our agitation. I found they were not sticking to clean politics. I just walked out. Also, there is no truth about understanding with the BJP. Having seen the government hand in attempts to crush our peaceful movement, there is no question of any common ground between us.” He said, “Despite media reports that a section of farmers has left our bandwagon, I will like to say that only some senior leaders of certain leftist organisation are staying out. However, youngsters from the same party are working with us. Some have also got the ticket from us.”Replying to the charges of malpractices in allocating ticket, Rajewal said, “I strongly deny the allegations. We got about 3,000 applications. Yes, we did made a few mistakes as this is our first time. But, everything has been handled fairly now.” At Sikandpur village, he talks about the drugs menace. He says: “Yesterday, I met about 20 women from a village who were wailing over losses in their families due to the drugs menace. It is time to stop it now or it will be too late.”Returning home after listening to Rajewal’s address, 78-year-old Mahinder Singh said, “Only Parkash Singh Badal brought welfare schemes for the poor. No other party ever bothered. The voice of the SSM looks unimpressive.” In a contrasting sentiment, Bhupinder Singh at Hayatpur village said, “I was the sarpanch twice, but could not get anything done for my village because leaders did not listen to us. Results of the farmers’ movement have given us reason to believe that a change is possible.”About constituencyTotal voters 1,74,410Candidates 14 #balbir rajewal #farmer leader #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tightrope-walk-for-rajewal-in-samrala-369369
13-02-2022||---||Punjab Kisan Union withdraws candidate from Mansa constituency||Mansa, February 12The Punjab Kisan Union, led by state president Ruldu Singh Mansa, has announced withdrawal of its candidate from the Assembly elections in protest against the bail granted to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident accused.The union had fielded Gurnam Singh Bhikhi from Mansa as part of its understanding with the SSM.The union leaders also announced boycott of candidates of the BJP and its allies in the state. The announcement came after a state-level meeting here on Saturday.To burn PM’s effigiesWe will burn effigies of PM Narendra Modi during his visit to the state from February 14 to 16. —Ruldu Singh Mansa, Punjab kisan union state chiefMansa said: “Constitutional provisions have taken a back seat in the country and all institutions are being run by the Centre. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has been seeking justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where farmers were mowed down. The SKM has sought dismissal and arrest of Union minister and BJP leader Ajay Mishra but instead of taking action against him, his son, one of the prime accused in the case, has been granted bail. On the one hand, those who have completed their sentences have been incarcerated, on the other, those resorting to hooliganism are being granted bail.”“Apart from withdrawing the candidate, we have decided to boycott the BJP and its allies in the state. The BJP is resorting to communal politics and creating divisions. It is high time we all get united. People need to be mobilised against the BJP. We urge people of UP and other states not to cast vote in favour of the BJP. We have decided to burn effigies of PM Modi during his visit to the state from February 14 to 16,” added Mansa. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-kisan-union-withdraws-candidate-369371
13-02-2022||Aman Sood||Key Constituency: Debutant gives bigwigs a tough fight in Ghanaur||Ghanaur, February 12In the rural segment of Ghanaur, two political heavyweights are facing a tough contest from AAP’s debutant candidate and Kabaddi player Gurlal Singh Ghanaur.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has fielded senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, the Congress has trusted sitting MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur and the two heavyweights to face the AAP challenge. The Congress and SAD have remained neck and neck in this constituency, though Jalalpur has been able to firmly grip the constituency. However, with Capt Amarinder Singh not with the Congress anymore, it will be a litmus test for Jalalpur to keep his vote bank intact.Silent voters hold keyChandumajra, who is known to be a politically astute leader, has strong pockets of influence in this belt. He has been banking on Panthic vote bank and promising to throw out the mining and liquor mafia from the rural segment, which has off late earned notoriety for illegal trades. “I will ensure the rule of law as the MLA. Once the Akali government is formed in the state, we will ensure no village suffers due to Ghaggar floods,” he said.Jalalpur, on the other hand, said: “I have ensured clean drinking water, industrial corridor project, new roads and improved medical facility to name a few. People will never vote for an outsider as I have been nurturing this constituency for 20 years and voters know that I am always there for them.”A known face in the area due to his sports achievements, Gurlal joined AAP in June last year. Gurlal, who is said to have been gaining momentum with every passing day, said people of Ghanaur did not have any option earlier. “They are already fed up with traditional parties. A majority of the promises made by them have never been fulfilled.Locals claim rather than focusing on state-level issues, all candidates are promising all-round development more funds, making it difficult for voters to take a call. #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debutant-gives-bigwigs-a-tough-fight-369374
13-02-2022||---||Usher in change, AAP's CM candidate Bhagwant Mann urges voters in Dhuri||Sangrur, February 12Punjab AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann on Saturday visited various villages of Dhuri constituency. He targeted his political opponents and announced that AAP would bring development across Punjab after the formation of its government.Mann along with his friend and singer Karamjit Anmol sang the famous song of ‘Chadda Rahi Ve Surja Kamiyan De Vehre’ and appealed to the people to bring a new light to Punjab by electing the AAP government.“The change will bring happiness, prosperity and opportunities in every nook and corner of the state. Corruption and mafia will end,” said Mann, promising big industrial projects to Dhuri and other areas of Punjab.“All other parties have failed to take required steps for the development of area. The leaders of these traditional parties have done the development of their families only. Now, it’s time to vote for yourself,” said Mann. #bhagwant mann #Dhuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/usher-in-change-mann-urges-voters-in-dhuri-369375
13-02-2022||Fazilka||SAD-BSP will put state back on track: Sukhbir Badal||Campaigning in Jalalabad,SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said if voted to power, the SAD-BSP alliance will put the state back on the track of development and restart social welfare initiatives.‘Disqualify AAP’He alleged the Congress did not fulfil promises made to the people, including farmer loan waiver, jobs to youth and increasing the Shagun scheme amount to Rs 51,000 and old-age pension. He said instead of giving relief to people, CM Charanjit Singh Channi allegedly patronised the sand mafia and used officials by promising plum postings and transfers. “The 111-day tenure of Channi will be remembered as the most corrupt in the history of the state,” claimed Badal. He also lashed out at AAP. — #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-will-put-state-back-on-track-sukhbir-369377
13-02-2022||Chandigarh/Mansa||AAP's Sardulgarh candidate booked for poll code violation||Sardulgarh Returning Officer-cum-SDM Manisha Rana today said an FIR had been registered against AAP’s Sardulgarh candidate for violating the model code of conduct.The RO said a flying squad found AAP volunteers holding a roadshow on motorcycles at Fatta Malkaa village near Jhunir in violation of the EC norms. They were joined by the AAP candidate, following which an FIR was registered.Meanwhile, the AAP has lodged a complaint with the EC and Mohali SHO against BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa for spreading “fake” information against the party. It sought EC’s directions to Sirsa to remove the content from his Twitter handle and an FIR against him. — #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-sardulgarh-candidate-booked-369378
13-02-2022||Bathinda||Will oppose BJP, its allies, says  BKU Sidhupur||BKU Ekta Sidhupur leaders during a meeting here announced they will protest against BJP candidates and star campaigners in the coming days. They demanded justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and rued many of their demands remained unfulfilled. Baldev Singh Sandoha, state general secretary, said: “On a call given by the SKM, we will lodge protest against BJP candidates, its allies and their star campaigners from February 14 onwards. The Centre has repealed the three farm laws but hasn’t fulfilled other demands.”The demands included legal guarantee on MSP on agricultural produce, cancellation of cases registered against farmers during the agitation, compensation to kin of farmers who died during the stir, abolition of electricity Act 2021, excluding agriculture sector from pollution Control Act, punitive action against culprits of Lakhimpur Kheri incident.“Until all demands are met, we will lodge protest against the BJP and its allies at every platform,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-oppose-bjp-its-allies-says-bku-sidhupur-369381
13-02-2022||Ludhiana||Congress, BJP in verbal duel||Ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on February 14, 16 and 17, the Congress and BJP have entered into a verbal duel.With Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu asking the PM not to travel by road for avoiding problems as he had faced during his previous visit on January 5, Union Minister and BJP’s Punjab affairs incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has taken a strong exception to the MP’s advice, terming it “a threat to disrupt PM’s rallies”.Bittu said, “The PM should visit Punjab by helicopter or plane as he might face problems if he opts to travel via road in the state.”"He kept Punjabis on roads for over one year. As many as 750 farmers sacrificed their lives. How will people forget this? So better to come by air,” said the MP.Responding to it, Shekhawat said the party would raise the matter with the EC also. Terming it an “open threat”, he said it was clear that the Congress was feeling threatened by the BJP’s growing popularity in Punjab. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-bjp-in-verbal-duel-369382
13-02-2022||Ropar/Patiala||Punjab poll 2022: Will ensure transparent government, says Nadda||BJP president JP Nadda today urged voters to give the party a chance to serve them in the state. Addressing a meeting at Nurpur Bedi village in support of BJP candidate from Ropar Iqbal S Lalpura, Nadda said: “It was PM Modi who ensured the culprits of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots were punished.” Asserting the BJP would provide transparent rule, he said the PM had got opened Kartarpur corridor, a long-pending demand of Sikhs.”He also addressed rallies in Patiala in support of candidates Jagdish Jagga from Rajpura and Vikas Kumar from Ghanaur. — #j p nadda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-ensure-transparent-govt-369383
13-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab poll 2022: AAP candidate's call for financial aid goes viral on social media||Bhadaur, February 12AAP Bhadaur candidate Labh Singh Ugoke’s request for financial help has further triggered the narrative of ‘Garib Vs Amir’ narrative in the area. Apart from asking his friends, Ugoke has spread a message through social media, giving his account details for all, who want to help him financially as per their capacity.Ugoke is contesting against CM Charanjit Channi, who is being projected as “poor CM” by Congress leaders, to encash the sentiments of poor.I know what it means to be poorMy wife stitches clothes, mother is a contractual sweeper in a school and father was a driver. My family is working hard for survival. I know what it means to be poor. —Labh S Ugoke, AAP candidate“I have not hired any vehicle for my campaign as I do not have required money. My friends and supporters have been using their own vehicles. I have closed my shop of mobile repair and have requested my supporters for financial help,” Ugoke told The Tribune.The sympathy Ugoke has been gaining is likely to set the alarm bells ringing for his opponents in coming days as he is exerting his all energy to explain the real elements of poverty.He has assets worth Rs 1,29,634, while CM Channi has assets worth Rs 6.17 crore, of which Rs 4.71 crore are immoveable and remaining Rs 1.46 crore moveable. #AAP #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nominees-call-for-aid-goes-viral-369385
13-02-2022||Ropar||AAP's Raghav Chadha rejects clean chit to CM Channi in Ropar illegal mining case||State AAP co-incharge Raghav Chadha has rejected the clean chit given by the Ropar administration to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi over allegations of illegal mining in the Chamkaur Sahib Assembly constituency.Chadha claimed the administration was under the influence of the CM so impartial inquiry was not expected from them. Talking to media while campaign for party candidate Dinesh Chadha, he said: “It was Channi’s own administration that gave him the clean chit.”Channi had already given a clean chit to himself and his nephew from whom the Enforcement Directorate had recovered Rs 10 crore, added Chadha. He said probe by an independent agency was required in the case and the AAP would conduct probe in all illegal mining cases if voted to power. — #AAP #charanjit channi #illegal mining #raghav chadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raghav-chadha-rejects-clean-chit-to-cm-369386
13-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab poll 2022: NDA vows job quota for locals||Jalandhar, February 12The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, in its vision document for Punjab for the next five years, today promised 75% and 50% reservation for Punjabis in government and private jobs, respectively, Rs 4,000 allowance for all jobless graduates for two years and 35% quota for women in all government jobs.Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri along with key functionaries of the party, and alliance partners PLC and SAD (Sanyukt) unveiled the manifesto, which focused on employment, sacrilege, sports and law and order.Key assurances by allianceIt promised infrastructure development fund of Rs 1 lakh crore to be spent over five years to revive the state economy, free electricity up to 300 units to all households and increased cash awards for sportspersons.Asserting “zero tolerance” policy towards sacrilege, the alliance promised a special task force and fast track courts to expedite such cases and ensure law enforcement.Results to be different from buzz createdThe results in Punjab will be different from the popular perception created by the media during these elections. —Hardeep Puri, Union MinisterPuri, PLC leader Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh, BJP leaders Dushyant Gautam, Tarun Chugh, Subhash Sharma, Som Parkash as well as SAD (S) general secretray Tejinder Pal Singh announced the key features of the document.Besides focus on law and order and cross-border terrorism, it promised steps to curb drug menace. Domain experts in law, forensics, digital forensics, information technology would be recruited in all police stations for better services to citizens. Cyber Defence Headquarters would be set up for prevention of cyber crimes and 24 hours surveillance of cities through CCTV cameras would be started, it promised.To tackle the problem of drug smuggling, a cross-state strategy involving J&K, Haryana, HP and Rajasthan would be formulated. A compensation of Rs 5 lakh would be given to each family affected by terrorism, it said.The alliance promised free power up to 300 units to each household and a flat tariff of Rs 3 per unit beyond the threshold.The state government’s decision to delink the salaries of teachers in government colleges and universities to UGC salary structure would be withdrawn. The recommendations of the UGC’s 7th pay commission would be implemented at the earliest.Funds would be provided from the state budget for payment of postmatric scholarship dues to SC students, it said. #NDA #punjab poll 2022,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nda-vows-job-quota-for-locals-369354
13-02-2022||New Delhi||All 7 of Army killed in avalanche from Punjab, HP, Jammu||The mortal remains of the seven Army soldiers killed in an avalanche in Arunachal Pradesh on February 6 arrived at their respective home towns on Saturday.The bodies were flown to their native places in Akhnoor, Kathua and Khour in J&K; Batala and Dhar Kalan (Pathankot) in Punjab and Baijnath (Kangra) and Ghumarwin (Bilaspur) in Himachal after a wreath-laying ceremony at Tezpur Air Force Station in Assam.Havildar Jugal Kishore and Riflemen Arun Kattal, Akshay Pathania, Vishal Sharma, Rakesh Singh and Ankesh Bhardwaj were from the 19th battalion of the J&K Rifles while Gunner Gurbaj Singh was in the 62 Medium Regiment. The seven soldiers were part of a patrol that was struck by an avalanche at an altitude of 14,500 feet in Kameng sector of Arunachal Pradesh. At Tezpur, the Commander of the 4 Corps, Lt Gen Ravin Khosla, led the officials in paying respects. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/all-7-of-army-killed-in-avalanche-from-punjab-hp-jammu-369355
13-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||33 kg heroin, 70 kg opium: Record drug seizure amid electioneering in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 12There has been a huge recovery of narcotics in the run-up to the Punjab elections, beating the 2012 record when drugs emerged as a major issue for the first time.Since the imposition of the model code of conduct in the state, security forces under the command of the EC have seized 33 kg of heroin and 4,707 kg of poppy husk. During the 2017 elections, 11.92 kg of heroin and 2,342 kg of poppy husk were seized and in 2012, the quantity was 23.54 kg and 2,707 kg.The seizure has already crossed the previous figures with polling still a week away. Besides heroin and poppy husk, the forces also seized opium (70 kg), ganja (164 kg), smack (263 gm), charas (7,456 gm), capsules (10,784), vials of banned syrup (479) and tablets (4,73,733). Despite the record seizure, parties are divided if drug menace is still one of the core issues in the state. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which had focused its 2017 campaign on the issue, believes it is no longer a burning issue. “It exists only in the media now without any resonance in the state,” claims party chief Arvind Kejriwal. The BJP has a different view. State party chief Ashwani Sharma says, “Drug abuse is the biggest issue in Punjab. We are committed to ending the menace and punishing the culprits.”Akali Dal spokesperson Parambans Singh Romana says the party is against vendetta, but treats it as a serious issue. “The first crackdown took place under our regime,” he claims.Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had in 2017 vowed to end the menace in four weeks, says: “Drugs will always be an issue for any society. But to call it an issue in this election as in 2017 would be a mistake. My government broke the supply chain, although much politics was played on the issue.” #drug seizure #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-kg-heroin-70-kg-opium-record-drug-seizure-amid-electioneering-369345
13-02-2022||Patiala ||Cong MP Preneet Kaur attends BJP poll meet, seeks votes for husband Amarinder Singh||Congress MP Preneet Kaur on Saturday attending a meeting of the BJP here and sought votes for her husband Amarinder Singh in the Punjab assembly polls.Amarinder Singh had floated his own party Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) after he was unceremoniously removed as the chief minister by the Congress high command last year following a bitter tussle with party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Kaur, the MP from Patiala, attended the BJP's meeting, which had been organised for the saffron party's ally Amarinder Singh.Amarinder Singh-led PLC, the BJP and the SAD (Sanyukt) are fighting the state polls in alliance.The former chief minister is contesting the elections as Punjab Lok Congress nominee from his traditional seat Patiala (Urban).Saturday's meeting was organised at Sirhindi Gate here."I have come to you to appeal for Amarinder Singh as your family member," Kaur said, seeking votes for her husband.The move of Preneet, who has been staying away from campaigning for the Congress, has raised speculations about her next political step.A few days ago, Congress nominee from Patiala (Urban) Vishnu Sharma had asked Kaur to either campaign for the party or resign."I am with my family. The family is above everything," Kaur had said on Thursday when reporters asked her why she was "silent" during the elections.The Congress had in November last year issued her a show-cause notice seeking an explanation from her for alleged "anti-party activities".When asked about it, Kaur had told reporters on Thursday that she did not receive any such notice and had only read about it in newspapers and on social media.The notice should otherwise have come from the party general secretary, she had said. #CaptAmarinderSingh #Punjabpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-mp-preneet-kaur-attends-bjp-poll-meet-seeks-votes-for-husband-amarinder-singh-369338
13-02-2022||Chandigarh||Assembly polls: EC eases restrictions, extends campaign timings by four hours||The Election Commission of India eased restrictions on campaigning on Saturday for ongoing assembly elections in five states.The Election Commission said in its order: “Today, the Commission took a periodic review of the status of COVID in the country and especially in the poll-bound states. As per information received from the Union Health Secretary the ground situation of Covid has significantly improved and the cases are fast receding in the country”.   “Based on the facts and circumstances, need of the political parties and candidates for greater participation in elections, the Commission with immediate effect further relaxes the provisions of campaigning,” it said.Campaign ban will now apply for 10 pm to 6 am instead of the existing 12-hour ban from 8 pm to 8 am. Campaigns however must strictly adhere to State Disaster Management Authority’s Covid protocols.Public rallies and meetings could have no more than 50 per cent of the venue’s total capacity—an upward revision from the existing 30—or the limit prescribed by SDMA, whichever is less.Padyatras must be no more than the limit prescribed by the SDMA, and could only be held with permission from district authorities.Other existing restrictions will continue, the commission said.Elections are currently ongoing for five assemblies—Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand, and Goa.The first phase began on February 10.Uttar Pradesh votes in all seven phases of elections. Uttarakhand and Goa are scheduled to vote for their assemblies in a single phase on February 14.Punjab votes in the third phase on February 20.The last phase of the election is on March 7. Votes will be counted on March 10.The development comes India continues to see a decline in Covid cases—the country recorded 50,407 new Covid cases and 804 deaths on Saturday. #assembly elections||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/assembly-polls-ec-eases-restrictions-extends-campaign-timings-by-two-hours-369312
