14-02-2022||---||BJP urges poll panel to bar Navjot Sidhu from electioneering||New Delhi, February 14The BJP on Monday petitioned Election Commission to bar Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu from electioneering in the poll-bound state.In its petition to the EC, the saffron party also asked for registration of criminal case against him and the Congress for allegedly promoting hatred and division in the society with his comments.The BJP delegation led by Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi met the EC with the memorandum and claimed that Sidhu had insulted Brahmins with a “deregatory” reference with an aim to divide Punjabis.Sidhu had also recently made an appeal to Muslims in Punjab that their votes should not be divided, the BJP mentioned in its petition.After meeting the EC Naqvi told reporters that Sidhu’s comments are in violation of the Model Code of Conduct norms as well.The BJP also urged the poll panel to ensure and warn the Congress for promoting hatred and division by “allowing and acquiescing in the sinister designs” of Sidhu. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-urges-poll-panel-to-bar-navjot-sidhu-from-electioneering-369885
14-02-2022||Chandigarh||AAP rivals targeting me, Bhagwant Mann as they don't want an honest govt in Punjab: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday claimed that the AAP's rival parties in Punjab are targeting him and its chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann as they do not want the state to have an honest government.The national convenor of the Aam Aadmi Party said the only fault of his party and its leaders is that they talk about improving the condition of schools and hospitals in Punjab, giving jobs to people and ensuring justice in sacrilege cases.In a swipe at his Punjab counterpart, Kejriwal said Charanjit Singh Channi has been having nightmares about him and is unable to sleep these days.Blaming corruption for the inflow of drugs into the state, the AAP leader asserted it will stop once his party comes to power.Addressing a news conference in Amritsar, Kejriwal said, "During the past few days you must have observed that all parties and their leaders are only abusing me and Bhagwant Mann. Yesterday, (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah came (to Punjab) and he abused me and the AAP." "Since morning till late evening Channi abuses me and Mann, but he does not take the name of (SAD chief) Sukhbir Singh Badal."Sukhbir Badal also abuses me and Bhagwant Mann, but he does not take Channi's name. Priyanka Gandhi (who was in Punjab on Sunday) also abused me. It seems they all have come together and are targeting us," he said.Kejriwal said all these rival parties do not want to defeat the AAP, but Punjab."These parties do not want the AAP to come to power. They want that the way they have looted Punjab for the last 70 years, that should continue. Their fear is if the AAP comes to power, their loot will be stopped permanently," he said.He appealed to the people of Punjab to defeat these parties and save the state. He said the AAP will give an honest government to the state.Hitting out at Channi, who has been targeting Kejriwal during his poll rallies, the Delhi chief minister said, "Channi abuses me from morning till late evening. These days Channi is unable to sleep. When he closes his eyes, I come in his dreams like a 'bhoot' (ghost) and then he wakes up." "Those who have looted Punjab till today, they are seeing me in their dreams and they are unable to sleep these days," he said.On the issue of drugs, drones and explosives being pushed into the state from across the border, Kejriwal said corruption is behind many of these incidents."Drugs are being pushed in from the border, drones and tiffin bombs are coming in from the border. Behind many of these incidents, there is corruption somewhere," he said."We saw when the Mumbai bomb blasts took place, some Customs officials had compromised their integrity because of which RDX entered our country. Here too, there is corruption somewhere because of which drugs and all these things enter Punjab," he said.The inflow of drugs will stop when the AAP forms the government in Punjab, he added.Attacking the Congress-led state government, Kejriwal said the common people felt unsafe during its tenure."A big question arises whether the Congress can secure Punjab. The common Punjabis are feeling unsafe. On the other hand, there have been many sacrilege incidents, a bomb blast occurred in Ludhiana and there was a lapse in the prime minister's security," he said.The AAP leader, however, said there should be no politics over the security breach incident. "But it is going on from both sides (Congress and BJP)," he said.The AAP never does politics over security matters, Kejriwal said."We may have hundreds of differences with the Centre, but whenever it is a matter of public interest, we cooperate with the Centre... we will work with the Centre like one team for the security of the country and Punjab," he said.Punjab goes to the polls on February 20. The counting of votes will be taken up on March 10.  #arvind kejriwal #Punjabpolls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-rivals-targeting-me-bhagwant-mann-as-they-dont-want-an-honest-govt-in-punjab-kejriwal-369879
14-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab vital for national security; needs stable government: PM Narendra Modi||Jalandhar, February 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Jalandhar to address a rally amid massive security arrangements.Arrangements for 30,000 to 40,000 people have been done for the rally at PAP.While farmers had threatened to hold protests against the PM, key farm leaders have been detained at their homes and villages at many places.Farmers of the BKU Ugrahan, BKU Rajewal among other unions have been placed under house arrest.Amarjot Singh, farmer of the BKU Rajewal said he and his fellow farmers were being prevented from coming out of their homes.Amarjot and BKU Rajewal leader Kashmir Singh among others had been planning to protest at the PAP Chowk. They have been detained at their homes amidst heavy police presence in Jandiala and other villages.Meanwhile, traffic has been diverted from the PAP and Rama Mandi roads where the PM will address the gathering.The PM's rally is taking place two days before the Ravidass Jayanti celebrations for which huge preparations have been made.At least three union ministers - Hardeep Puri, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Som Prakash besides several senior BJP leaders are expected to be present at the rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/massive-security-farmer-detentions-ahead-of-pms-jalandhar-rally-369815
14-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Charanjit Channi will run a govt of small and medium traders and farmers, Rahul Gandhi says in Hoshiarpur||Jalandhar, February 14Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said CM Charanjit Channi would run a government of small and medium businessmen, traders and farmers.Highlights of the rally*Rakes up problems people faced due to demonetisation*Wonders why does PM Narendra Modi not talk of employment or corruption or black money*Says no trader faced any benefit of GST implementation*Slams the Centre over farm billsAsks as to why did Amit Shah not speak on drugs issue*Says when I had come to Punjab and raised the issue of drugs, I was always told that I was exaggerating things.*Congress will make farm machine cluster and food processing units of potatoes and tomatoes in Hoshiarpur: Rahul*Says thousands of youth would get job on this food cluster*Says when Modi comes here and talks of drugs today, ask him why he did not talk on the issue earlier. He won't be able to reply*If Channi can get fuel prices slashed, why can't Modi do it? He won't do it as his people get benefited, says Rahul*Says will keep cable and sand prices reduced*170 services will be delivered at people’s doorstep: Rahul #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-will-run-a-govt-of-small-and-medium-businessmen-traders-and-farmers-says-rahul-gandhi-in-hoshiarpur-369814
14-02-2022||---||Free education to be provided up to university level in govt sector in case Congress returns to power: Channi||Chandigarh, February 14Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced that free education would be provided up to university level in the government sector in case the Congress returned to power.In private sector, the general category students would be provided scholarship on the pattern of SC post matric scholarship scheme, he said.Besides, he promised a host of freebies in various sectors, including health. He also promised one lakh jobs for the people of Punjab, if the Congress returned to power.On the Aam Aadmi Party, he said, “AAP lies every day. I am shocked at their lies. What change are they talking of. Every third person in AAP is involved in crime.”“The SAD has the maximum number of people with a criminal record, followed by AAP,” he said. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-education-to-be-provided-up-to-university-level-in-govt-sector-in-case-congress-returns-to-power-channi-369802
14-02-2022||Amritsar||Amit Shah, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar hold closed-door meet||This is perhaps the first meet between the two after the Modi government assumed power at the Centre. The Jathedar presented him a replica of Golden Temple and siropa (robe of honour).Also read: Farmers protest Amit Shah's visit in Patiala #akal takht #amit shah #giani harpreet singh #golden temple||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amit-shah-akal-takht-officiating-jathedar-hold-closed-door-meet-369764
14-02-2022||Free the state from the clutches of traditional parties. These have done nothing for public except filling their pockets. Drugs and corruption will become a thing of the past under the AAP rule. — Manish Sisodia||Drugs, corruption will end under AAP: Manish Sisodia||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaderspeak-drugs-corruption-will-end-under-aap-369703
14-02-2022||Chandigarh||Items worth Rs 417 cr seized in Punjab: EC||AAP nominee booked for code violationFerozepur: The police have booked Guruharsahai AAP candidate Fouja Singh for the violation of the model code of conduct and overlooking the Covid restrictions during the visit of AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann last week. The police have booked Fouja Singh under Section 188 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, following a complaint lodged by the Guruharsahai Returning Officer. OCGidderbaha former MLA joins SADMuktsar: Gidderbaha former MLA Raghubir Singh Pardhan, who had joined the Punjab Lok Congress about two months ago, on Saturday night joined the SAD in the presence of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Raghubir (80) had been elected as an MLA in 1992. He is a critic of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/items-worth-417-cr-seized-in-punjab-ec-369702
14-02-2022||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Women in driver's seat||Muktsar DC leads by exampleMuktsar: Setting an example for government employees, Muktsar Deputy Commissioner Harpreet Sudan enrolled his five-year-old son Pritham Singh Sudan in Chak Bir Sarkar Government Primary Smart School here. School Principal Pushpa Sachdeva and District Education Officer (Elementary) Prabhjot Kaur lauded the move.Yograj Singh left in the lurchGurdaspur: Film actor and former cricketer Yograj Singh accompanied Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on one of his election tours to Kalanaur. The man is certainly angry with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. A video of his interview is also doing the rounds. Yograj claimed Sidhu requested him to contest the elections from the Amargarh seat not once but at least a dozen times. “On all occasions, I refused but he continued to pester me. Finally, after having discussed the issue with my family, I agreed to his proposal. However, for reasons best known to him, Sidhu stopped taking my calls leaving me in the lurch. The last thing I heard was that he has fielded his nephew, Smit Singh, from Amargarh,” he lamented.‘Witty’ Badal snubs OppnMuktsar: Former CM Parkash Singh Badal, while addressing people at a village in Lambi Assembly constituency recently, said: “While buying a buffalo, we examine it thoroughly. Now, people have to form the state government by considering all perspectives. Kejriwal has no sympathy with Punjabis. What has he done for Punjab? Even Capt Amarinder Singh took a false pledge last time.”Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal & Archit Watts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-women-in-drivers-seat-369700
14-02-2022||Ropar||No clean chit to anyone in mining case: Ropar DC||Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri has said she has not given clean chit to anyone in the illegal mining probe conducted by the district administration recently.The AAP had submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Governor last month alleging illegal mining was prevalent in Chamkaur Sahib at the behest of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and sought a probe. The Governor had asked the Punjab DGP to probe the matter.After conducting an inquiry, the district administration in its report submitted to the ADGP-cum-Enforcement Director, Mining, had stated they could not comment on it as there was no report or complaint in their record regarding involvement of Chief Minister’s relatives.Also read: Illegal mining: Ropar administration's clean chit to Punjab CM Charanjit Singh ChanniGiri said the district police on January 25 had registered an FIR regarding alleged illegal mining on forest land in which investigation was still going on.  #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clean-chit-to-anyone-in-mining-case-ropar-dc-369695
14-02-2022||Bathinda||Octogenarian Mohinder Kaur, whom Kangana Ranaut targeted, canvasses for SSM||Octogenarian Mohinder Kaur, whom actress Kangana Ranaut had called Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh, campaigned and sought votes for Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) candidate from Bathinda Urban Harmilap Grewal in the city.A resident of Bahadargarh Jandian village of Bathinda, she said her blessings were with all SSM candidates.Mohinder said, “It’s the unity of people from all walks of life that contributed to the farm agitation and helped win the battle. We now need same sentiment and spirit to bring about change in political arena and society. The SSM is an alternative to the traditional political parties that have been ruling the state for years but did not bring about any reforms in the agricultural sector or in general to uplift the stature of people. Voters must exercise their franchise carefully this time.”Meanwhile, Grewal said, “It is heart-warming and an encouraging gesture by Mohinder Kaur, who lifted the spirits of farmers during the agitation at the Delhi borders, to take out time and come here to extend support to the party. We have planned to organise a virtual conference of Mohinder Kaur with all SSM candidates soon.” — #kangana ranaut #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/octogenarian-whom-kangana-targeted-canvasses-for-ssm-369691
14-02-2022||Lalit Mohan||Punjab poll 2022: Himachal leaders slug it out in Punjab||Dharamsala, February 13With the Assembly elections in Punjab scheduled for next Sunday, many Congress and BJP leaders from Kangra have been deputed to the border area constituencies of Punjab. The leaders are slugging it out in Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Ropar districts for the candidates of their parties.Two ministers from Kangra, Minister for Forest Rakesh Pathania and Minister for Industries and Transport Bikram Thakur, have been made in charge for campaigning in the Sujanpur constituency of Pathankot and Anandpur Sahib constituency. The ministers have strong connect in these areas. From saffron brigade The Cong teamFor the Congress, Raghubir Singh Bali, AICC secretary, has been made observer for Pathankot district that has four Assembly segments. Bali has been camping in Pathankot. Sudhir Sharma, former minister and AICC secretary, has been deputed by the Congress in Fatehgarh district.CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, who represents the Haroli constituency in Una district, is already campaigning for the party in Anandpur Sahib and Garshankar where he has a strong connect.Son of a former CM Virbhadra Singh and Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh will also campaign for Rana KP Singh in Anandpur Sahib tomorrow. Sources said Vikramaditya has been roped in by Rana owing to kinship of his family with Pratibha Singh, Congress MP from Mandi and mother of Vikramaditya.Many BJP MLAs have also been deputed to campaign for party candidates as the campaigning is entering the last phase. Organising secretary of the BJP in Himachal Pawan Rana, who is a prominent RSS leader, has also been given charge of Punjab.National president of the BJP JP Nadda, who has relatives in Ropar and Anandpur Sahib will also seek vote of party candidates in the coming days, the sources said.CM Jai Ram Thakur has already campaigned for the BJP in Mukerian, Hoshiarpur, Anandpur Sahib, Derebassi and Jalandhar constituencies where the party thinks that it is in a winning position.Most leaders feel that the outcome of the Punjab elections will have a bearing in the Himachal Assembly elections this year. #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-leaders-slug-it-out-in-punjab-369640
14-02-2022||Aman Sood||Rajpura: Two-time Congress legislator Hardyal Kamboj rides on development plank||Rajpura, February 13Daily at 7 am, local MLA Hardyal Kamboj is ready to meet party workers at his residence, chalk out strategies and hold open discussions on the political developments. A typical day for him ends at 11 pm and this has been his routine for the past two months.Kamboj, Congress candidate for Rajpura, has always been the political figure known for spending more time in his constituency than someplace else. Known for his humble approach towards work and availability to workers, Kamboj is now fighting anti-incumbency and a strong AAP wave in this town.“Be it through Covid or the SYL issue, you have been there for the constituency and its people,” says an elderly voter as Kamboj halts in Rajpura en route to canvassing in Banur villages. He is getting an overwhelming response everywhere.“This is mutual respect. I have worked tirelessly for 15 years to serve Rajpura. I have spent Rs 1,200 crore on development and another Rs 1,000 crore works will be completed in next two years,” said Kamboj, two-time Congress MLA. “Getting industrial units in Rajpura is another achievement that has ensured more jobs for the local youths.”As his vehicle approaches a village, he gets off his Fortuner and straightway goes to a few elderly farmers playing cards under the sun. He talks to them about the pending issues. A few youngsters playing cricket in the nearby playground come to greet him and he warmly hugs them and asks them about the new school furniture that was supplied earlier this year.As his three-vehicle cavalcade moves to other villages, Kamboj tries to get first-hand feedback on the elevation of Charanjit Channi as the next CM face. “The Channi government worked hard for 111 days with utmost sincerity. The Congress will uplift the weaker sections of the society once it forms the next government,” he tells the voters.On his way back to his residence, the MLA’s son Nirbhai Singh Milty Kamboj, who is canvassing for his father in nearby villages, joins him and they share the day’s political developments. Kamboj is facing AAP’s Neena Mittal, SAD-BSP’s Charanjit Brar and BJP-PLC-SAD(S) nominee Jagdish Kumar Jagga. #rajpura||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajpura-two-time-congress-legislator-rides-on-development-plank-369690
14-02-2022||Abohar||Forced Centre to include Abohar in scheme: Sunil Jakhar||Refuting the “false claims” being made by the SAD, BJP and AAP about the development under Rs 110 crore Amrit Yojana, PCC former chief Sunil Jakhar claimed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by him in the High Court in 2014 forced the NDA govt to include Abohar in the ambit of Amrit Yojana.Supporting Jakhar’s claim, leading lawyer Surinder Pal Singh Tinna, produced copies of the HC orders. He said when the then SAD-BJP government ignored Abohar in development, PILs by Jakhar were filed through him. — #abohar #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forced-centre-to-include-abohar-in-scheme-sunil-jakhar-369688
14-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||'People of Punjab want employment, end to drugs, not freebies'||Chandigarh, February 13The winds of change are blowing across Malwa, as Punjab gets ready to elect its 16th Vidhan Sabha since Independence. In this crucial region having 69 of the 117 segments, the election is focussed on who voters want to represent them as the next Chief Minister.The division is stark not just in terms of divide along party lines, but also along who the voters want to see handling the reins of the state. No wonder, the electioneering is hovering around who would be the best choice for ushering “nawan Punjab” — Charanjit Singh Channi, Bhagwant Mann or Sukhbir Singh Badal. Surprisingly, barely three months after the farmers’ success on the issue of contentious farm laws, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’s absence from the public discourse is rather striking.“They (farmers) did in Delhi what they are good at… but politics is a different game altogether. People want to go to parties that have experience,” explains Vipan Kumar of Samrala. Also, voters in most Hindu-dominated seats of Ludhiana, do talk of benefits of “double-engine government”, but are silent on whom they would vote for. In Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Sangrur, Bathinda, Faridkot, Moga and Ludhiana, increasingly people from the lower socio-economic strata, young and old alike, talk of opting for a change, while the upper socio-economic strata clearly supports the traditional parties.“We have seen others. They have failed to do anything for us. We now want a change,” says Swaran Kaur of Kaulseri village in Sangrur. Baljit Kaur from Rangian village in Dhuri adds, “When I went to Delhi to join the morcha, I saw the changes there. Throughout the struggle, one of our family members stayed at the border. All were impressed by various initiatives taken by the Delhi Government for people there.”In Baghapurana, Tejinder Kumar, who works in Hyderabad but is visiting home, rues how he lost many friends to drug abuse. “Strangely, the manifestos of parties are based on freebies. They should give a blueprint for creating employment here. We want the government to rein in the police and civil administration that turns a blind eye to those selling drugs openly,” he says.Sandeep Singh of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Bathinda, too, expresses his displeasure at parties not focussing on healthcare. “During the second Covid wave, people here realised how the public healthcare system collapsed,” he says. The story becomes slightly different as one crosses the Sangrur-Barnala belt, towards the south Malwa. The upper socio-economic group here, while seeking accountability from its leaders, is still rallying behind the traditional parties.Gurdev Singh, a resident of Burj Jawaharsinghwala, says that people would rather go for a tried and tested party, than a new one. “Most families here are traditionally aligned to one of the two parties for generations. These ties are not easy to snap,” he says, even as he wants accountability for unfulfilled promises, especially those related to sacrilege incidents. Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Dhuri Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy, refuses to believe that this election is a referendum on the government. “Rather, people are voting for candidates who stood by them.”Rein in officialsParties should give a blueprint for creating employment. We want the government to rein in officials that turns a blind eye to those selling drugs openly. - Tejinder Kumar, Baghapurana resident #drug menace #employment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-of-punjab-want-employment-end-to-drugs-not-freebies-369686
14-02-2022||Amritsar||Punjab CM Channi on his way out, claims Kejriwal||AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal today said his party surveys suggest Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is on his way out in this Assembly polls.Accompanied by AAP’s CM face Bhagwant Singh Mann here, Kejriwal said the party had been conducting poll surveys across the state. Kejriwal claimed he (Channi) was on the verge of losing both Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur constituencies.Kejriwal said the residents of Chamkaur Sahib, from where Channi is a two-time MLA, were annoyed over his focus on illegal sand mining in the area. On the ‘clean chit’ given to Channi in the illegal sand mining scam, in which his nephew has been arrested by the ED, he said: “It is another magical trick by Channi of getting himself a ‘clean chit’ within four days of an inquiry conducted by officers who belonged to the same place,” he said.“True investigation will be done only when he (Mann) occupies the CM’s chair,” he said. Questioning the ED’s role, he said: “Why is there a hesitation to arrest Channi? He must arrested and interrogated by the ED. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-on-his-way-out-claims-kejriwal-369676
14-02-2022||Mansa/Sangrur||Will hike old-age pension, Shagun aid: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the SAD-BSP alliance will focus on uplifting the weaker sections by increasing the old-age pension to Rs 3,100 a month and financial assistance to Rs 75,000 under the Shagun scheme.Addressing public gatherings at Bhikhi and Budhladha in favour of party candidates Prem Arora and Dr Nishan Singh, Sukhbir claimed the SAD-led governments had done the most for the SCs and weaker sections. “We are responsible for introducing unique welfare schemes in the state, be it old-age pension, Atta-dal or Shagun. We have fulfilled all our commitments. I promise that once the SAD-BSP government is sworn in, we will increase the old-age pension to Rs 3,100 per month and give an enhanced aid of Rs 75,000 under the Shagun scheme.” — TNSKejriwal didn’t visit state once in 5 yrsKejriwal did not visit the state even once in five years despite the fact that you (people) made AAP the principal Opposition party. Sukhbir Badal, SAD chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-hike-old-age-pension-shagun-aid-sad-369661
14-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sujanpur: Social connect skills Dinesh Babbu's forte||Sujanpur (Pathankot), February 13It is 6.30 am on a cold, foggy day and three-time BJP legislator Dinesh Singh Babbu has already ended the first phase of his day’s campaign by visiting Jugiyal which forms a part of his Assembly segment.He recently visited the family of Akshay Pathania, the Army man who was martyred in Arunachal Pradesh on February 8. When officials brought his body to his native village of Chakkar, 8 km away, the MLA ensured he was present at the cremation.“Akshay is a martyr because he died while fighting for his homeland. It is the cause, not the death, that makes a martyr,” said Babbu.The social connect he has with his fellow villagers is much discussed. Even his detractors admit that it was this very connection with his constituents that enabled him to become an MLA for three successive terms. “At times, he comes to meet us in the wee hours on a scooter. The breed of such politicians is fast vanishing these days,” said Sarpanch Ganesh Thakur.Babbu’s first three elections were managed by a dedicated band of followers. This time the band has been replaced by a ‘kitchen cabinet’ comprising his wife Meena Kohal, daughter Surbhi Thankur and son Abhimanyu. Surbhi is pursuing post-graduation in political science. She handles the social media part of her father’s campaign.“We are running our campaign in a hi-tech manner. Social media is not just a media. Through it we listen, engage and build relationships with our voters,” says Surbhi. As Surbhi and company get busy, Babbu retreats to a corner and starts writing a letter to the Army authorities seeking relaxation in age for youngsters of his area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sujanpur-social-connect-skills-his-forte-369655
14-02-2022||Amritsar||NRIs key to propelling Punjab's growth: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Ahead of the Assembly elections, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu got a shot in the arm with a group of non-resident Indians (NRIs) extending support during an event organised by the Indian Overseas Organisation here today.Addressing NRIs as the “soul of Punjab”, Sidhu said at most of the villages, the NRIs had donated more funds than the government and their influence could not be ignored. “Instead of doling out funds for electioneering, I urge each one of you to reach out to at least 100 of your relatives living in Punjab, convince them to vote only for the truth,” he said.He said the “Punjab Model” contained a roadmap especially for the NRIs who could be the “shareholders” in guiding Punjab on the way to progress. He said the model was shaped out of 17 years of his toil and observation on political pitch and emphasised that in politics, the two terms — ‘aas te vishwas’ (expectation and faith) — held significance.“Since the NRIs live in a better ecosystem, they could be the enablers who could propel us to progress. They could be the biggest shareholders to lay the foundation of Punjab’s progress. For this, we have to win over their faith. They wish to invest in Punjab, but get dejected due to poor management and governance. If a single-window system without official and legal wrangles persisted, they would be ready to join us in our mission without any hitch,” he said.Citing the examples of the Kartarpur corridor and toppling of Capt Amarinder Singh, Sidhu said he had turned the “impossible to possible”. “If that could be done, the same way I will also show you the transformation of Punjab,” he said.Fight against mafiaMy fight is against the system and the mafia that have mortgaged the state. I am committed to transforming Punjab. Navjot Sidhu, PCC chief #navjot sidhu #nris||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nris-key-to-propelling-punjabs-growth-navjot-singh-sidhu-369649
14-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||CM Charanjit Singh Channi queers AAP's pitch in Bhadaur||Bhadaur, February 13As the day of polling for the Assembly elections nears, clarity has given way to a sense of uncertainty among voters in this high-profile constituency.The electorate is in a catch-22 situation over the choice between Aam Aadmi Party’s Labh Singh Ugoke (35), whom everyone relates to easily, and his formidable Congress opponent and CM face Charanjit Singh Channi.The locals have every reason to be anxious. Since 1967, the constituency has voted seven times for the SAD, twice for the Congress, and once each for the AAP, CPI and BSP. Still, development has eluded this largely rural reserved constituency.Locals admit after CM Channi’s entry, it is no longer a smooth sailing for the AAP candidate. “By electing a CM, the area will be assured of development. It does not matter which party we vote for. Last time we elected AAP’s Primal Singh Dhaula, but he switched over to the Congress. There is every chance the AAP candidate after winning may join the Congress. It doesn’t matter to us. We need development,” says Jaspal Singh, a former sarpanch of Channa Gulab Singh village.A few kilometres away, Baldev Singh (82), a resident of Ugoke village, prefers to listen to his heart. “It is a matter of prestige for us. Labh had been running a mobile repair shop. His mother was a contract-based sweeper in the government school of the village and his father was a driver. He is one of us,” he says, as a gathering in the village waits to garland the AAP nominee. A huge procession follows him as he takes a round of the village. Urging for change, the AAP candidate in his campaign repeatedly cites the historic 1952 event, when after the Muzara movement, CPI candidate Baba Arjun Singh defeated Nirpal Singh, a sardar, to become the first MLA of Bhadaur in the erstwhile Patiala and East Punjab States Union Legislative Assembly.“The revolutionary people of Bhadaur will create history again by defeating a CM. It is the history of my constituency, which defeats kings,” he says. On the other hand, Channi is banking on being the most suitable candidate as it will be the CM’s constituency and development will follow.Besides, Dharam Singh Fauji of the Punjab Lok Congress, Satnam Singh of the SAD and Manjit Kaur, an Independent and wife of Deputy Speaker Ajiab Singh Bhatti, are also in the fray.Gurjeet Singh, a resident of Alkara village, points out it is not just a fight between the AAP and Congress. “The constituency has a number of followers of Dera Sacha Sauda led by Gurmeet Ram Rahim. There is buzz that the dera will influence polling.”CM will bring developmentBy electing a CM, the area will be assured of development. It does not matter which party we vote for. — Jaspal Singh, ex-sarpanch, Channa Gulab Singh villageMatter of prestigeIt is a matter of prestige. AAP’s Labh Singh ran a shop at Ugoke and his father was a driver. He is one of us. — Baldev Singh, a resident of Ugoke village #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-charanjit-singh-channi-queers-aaps-pitch-in-bhadaur-369644
14-02-2022||Patiala||Farmers protest Amit Shah's visit in Patiala||On a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers’ unions on Sunday staged a protest against Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit here.Also read: Amit Shah, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar hold closed-door meetAmit Shah targets Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi over mafiaThe farmers have been demanding withdrawal of cases registered at various police stations in Delhi against protesters along with formation of a committee on the minimum support price.Ranjit Singh Sawazpur of the BKU Krantikari said over 600 farmers associated with their outfit, besides the Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU Ugrahan, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha and others assembled at the PUDA grounds and marched up to Khanda Chowk. “The police stopped the protesters at the chowk, where we staged a sit-in,” he said.Manjit Singh Nyal of the BKU Ugrahan said a number of demands of the SKM had been pending. “We want the Centre to withdraw cases registered against farmers, form a committee on MSP and sack MoS Ajay Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Our demands have not been fulfilled yet, prompting our leadership to launch a protest against rallies by Shah and PM Narendra Modi’s in the state.”He said the farmers will hold demonstrations against the BJP leaders in the state in the future as well. — TNS #amit shah #samyukt kisan morcha #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-amit-shahs-visit-in-patiala-369637
14-02-2022||Nitin Jain||'Security lapse' during PM Modi's January Punjab visit was deliberate, says BJP||Ludhiana, February 13Union Minister and BJP’s incharge for Punjab affairs Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday exuded confidence that the state will this time vote for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure a BJP-led NDA government.“We are getting an absolute majority. People want change, which only we can give,” he said while interacting with The Tribune.He held the Congress government in Punjab responsible for the “security lapse” during the PM’s January 5 Punjab visit, which he also termed as “deliberate and intentional”. “Even now, they are trying to disrupt his rallies showing their frustration over BJP’s growing popularity,” Shekhawat blamed.On Channi alleging political vendetta behind the ED raids on his nephew, the BJP leader said: “What about Rs 10 crore cash seized from the possession of his nephew? The CM should answer that instead of crying vendetta.”“It is the first time we are playing a dominant role in electoral politics in Punjab. So far, we remained junior partners only. While it is the people of Punjab who have to decide, we are confident this time they will give the BJP a chance,” he said.On the CM face, he said: “It will be a joint decision of the BJP and allies. But unlike the Congress, we don’t slam our doors on anyone for belonging to a particular religion or caste. It can be any Punjabi irrespective of the caste or religion he belongs to. The BJP has a record of giving the best CMs who deliver across the country. We will give the best one to Punjab as well. Just because someone belongs to a particular caste or religion should not qualify or disqualify him for the chief ministership. Merit will be the sole criterion. By saying, you nominated someone as the CM candidate just because of his caste or because he is poor, you actually overlook his other qualities, including merit.”Dismissing opinion polls predicting the AAP either winning absolute majority or emerging as the single largest party as “sponsored aimed at creating a buzz”, Shekhawat said: “There is no accountability and credibility of such polls. In 2017, they gave the AAP between 75 and 100 seats, but it ended up winning just 20. It will not cross even that figure this time.” The situation of the BJP seeking the support of its old ally SAD post-poll won’t arise, he added.We believe in deliveringWe have the best model of governance led by Modi. It is spotless and graft-free. We believe in delivery, not false promises. — Gajendra Shekhawat, state BJP incharge #gajendra singh shekhawat #narendra modi #pm security lapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-lapse-during-pms-january-punjab-visit-was-deliberate-says-bjp-369634
14-02-2022||---||Foolproof security for PM Modi's rally in Jalandhar today||Jalandhar, February 13Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Ferozepur visit fiasco on January 5, all precautionary measures are being taken by the Punjab Police to ensure foolproof security for his Jalandhar visit on February 14.Thousands of security personnel have been deployed in and around the venue for the visit. Seating arrangements have been made for around 25,000 people at the PAP grounds, where a gathering of around 40,000 is expected.The visit coincides with the preparations for Guru Ravidas Jayanti on February 16.While BJP leaders, led by Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, have been reviewing arrangements on a daily basis, the venue was visited by the Chief Secretary today and the DGP yesterday. The police said foolproof arrangements had been made for the event.ADGP Pramod Ban said: “All adequate arrangements have been made as per the security protocol. All forces at the disposal of the police are being used as required.”BJP workers and leaders from at least 14 constituencies are expected to be present at the rally. At least 400 buses will arrive at the venue.Meanwhile, farmers have announced a peaceful protest during the PM visit here. On the SKM call, they will burn effigies of the PM and the Centre. They will also hold black flags along the route of the PM’s cavalcade.Radha Soami sect head meets modiChandigarh: Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon, head of Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, on Sunday met PM Narendra Modi in New Delhi. The PM tweeted a photo with the sect head and lauded the social service initiatives of the satsang. “Earlier today, I had the honour of meeting Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon Ji of the Radha Soami Satsang, Beas. The social service initiatives of the RSSB are commendable,” he tweeted. #farmers #farmers protest #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/foolproof-security-for-modis-rally-in-jalandhar-today-369620
14-02-2022||Ludhiana/Patiala||Amit Shah targets Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi over mafia||Union Home Minister Amit Shah today promised to free Punjab of drugs and mafias in five years, if the BJP-led NDA government was formed in the state.Also read: Farmers protest Amit Shah's visit in PatialaAmit Shah, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar hold closed-door meetAddressing an election rally in Ludhiana, Shah hit out at Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for “ruining” Punjab. He sought votes in the name of work done by PM Narendra Modi.‘Can Channi, Kejriwal root out drugs?’Can Channi, whose nephew was caught in illegal sand mining case, check mafia or Kejriwal, who turned Delhi into liquor city, end drugs? Amit ShahWearing a saffron turban and a matching shawl, he said, “To check drug trade, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) cells will be set up in all districts in the state. Besides this, NCB regional centres will be set up in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar.” He said successive governments in the state compromised with security, made Punjab a haven of drugs and left peasants and industrialists to fend for themselves.Recalling slain PM Rajiv Gandhi’s statement that earth shakes when a big tree falls, Shah blamed the Congress for engineering the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. “Modi gave justice to the riot-hit, spent Rs 300 crore on celebrating Guru Gobind Singh’s 350th birth anniversary and opened Kartarpur Corridor costing Rs 120 crore,” he said. Terming conversions as another “big problem” in Punjab, he said, “Both Channi and Kejriwal cannot stop this, but the BJP will throw out all those involved in this illegal practice.”He said, “Can Channi, whose nephew was caught in an illegal sand mining case, check mafias; or Kejriwal, who turned Delhi into a liquor city, eradicate drugs? Can the person (Channi), who could not ensure a safe route for the PM, secure the state and its people? Channi has no moral right to continue as CM after the PM’s security breach.”At a rally in Patiala, Shah was joined by former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.Shah said, “Our government opened the Kartarpur Corridor, announced December 26 as Veer Bal Diwas in memory of younger Sahibzadas, removed names of 312 Sikhs from the blacklist and safely brought ‘birs’ of Guru Granth Sahib from Afghanistan.”Capt Amarinder Singh, meanwhile, said only the collaborative governments in Punjab and at the Centre could rid the state of its debt. “We need industry to generate employment. Funds for it can be provided by the Centre only,” he said. Dhindsa said Punjab, which was facing debt besides witnessing a decline in agricultural income, needed a government that could work in collaboration with the Centre. #amit shah #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #sukhdev singh dhindsa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-bjp-alliance-can-make-punjab-safe-union-home-minister-amit-shah-369617
14-02-2022||Kotkapura/Dhuri||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacks AAP's Delhi model||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday targeted Capt Amarinder Singh, saying that he had to be replaced as he was running the government on the directions of the BJP at the Centre.‘AAP has emerged from right-wing RSS’AAP is a branch of the RSS. As BJP came to power in 2014 by touting its Gujarat model, AAP is also selling its Delhi model in Punjab. Priyanka Gandhi VadraAddressing a public meeting at Kotkapura in support of Congress candidate Ajaipal Singh Sandhu ahead of the February 20 poll, she also accused AAP of planning to govern Punjab from Delhi, as per the dictates of party convener Arvind Kejriwal.On Captain being removed as Punjab CM in September last year, she said: “It is true there were some deficiencies in our government here, which we addressed. The government had stopped running from Punjab. It was running from Delhi. It was being run by the BJP-led government. That is why we had to change the government,” Priyanka said.Alleging that the AAP government in Delhi had been a failure, she appealed to people to be wary of the “Delhi model of governance” being flaunted by the party.She claimed that AAP was a “branch of the RSS”, and had an ideology similar to that of the BJP. “As the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014 by misleading people about its Gujarat model, AAP is also selling its Delhi model in Punjab to grab power. Don’t be misled as both Gujarat and Delhi models exist only on papers and in advertisements,” she said. Interestingly, she did not utter a single word against SAD-BSP alliance in her 11-minute speech.She said she was married into a Punjabi family and could feel and understand Punjabiyat. “Punjabis have never compromised on principles and that was proved during the farmers’ agitation,” she said.Priyanka was accompanied by Congress candidates from Kotkapura, Jaito, Faridkot and Muktsar Assembly seats.Later, addressing a gathering at Dhuri, she again targeting AAP leaders for making big announcements about development in Delhi, where the “ground reality was much different”. “When farm laws were passed, you sat at New Delhi borders for more than a year. No one came to help you, but our leaders always worked for you,” she claimed.She said unemployment and rising inflation were big challenges and asked all to choose the next state government wisely.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu and senior party leader Sunil Jakhar shared the stage with her.Priyanka had lunch with local women and also visited the house of a local farmer. #capt amarinder singh #navjot sidhu #priyanka gandhi #priyanka gandhi vadra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-attacks-aaps-delhi-model-amit-shah-targets-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-over-mafia-369616
14-02-2022||---||On Punjab visit eve, PM Modi meets Beas dera chief||New Delhi, February 13Ahead of his visit to poll-bound Punjab on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday met the head of the influential Beas dera.“Earlier today, I had the honour of meeting Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon Ji of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas. The social service initiatives of the RSSB are commendable,” PM tweeted.Earlier today, I had the honour of meeting Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon Ji of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas. The social service initiatives of the RSSB are commendable. pic.twitter.com/OIBiMSrxhRBeas dera is one of the six major deras with the potential to influence electoral patterns in the state, apart from Dera Sacha Sauda, Nurmahal Dera, Sant Nirankari Mission, Namdhari sect and Dera Sachkhand Ballan.Radha Soami Satsang Beas is known to influence at least 19 Assembly segments in Punjab. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/radha-soami-satsang-beas-head-calls-on-pm-modi-369609
14-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma and Balwant GargSangrur/Kotkapura||Punjab rally: Capt Amarinder replaced as his govt was being run by BJP from Delhi, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked Capt Amarinder Singh saying during his tenure as Punjab Chief Minister since 2017, the state government was working on the directions of the BJP in Delhi under a tactical understanding. “This forced us to change that leadership in the state, so that the Punjab Government operated from Punjab, not Delhi,” Priyanka said while addressing an election rally in support of Congress candidate Ajaypal Singh Sandhu.The AAP also has the same agenda and plan to govern Punjab from Delhi as per the dictates of Arvind Kejriwal, she said, adding “so, don't repeat the last mistake by supporting the AAP.”While saying that she is married in a Punjabi family and she can feel and understand Punjabiyat from her heart, Priyanka tried to convey her special concern for Punjab. Punjabi never compromise on principles and it has been proved in the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders, she said.Priyanka called the AAP a branch of the RSS, which has the ideology similar to the BJP.“As the BJP came to power at the Centre by misleading the people in 2014, showcasing its Gujarat model, the AAP is also treading the same path by selling its Delhi model in Punjab to grab power. I want you not to be get misled as both Gujarat and Delhi models exist only on papers and in advertisements,” she said.“As BJP's Gujarat model has pushed the country into a big crisis, I don't wish the same situation for Punjab by choosing the AAP in the state,” Priyanka cautioned people in her speech.Interestingly, she did not utter a single word about SAD(B)-BSP alliance in her 11-minute speech.“Do you want a government like the AAP in Delhi which played a game of data gimmicks in Delhi during Covid times or a government, like in Punjab, which learnt from its mistakes of last five years and now trying to rectify these by making a change in its leadership,” asked Priyanka.Earlier, Congress candidates from Kotkapura, Jaito, Faridkot and Muktsar Assembly seats accompanied Priyanka Gandhi on the stage.“AAP leaders make big announcements about the development of Delhi, but ground realities are different there,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in her speech in Dhuri, where she was campaigning for Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy.“AAP has failed in Delhi as well. They accepted the central farm laws and could not take a stand against PM Narendra Modi. Farmers sat at the New Delhi border against the central farm laws, but no one from AAP came to support you. They want to form Punjab government only to develop their party politically,” she said.Unemployment, she said, is Punjab’s biggest problem.“This is your election. I’m hopeful that you’d make the right decision,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/priyanka-gandhi-hits-out-at-kejriwal-capt-amarinder-at-kotkapura-rally-369540
