15-02-2022||Zira (Ferozepur)||Time to sweep away political corruption from Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday campaigned for the party’s candidate Naresh Kataria in this assembly constituency in Ferozepur district of Punjab that will go to the polls for the 117-member Assembly on February 20.“The time has come to sweep away 70 years of political corruption from Punjab. Every Punjabi will contribute to clean out the political corruption from the system of Punjab by voting for ‘Jharoo’ (broom),” said Mann at an election meeting.He said February 20 is an opportunity to create a new history in Punjab. “Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the BJP and the Congress have been taking turns to loot Punjab. Today Punjab has a debt of Rs 3 lakh crore due to the wrong policies of these traditional parties and their greed.” The two-time Member of Parliament, who is contesting from Dhuri, said there was a time when the exchequer of the government was full of money.Mann said the SAD, the Congress and the BJP leaders had usurped the resources of Punjab due to which the government was not getting any revenue which was being locked in the coffers of corrupt political leaders.Mann appealed to the people that in order to increase the revenue of the government it was necessary to free the sources of revenue from the Badals, the Congress and the BJP. “For this it is important to change the government of Punjab.” AAP candidate Kataria thanked Mann and said that the people of Zira will win this constituency to form the government in Punjab. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/time-to-sweep-away-political-corruption-from-punjab-bhagwant-mann-370155
15-02-2022||New Delhi||Sikh bodies, others write to PM Modi in praise of Veer Baal Diwas announcement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has received thousands of letters from Sikh bodies and others who have praised his government’s decision to observe December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ to commemorate the martyrdom of Sikh Guru Gobind Singh’s sons, official sources said on Tuesday.People have called it a “proud” moment for those having faith in Sikhism the world over and expressed gratefulness to the prime minister, the sources said.They noted that many Sikh community leaders had lauded the announcement made by Modi last month on the birth anniversary of the last Sikh guru.“This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzadas and their quest for justice,” Modi had said.“Veer Baal Diwas will be on the same day Sahibzada Zorawar Singh Ji and Sahibzada Fateh Singh Ji attained martyrdom after being sealed alive in a wall. These two greats preferred death instead of deviating from the noble principles of Dharma,” he had said, referring to their killing by Mughals. #veer baal diwas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-bodies-others-write-to-pm-modi-in-praise-of-veer-baal-diwas-announcement-370121
15-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers staged protest against JP Nadda visit at Maur||Bathinda, February 15Farmers in large number today gathered and staged protest against the visit of BJP national president JP Nadda to address a public meeting in favour of BJP candidate Dyal Sodhi at Maur.Protesters with black flags in their hands, shouted slogans against the BJP leaders. BKU Sidhupur activists have blocked the road from Maur to Mansa, while BKU Urgrahan activist have blocked Maur to Mansa road at Maur Kanchian chowk.Activists of BKU Ekta Ugrahan and BKU Sidhupur today separately staged two protest at chowk on main road at Maur. BKU Sidhupur leader Baldev Singh Sandoha said “BJP government killed our 700 farmers during the farmers agitation at Delhi and now they are coming to seek votes from us here. This will not be tolerated”.Further, they are also irked over BJP led union government running away from the assurance it gave while calling off their protest at Delhi pertaining to constituting a committee on MSP, cancelling cases registered against farmers during agitation.Huge police have been deployed at the spot and they are trying to pacify the protesters, but they are adamant to continue their protest. #BJP #jp nadda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-staged-protest-against-jp-nadda-visit-at-maur-370114
15-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||'Can best serve India's interests outside party fold'; ex-law minister Ashwani Kumar quits Congress after 46 years||New Delhi, February 15Former law minister and Rajya Sabha ex-MP from Punjab Ashwani Kumar on Tuesday resigned from the Congress ending 46 years of association with the party.Sending his resignation to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Kumar said he could best serve national interests outside the Congress fold.“Having given my thoughtful consideration to the matter, I have concluded that in the present circumstances and consistent with my dignity, I can best serve larger national causes outside the party fold. I am accordingly quitting the party after a long association of 46 years and hope to proactively pursue public causes inspired by the idea of transformative leadership, based on the dignitarian promise of a liberal democracy envisioned by our freedom fighters,” 69-year-old Kumar said in his letter to Gandhi.Kumar, whose two generations have been associated with the Congress, blamed his decision on “lack of leadership” in the party.Noting that he had persevered enough in the party, Kumar said the Congress was unable to reinvent itself and continued to decline.The former law minister said the recent controversies around the statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and the Padma Bhushan to Ghulam Nabi Azad further cemented his decision to quit.Kumar also criticised the manner in which the Congress “treated former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh”.“The former CM was humiliated publicly and that was against the principles the Congress has stood for,” said Kumar.He also questioned the open vying for the post of chief ministership in Punjab (between CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu) saying it showed the party in “very poor light”.Kumar said the Aam Aadmi Party was about to win Punjab and added that the Congress as a national party faced a major challenge with regional players emerging much stronger.The former minister said he had not decided on the future course of action but would remain in active politics to serve the interests of “people of the country”.Kumar has been a vocal advocate of “dignity and respect in politics”.“I didn’t feel I belong to the Congress anymore,” the veteran, who served in the cabinet of former PM Manmohan Singh between 2004 and 2014, said as he signed off from the grand old party. #ashwani kumar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-law-minister-and-rajya-sabha-ex-mp-from-punjab-ashwani-kumar-resign-from-congress-370097
15-02-2022||---||AAP getting 60 seats in Punjab; Channi losing both seats; Sidhu, Majithia also losing, claims Arvind Kejriwal||Ludhiana, February 15AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said if his party is voted to power, he would safeguard the interests of Punjab.He was replying to a query on his stand on the controversial SYL canal issue.Addressing a press conference here, he mocked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for accusing him of seeking Punjab's river waters for Delhi. "The people who are responsible for creating the problem are accusing us without any basis and justification," he asserted.Kejriwal said all parties had joined hands in Punjab against AAP which, he claimed, would form the government with majority. "Today, we are getting around 60 seats but we appeal to the public to give us at least 80 seats to ensure stable and strong government," he added.The Delhi CM claimed that the number of liquor vends in the national capital had been decreased under the new excise policy but the BJP was accusing him of promoting liquor.He claimed that his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi was losing from both seats. He also claimed that PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia were also losing from Amritsar East. #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-getting-60-seats-in-punjab-channi-losing-both-seats-sidhu-majithia-also-losing-claims-kejriwal-370096
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Jagtar Singh Hawara moves HC for bail in 24-yr-old sedition case||Convicted in Punjab’s then Chief Minister Beant Singh’s assassination case, Jagtar Singh Hawara today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a 24-year-old sedition case registered in Mohali district.Taking up his petition filed against the state of Punjab through counsel Bhanu Pratap Singh, Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court issued a notice of motion before fixing the case for further hearing on March 3.Appearing before Justice Jhingan’s Bench, counsel Bhanu Partap Singh submitted that Hawara was seeking bail in the case registered on June 13, 1998, under Sections 124-A and 153-A of the IPC at the Sohana police station in Mohali district. Elaborating, he submitted that the petitioner came to know about the present case through a list issued by the Tihar Jail authorities. Hawara was not aware whether he was required by the police in the present FIR. Since the investigation was pending for long in the case, he was apprehending arrest.He added that a copy of the FIR was neither being provided to the accused by the investigation agency, nor was it available online. Hawara, otherwise, was in custody for the past over 15 years.“In case the petitioner is granted bail by the court in the present FIR, he will still not be released from custody as he is already undergoing life sentence in FIR No. 96 of 1995. Other cases are also pending against him. The purpose of filing this regular bail petition is to enable the petitioner to initiate his parole application in the above mentioned FIR No. 96 of 1995,” he added.Former Chief Minister Beant Singh was killed in a blast outside the Punjab Civil Secretariat on August 31, 1995. The explosion killed 17 people, including believed-to-be human bomb Dilawar Singh. Hawara and co-convict Balwant Singh were awarded the death sentence by the trial court on July 31, 2007. Hawara escaped the gallows on October 12, 2010, after the death penalty awarded to him by the trial court was commuted to life. He was directed to remain behind bars till his last. Balwant Singh’s death sentence was upheld. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hawara-moves-hc-for-bail-in-24-yr-old-sedition-case-369952
15-02-2022||---||Amritsar: Travel agency dupes 40 jobless drivers of Rs 16 lakh||Amritsar, February 14Forty unemployed drivers belonging to Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts were allegedly duped of Rs 40,000 each (Total Rs16 lakh) by a travel agent. The amount also includes Rs5,000 (Total Rs2 lakh) medical check-up fee for each driver.The victims alleged that when they checked in at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport on January 5, the authorities told them that their visas were invalid.The victims submitted their complaint at the Police Commissioner’s office here on Monday.Gurdev Singh, a victim, said after seeing a poster promising nine months job for drivers in Kuwait he applied for the same. Being a driver of a school bus his monthly earning was limited to less than Rs12,000, said Gurdev. With such meager salary, it was not possible to run his family, Gurdev added.A Lok Insaaf Party spokesperson Charanjit Singh Bhinder said Randhawa Consultancy had duped 40 unemployed drivers of Rs16 lakh. He said all the victims belonged to economically weaker sections.Many of them sold off their livestock, tempo or other valuables to arrange funds for going overseas, he added. He demanded that the accused should be arrested immediately and the victims’ amount be refunded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/travel-agency-dupes-40-jobless-drivers-of-16-lakh-370030
15-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka Congress a divided house||Factionalism came to the fore in the Congress, after some workers led by its block Congress committee chief Surinder Kalra, took out a procession and asked voters to elect an honest nominee from Fazilka instead of the party candidate.The activists were holding the placards stating that they were not getting due respect in the party. Kalra alleged that anti-social elements were having a free run in the district, thus the voters should think several times before exercising their franchise.Fazilka municipal council chief Surinder Sachdeva said some disgruntled persons with “vested interests” were out to harm the prospect of the Congress in Fazilka.The political analyst stated that the internal rift in the Congress would ultimately benefit the AAP nominee Narinderpal Singh Sawna.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-congress-a-divided-house-369932
15-02-2022||---||Punjab Govt misled us: Pensioners||Bathinda, February 14The UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front held a protest march in the city on Friday. The protesters raised slogans against the government for failing to fulfill its promises.Ranjit Singh, leader of the union, said: “The state government’s pro-corporate policies and 6th Pay Commission report’s implementation has affected employees and pensioners. The state government has also misled people by promising to regularise servcies of 36,000 contractual employees.”He said, “ Similarly, the government created hurdles for hike in honorarium and minimum wages. The Finance Minister had promised that Bathinda thermal plant would be made operational before elections in 2017, but it has been closed down permanently. The old-pension scheme has not been revived as per the promise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-misled-us-pensioners-369930
15-02-2022||Our Correspondent||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha nominee alleges inaction, stages dharna||Fazilka, February 14The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) candidate from Jalalabad segment, Surinder Singh Dhandian, sat on a dharna today at the office of the SDM-cum-Returning Officer against the alleged police inaction.Dhandian said on February 1 and 6, his polling agent Hans Raj Golden, was assaulted by some people at Chak Buddho Ke and Bandiwala village, respectively.Dhandian alleged that Golden was attacked by henchmen of Aman Kamboj Skoda, who has been declared a proclaimed offender.Golden said they had been continuously demanding the arrest of Skoda and justice for the victims, but the Fazilka police had failed to take any action against Skoda as he allegedly had patronage of senior police officers.Golden said they had informed the Election Commission regarding the assault, but no action has been taken so far.The protesters demanded transfer of the Fazilka police chief. They warned that if their demand was not met they would intensify their agitation.Stages dharna #sanyukt samaj morcha #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-nominee-alleges-inaction-stages-dharna-369922
15-02-2022||Abohar||3 die in road accidents||18K sedative pills recoveredAbohar: The police have recovered 18,800 intoxicating pills from the possession of two youngsters. SHO Vikram Singh Chauhan said they intercepted a motorcycle of Vikas Nayak of Chak 3-SD Masaniwala village, and Kuldeep Nayak of Malsar. The SHO said a case had been registered under various Sections of the NDPS Act. OC10K litres of lahan seizedMoga: The police have busted an illicit liquor manufacturing unit and recovered around 10,000 litres of lahan from Sherpur Taiba village located along the Sutlej basin in Dharamkot. The peddler has been identified as Gurcharan Singh, who managed to escape from the spot. Cops recovered lahan from a pit. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against Gurcharan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-die-in-road-accidents-369918
15-02-2022||New Delhi||Platform for last rites at Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla in Delhi on banks of Yamuna soon: DSGMC||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Harmeet Singh Kalka announced that an “Asthi Visarjan Sthal” (a platform for immersing ashes of the deceased) would be constructed at Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla in Delhi on the banks of the Yamuna for the convenience of the Sikh community.“Several persons cannot afford to go to Kiratpur Sahib for the last rites of their family members. The DSGMC has written a letter to the Delhi Government for necessary permissions and all expenses will be borne by the DSGMC,” he said. Jagdip Singh Kahlon, General Secretary of the DSGMC said it was a long pending demand of the community.Meanwhile, a free sapling distribution camp was conducted on Monday at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib on the occasion of the Parkash Purb of Guru Har Rai Sahib. — #DSGMC #harmeet singh kalka #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/platform-for-last-rites-on-banks-of-yamuna-soon-dsgmc-369917
15-02-2022||Bathinda||Promises unkept, farm unions step up pressure on Centre||Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), and the BKU (Ekta Sidhupur), held demonstrations in different villages and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over their “unfulfilled” demands and bail being granted to Ashish Mishra, who is the prime accused, in Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Farm unions threatened to stage protests against the BJP leaders in the coming days. The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) claimed that effigies of the PM were burnt in as many as 79 villages.Shingara Singh Mann, chief, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “After repealing the three agri laws, there were various demands, which the Centre agreed to fulfill, following which the agitation was called off, but the Union Government has done nothing so far.”He said, “A legal guarantee on the MSP, cancellation of cases registered against farmers during the agitation, compensation to kin of farmers who lost their lives during the farm stir, stern action against culprits of Lakhimpur Kheri incident and abolition of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, were some the key demands of farmers.”Baldev Sandoha, general secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), said, “As the Centre failed to deliver on its promises made to farmers, we burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in various villages of Maur, Talwandi Sabo, Nathana, Sangat and Rampura Phul. The protests against the BJP and its leaders will continue in the coming days.” — #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promises-unkept-farm-unions-step-up-pressure-on-centre-369915
15-02-2022||Vijay Mohan||Pay anomaly: Centre told to resolve issue within 6 months||Chandigarh, February 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Centre to redress the glaring anomaly in pay of military officers wherein officers of the rank of a Major General and above were getting a lower pay and pension than officers of a junior rank.Observing that it was adversely impacting the morale of the defence services, the Bench of Justice Fateh Deep Singh directed the government to resolve the issue within six months.According to legal and military sources, there have also been a few cases where even an officer of the rank of a Colonel or equivalent is drawing higher pension than a Lieutenant General, which is three ranks higher.The basis of the anomaly was the addition of the Military Service Pay (MSP) as an element of salary till the rank of Brigadier and equivalent, by the Central Pay Commission. Above the rank of a Brigadier, the MSP is subsumed and is not included as a separate element in the salary of a Major General and equivalent.Consequently, officers junior in rank to a Major General get higher remuneration. Citing an example, a legal expert dealing with the issue, said while a Lieutenant Colonel, Colonel and Brigadier could get a salary of Rs 2,26,200, Rs 2,29,500 and Rs 2,33,100 respectively, after adding the MSP, the Vice-Chief of the Army staff, who holds the rank of a senior Lieutenant General, cannot get more than Rs 2,25,000.“After adding the MSP, the pay scales of a Lieutenant Colonel to a Brigadier exceed those of a Major General and a Lieutenant General. The pay anomaly further affects the pensions of the retirees too,” said a lawyer.The then Defence Minister, Arun Jaitley, who also held the portfolio of the Finance Minister, had addressed the anomaly but the final orders resolving the issue were not issued by the government because the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Finance and the Department of Personnel and Training kept writing to each other over the issue and failed to reach a consensus on the methodology to be adopted.Experts on the subject said the order should affect all similarly placed officers and not just the litigants before the High Court. A large number of Major Generals have already moved the Armed Forces Tribunal on the issue.A similar situation had arisen after the implementation of the Fourth and Fifth Pay Commissions, which were ultimately resolved with the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Supreme Court.Military Service Pay key factor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pay-anomaly-centre-told-to-resolve-issue-within-6-months-369913
15-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Police can’t refuse FIR over jurisdictional issues, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the police were under a statutory obligation to register an FIR on receipt of information regarding the commission of a cognisable offence, irrespective of the fact that the occurrence may have taken place beyond its jurisdiction.Travesty of lawRefusal to register an FIR due to jurisdictional issues will be a travesty of justice as the aggrieved person will not only be at crossroads, but also lost in the web of technicalities which can result in loss of crucial time in some cases. Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul, Punjab & Haryana HCThe High Court also made it clear that refusal by the police to register an FIR due to jurisdictional issues would be a travesty of justice. The Bench also made it clear that an ordinary citizen, not well versed with the provisions of law, was not expected to be aware about the technicalities of territorial jurisdiction.The assertion by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul came in a case where an FIR was registered in June last year against a woman’s husband and mother-in-law for subjecting her to cruelty, criminal breach of trust and other offences under Sections 498-A, 406, 323 and 506 of the IPC at women cell police station in Jalandhar.Seeking the quashing of the FIR and all subsequent proceedings, their counsel contended that the respondent-woman, as per the allegations in the FIR, was allegedly subjected to cruelty in her matrimonial home at Delhi. As such, the police at Delhi alone had the jurisdiction to deal with the matter. It was further submitted the police at Jalandhar had exceeded its jurisdiction in registering the present FIR.Justice Kaul further asserted it would also not be out of context to observe that the role of the police in criminal justice system was to provide immediate assistance to the complainant as and when it was approached. Justice Kaul observed: “Therefore, refusal to register an FIR due to jurisdictional issues would be a travesty of justice as the aggrieved person would not only be at crossroads, but also lost in the web of technicalities which could result in loss of crucial time in some cases.”In her detailed order, Justice Kaul added nothing would bar the police from transferring the case to the police station having jurisdiction in the matter, if it concluded after considering the material on record during investigation that the cause of action arose at a place beyond its jurisdiction.Dismissing the petition, Justice Kaul further added it could not be said that the police at Jalandhar did not had the jurisdiction to investigate the FIR at the respondent’s instance after she shifted to Jalandhar on being thrown out of her matrimonial home. It was more so when, admittedly, no FIR regarding the earlier complaints by the complainant at Delhi was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-cant-refuse-fir-over-jurisdictional-issues-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-369910
15-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Dharamkot: Ravi Grewal rides on promises fulfilled by Capt Amarinder Singh||Moga, February 14Punjab Lok Congress candidate Ravi Grewal, contesting from the largely rural Dharamkot seat in Moga, is riding on the promises fulfilled by ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh.A law graduate, he is going to villages, meeting small and marginal farmers and trying to convince them that the candidates of other parties are making false promises.“Capt Amarinder, during his tenure, has delivered on his promises by waiving farmers’ loans,” he says. He leaves early, meeting farmers working in the fields as he highlights the need to know the candidates before exercising franchise.“It was under the Capt Amarinder-led government that inter-state water treaties were annulled, loans of farmers and farm labourers were waived. He got a resolution passed against the farm laws in the Assembly,” he says.Criticising the SAD, he says Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Badal are responsible for the ordinances on the three laws. “The Congress is a divided house due to factionalism. The AAP has no able leader. The only option is to again bring an experienced Capt as the CM,” he tells a group of locals. Grewal says he prefers personal contact with voters. “Most candidates are spending crores, I can’t,” he adds.Know your candidates before exercising franchise  #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-trail-dharamkot-ravi-grewal-rides-on-promises-fulfilled-by-capt-amarinder-singh-369908
15-02-2022||Moga||Sonu Sood holds fitness event to woo Moga voters in favour of his sister Malvika||Bar Sidhu from canvassing: BJP to ECNew Delhi: The BJP on Monday petitioned the EC seeking a bar on PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu from electioneering in poll-bound Punjab. In its petition to the EC, the party sought registration of a criminal case against him and the Congress for allegedly promoting hatred and division in the society with his comments. The BJP delegation led by Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi met the EC and claimed Sidhu had insulted Brahmins with a "derogatory" reference with an aim to divide Punjabis. Naqvi said his comments were in violation of the model code. TNSRamoowalia backs Muktsar SSM nomineeMuktsar: Former Union Minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia on Monday campaigned in favour of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) candidate from Muktsar Assembly constituency Anuroop Kaur Sandhu. He said he would support all candidates on merit. Ramoowalia also criticised SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and appreciated Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. TNSPublic property defaced, activists bookedMuktsar: The Gidderbaha police have registered a case under Section 3 of the Punjab Prevention of Defacement of Property Act against unidentified representatives of various political parties for defacing public property. Meanwhile, the Expenditure Observer of Malout issued a show-cause notice to AAP candidate Baljit Kaur for reportedly not maintaining the poll expenditure register. TNSLEADERSPEAKModi expert in fooling countrymenThe PM was quick to castigate CM Channi over security issue. When the Pulwama attack happened, J&K was under President’s rule. Why didn’t you take responsibility then? Mr Modi, you are an expert in fooling countrymen. — Sunil Jakhar, Congress leader #malvika sood #sonu sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-holds-fitness-event-to-woo-voters-369906
15-02-2022||Sangrur||Bhupinder Hooda seeks vote for Rajinder Kaur Bhattal at Khanauri||Haryana former CM Bhupinder Hooda today campaigned for former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal at Khanauri and sought votes for the Congress for a better future of the state.He alleged Haryana residents had seen the BJP government in their state and their leaders could not bring any development. #bhupinder hooda #rajinder kaur bhattal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhupinder-hooda-seeks-vote-for-rajinder-kaur-bhattal-369904
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab poll campaign: Parties issued notices over noise pollution||In order to ensure that the noise level doesn’t exceed the permissible limit during campaigning, Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju, deputed different teams from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Dr Raju said a nodal officer from the PPCB had been deputed in each district to monitor the noise pollution caused during the election campaigning.As per information, five notices were issued to AAP, three to Congress, two to SAD-BSP, one to PLC-BJP, while one notice was issued to Independent candidate Paramjit Singh. Dr Raju said as many as 12 notices had been issued to different political parties for causing noise pollution so far.  #noise pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-issued-notices-over-noise-pollution-369902
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Election Commission gets 13K code violation complaints in Punjab||The Election Commission (EC) has received a total of 13,066 complaints on “cVigil” app since the poll code came into the force. Of these, 9,413 complaints were resolved in less than 100 minutes.Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said: “The EC received 551 complaints, of which 500 have been disposed, while 51 are under processing. Similarly, 390 complaints were received on the national grievances redressal portal, of which 362 are resolved.” “Of the 2,411complaints received at a call centre, 2,278 have been resolved, while one was defaulted and 133 are under processing,” he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/election-commission-gets-13k-code-violation-complaints-369901
15-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Week after Gurmeet Ram Rahim's release, no word yet on support to any party||Chandigarh, February 14A week after Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh came out on furlough from Rohtak’s Sunaria jail, the political wing of the Dera Sacha Sauda continues to maintain a studied silence on supporting any political party in the upcoming Assembly elections.Suggestions soughtOur political panel has sought suggestions from Premis. We will vote according to the message we get from our political wing. Subhash Chhabra, dera Fazilka inchargeWhile deliberations on the issue are underway in the top echelons of the dera, a large section of the ‘Premis’ (followers) has conveyed to the management to refrain from making a commitment to any political party, it is learnt.A senior functionary from Sangrur said: “We cannot forget the action on ‘Premis’ in Haryana in August 2017 under the BJP rule. We faced problems at the hands of the Shiormani Akali Dal after we supported the Congress in the 2007 elections. A section of Premis feels the Congress has ignored them after the 2007 elections. Another section had supported the Aam Aadmi Party the last time. They have now realised the AAP is no different from any other party.”Before the release of the dera chief, political leaders of different parties had made rounds of the dera. While officially, the BJP has denied that the party played any role in the grant of furlough to the dera chief, critics differ. BJP leader Surjit Jyani had visited the Salabatpura dera on January 9 along with senior leader Harjit Grewal.The Congress too marked its present at a dera event through representatives Vijay Inder Singla and Sadhu Singh Dharmsot, while Jagroop Gill attended the meet on AAP’s behalf.After his visit, Jyani is learnt to be getting support from dera supporters in the area. In Talwandi Sabo of Bathinda district, former Congress minister Harmander Singh Jassi, contesting as an Independent, is also learnt to be getting dera’s support. Jassi’s daughter is married to the son of the dera chief.Strong presence in 27 Malwa seats #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/week-after-dera-heads-release-no-word-yet-on-support-to-any-party-369899
15-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab poll 2022: Rift-ridden Congress can't provide stable govt, says PM Modi||Jalandhar, February 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi here today addressed his maiden rally in Punjab ahead of the February 20 elections and said only the BJP-led alliance could ensure security in the state and put an end to drug menace and mafia.The Prime Minister claimed the BJP-led coalition had emerged as the correct choice for the border state. “Punjab’s security and peace are necessary for India’s unity and integrity. Hence, the state needs a strong government,” PM Modi said.Mocking the infighting in the Punjab Congress, the Prime Minister asked whether those who were fighting among themselves could provide a stable government. The Congress policies had destroyed industries and affected employment in Punjab, he said. The BJP wouldn’t allow mafia to control trade and business, he said, adding that traders and residents would operate without any fear in the state.“I want to save the young generation,” PM Modi said as he talked about the drug problem in Punjab. “Only the BJP can rescue the youth from the scourge of drugs and give them a brighter future.” Taking a dig at Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who had yesterday claimed that Capt Amarinder Singh was replaced as his government was being run by the BJP, the PM said Captain worked with the Centre in true spirit of federalism. “He was removed because he refused to take (Gandhi) family’s diktats.” The PM said the entire country was moving ahead with the pledge of a “new India” and that could be realised when there would be “Nawa Punjab”.“It will be a “Nawa Punjab which will be free from debt and full of opportunities, where every Dalit will get respect and honour, and there will be no scope for corruption,” he said.History was witness that the Congress never worked for Punjab, he said and also attacked AAP, saying that some people talked about making Punjab drug-free but were experts in opening liquor vends.Recalling his 2014 LS poll campaign as the BJP’s PM candidate, he said his plane was not allowed to fly as “the Congress yuvraaj, who was just an MP then, had a programme near Amritsar”.“I got delayed by more than an hour in reaching Pathankot. When I reached Pathankot, my helicopter was not allowed to fly. Why? Because their yuvraaj was visiting some other place in Punjab,” the Prime Minister said in an apparent reference to Rahul Gandhi.“Such misuse of power used to happen for one family,” he said as he targeted the Gandhis.Attacks ex-ally SADThe PM said in 2007 the SAD fell short of majority but formed govt with BJP’s support. “The Deputy CM should have been from the BJP, but Badal Saheb chose his son for the post. We accepted it in Punjab’s interest,” he said.Couldn’t visit templeWas unable to visit Devi Talab Mandir due to lack of arrangements. PM #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-rift-ridden-cong-cant-provide-stable-govt-says-pm-modi-369898
15-02-2022||Amritsar||Ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh vows to end mafia culture||Former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh has no regrets about taking premature retirement from service to jump in the poll fray as AAP candidate from Amritsar North.I left my job in the firm belief that Ambarsarias will fight to get me through, equip me to revamp the system and eradicate the nexus between politicians, police and gangsters. Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, AAP leaderKunwar intends to end the mafia and gangster culture and bring back the lost glory of Punjab. He alleged he, too, had been receiving life threats from gangsters constantly on his WhatsApp. “I got the numbers traced through my sources and identified each and every gangster and the modus operandi they adopt while operating,” he said, adding the matter had been brought to the notice of the DGP’s office, but in vain.Kunwar, an IPS officer of 1998 batch, was known as a formidable cop who tightened the noose around gangsters. Despite this, his security was reduced, making him vulnerable to anti-social elements.He stressed since he was part of policing for over two decades, he knew the politics-police-gangster nexus. Kunwar, who spearheaded the probe of 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases after the sacrilege instances, said justice couldn’t be delivered due to politicians’ dominance aiming to save their vested interests. #behbal kalan #kunwar vijay partap singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-ig-vijay-partap-singh-kunwar-vows-to-end-mafia-culture-369897
15-02-2022||Patiala||We aim to make Punjab drug-free: Raghav Chadha||State AAP co-incharge Raghav Chadha today said the BJP, Congress and SAD were “without agenda”, while our aim was to make Punjab ‘chitta mukt’ (drug-free).Campaigning for AAP’s Gurdev Singh Dev Maan in Nabha, Chadha took a jibe at CM Charanjit Channi over the seizure of Rs 10 crore and arrest of his nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey by the ED.He termed as propaganda Channi’s statement that Arvind Kejriwal wanted to become the state’s CM, instead of Bhagwant Mann.“People should vote for the AAP for a ‘chitta mukt’ Punjab, for employment in the state and to end corruption,” he said. — #raghav chadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-aim-to-make-state-drug-free-raghav-chadha-369896
15-02-2022||Amritsar||Parties colluding to keep AAP at bay in Punjab: Arvind Kejriwal||Accusing traditional parties — the Congress, Akali Dal and BJP — of colluding against the AAP, party national convener Arvind Kejriwal has cautioned people against falling prey to “liquor and money allurement” in lieu of votes.Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said drugs, tiffin bombs and arms were being smuggled from across the border through drones. “Behind such nefarious activities lies corruption. Like in the Mumbai bomb blasts, probe revealed customs officials were hand in glove with culprits who facilitated supply of RDX. Similarly, corruption prevails in Punjab and the AAP aims to plug it. We want to get the youth out of the clutches of drugs and give them good education and employment,” he said.He said the AAP had plans to revamp the education and medical system in the state on the lines of Delhi. “What is wrong if we want to replicate the Delhi model in Punjab? I invite anyone, across party lines, to pick the good points out of it in national interest. If Bhagwant Mann does anything worthwhile, I will have it replicated in Delhi,” he said.On sacrilege, he said: “We will ensure strictest punishment to the culprits and masterminds of such incidents. It will act as a deterrent.”He said all parties had been targeting the AAP in a bid to keep it away from power in Punjab. “These parties looted Punjab for the past 70 years. If the AAP comes, it will stop their loot permanently,” Kejriwal added.He said people had the option of choosing a “good and honest” party. “Don’t put your future at stake for little money and alcohol,” he said. #arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-colluding-to-keep-aap-at-bay-arvind-kejriwal-369895
15-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot: Ashwani Sharma banks on PM Modi's visit to boost prospects||Pathankot, February 14State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma is banking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the city on Wednesday to bolster his poll prospects even as he is locked in a fierce three-way contest with sitting Congress MLA Amit Vij and AAP’s Vibhuti Sharma.No impact of farm bills on urban seatThe farm bills and their withdrawal have no bearing on the results on this urban seat. Surveys have proved that whatever effect these bills will have, will be in rural areas. In my constituency, there are just 25 villages. Ashwani Sharma, State BJP ChiefThe two other parties in the fray — SAD-BSP and Sanyukt Samaj Morcha — are being touted as “non-entities”. The reason is that they wield little or no influence in this predominantly Hindu seat.In the 2014 General Election, Modi, who was not the PM then, had selected Pathankot to kick-start the nationwide campaign of the BJP. This development had given a fillip to BJP candidate Vinod Khanna, who went on to win by nearly 1.30 lakh votes.At present, the party high command is regularly in touch with Ashwani’s key men, namely Dr Samrendra Sharma, ex-member of the Punjab Public Service Commission, and former Mayor Anil Vasudeva, to work out the logistics of the PM’s visit. They are also the BJP’s spin doctors and are responsible for building up a narrative in favour of their candidate.Ashwani’s team is also banking on the likelihood that Vibhuti will slice into the Congress vote bank. “Vibhuti was a die-hard Congressman and was the chairman of the Improvement Trust beforehe fell out with the party. There are indications based on the ground-level reports that he will cut the Congress vote bank. This will give a definite advantage to Ashwani,” said Samrendra.Meanwhile, the BJP team is busy informing the voters that either a PGI or AIIMS satellite centre will be established in Talwara Jattan village on 70 acres, if their candidate wins.“Such projects are a prerogative of the Centre. If voted to power, there are considerable chances that the BJP government in New Delhi will appease the MLA who belongs to the same party,” said a BJP MLA.Abohar schools, colleges to remain shut on Feb 17  #ashwani sharma #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-constituency-pathankot-ashwani-banks-on-pm-modis-visit-to-boost-prospects-369893
15-02-2022||Arun Sharma||It's do or die for SAD, Congress nominees in Ropar||Ropar, February 14The political future of SAD leader and former minister Daljit Singh Cheema as well as Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Singh Dhillon is on the stake as both are trying their luck for the second time after losing out to AAP candidate Amarjit Singh Sandoa in the last Assembly elections.Considered outsiders by political rivals both within their parties and outside, a second consecutive loss for any of them would provide an opportunity to their detractors. The fight, once again, is not easy for both. The AAP, while dropping its sitting MLA Sandoa, who remained mired in controversies during most part of his tenure, is banking on advocate and RTI activist Dinesh Kumar Chadha.The move is aimed at not only countering anti-incumbency but also helping the AAP protect its supporter base in the Nurpur Bedi area, from where it got an overwhelming response last time when voters rallied behind Sandoa, a native.Chadha, also belonging to Barwa village, near Nurpur Bedi, has been able to keep the AAP flock together to some extent. However, it will be a challenge for Chadha to retain the seat for the party given the controversies surrounding Sandoa and lack of development over the past five years. SAD candidate Cheema, who was quite active in the area and even got numerous development works carried out during his tenure from 2012-17, was pushed to the third spot in the last elections owing to anti-incumbency coupled with the AAP wave in area.Staying out of power for five years and a split between the SAD-BJP alliance have made Cheema’s task harder. The BJP fielding Iqbal Singh Lalpura, belonging to the Saini community and a native of Nurpur Bedi, has compounded Cheema’s problems. The Saini community has a considerable presence in the constituency. Further, Sanyukt Samaj Morcha candidate Davinder Singh Bajwa, a sports promoter and social worker, may hurt the SAD vote bank.The Congress has once again reposed faith in Punjab Youth Congress president Dhillon, who finished second from the seat in the 2017 elections. Dhillon’s elevation and his success in getting a majority of Congress candidates win in the Ropar civic body elections has given confidence to supporters, which may yield dividends for him in the elections. #daljit singh cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-do-or-die-for-sad-congress-nominees-in-ropar-369892
15-02-2022||Muktsar||Badal clan up against me: Amrinder Singh Raja Warring||Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today claimed the entire Badal family had ganged up to defeat him in the elections.Manpreet Badal target?Asked if he was referring to Manpreet Badal also, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said, “I have talked about all Badals. It includes everyone in the Badal clan.”In his 6.31-minute long Facebook live video, Warring on Sunday night said: “Sardar Sukhbir Singh Badal Sahib, beshak hun tusi saare Badal ikathe ho gaye ho par 100 Badal hor ikathe ho jao, fer vi Raje Warring da baal banka nahi kar sakde.... Jehdi bhrava-bhrava di yaari payi hai na navi, ese yaari ne hi mainu jitana hai... now, I will contest the General Election again in 2024 against Harsimrat Kaur Badal.” Stressing “the Badals’ plan to help each other stands exposed”, he questioned Sukhbir’s frequent visits to Gidderbaha. “If he is in such a worry, then he should have contested the elections from Gidderbaha,” said Warring. —  #manpreet badal #raja warring #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-clan-up-against-me-amrinder-singh-raja-warring-369890
15-02-2022||Sangrur/Barnala||Arvind Kejriwal using Punjabis for vested interests: Shiromani Akali Dal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged the Aam Aadmi party (AAP) had vitiated the political atmosphere in the state.Addressing public gatherings in favour of party’s candidate Winnerjit Singh Goldy at Sangrur and Kulwant Singh Kanta at Barnala, the SAD president said Kejriwal only wanted to use Punjab as a stepping stone to success.Harsimrat Badal, SAD leaderMann silentBhagwant Mann is acting in a spineless manner. He hasn’t questioned Kejriwal even once over his anti-Punjab stance on river waters and thermal power plants.“Kejriwal did not visit Punjab for more than four years after winning 20 seats and emerging as the principal Opposition party in the state. Now also he has no commitment to Punjab. Once he loses here, he will shift to Rajasthan or some other state,” he said.The SAD president also claimed Kejriwal would end all social welfare facilities in case they reposed faith in AAP.“It is clear that Kejriwal is trying to fool Punjabis in the same manner as done by Capt Amarinder Singh earlier,” he alleged. #arvind kejriwal #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-using-punjabis-for-vested-interests-shiromani-akali-dal-369889
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Every third AAP candidate has criminal past, says Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Stepping up the heat on the AAP, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today accused party convener Arvind Kejriwal of misleading people in the name of “politics of change”, claiming every third candidate of the party had criminal record. The SAD had the maximum number of candidates with criminal record, followed by the AAP, he said.Fielded outsidersA number of AAP candidates are those who were denied ticket by other parties. How can Kejriwal talk of change? Charanjit Singh Channi, CMAnnouncing free education in government schools and colleges and one lakh government jobs in the first year if the Congress returned to power after the February 20 Assembly elections, Channi at a press conference said people of Punjab could see through the “falsehood” of Kejriwal. “A number of AAP candidates are those who were denied ticket by other parties. How can Kejriwal talk of change?” said Channi, adding the AAP gave ticket to 44 people from other political parties.He was building his party’s entire campaign on the basis of “lies and falsehood”, he said. Rejecting Kejriwal’s claims of his imminent defeat from both Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur seats, Channi said AAP’s survey was questionable. — TNSScholarship for general studentsCM Channi promised to introduce a general category scholarship scheme for children belonging to economically weaker families in order to provide free education. #charanjit channi arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/every-third-aap-candidate-has-criminal-past-says-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-369888
15-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Chopper denied nod twice, claims Charanjit Singh Channi||Jalandhar, February 14Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today claimed his helicopter was denied permission to fly twice, forcing him to skip AICC former president Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Hoshiarpur and travel to Jalandhar by road from Sujanpur, where he addressed a rally in the afternoon.How can I be threat?I am the CM. How can my helicopter be a threat to the PM? Charanjit Singh Channi, CMThe authorities had declared a “no-fly zone” because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the city for an election rally. By the time Channi arrived here for minister Pargat Singh’s rally, the event was already over. Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar said he would take up the issue with the Election Commission.Earlier in the day, Channi claimed his flight from Una to Hoshiarpur, where Rahul was slated to address a rally, was held up as the air traffic control (ATC) denied clearance, citing the PM’s visit. He thereafter went to Sujanpur for his second rally. In the afternoon, he again alleged his helicopter was not allowed to fly from Sujanpur to Jalandhar for a second time in the day. He reportedly kept waiting for clearance, which never came. “I am the CM of the state. How can my helicopter be a threat to the PM?” he said.Channi’s reaction was an apparent attempt at thwarting any attack over “security breach” during PM’s visit to Ferozepur on January 5.PM Narendra Modi, during his speech in Jalandhar today, said he had faced a similar issue in 2014 when as the Gujarat CM he had to fly from Pathankot to Himachal Pradesh for a rally. “MP Rahul Gandhi was to fly the same day and I did not get the permission,” he said.The PM also took a swipe at the arrangements of the state government, saying he wanted to visit Shri Devi Talab Mandir after the rally, but “such is the state of affairs, they (authorities) completely gave up on the idea. I will surely pay respects to the deity sometime later”.Channi finally arrived in Jalandhar around 7.45 pm and visited Guru Ravidas Dham, near Buta Mandi, on the Nakodar road, where a fair was on as part of Ravidas Jayanti. Pargat later said: “I asked the CM, but we really do not know what happened. He initially got clearance from the ATC, but was later not allowed to fly. It may be a deliberate attempt to stall the CM.”PM cites ’14 incidentDuring his speech in Jalandhar, PM Modi said his flight was denied permission to fly in 2014 when as the Gujarat CM he was travelling from Pathankot to Himachal Pradesh for a rally. “MP Rahul Gandhi was to fly the same day and I did not get the permission,” he said. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chopper-denied-nod-twice-claims-charanjit-singh-channi-369887
15-02-2022||Gurdaspur/Hoshiarpur||Punjab election: Don’t experiment, pick Congress, says Rahul Gandhi||AICC former president Rahul Gandhi today said Punjab was a sensitive state and not a chemistry lab where “experiments” could be conducted as he urged people to vote for a “stable” Congress government that would ensure peace and prosperity.Knows people’s pulseThe CM is from a poor family and understands the problems of the people at the grassroots. Rahul Gandhi, AICC Ex-presidentAddressing election rallies for party candidates in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, Rahul said: “Punjab is a sensitive state due to its proximity to the Pakistan border. There is no room for experimentation here. The state needs a stable government, which only the Congress can provide. Only Congress men have the necessary experience to run the state affairs.”He said he had forewarned the nation that Covid was about to strike. “However, nobody took me seriously. Instead, the NDA government started poking fun at me. Likewise, in 2013, I had mentioned that Punjab was in the throes of drugs. People should know that whenever I say something I do not base it on falsehoods and assumptions,” he said.Targeting the BJP government on jobs and drugs, he said: “Why are they silent on public issues like unemployment, corruption and drugs? Why are they not raising issues of black money and providing employment to crores of the jobless youth?”Rahul said the elections were to decide the future of the state for the next five years. Praising CM Charanjit Singh Channi for taking “people-friendly” decisions during his 111-day tenure, he said: “CM from a poor family understands the problems of the people at the grassroots. Channi has initiated a slew of projects for the common man.”Speaking on agriculture, Rahul said: “The Centre failed to convince farmers about the benefits of farm laws. Around 700 farmers lost their lives by the time the laws were withdrawn.” Rebutting Aam Aadmi Party’s claims, Rahul said the “mohalla” clinics in Delhi were started during the tenure of Congress CM Sheila Dikshit. “Mohalla clinics are, in fact, being poorly managed these days,” he said.Earlier, he presided over a religious congregation in Gurdaspur’s Dhariwal, organised by Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. Dhariwal falls in the Qadian seat from where Bajwa is contesting. Speaking at the Hoshiarpur rally, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said if the Congress was voted to power, women would be given Rs 1,100, eight gas cylinders free of cost and Rs 5,000 for class V students. No fee would be charged on registries in the name of women.Congress’ poll campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar called PM Narendra Modi “arrogant”. He said by not allowing CM Channi to fly to Hoshiarpur, the Centre had violated democracy. He also introduced the state’s youngest woman sarpanch, Pallavi Thakur, to the audience. He recalled how PM Modi called up Thakur when she was elected sarpanch. “Intelligence agencies had forewarned Pallavi not to ask any inconvenient question. What sort of democracy is this?” he said.Day on, Navjot Sidhu all praise for Charanjit ChanniDay after declining to speak at Priyanka Gandhi’s rally in Dhuri, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday addressed Rahul Gandhi’s Hoshiarpur rally, where he termed as “historic” his decision to hand over the reins of Punjab to CM Channi. “After taking power out of the hands of the royal family, he gave it to a common man,” said Sidhu. #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-experiment-pick-congress-rahul-gandhi-369886
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Not allowed to fly to Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday claimed that his chopper was not allowed to fly to Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar because areas were declared as no-fly zones amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state.Channi was to attend a poll rally along with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at Hoshiarpur. Gandhi was to attend a second rally alone in Gurdaspur which he attended.PM Modi came to Jalandhar to address his first physical rally for the February 20 Punjab polls.Channi claimed that the permission given to his chopper to fly to Hoshiarpur from Chandigarh was cancelled.Channi was to fly to Hoshiarpur in a chopper shortly after addressing a press conference in Chandigarh to attend a poll rally there with Rahul Gandhi.“I had to fly at 11 am and I sat in the chopper. Suddenly I was told that the permission (for flying) has been cancelled and I could not go there,” the chief minister told reporters here.“My four hours got wasted. I could not attend Rahul Gandhi’s rally because the clearance was not given,” he said.He added that he was denied permission to fly as the area was made no flying zone because of the PM’s visit.Replying to a question, Channi claimed he had permission for flying and landing at Hoshiarpur which was later withdrawn.“People know everything about what politics they are playing with me,” he said.The CM later went to Sujanpur in Pathankot for an election-related programme.Channi, however, later complained that he was again denied permission to fly from Sujanpur to Jalandhar where he was to attend another poll-related programme.Then he travelled by road from Sujanpur to reach Jalandhar for attending a programme.He told a TV channel separately that he was the state’s chief minister and not a terrorist.“Why was I being stopped in such a way? What conspiracy is this? What politics is this?” he said.He alleged that the reason for stopping him from flying was “purely political”.Channi said he had to travel through the road to reach Jalandhar.Notably, a month after he cut short his Punjab visit due to a security breach in Ferozepur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said in Jalandhar that he was unable to pay a visit to a temple there as local authorities could not make necessary arrangements.“Such is the situation of the government in Punjab,” the prime minister said addressing a poll rally in Jalandhar while attacking the Congress party.The Prime Minister said he would come to Jalandhar again and pay his obeisance at the Devi Talab Mandir.Modi was addressing a poll rally in person in Jalandhar, his first in Punjab after January 5 when he had to return from the state without attending any event, including a public meeting, after his convoy got stuck on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur.Recalling his 2014 Lok Sabha poll campaign as the BJP’s PM candidate, he said his plane was not allowed to fly as “the Congress’ namdar and its yuvraj (prince), who was just an MP,” had a programme near Amritsar.“I got delayed by more than an hour in reaching Pathankot. When I reached Pathankot, my helicopter was not allowed to fly. Why? Because their yuvraj was visiting some other place in Punjab,” Modi said in an apparent reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.“Such misuse of power used to happen for one family. In 2014, my helicopter could not fly after sunset. My two programmes in Himachal Pradesh at that time had to be cancelled. It has been the deeds of the Congress to stop its opponents. For the last 50 years, it has been doing this against its rivals,” he said as he took a dig at the Gandhis.  #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-allowed-to-fly-to-hoshiarpur-jalandhar-punjab-cm-channi-369877
15-02-2022||Aparna BanerjiJalandhar||Only BJP can save Punjab from the scourge of drugs, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched the National Democratic Alliance on Monday as the only option that could help shut down mafias and resolve the state’s drug crisis.Modi, who was addressing his first rally in Punjab this election season at Jalandhar’s PAP grounds, spoke fondly of his long association with Captain Amarinder Singh.This is the first time in 25 years that Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party will contest the election without their old ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal. This is also the first time in 24 years that Captain Amarinder Singh will fight an election without his former party, the Congress.On Monday, Modi’s particularly acerbic swipes were reserved for rival Congress, in particular, for the Gandhi family. He accused the Congress of kicking out Captain Amarinder Singh because he “upheld federalism” and claimed the Gandhis ran the state government through remote control and “as long as the family was in control, the party won’t work for the state’s betterment”.“Why did they remove Capt Sahib? They’ve themselves said at that time they didn’t run the Punjab government—the central government was running it,” he said.“That means all Congress governments are run by remote control. A family from Delhi runs them. The state governments don’t work as per the constitution. If Capt Sahib worked on the principle of federalism with the state government and if the central government worked with the state government, wasn’t it according to the constitution?”“Congress leaders say Capt Sahib didn’t listen to us. He put obstructions. And in the end, it rose so much that they ousted him.  If a family runs the government by remote control and doesn’t bother about the constitution then it will cause tensions in the country. That’s what this family is doing.”The Congress, he said, was carrying out an old vendetta against Punjab, Modi said invoking the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. “The family controls Punjab and has old enmities with the state. It’s settling an old score.”The NDA, he said, was the correct choice.“The BJP won’t allow the control of mafia on trade and business. Under the BJP government traders and residents will operate without any fear,” he said.He also took a jibe at rivals AAP, although he did it without directly mentioning them, in addition to the Congress.“Those without work talk about rooting out Punjab’s drug problem. These people are experts at opening up alcohol shops on the streets and Mohallas. Punjab should be wary of such people. They want to hand over the state to drug mafias,” he said. “These are the same people who demanded proof that our military had conducted surgical strikes. And singing dancing to Pakistan’s tunes.”His appeal then went to women: “Of what use is your gaadi and bungalow if your sons fall prey to the scourge of drugs?”His next jibe was for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whom he referred to as “yuvraaj” (crowned prince). He accused Gandhi of “misusing the state machinery” in 2014 while he was still a Member of Parliament.“During the 2014 elections, I had to come to Pathankot and had to go to Himachal Pradesh via helicopter. You will be surprised, ‘Congress ke namdaar, unke yuvraaj vo simply ek party ke MP the. (Congress’s ‘Prince’ was simply a party MP then),” he said.“He also had an event near Amritsar. My helicopter wasn’t allowed to fly. I reached Pathankot late. My helicopter wasn’t allowed to fly.  Why? Because their yuvraaj was supposed to come to another part of the state. I was stopped. That’s how they misused power. I had to cancel two Himachal programmes.”The Congress, he said, was a party riven with infighting.“Today Congress’ own party is splitting. Congress leaders are opening up secrets of the party. I ask you, can those fighting amongst themselves can they give a stable government? Can they develop Punjab?”'Denied temple visit'He accused the local administration of not clearing his visit to the Shakti Peeth of Devi Talab on Monday. He said: “I wanted to visit the Shakti Peeth of Devi Talab after this event but the police and administration said they were helpless. They asked to stick to a helicopter visit. This is the state of the government,” he said. “But I will return to 'Maa'. I will bow my head to her.”Punjab will vote for the 117-member assembly on February 20. Votes will be counted on March 10.  #capt amarinder singh #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/nava-punjab-bjp-de-naal-pm-modi-says-punjab-needs-double-engine-of-development-369835
