17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||HC to hear plea against furlough to Ram Rahim on Friday||Chandigarh, February 17A petition challenging Dera Saccha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s release on furlough by the Haryana government will come up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday.Among other things, it has been contended before the High Court that Ram Rahim has been released in view of the impending assembly elections in Punjab.“His release at this stage is against the spirit of fair assembly elections,” it has been added.The petition has been listed for hearing before the High Court Bench of Justice B.S. Walia. In his petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents, Patiala district resident Paramjit Singh Saholi has added that that Ram Rahim, who committed “heinous crimes and has been convicted” ought not to have been granted furlough.“There is no justified reason to grant furlough to an individual like Ram Rahim and that too during the election days in the State of Punjab. There is every likelihood that Ram Rahim will foment issues/troubles in the State of Punjab and adversely impact its local populace along with his supporters,” he has added.Describing himself as the “Quami president of Akali Dal Sawtantar”, the petitioner has sought the setting aside/quashing of the order, vide which Ram Rahim, lodged in Sunaria jail in Rohtak, has been ordered to be released on furlough by the Haryana government, “especially when the assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled for February 20”. He has added that the order of furlough “is unwarranted, illegal, untenable in the eyes of the law, hence deserving to be set aside”. #dera head #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-to-hear-plea-against-furlough-to-ram-rahim-on-friday-370771
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Priyanka slams BJP, AAP; calls Modi ‘bade miyan’, Kejriwal ‘chote miyan’||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra called Prime Minister Narendra Modi “bade miyan” and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal “chote miyan” on Thursday, and said their governance is only visible in advertisements.She also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of using religion and sentiments for political gains.“Modiji’s governance is only in advertisements. There is no governance in the country. Had there been governance, there would have been employment and no price rise.“Had there been governance, PSUs, which generate employment, would not have been sold to his friends,” the Congress general secretary told reporters in Pathankot in poll-bound Punjab.Addressing the “Navi Soch, Nava Punjab” rally of the Congress in Pathankot, she said poor people, small traders and small entrepreneurs in the country are facing several difficulties.“Where is governance?” Priyanka Gandhi asked the gathering and claimed that an amount of Rs 2,000 crore is being spent on publicity.Taking on the BJP and the AAP, she said “both use religion, sentiments to do politics. They are not doing development”.“Have you heard ‘bade miyan to bade miyan, chote miyan subhanallah? Bade miyan is Modi and chote miyan is Kejriwal,” Priyanka Gandhi said.She again alleged that the AAP has emerged from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).The Congress leader said Modi showcased the “Gujarat model” to come to power at the Centre and later, people realised what the reality of that model was, while Kejriwal talks about the “Delhi model of governance” and everyone saw how his government “utterly failed during the second Covid-19 wave. And this is when they say that they have done so much for the health sector”.She said the Modi government spends thousands of crores of rupees on advertisements.“Wherever you go, you will see the advertisements. In Uttar Pradesh, they have put up advertisements everywhere as if much development has taken place. But the truth is, unemployment is rising and several other sections are facing problems.“Likewise, Kejriwal is also spending crores on advertisements,” Priyanka Gandhi said.The governance of Modi and Kejriwal is only in advertisements, she alleged.Farm laws were brought by “bade miyan” and the first one to notify those was “chote miyan”, the Congress leader said.“How many jobs has Kejriwal given? The answer is 440 jobs have been given by his government,” she said while alleging that the AAP would do “anything to come to power”.Priyanka Gandhi also targeted Kejriwal over a recent allegation levelled at the Delhi chief minister by former AAP leader Kumar Vishwas.Some Congress leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, have also sought a clarification from Kejriwal over allegations of supporting separatists.However, AAP leader Raghav Chadha described the allegation levelled by Vishwas as malicious, unfounded and fabricated.Priyanka Gandhi said she is married into a Punjabi family and knows what Punjabiyat means.“When I heard Modi and Kejriwal talk about Punjabiyat, it made me laugh. I thought, how would they understand Punjabiyat? To understand it, one has to live it. Punjabiyat is a sentiment.“Those who talk about Punjab and Punjabiyat before you, one of them has bowed before his billionaire friends and the other one is Kejriwal. For politics and power, he can bow before anyone,” she said.The Congress leader said when farmers were protesting against three farm laws for a year at Delhi’s borders, Modi had time for foreign tours but could not travel a few kilometres to listen to their concerns.“The prime minister came to Pathankot on Wednesday for campaigning, but when farmers were protesting against the farm laws, he could not travel a few kilometres from his house to meet them. They were made to sit on the road for a year.“He toured the US, Canada and other countries, bought two planes for Rs 16,000 crore for himself, but the outstanding arrears of Rs 14,000 crore of the sugarcane farmers of the country were not paid,” she said.“Seven hundred farmers died during their agitation, but the prime minister never went to meet them and ask why they were opposing those laws, what were their concerns,” she added.The Congress in-charge for Uttar Pradesh also hit out at Modi for “sharing the stage with Union minister Ajay Mishra”, whose son is a key accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Referring to the minister’s son being released on bail, she said, “Now, he is out on bail. And Modi shares the stage with that minister. There is no shame. There is no understanding of Punjabiyat.” Appealing to the people of Punjab to re-elect the Congress to power for providing a stable government, Priyanka Gandhi asked them to be wary of those seeking their votes in the name of religion, “while some others want to make you feel insecure and seek votes on that basis, but no one is talking about development or about your problems”.Taking a dig at the AAP, she said even the Delhi Police does not come under its government.“When the police is not under you and you cannot even clear files without the Centre’s permission...when you are not running a full government...what government will you run here?” she asked.The Congress general secretary praised Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, saying he did a lot of work that benefitted various sections of the society, despite his short tenure of 111 days.In the evening, Priyanka Gandhi held a “Jansampark Abhiyan” in Ludhiana.  #priyanka gandhi #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/priyanka-slams-bjp-aap-calls-modi-bade-miyan-kejriwal-chote-miyan-370769
17-02-2022||---||Kewal Dhillon expelled from Congress, MP Manish Tewari expresses shock||Chandigarh, February 17A senior Congress leader and former MLA Kewal Dhillon was today expelled from the party. Punjab Affairs In-charge Harish Chaudhary in a statement said the Disciplinary Action Committee had expelled Dhillon for anti-party activities.Dhillon said that he had come to know from social media that party has taken some action against me. “I have not got any letter or notice from the party. I will give a proper reply on getting the notice”, said Dhillon.Hours after reports of Dhillon being expelled from the party went viral on social media, MP Manish Tewari expressed shock. He took to twitter stating “Shocked to read Kewal Dhillon being summarily expelled without even as much as a notice. When no one was prepared to invest a Penny in Punjab during days of Terror he brought PepsiCo to Punjab in 1980’s. He was a Congressman when it was an invitation to assassination”.Shocked to read @KewalDhillonINC summarily expelled from @INCIndia without even as much as a notice.When no one was prepared to invest a Penny in Punjab during days of Terror he brought @PepsiCo to Punjab in 1980’s.He was a Congressman when it was an invitation to Assasination pic.twitter.com/pftJaDh8JPSome leaders said action should be taken against Rana Gurjeet Singh for fielding his son from Sultanpur Lodhi, against the party candidate and against CM Charanjit Channi, for his brother Dr Manohar Singh contesting against party candidate from Bassi Pathana. Both, Rana Gurjeet Son and Channi’s brother are not members of Congress. #kewal dhillon #manish tewari #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/kewal-dhillon-expelled-from-congress-mp-manish-tewari-expresses-shock-370760
17-02-2022||Ravneet Singh||Former Patiala MP Gandhi accuses Kejriwal of playing religious polarisation politics, urges EC to issue notice||Patiala, February 17Former Patiala MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi on Thursday alleged AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was playing religious polarisation politics and demanded that the ECI send him a notice and demand clarification on his statement.Dharamvira Gandhi said in a statement Kejriwal had said that a Hindu businessman had come to meet him in Ludhiana and claimed Hindus felt unsafe in Punjab. “This is a completely fake and concocted story. It is a bid to divide the people on religious lines despite the fact that Hindu-Sikh relations have always remained cordial, even during the 1980s,” Gandhi said.Lashing out at the Delhi Chief Minister, Gandhi said Kejriwal is trying to dismember Punjabi culture’s trait of brotherhood and togetherness. “He (Kejriwal) holds a constitutional post as Delhi CM. But he has attempted to play the Hindu card much like he played the Sikh card in 2017 assembly elections. These are bids to divide the people. There is no threat to any community in the state. All have lived here in peace and harmony. The election commission should issue him a notice and demand a clarification,” he added.To a question on rendering support to a particular political party, Gandhi said, “I do not support any political party. I am only talking about the qualities of various individuals. The people should cast their vote as per their understanding and the candidate’s stature. They should not vote for anyone who jumps parties to question their principles.” #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-patiala-mp-gandhi-accuses-kejriwal-of-playing-religious-polarisation-politics-urges-ec-to-issue-notice-370759
17-02-2022||GS Paul||If elected BJP will implement all Centre-sponsored schemes in Punjab: Rajnath||Amritsar, February 17Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that the BJP has put the country on global map due to its bold and efficient policies and assured that all Centre-sponsored schemes would be thoroughly implemented in Punjab if the BJP voted to power.The minister was here to address a rally in support of BJP candidate from the Amritsar’s Central constituency, Dr Ram Chawla. He first paid obeisance at the Durgiana Mandir before addressing the gathering and also visited the Golden Temple.The Defence Minister said there is a call of ‘change’ in the state and the BJP is the only party that could steer the state out of economic and social crisis. He claimed that various public-oriented Centre’s schemes were never implemented in Punjab.He said the BJP-led NDA government has adopted zero tolerance for corruption, whereas former PM Rajiv Gandhi had himself admitted that out of Re 1 released by the government, only 15 paisa reached people.“People living in ‘loktantra’ (democracy) would no longer accept the ‘loottantara’ (loot) now”, he said.Citing an example of Uttar Pradesh, he said that in 2017 when the BJP took over the reins, its economy stood at Rs 11 lakh-crore, which has been boosted to Rs 21 lakh-crore after five years.On drug menace and law and order issues, he said, “Sarkar bana kar dekhiye, hum dekhenge ki ‘kisne maa ka doodh piya hai jo drug ka karobar yahan kar sake (Give us a chance, we will see who dares to do drug trading here)”, he said.Interestingly, the minister did not utter a single word against BJP’s estranged partner SAD in his speech and appealed to the public that the “Congress and AAP should never come to power in Punjab”.He said while the AAP has allotted liquor shops in every street of Delhi, it ironically talks about making Punjab a ‘drug-free’ state.Attacking the Congress, he said the two batsmen (CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu) have been batting simultaneously. “No one in the Congress wants to be a non-striker. When two batsmen are batting on a single pitch, one will be ‘out’ for sure, he said.Rajnath said the Congress has been sowing the seed of hatred and discrimination in the diversity of Indian culture and its vision is in contrast of Guru Nanak Dev’s teaching of equality for the human kind.“I wonder that in the presence of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, the CM Channi said that ‘bhaiya log’ from UP and Bihar would never come to Punjab if the Congress voted to power. I want to ask the Channi government whether they have forgotten Guru Nanak Dev’s message of equality and universal brotherhood. The Congress wants to divide society to grab power”, he said.He said unlike earlier, the whole world now listen to India on an international platform and surgical strikes gave a global message that India is a strong nation. He said now Covid-19 vaccine is not only being manufactured in India, but also being exported to other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/if-elected-bjp-will-implement-all-centre-sponsored-schemes-in-punjab-rajnath-370728
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Modi’s governance only in advertisements, says Priyanka in Pathankot||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slammed the Narendra Modi government at the Centre on Thursday, saying its governance is only visible in advertisements.She also accused the BJP and the AAP of using religion and sentiments for political gains.“Modiji’s governance is only in advertisements; there is no governance in the country. Had there been governance, there would have been employment and price rise would not have been there. Had there been governance, PSUs, which generate employment, would not have been sold to his friends,” the Congress general secretary told reporters at Pathankot in poll-bound Punjab, where she also addressed a rally.She said poor people, small traders and small entrepreneurs in the country are facing several difficulties and hitting out at the Centre, asked who is worrying about them.“Where is governance?” Priyanka Gandhi asked and said an amount of Rs 2,000 crore is being spent on publicity.Taking on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), she said “both use religion, sentiments to do politics. They are not doing development”.At the rally, the Congress leader attacked both Modi and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal.“When I heard Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal talk about Punjabiyat, it made me laugh. I thought, how would they understand Punjabiyat? To understand it, one has to live it. Punjabiyat is a sentiment.“Those who talk about Punjab and Punjabiyat before you, one of them has bowed before his billionaire friends and the second one is Kejriwal. For politics and power, he can bow before anyone. That is the truth,” she said.The 117-member Punjab Assembly is scheduled to go to polls on February 20 and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. #priyanka gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modis-governance-only-in-advertisements-says-priyanka-in-pathankot-370724
17-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||At Punjab's Abohar, Modi appeals to people to give BJP five years||Abohar, February 17Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday appealed to people of Punjab to give the BJP and NDA government one chance for five years to bring allround development with double engine government in the state.Modi started his address with chanting of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ at a rally in Abohar saying, "The BJP will bring security and development in Punjab.”He claimed that Punjab is a border state, so it needs a government committed to the nation first and people should reject those witha blurred vision.Lashing out at CM Charanjit Channi over his recent controversial statement, Modi said Channi had said that they would not allow people from UP and Bihar to enter Punjab  and a member of the 'Delhi family' clapped at this. People would not forgive them as people of UP are doing hard work in almost all villages in the state, he added.Modi said AAP leaders are spreading lies daily; they have opened liquor vends outside schools in Delhi and here they are claiming to end the drug menace.Terming AAP as anti-Sikh, Modi said that in Delhi the AAP had not inducted any Sikh in its cabinet, whereas in Punjab they are giving big assurances.Listing his achievements, Modi said,"Under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, we have transfered Rs 3,700 crore directly into the bank accounts of the farmers as there is no commission cut and mafia and we have brought 23 lakh farmers under this scheme.”Modi said mafia is prevalent in the entire state, small traders are feeling insecure due to wrong policies of the Congress government, industry is going out fromthe state, no industry is coming and investing in the state, due to which the youth is not getting jobs.He assured the people that the BJP’s double-engine government would bring in better infrastructure, industry and transparency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-punjabs-abohar-modi-appeals-to-people-to-give-five-years-to-bjp-370716
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Deep Sidhu's girlfriend a day after his death writes 'just when we were planning our future together, you are gone', posts pictures||Heartfelt mourning messages continue to pour in after Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu died in a tragic road mishap on Tuesday. The latest is an emotional note written by his girlfriend, Reena Rai, who was accompanying him in the car and survived the crash miraculously.Also read: Deep Sidhu cremated amid pro-Khalistan slogans in Ludhiana; people attend last rites in large numbersGirl with Deep Sidhu in SUV tells police truck driver ahead was 'speeding rashly' and applied sudden breaksDeep Sidhu's accident: Head injury main cause of death, airbag burst due to collisionKey suspect in R-Day violence Deep Sidhu killed in road accidentIn her long note shared in Instagram, Reena revealed ` hearing Deep’s voice whispering to her as she lay down on the hospital bed’.“I’m broken I’m dead inside please come back to your soulmate which you promised me that you won’t leave me in any lifetime I love you my Jaan my soul boy you are my heart beat,” wrote Reena.She further added, “As I was lying in the hospital bed today I heard you come whisper I love my Jaan I know you are forever with me….we were planning our future together and now you are gone.’’Reema concluded her note with an emotional line, “Soulmates don’t leave each other and I’ll see you on the other side Jaan #Truesoulmates”. She also posted some pictures of her and Deep together.The post drew huge response from Deep’s fans. Here is the post:A post shared by Reena Rai (@thisisreenarai)  .  #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/deep-sidhus-girlfriend-a-day-after-his-death-writes-just-when-we-were-planning-our-future-together-you-are-gone-370701
17-02-2022||---||BJP takes Charanjit Channi's controversial remark issue beyond Punjab||Chandigarh, February 17Even as CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said that by his remark of not letting "Uttar Pradesh, Bihar de bhaiye" enter the state was aimed only at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the BJP-led NDA alliance has taken up the issue beyond Punjab.With the third round of polling in UP on February 20, along with that of Punjab, the BJP has made the remarks a big issue against the Congress as UP Congress incharge Priyanka Gandhi was accompanying Channi, when the remark was passed during a roadshow in Ropar on Tuesday.Channi's remark has attracted a sharp response from rivals AAP and BJP which said it was “shameful” that he and Priyanka were targeting “a particular community" and calling for the “boycott” of “people from UP and Bihar”.Kejriwal has already said, “It is very shameful. We strongly condemn comments aimed at any individual or a particular community.”In Punjab, Congress insiders say Channi’s remarks only resonate the ‘Punjabi versus outsiders’ narrative of the party. The controversy could add fresh impetus to the Congress that is facing a stiff challenge from AAP. Party leaders feel that the remarks could invoke Punjabis to stop the march of Kejriwal.During Tuesday’s roadshow at Ropar, Channi in the presence of Priyanka Gandhi had made the remark, eliciting strong reactions from the opposition.Channi had said, “Priyanka Gandhi is Punjab's daughter-in-law, she is the bahu of Punjabis. Bhaiyas from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Delhi cannot come here and rule. We will not allow UP bhaiyas to stray into Punjab.”Facing competition from AAP, the Congress has upped its attack on Kejriwal. The comments were part of the campaign against the Delhi Chief Minister who has been campaigning extensively in Punjab. #charanjit channi #up polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-takes-charanjit-channis-controversial-remark-issue-beyond-punjab-370698
17-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||BJP’s nationalism fake, based on British policy of divide and rule, says Manmohan Singh on Punjab poll eve||New Delhi, February 17With three days to go for the Punjab election, former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday hit out at the ruling BJP describing its nationalism as “fake and dangerous and based on the British policy of divide and rule”.In a video message on the eve of the crucial February 20 state election, Singh, without naming PM Narendra Modi, said the PM’s post had a special significance and blaming history or a former prime minister for the country’s problems wouldn’t help.Urging the people of Punjab to vote for the Congress which, he said, was the only party that could address the state’s development, farm prosperity and unemployment challenges, the former PM launched a scathing attack against the government saying “it was busy blaming the country’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru for national problems instead of accepting and correcting the mistakes of seven years of its rule”.“Today’s circumstances are worrisome. Due to faulty policies of the government during Covid times, people are anguished by a shrinking economy, rising prices and joblessness. But the incumbent government, despite ruling for seven years, instead of accepting and correcting its mistakes, is busy blaming Jawaharlal Nehru for the problems. I believe the position of the PM has a special significance and you cannot escape your sins by blaming history or the country,” said Manmohan Singh, star campaigner for Punjab.Singh has not been able to travel due to health reasons.In a video message on Thursday, Singh said that as PM for 10 years, he always let the work do the talking for him.“We never divided the country for vested political gains. We never tried to shroud the truth. We never undermined the esteem of the country or the PM’s position. People today are being divided. This government’s fake nationalism is empty and dangerous. Their nationalism is based on the British policy of divide and rule,” said Singh days after PM Modi accused the Congress of being the leader of the ‘tukde tukde; gang and dividing and ruling.In a veiled swipe at PM Modi, Singh said, “I hope that the incumbents would have realised by now that by hugging leaders, making them sit in swings and stopping by uninvited to have biryani does not improve bilateral relations. The government should also realise that it cannot change its character by changing its face. The truth comes out in some form or the other.”The ex-PM also questioned the government’s foreign policy saying “The issue is not just of internal tensions. This government has proved a complete failure even on foreign policy. Chinese soldiers are sitting in our land for a year. And attempts are being made to bury the entire matter.”He said India is at a significant crossroads today, “old friends are getting alienated and relations with neighbours are deteriorating”.Accusing the BJP government of weakening constitutional bodies, the former PM said the ruling dispensation did not have “even one bit faith in the Constitution which is the basis of India’s democracy”.The former PM said it was easy to talk big but very tough to implement that talk.“Elections are under way in five states. The people of Punjab face major challenges and it is important to face them effectively. It is important to address the issues of farmers and joblessness and take the state on the road to development. Only the Congress can do these things. I urge Punjabis to support the Congress,” Singh said.The former PM also accused the government of trying to defame Punjab and Pubjabiyat during the farmers’ agitation. Punjab, a state whose sacrifices the world acknowledges, was insulted, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/bjps-nationalism-fake-based-on-british-policy-of-divide-and-rule-says-manmohan-singh-on-punjab-poll-eve-370696
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Following his controversial remark, Charanjit Channi says it was aimed only at Arvind Kejriwal||Breaking his silence on the controversy over his remarks on not letting "Uttar Pradesh, Bihar de bhaiye" enter the state, CM Charanjit Channi has said that the comments were aimed only at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who was trying to rule the state through backdoor.The opposition had misconstrued it, Channi said.During Tuesday’s roadshow at Ropar, Channi in the presence of Priyanka Gandhi had made the remark, generating strong reactions from the opposition.Channi had said, “Priyanka Gandhi is Punjab's daughter-in-law, she is the bahu of Punjabis. Bhaiyas from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Delhi cannot come here and rule. We will not allow UP bhaiyas to stray into Punjab.”Facing competition from AAP, the Congress has upped its attack on Kejriwal. The comments were part of the campaign against the Delhi Chief Minister who has been campaigning extensively in Punjab. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-his-controversial-remark-charanjit-channi-says-it-was-aimed-only-at-arvind-kejriwal-370680
17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||CCTVs in all police stations: Excuse of not being an advanced country no longer available, says High Court||Chandigarh, February 16Just about a month after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made it clear that interrogation rooms too would be covered by the Supreme Court directions on installing CCTV cameras in every nook and corner of police stations, the Bench has reiterated that the excuse of not being as advanced as other countries was no longer available.The assertion by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came as the UT and the states of Punjab and Haryana submitted a timeline for implementing the Supreme Court orders on ensuring the installation of CCTV cameras in each and every police station.We are the fifth or the sixth largest economy in the world and, therefore, the excuse of us not being as advanced as other countries is no longer available to us... — Justice Amol Rattan Singh“We are the fifth or the sixth largest economy in the world and, therefore, the excuse of us not being as advanced as other countries is no longer available to us, unless we choose not to follow a more civilised method of apprehension and investigation,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, was told that all police stations and police posts in the UT already stood equipped with cameras, but upgrade of these in terms of the Supreme Court orders would take about five months. It also sought a month’s ‘buffer’ in this regard.The state of Haryana submitted that it would be bound to install all such CCTV cameras in police posts by April 1. But there may be some delay due to a fresh outbreak of the pandemic. The state of Punjab, on the other hand, submitted that CCTV cameras would be duly installed in all police posts by May 10.Taking up the issue, Justice Amol Rattan Singh had, on a previous date of hearing, asked Punjab, Haryana and the Chandigarh DGP to file affidavits on compliance with the Supreme Court directions. The directions came after an accused filed a plea through senior advocate Bipan Ghai with counsel Paras Talwar. He was seeking directions for conducting videography from the time of leaving the jail premises till reaching the police station concerned for interrogation. Ghai also prayed for direction to record the interrogation.Ghai pointed out to the directions by the Supreme Court on the issue in the case of “Paramvir Singh Saini versus Baljit Singh”. #CCTV #high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/excuse-of-not-being-an-advanced-country-no-longer-available-hc-370575
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab women panel chief Manisha Gulati alleges attack||Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati, who recently joined the BJP, has claimed that two bikers allegedly threw a stone at her car last night.Manisha, a resident of Sector 39, stated that she, along with her son, feeds cattle near her house. “Yesterday, we got a little late and while we had gone to offer some food to the cattle, I noticed two persons riding a motorcycle there,” she said. Manisha said her son got scared and accelerated the car following which one of the suspects threw a stone at the car, but it missed the target. “We both escaped unhurt; the incident took place close to my house around 11 pm,” she said.Manisha said she informed the UT SSP about the incident over the phone today.Meanwhile, no written complaint about the incident has been received at the Sector 39 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-women-panel-chief-alleges-attack-370584
17-02-2022||Being Delhi's former Education Minister||Leaderspeak: Kejirwal's Delhi model based on falsehood||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaderspeak-kejirwals-delhi-model-based-on-falsehood-370548
17-02-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda: Women safety top priority, says Smriti Irani||#smriti irani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-women-safety-top-priority-says-smriti-irani-370547
17-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: 4 booked for firing in air||An AAP activist from Jalalabad alleged that four persons threatened him by firing in the air on February 15. The accused have been identified as Sahil Josan, a resident of Chack Sukkar village, and Ranjeet Singh, alias Ricky, a resident of Chack Pumanwala Khilchian village. Two unidentified persons have also been named in the FIR. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-4-booked-for-firing-in-air-370546
17-02-2022||New Delhi||Make DSGMC audit report public: Harvinder Singh Sarna||SAD (D) general secretary Harvinder Singh Sarna demanded that the audit of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) funds be made public.Sarna questioned the Badal family for appointing Ravinder Singh Ahuja as the DSGMC auditor.“The accounts books were doctored while the donated funds and medical equipment was siphoned off. The salary bills of Guru Harkrishan Public School were left to mount under Ahuja’s watch.” He demanded that all internal audits, accounting reports and Deloitte findings on the funds be made public. — #DSGMC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/make-dsgmc-audit-report-public-harvinder-singh-sarna-370545
17-02-2022||Ferozepur||Rs 20-cr heroin seized by BSF in Tarn Taran||The Border Security Force (BSF) today recovered some bottles containing 3.950 kg heroin worth Rs 20 crore along with Chinese pistols, besides two magazines and 26 live rounds, in Tarn Taran.As per information, the BSF jawans observed some suspicious movement and heard a thumping sound during the wee hours following which a search operation was carried out.In another incident, the police have nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 10 kg opium from him. Ferozepur SSP Narinder Bhargav said following the intelligence inputs, they nabbed Gurjeet Singh, alias Jeeta, of Aaiyan Khusrupur, in Kapurthala. “Following a tip-off, a trap was laid to nab the the accused. During his frisking, 6-kg opium was recovered from him. Later, cops recovered 4-kg opium from his house,” he said.The accused has been booked under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Several cases were registered against him earlier. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-cr-heroin-seized-by-bsf-in-tarn-taran-370542
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Reforms needed to revive hospitality sector in Punjab: Assn||With Assembly poll round the corner, the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), has submitted a representation to the parties demanding reforms in the hospitality industry.The association has urged for a helpful environment for the survival and revival of the sector.Surendra Kumar Jaiswal, vice-president, FHRAI, said, “We request the government to bring some much-needed policy reforms for our industry. Among these, our foremost request is that the liquor licence fee be reduced by 50% for all categories of hotels and restaurants for next five years to support the recovery of industry in the state. The current licence fee of Rs 5 lakh per year for 5-star hotels is too high for the pandemic-hit industry. We also request that the VAT on sale of liquor in hotels and restaurants be reduced to 7% from the existing rate of 14.41%.”He also added that power constitutes a significant operational cost for all hotels and restaurants. For the industry to recover losses incurred during the pandemic, power tariff should be revised from the existing Rs 6.91/KWH to Rs 5/KWH.The FHRAI has also requested the government to commence direct international flights from the Mohali airport to Canada, the US and Singapore.“Facilitating international flights from Mohali will not only be beneficial for the residents of the state and its people living abroad, but it will also give a strong boost to the tourism sector,”said Jaiswal. #Tourism||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reforms-needed-to-revive-hospitality-sector-in-punjab-assn-370540
17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||During moratorium, can't go on against 'corporate debtor': Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that proceedings in a cheque bounce case under Section 138 and 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act can’t continue or be initiated against a “corporate debtor” during the period of moratorium.Justice Vikas Bahl also made it clear that the proceedings under the provisions of the Act are to continue against “natural persons” or the Managing Director and Director impleaded as a party in the matter. The ruling by Justice Bahl came in a case where a corporate debtor was directed to deposit 20% of the compensation/fine awarded by the trial court in a cheque bounce case. The Bench was, among others, assisted by senior advocates Anand Chhibbar, Bipan Ghai and HS Brar.The case has its genesis in an agreement to sell between a family and a real estate company through its MD. The total sale consideration for more than 15 kanals was stated to be Rs 3.95 crore. The accused got a cheque for Rs 1 crore issued to discharge the liability. But the cheque was dishonoured.A judicial magistrate, vide judgment dated January 29, 2020, convicted the petitioners for an offence under Section 138 before sentencing them to two-year jail. They were also directed to pay Rs 2 crore or double the cheque amount as relief to the complainant. The petitioners were convicted in three other complaints and the sentence awarded was directed to run concurrently.Justice Bahl asserted the moratorium ordered by the National Company Law Tribunal in the present case was still continuing. Referring to a plethora of the SC judgments, Justice Bahl added it was held that a corporate debtor would be covered by the moratorium provision contained in Section 14 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. The legal impediment contained in Section 14 would make it impossible for such proceeding to continue or to be instituted against the corporate debtor.Justice Bahl added it was observed that the proceedings could not continue or be initiated against the corporate debtor for the moratorium period because of the statutory bar. But the same could continue against the MD and the Director or the “natural persons” as the provision will apply to the corporate debt.Justice Bahl asserted: “In case the petitioner-corporate debtor is directed to deposit 20% of the relief/fine awarded by the trial court, the same would amount to the depletion of the debtor’s assets, which would directly impact the corporate insolvency resolution process and would be in the teeth of the ratio of law laid down by the SC…”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/during-moratorium-cant-go-on-against-corporate-debtor-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-370537
17-02-2022||Anirudh Gupta||Daily wagers in demand for election rallies in Punjab||Ferozepur, February 16Daily wagers are in demand these days. Not because of any boom in construction projects here, but for the fact that political parties have started hiring them to “enact” as their workers in various poll gatherings to ensure optimum crowds. They are even being hired to participate in road shows and motorcycle rallies. The trend is not limited to a single political outfit; all of them are resorting to such tactics to show swelling crowds and well-attended meetings to win an edge over their rivals.Mukhtiar Singh of Suba Kahan Chand village said he was being paid for doing nothing. “All I had to do is attend a gathering by holding a party flag. Free food is an added advantage,” he said. For bike rallies, they get free fuel from designated petrol stations. “We are happy with this trend,” said Shakeel, a migrant labourer from Bihar. Shakeel said free “booze” was also made available if rallies continued till late evening. “I have already attended four such rallies,” he said.Sudhir Kumar, a contractor, said his boys were having a feast these days. If a rally is in the evening, they earn almost double as they work during the day and make quick bucks. Even transport facility is provided to them if the venue is at some distance. These men include painters, plumbers, tile workers and masons.Jaswinder Singh, a contractor, said his work was suffering due to irregularity of these workers, who often skip work to attend political rallies.Pyara Singh of Bhakhda village, is another happy worker these days. “Being a daily wager, it is not easy to purchase good quality liquor but during elections, we get uninterrupted supply,” he said. Another labourer who met The Tribune team was carrying the flag of a party which about which he was not even aware. “How does it matter whether we know about the candidate or not,” said Surinder, adding that for them, all were same.A candidate in fray, pleading anonymity, said people were afraid of coming out in open to attend meetings. “So, we have no other choice but to hire people so that chairs do not remain vacant,” said the nominee.Given Rs700-Rs1,000 for each eventAgainst the usual daily earning of Rs450 to Rs600, parties are giving them around Rs700 to Rs1,000 for each rally. Even contractors are being paid extra for bringing these labourers and daily wagers. Against each person, the contractors get around Rs200 extra over and above the settled cost per person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-wagers-in-demand-for-election-rallies-in-punjab-370535
17-02-2022||Nikhil Bhardwaj & Mukesh Tandon||Deep Sidhu died of severe head injury, reveals autopsy report||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana/Sonepat, February 16Punjabi actor-activist-lawyer Deep Sidhu was cremated at Threeke village in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a board of three medical officers conducted the autopsy of Sidhu, the prime accused in last year’s Republic Day violence case, at the Sonepat Civil Hospital. The report revealed that he died of a severe head injury.Sidhu’s body was kept at his younger brother and advocate Mandeep Singh’s house in Threeke village, where people from across the state, including his native Udekaran village of Muktsar, and Haryana came to offer their condolences to the bereaved family.Suba Singh, uncle of the deceased, said apparently it seems to be an accident, but the family would seek an inquiry into the incident to find out if there was any conspiracy behind it.However, on the complaint of Sidhu’s brother Mandeep, the Kharkhoda police have registered a case against the truck driver for rash and negligent driving under Sections 279 and 304 of the IPC.Sonepat SP Rahul Sharma said the crime team went to the spot and recreated the accident scene on Wednesday morning. After discussions with the doctors and Sidhu’s friend Reena, it seems to be a case of rash and negligent driving, he added.The SP further said: “A partially consumed liquor bottle was recovered from Sidhu’s vehicle and his blood samples and viscera would be sent to the Forensic Laboratory to confirm the presence of alcohol in his body.”Meanwhile, Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Kharkhoda, said: “The impact of the collision was so strong that the airbag on Sidhu’s side exploded.”He said: “The driver and owner of the truck have been identified. Two teams have been sent to arrest the truck driver, who belongs to Mewat. He will be nabbed soon.”   #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhu-died-of-severe-head-injury-reveals-autopsy-report-370528
17-02-2022||---||Amritsar: Boycott Badals, their nominees, says Paramjit Singh Sarna||Amritsar, February 16Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) chief Paramjit Singh Sarna has asked the voters to boycott the Badals and their candidates for denting the Sikh principles for their vested political interests.He claimed that Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami had called up police in the presence of Guru Granth Sahib during the DSGMC elections.“The decision to pardon Dera Sirsa head Gurmeet Ram Rahim and sacrilege incidents during their regime in 2015 were orchestrated for political mileage,” said Sarna. #paramjit singh sarna||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-boycott-badals-their-nominees-says-paramjit-singh-sarna-370525
17-02-2022||Abohar||Inflation up under BJP, says Sunil Jakhar||Former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar today said inflation has been steadily rising since the BJP came to power in the Centre.Jakhar, who campaigned at Jandwala, Hanwanta and Sappanwali, said the price of a gas cylinder had increased from Rs 450 to Rs 940.Surprisingly, BJP leaders were still trying to fool women and farmers by promising freebies, he said.Devika Rani, a local, said the Congress had taken historic steps for women’s empowerment by increasing the amount of old-age pension and Ashirwad scheme.Jakhar said electricity bills of thousands of residents were waived and water bills reduced by the Congress.“The BJP and the SAD are playing politics in the name of religion,” he added. — #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inflation-up-under-bjp-says-sunil-jakhar-370522
17-02-2022||---||Jalandhar: Poll panel partisan, alleges Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Jalandhar, February 16Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel today alleged that the Election Commission of India (ECI) was playing a partisan role in the ongoing elections.Addressing a press conference, Baghel said, “PM Narendra Modi has been putting pressure on the EC to draw advantage in the elections. Through the ECI, the BJP is trying to coerce officials on poll duty to work in their favour or face suspension. Two days ago, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s helicopter was not allowed to take off as the PM was also flying to Jalandhar the same day.”“I faced an FIR a few weeks ago while doing door-to-door campaign in Noida. The EC got me booked even as I told them that there were more people with me since I have Z-plus security. There is no similar action against the BJP leaders in the state despite violations,” he said.“PM Modi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal are working in tandem and are promoting hatred in the country. The people of the country are not ready to listen to the jumlas of the two ‘jumlebaaz’ of Delhi. The public is troubled during the Modi rule. There has been a huge decline in the income of the people because of demonetisation and GST,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-poll-panel-partisan-alleges-bhupesh-baghel-370519
17-02-2022||Ludhiana||Don't fall prey to sectarian politics, cautions Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari||Anandpur Sahib MP and senior national spokesperson of the Congress Manish Tewari today said that those raking up the Hindu-Sikh issue in Punjab were playing in the hands of the ISI.Tewari said, “People of Punjab have never resorted to sectarian politics and they believe in Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat.” Tewari felt the voter of Punjab looked confused in the present scenario. He asked people of the state to cast vote sensibly to form a stable government. Only the Congress could bring stability and address various issues, he said.Over last few days, differences are noticed among many leaders in the party still they have the vision and experience to run the government. He said he had been the only elected Hindu MP from Ludhiana since 1952 and even in 2019, he was elected from Anandpur Sahib, the birthplace of Khalsa. He said he was proud of being a Punjabi and had never ever come across anyone who would resort to sectarian politics like those who were raking up the Hindu-Sikh issue. — #manish tewari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-fall-prey-to-sectarian-politics-cautions-anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-370516
17-02-2022||Praful Chander Nagpal||Rai Sikhs hold key in Jalalabad segment from where Sukhbir Badal is contesting||Fazilka, February 16The high-profile border constituency of Jalalabad in Fazilka district is dominated by Rai Sikhs, who constitute 40 per cent of the segment’s population. This explains why the Congress and BJP are betting on Rai Sikh nominees. They are up against SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who has won the segment thrice.The Congress has given ticket to two-time MP Mohan Singh Fallianwala, while the BJP has fielded Puran Singh Mujedia, who was once close to Sukhbir. He had quit the Akali Dal last month. The two candidates are banking on the community’s vote bank to spring a surprise this time.Fallianwala won the Lok Sabha elections in 1992 and 1996 on the BSP ticket. He could not make it to the Punjab Assembly in spite of trying his luck in several subsequent elections. In 2019, Fallianwala joined the Congress.The AAP hopes to make a dent in the SAD bastion. Unlike the 2017 elections, when the party had bet on its state president Bhagwant Mann, it has fielded young turncoat Jagdeep “Goldy” Kamboj this time.“The wave is in favour of the AAP as people want change. This is the need of the hour. A change at the helm will help the political class to address people’s issues,” says Kamboj. To put the electoral battle into perspective, Sukhbir had won the Jalalabad segment in 2017 by 18,500 votes. And in the 2019 bypoll, which was necessitated after the SAD leader was elected to the Lok Sabha, then Congress nominee Raminder Singh Awla had defeated Sukhbir’s handpicked Raj Singh Dibbipura by 16,633 votes.With Sukhbir again fighting the elections from Jalalabad, permutations and combinations of other parties are bound to change “It will be a cakewalk for the SAD president. He will win hands down for the fourth time,” claims district SAD chief Ashok Aneja.Voters say they are more concerned about pending demands. The seek a rice hub, jobs for youth of the border area, check on the menace of drugs and illicit liquor, specialist doctors in 100-bed hospital and a road overbridge at the Mannewla railway crossing. #Jalalabad #rai sikhs #Sikhs #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rai-sikhs-hold-key-in-jalalabad-segment-370510
17-02-2022||---||'Ignored', Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu goes with AAP||Amritsar, February 16With three days to go for the Assembly elections in Punjab, the Congress was hit by another defection as Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu today joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of party’s nation convener Arvind Kejriwal and chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann.Rintu said he took the decision to uphold his “self-dignity”. “When you are ignored in spite of working for the party with dedication, taking another course is the best option,” he told The Tribune. He holds influence in the Amritsar North Assembly segment, from where the AAP has fielded former Inspector General of Police Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh.In 2012, Rintu had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections against then BJP leader Anil Joshi. He had polled 45,394 votes, while Joshi had garnered 62,374 votes. In the subsequent Assembly elections, Rintu was denied the ticket. The Congress, however, compensated him by making him the Amritsar Mayor in 2018.Insiders say that Rintu, who was a close ally of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, was “feeling suffocated” in the present party set-up under PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Speculations are rife that he could be replaced with someone from the Sidhu camp, as happened in the case of the Amritsar Improvement Trust.In 2018, then Local Bodies Minister Sidhu and 17 other Congress councillors of Amritsar (East) close to him had boycotted the oath-taking ceremony of Rintu.Against the backdrop of his “never-ending” tussle with Capt Amarinder, Sidhu was upset for not being taken into confidence while picking the mayoral candidates in three major cities — Amritsar, Patiala and Jalandhar — where MC elections were held on December 17, 2017. #karamjit singh rintu #kunwar vijay partap singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ignored-amritsar-mayor-karamjit-singh-rintu-goes-with-aap-370505
17-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab CM Channi popular, will win: Deepender Hooda||Bathinda, February 16Congress’ special observer for Punjab Deepender Singh Hooda, while campaigning in the Malwa region for the party candidates, told The Tribune today that the Congress would form the next government.“Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is a popular face and the Congress has always stood by the farmers. Rahul Gandhi was the first to visit Punjab and hold a tractor march in solidarity with the farmers during their agitation against the contentious farm laws. Also, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and I were the first to reach Lakhimpur Kheri after the violence there,” Deepender pointed out.Stressing that Punjab was a ‘sensitive’ state, he said the Congress could alone provide a stable government and ensure peace and prosperity in the state. He lashed out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), alleging that they were “hand in glove with the BJP” and, therefore, equally responsible for the “ill-treatment” of farmers during the stir.Asked if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) posed a serious challenge to the Congress, Deepender replied: “They have failed on several fronts in Delhi and in Haryana. The party contested all seats in Haryana, but failed to open its account.” The Congress leader on Wednesday campaigned for his party candidates in Abohar, Gidderbaha and Balluana after touring Mansa, Sardulgarh, Bhadaur and Barnala.AAP a failureAAP has failed on several fronts in Delhi and in Haryana. The party contested all seats in Haryana, but failed to open its account. — Deepender Singh Hooda, Cong leader #charanjit channi #deepender hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-popular-will-win-deepender-hooda-370502
17-02-2022||---||Charanjit Channi has paralysed Punjab's economy: Capt Amarinder Singh||Mandi Ahmedgarh, February 16Punjab Lok Congress chief and former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has cautioned voters against supporting candidates of parties opposed to the NDA government. He said the BJP-PLC-SAD (Sanyukt) alliance was imperative for the revival of the state’s economy.Talking to The Tribune after addressing a rally at Old Grain Market in favour of PLC candidate Sardar Ali, he said the defective policies of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government had further paralysed the economy of the border state that faced a debt burden of around Rs 5 lakh crore.“It is high time for Punjabis to understand that none other than the Union Government can save the future of the state. People should keep this in mind while casting their vote,” he said.The former CM claimed that the platform for constitution of the NDA government in the state had already been prepared by supporters of BJP-PLC-SAD(S) alliance candidates. #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-has-paralysed-punjabs-economy-capt-amarinder-singh-370500
17-02-2022||Ferozepur||I'm actual aam aadmi: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today tried to strike an emotional chord with the people in this border district by projecting himself as an “actual aam aadmi” who understood problems and concerns of the people of the state.Channi was here to campaign in favour of Congress candidates Parminder Singh Pinki (Ferozepur, Urban), Ashu Bangar (Ferozepur, Rural) and Vijay Kalra (Guruharsahai). Earlier, the CM reached the residence of Pinki and then went to pay obeisance at Guru Ravidas temple in the Ram Bagh area. Thereafter, he participated in a roadshow to drum up support for Pinki, who is contesting for the third time from this seat.Later, the CM went to Mamdot and Lakho ke Behram to address party workers. Channi said he tried to deliver the best during this brief tenure, adding that he would ensure that the Punjabis were given their due if the Congress was voted back to power. He promised to launch a special scholarship for general category students for higher studies on the lines of scholarship for the SC students. He said it was the first time that a Dalit had been given an opportunity to head the state.“I promise to ensure that one lakh unemployed youths are provided jobs in the first year of forming the new government. I have also planned some schemes for the development of rural areas,” he said. — OC1 lakh jobs in 1st yearI will ensure that one lakh youths are provided jobs in the first year of forming the new govt. I have also planned some development schemes for rural areas. — Charanjit Singh Channi, CM #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/im-actual-aam-aadmi-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-370497
17-02-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rs 5 lakh crore road infra in Punjab by 2024, promises Nitin Gadkari||Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari today addressed an election rally at the industrial town of Mandi Gobindgarh in support of BJP candidate from Amloh and said the Centre would construct a road infrastructure worth Rs 5 lakh crore in Punjab by 2024.He said the major problem being faced by the industry, farmers and transporters was high logistic cost. He said in China the logistic cost was 10 per cent, in European countries 12 per cent, but in India it was up to 16-18 per cent, so the rates of products were high, which couldn't compete at international level. He said he was making all-out efforts to bring it to 10 per cent by constructing infrastructure.He said under the Bharat Mala initiative various highways projects were being constructed. He said Green Express Highways at the cost of Rs 70,000 crore were being constructed in Punjab. He said: “By 2024, from Amritsar a truck will reach Delhi in four hours and Bombay in 24 hours, consuming less diesel. Similarly, Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Green Express Highway is being constructed, which will connect all Sikh religious shrines and Mata Vaishno Devi. From Delhi, one can reach Katra in four hours.”He urged the people to give a chance to the BJP in Punjab so that it could be made one of the most-advanced and debt-free states. Farmers, industrialists and traders would have field days, he said. — #nitin gadkari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5l-crore-road-infra-in-punjab-by-2024-promises-nitin-gadkari-370496
17-02-2022||Vishav Bharti||Malwa voter upset over unkept promises||Tribune News ServiceHarike, Hussainiwala, February 16On a normal day, Lakhbir Singh criss-crosses the waters of the Sutlej several times. While moving his boat, he often touches the three natural regions of Punjab. "Here the Sutlej confluences with the Beas. And Malwa meets Majha and Doaba."From migratory birds to dolphins and from depth of waters to elephant grass, the boatman at Harike wetland since 1992, swiftly moves to politics. Nothing has changed in the past three decades, the water of the Sutlej remains poisonous. He talks about the pollution caused by Ludhiana's industry and Jalandhar's leather trade. "Why is it not an issue for any of the political parties?" he points at the thick line of foam left behind the motor boat. Downstream from the Harike Headworks towards Ferozepur, a city established by Feroze Shah Tughlaq in the 14th century along the banks of the Sutlej, people share the tales of betrayal, unfulfilled promises of not just last five years but they talk about how they are being 'cheated' for decades by almost every political party. Unemployment, absent schools and dying hospitals frequently figure in their conversation. They talk about the VIP culture, which has not even spared the Hussainiwala memorial where midnight cremation of bodies of the martyrs had shook Punjab. Police guards elbow the common man to make a 'safe passage' for the VIPs in a hurry to pay obeisance at the memorial to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. They don't even care about the tears rolling down the cheeks of people. People resist, but to no avail. Sorabh Arora, owner of a sweet shop in Ferozepur City, does not hide that his family is traditionally Akali. He says most of his customers are rural. "People are in a different mood this time, they are prepared to take a gamble. You will witness a surprise," he looks confident.     In the main chowk of Kot Ise Khan (Dharamkot constituency), a group of young rehriwalas do not demand employment from the government which claims to have distributed ghar-ghar rozgaar. They want good hospitals and schools. "We will vote for those who will give us good health care and education for our children," says Sukhdev Singh. Between Kot Ise Khan and Ferozepur falls Zira constituency, where 10 years of SAD rule and Congress rule of last five years are being discussed for all the wrong reasons. Beant Singh, a middle-aged farmer of of Jhanda Bagha village, which falls in Zira constituency, says people are fed up with ‘badmaash’ politicians. "The registration of fake cases must come to an end. We don't want another ‘badmaash’ to win from here," he says.     From Ferozepur several roads lead to the erstwhile Cis-Sutlej states, the heart of Malwa, the largest region of the three which has remained the centre of armed rebellions and holds key to Punjab's throne. The villages in Malwa are epicentre of farmers' movement and are also known for agrarian suicides. People here are known for surprising politicians and psephologists. This time, too, they seem restless. The talk of 'badlao' (change) is in the air. They are blunt in their opinion and don't care about the consequences. But some of ‘badlao’ seems to be happening already. Handiaya, a town of Barnala constituency located on the Chandigarh-Bathinda highway described as a hub of bullock cart manufacturers in the 19th century Imperial Gazeteer is seeing a new European version of a modern market where you have all the leading brands. "It seems the money plundered for the last 15 years by the ruling elite has landed here,” a local says. IELTS and immigration 'shops', have also mushroomed in the area. Not just farmers, traders, too, are sending their kids abroad. These shops are certainly not a sign of prosperity but are fake dreams being sold by merchants claiming to turn Punjab into ‘California’. The original question once again crops up. “Will somebody address the issues of employment, health, education; will somebody pay heed to the Sutlej,” Lakhbir asks these questions to almost everyone. Not many days are left to know the answer. #harike wetland #Malwa #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malwa-voter-upset-over-unkept-promises-370494
17-02-2022||Moga||Like Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal will deceive Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged voters not to trust the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its chief Arvind Kejriwal, who he said, would “deceive them with big promises in the same manner as (former CM) Capt Amarinder Singh did in the last Assembly elections”.“Kejriwal is deceiving Punjab by demanding one chance to serve its people,” he said while addressing public gatherings in favour of SAD nominees Jathedar Tota Singh (Dharamkot) and Baldev Singh Manuke (Nihalsinghwala).“Punjabis gave chance to the AAP in 2017 by electing 20 of its legislators and made it the principal Opposition party. Instead of working for the people’s welfare, 11 out of the 20 legislators joined hands with the Congress. So, you cannot trust the AAP again,” said Sukhbir.On promises made by the AAP, Sukhbir said: “The Delhi model means that the facility of free power availed by Punjab farmers will be withdrawn if the AAP comes to power. Its government will not extend social welfare benefits started by the SAD, including the old-age pension, and atta-dal and shagun schemes.”He further said there was no guarantee that the AAP would implement any of the pre-poll promises it had made. — #capt amarinder singh #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/like-capt-kejriwal-will-deceive-punjab-sad-370492
17-02-2022||---||Amit Shah praises Radha Soami dera chief Gurinder Singh Dhillon for social service||Amritsar, February 16Union Home Minister Amit Shah today met the head of Radha Soami Satsang Beas Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon at Beas, around 45 km here.Shah, who was in Ferozepur to address a poll rally, posted his picture with the dera head on Twitter.He praised the work done by Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, for “humanity and social service and awakening spiritual consciousness in the society for decades, which is an inspiration in itself”.A few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met Gurinder Singh Dhillon in New Delhi and praised the Radha Soami Satsang chief for its social service.Radha Soami Satsang enjoys a considerable following in Punjab.Recently, Shah held a close-door discussion with Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, during his visit to the Golden Temple. (Read news)In Ferozepur, Shah said only the BJP could ensure “safety” to the state sharing boundary with Pakistan and “unprecedented development that has eluded Punjab till now”.He visited Ferozepur today to drum up support for BJP nominees, including Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi (Ferozepur Urban) and Gurparvez Singh Sandhu (Guruharsahai).In his 18-minute address, Shah raised the narrative of national security. “Those at the helm could not ensure a safe passage for Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited the state last month. How can they ensure safety of Punjab’s people?” the Home Minister said, in a veiled reference to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Promises to make state drug-freeThe BJP will make Punjab drug-free. It will usher in a new era of growth. The day is not far when we will have lotus in every household. — Amit Shah, Union Home Minister #amit shah #gurinder singh dhillon #radha soami||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shah-praises-beas-dera-chief-for-social-service-370489
17-02-2022||---||AAP will end 'inspector raj' in Punjab if voted to power, vows Arvind Kejriwal||Jalandhar, February 16Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann paid obeisance at Ravidas temple here today on the Guru Ravidas Jayanti, and prayed for state’s prosperity.Carrying out a roadshow in an open vehicle, AAP convener Kejriwal promised a grand temple dedicated to Guru Ravidas in New Delhi. “The Delhi Government wishes to build a grand temple of Guru Ravidasji Maharaj, but the Centre has some issues with it. After finding a solution, we will build the temple,” he said.Kejriwal exhorted the electorate to ensure that the party won at least 80 seats for a “strong government”.“TV surveys are predicting that the AAP will win 60 to 65 seats. With this mandate, the AAP will form the government. But this is not enough. You (voters) have to strengthen Bhagwant Mann. You have to make a strong government. At least 80 seats should fall in AAP’s kitty. Everyone should vote on February 20. If all vote, the AAP will cross the 80 mark,” he said.The AAP, meanwhile, made announcements to woo industry in Punjab. Kejriwal and Mann said if the party was voted to power, all necessary steps would be initiated to bring back the industrial units that had shifted to other states. The industry and trade would be a partner in government, they said.Kejriwal promised to eliminate the “inspector raj” from the state and provide an industry-friendly atmosphere to the business community if voted to power.“How will industry and trade flourish when the political party in power seeks cuts in profits? So many industrialists complain about the system. In our government, anyone, be it an MLA or a minister, found harassing industrialists will not be spared,” Mann said.Will make Amritsar ‘world icon city’I assure voters the AAP government will take all possible steps to make Amritsar a world icon city and fulfil all wishes of Punjab’s people. Arvind Kejriwal, AAP convener #arvind kejriwal #guru ravidas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-will-end-inspector-raj-in-punjab-if-voted-to-power-vows-kejriwal-370486
17-02-2022||Aman Sood||Regulator stays move to cancel PPA with private thermal plant||Patiala, February 16The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has put an interim stay over the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s (PSPCL) decision to terminate Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with GVK Goindwal Sahib plant, which is one of the three independent power producers (IPP) in the state.The move came almost four months after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had approved the proposal to terminate the PPA with the GVK Goindwal Sahib (2x270 MW) plant, paving way for the PSPCL to issue a termination notice to the company.“The operation of the termination letter issued by the PSPCL to the GVK is stayed in the interim,” reads the PSERC order signedby Viswajeet Khanna as chairperson and Anjuli Chandra and Paramjeet Singh as members.The GVK had filed a petition before the PSERC seeking the quashing of the ‘Procurer Preliminary Default Notice’ (PPDN) issued by the PSPCL on October 29, 2021, to it and the PPA termination letter served on January 26 this year. The amended and restated PPA with GVK Power Limited was signed in May 2009.It is learnt that while the counsel for GVK had argued that the default notice (PPDN) was not tenable and requested for a stay on it and the termination letter issued by the PSPCL. The Advocate-General of Punjab appearing for the PSPCL requested for granting time to file a reply to the GVK petition and opposed the stay on the operation of notice and termination letter since as per the Supreme Court decisions, interim stay should not be granted where the party seeking it is not likely to suffer “irrecoverable loss”. Since in this case, if the GVK ultimately wins, it will get all fixed charges with interest and thus not suffer any “irrecoverable loss” and therefore, there was no point in granting the stay.“The order issued by the PSERC does not detail the reason or law under which the private generators has been granted the stay despite the fact that the power from this plant costs about Rs 10 per unit as against the exchange rate of Rs 3 to Rs 4 per unit,” claimed All India Power Engineers’ Federation, spokesperson, VK Gupta.Meanwhile, no senior PSPCL official is willing to officially comment on the PSERC order. A senior official, however, preferring anonymity, confirmed to The Tribune that “the PSERC order to grant stay to the GVK is unreasonable”.In October 2021, the state government had decided to repudiate the PPA with GVK Goindwal Sahib power plant. Chief Minister Charanjit Channi had said that this step has been taken to safeguard the interest of state consumers by reducing the burden of costly power.Notably, electricity is the poll agenda of almost all political parties in Punjab as they assure voters of providing cheaper or free units to them once elected to power.WILL TAKE LEGAL VIEWWhile issuing interim stay in such serious matters, the contents of discussions/arguments put forth by both sides and the law point based on which it is granted must be mentioned in the order, which is missing. We’ll surely take a legal viewpoint. PSPCL official #ppa #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regulator-stays-move-to-cancel-ppa-with-private-thermal-plant-370485
17-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||PM Modi: Congress failed to keep Kartarpur during Partition||Pathankot, February 16Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the people of Punjab to give at least one chance to the BJP to ensure the state gets an infrastructural push and corruption gets rooted out.Unlike in Jalandhar, the PM did not wear a turban while addressing a rally in the Hindu-dominated Pathankot on Wednesday.He called the AAP a photocopy of the Congress, claiming that both of them had opposed the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and “speak the language of Pakistan” when Indian soldiers show their valour.The PM also said the Congress had committed a “sin” by failing to keep Kartarpur Sahib, the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, within India’s territory at the time of the Partition.He said Kartarpur Sahib should have been included in India’s territory as it was just 6-odd km away. The opportunity to include Kartarpur Sahib in India’s territory was missed again during the 1965 and 1971 wars with Pakistan, he said.Modi said if the government of the day had the guts, it could have told Pakistan (in 1971) that its 90,000 prisoners of war (POWs) would be released only if India got Kartarpur. The PM said it was the NDA government which realised the dreams of thousands of devotees when the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor was built.“Punjab nu chardi kala vich rakhange” (we will ensure progress in Punjab), said the PM in Punjabi as he appealed to voters to “give the BJP five years in power in the state”. “From 2007 till 2017, we were in power in Punjab but the rule was diluted because we were the junior partners of the Akalis. Give us five years, and we will change the state’s fortunes. We will usher in prosperity, never seen before. Corruption will be weeded out once and for all,” said Modi.He also raised the sand mining issue, saying the state was being bled of its natural resources by some vested interests. “We will ensure that this blatant loot comes to an end,” he said.The PM arrived here after offering prayers at the Shri Guru Ravidas Vishram Dham temple in Delhi’s Karol Bagh on the occasion of Ravidas Jayanti. (PTI inputs)Amit Shah meets Radha Soami sect chiefUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday met the chief of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon, at Beas, around 45 km from Amritsar. #amit shah #narendra modi #radha soami||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-congress-failed-to-keep-kartarpur-during-partition-370465
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP uses ‘Shark Tank’ memes for digital campaign||Aam Aadmi Party’s political campaign is embracing popular culture. The latest in their kitty is the popular ‘Shark Tank’.In a salvo meant for rival Congress, AAP used controversial shark Ashneer Grover’s “wahiyad product” to describe the Congress party on February 13 as a superimposed Channi stands before him.“Punjab Voters describing 5 years of Congress rule,” the caption says.A second meme two days later shows superimposed Arvind Kejriwal’s face on another shark boAt’s Aman Gupta.“Indians: We want World-class Education, Quality Healthcare, 24x7 Free Bijli, etc,” the caption says.“Haan main de dunga. Aap tension mat lo,” Kejriwal-Gupta says.Indians: We want World-class Education, Quality Healthcare, 24x7 Free Bijli, etcArvind Kejriwal 👇🏻 #SharkTankAAP pic.twitter.com/ELk629k5okPunjab Voters describing 5 years of Congress rule 😭#SharkTankAAP pic.twitter.com/w4YawcEkcC #AAP #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/punjab-polls-aap-uses-shark-tank-memes-for-digital-campaign-370415
17-02-2022||Pathankot||PM Modi targets AAP at Pathankot rally, calls it photocopy of Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called the AAP a photocopy of the Congress, alleging that both parties are pretending to fight against each other in the Punjab Assembly elections.Listing similarities between the two parties, he alleged both of them opposed the Ram temple in Ayodhya and they speak the “language of Pakistan” when Indian soldiers show their valour.Addressing a rally here ahead of the February 20 elections, Modi also said the Congress had committed a “sin” by failing to keep Kartarpur Sahib, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, within India’s territory at the time of the Partition.“He urged voters to bring the BJP-led alliance to power in Punjab for the all-round development of the state.Taking on the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, Modi said, “Both these parties, despite being ‘ek thali ke chatte batte’ (two sides of the same coin), are now together doing ‘noora kushti’ (pretending to fight) in Punjab. Have you seen WWF? This is what they are doing. They are pretending to be rivals.” “It is a Xerox copy of the Congress. Everything is the same,” he said referring to the AAP.“See the similarities between these two parties, when the Ram temple was coming up in Ayodhya, both of them opposed it. When India’s bravehearts show their valour, the leaders of these parties speak the language of Pakistan,” he added.Modi said, “The truth is that if the Congress is the original, then the second party (AAP) is its photocopy.”One pushed the youth into the drug trap and the second party is busy getting the youth of Delhi addicted to liquor. One looted Punjab and the second is committing scams one after another in Delhi, he alleged.BJP leaders have accused the AAP-led Delhi government of “drowning” the youth in liquor, saying more liquor vends have been opened in the city. The AAP, however, has maintained that liquor vends have only been evenly spread under the new excise policy and their number has not increased.Modi said the Congress has now got a “partner in crime”. He also pointed out that the Congress had extended support to the AAP when it fell short of majority in its first Delhi Assembly elections.Targeting the Congress over Kartarpur Sahib, Modi asked the gathering, “Have they committed a sin or not?”                He said the party crushed people’s sentiments. Could they not understand that Kartarpur Sahib was just 6 odd km away? Should it not have been included in India’s territory?Later, the opportunity to include Kartarpur Sahib in India’s territory was missed again during the wars of 1965 and 1971 with Pakistan, he said.Modi said if the government of the day had the guts, it could have bluntly told Pakistan (in the 1971 war) that their 90,000 prisoners of war would be released only if India got Kartarpur.The prime minister said it was the good fortune of the NDA government which later realised the dreams of thousands of devotees, who earlier used to catch a glimpse of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara across the border, when the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor was built.He also hit out at the Congress over the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. “We punish the culprits of these riots, whereas they reward them with big positions in their party,” he said.Attacking the BJP’s rival parties, Modi said, “We see Punjab from the Punjabiyat angle. For us, Punjabiyat is the priority. But our rivals see Punjab only through the political prism.”      He invoked Sant Ravidas, a Bhakti movement poet-saint, and said his government is following his ideals, and the welfare of the poor is its top priority.The prime minister arrived here to address the rally after offering prayers at the Shri Guru Ravidas Vishram Dham temple in Delhi’s Karol Bagh on the occasion of Ravidas Jayanti.With a large number of followers of Sant Ravidas visiting Varanasi on the occasion of his birth anniversary, Modi said the BJP-led Yogi Adityanath government is making all efforts to facilitate the pilgrims in every manner.“Railways is also running two special trains. As the Varanasi MP, it is my responsibility to see that when you are my guest, you get all facilities,” he said.Modi assured voters that if the BJP-led alliance comes to power in Punjab, it will make farming, trade and industry profitable.“Give me five years to serve you. I assure you farming, trade, industry will be made profitable,” he said.  #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-me-5-years-to-serve-you-i-assure-you-farming-trade-industry-will-be-made-profitable-pm-modi-at-pathankot-rally-370395
17-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||AAP makes 3 announcements to woo industry in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 16The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday made three announcements to woo industry in Punjab, days ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections.The move has significance considering that the BJP-led alliance is trying to consolidate this section of voters in its favour.Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal and its chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann said if the party came to power, they would take all necessary steps to get back the industry that has shifted from Punjab to nearby areas of Himachal Pradesh and other hill states.The problem, the duo said, was not that there was any shortage of land or skilled manpower, but the political will to let the industry flourish.“How will industry and trade survive and flourish when the political party in power seeks cuts in profits? So many people who we met in our “townhall” meetings with industrialists complained about the system. In our government, if anyone, be it an MLA or a minister, is found harassing industry, they will not be spared,” declared Mann.Kejriwal said a number of people were coming to them with complaints that though they supported AAP they were scared to come out openly in their favour as the incumbent government was booking them in false cases. “I hereby announce that once we come to power, all these false cases will be cancelled. We will create an atmosphere conducive to grow and thrive,” he said.The two also lambasted Congress leaders for name calling, and for shaming them for their looks and for some party leaders being from outside the state. “We may not be good looking, but people of Punjab like us. Unlike the Congress, where the high command summons leaders for everything, our party government will be run from Punjab by Punjabis,” said Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-makes-3-announcements-to-woo-industry-in-punjab-370390
