18-02-2022||New Delhi||Will personally look into allegations of SFJ relations with AAP: Shah to Punjab CM Channi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday wrote to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjeet Singh Channi assuring him that the Centre has taken the matter of alleged support to the AAP by banned separatist group Sikh for Justice (SFJ) seriously and said he would “personally” look into it while asserting that no one will be allowed to play with the country’s unity and integrity.In a written communication to the Punjab Chief Minister, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Shah also noted that it is highly condemnable that to grab power some people go to the extent of joining hands with the separatists and also go to the limits of breaking Punjab and the country.“I want to assure you that no one will be allowed to play with the unity and integrity of the country. The government of India has taken the matter very seriously and I myself will look into the matter deeply,” the Home Minister said.Shah’s written communication to Channi was in response to a letter he received from the Punjab Chief Minister, who claimed that he had received a letter by SFJ, which shows that the group is in constant touch with the AAP.Quoting SFJ letter, Channi also said that the banned outfit has claimed that it had given its support to AAP in the Assembly elections in Punjab in 2017 and similarly in these polls, too. The SFJ has exhorted the electorate to vote for AAP in the state Assembly polls on February 20, the CM claimed.Shah said the issue of a political party having relations and getting support from a terrorist and banned organisation “is a serious matter with regard to the unity and integrity of the country” and the agenda of such forces “is no different from the agenda of country’s enemies”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-personally-look-into-allegations-of-sfj-relations-with-aap-shah-to-punjab-cm-channi-371053
18-02-2022||New Delhi||In multi-cornered contest, Congress best suited to govern Punjab; Opposition ‘fragmented’: Pilot||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday exuded confidence that the Congress will again form the government in Punjab, saying the Opposition is “fragmented” with none of the other parties or alliances in a position to get a majority and that the people will not “waste their vote” despite all the “hype” surrounding the challengers.He also said the Congress is the best bet to govern a sensitive border state like Punjab, while the AAP lacks the depth to do so.In an interview with PTI after campaigning in several constituencies in Punjab this week, Pilot said Captain Aamrinder Singh was removed as the chief minister as he had lost the confidence of MLAs and that his new party Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), along with its alliance partners the BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), will not have any sort of impact on the March 10 results.He also said former Union minister Ashwani Kumar’s quitting the party in the middle of poll campaigning will not have any effect on the fortunes of the Congress in any way.Asked if the Congress was facing high anti-incumbency in Punjab, Pilot answered in the negative and said that especially in the last three-four months of the Congress government with Channi as CM some remarkable steps had been taken on issues such as electricity, water and housing for middle class and farmers, and those had been very well received.“I would like to say Mr. Channi’s last few months of delivery have endeared the Congress government to the people,” he said.“As far as the Opposition is concerned, for the first time in many decades we have a multi-cornered contest because you have Amarinder Singh’s party tied up with the BJP, BSP is with Akali Dal, there is Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), so the Opposition is fragmented. I don’t think any of these parties or alliances are in a position to form a government or get a majority,” Pilot said.People would not like to waste their vote no matter what the propaganda is or hype is created around the challengers, he said.Pilot exuded confidence that the Congress will get a comfortable majority in the polls.Stressing that Punjab is a border state and is strategically very important, he said parties and leadership that understand the nuances of governing a border state are the ones the public would repose their trust in.“Punjab, don’t forget suffered years of militancy and hardships. The Congress came forward, many of our leaders were martyred. I want to remember Beant Singh whose blood is embedded in the land of Punjab. I do want to make the point that Congress, with its long history of governance, is best placed to serve Punjab,” he said.Pilot said the campaign led by the AAP is more about sops and floating “false propaganda”.In Delhi, the AAP has not been able to deliver what they are promising in Punjab, he alleged.Pilot claimed that the AAP does not have the “depth” to govern a sensitive state.“Punjab is a sensitive state so one has to be very careful about the choice of government and the people of Punjab know it more than anybody else. In 2017, the same hype was created but at that time there were instances which raised a lot of questions in peoples mind about the kind of people the AAP leadership was said to be associating with,” Pilot said.Given that five-year-old track record and given that it is a border state with Pakistan, one has to be doubly careful about what sort of leadership they are able to evolve there, said Pilot, who campaigned in several assembly constituencies such as Sangrur, Dhuri, Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar.The Congress has launched a campaign blitz in the final stretch before the Punjab polls with a battery of senior leaders campaigning extensively led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi.Asked if Amarinder Singh’s sacking months ahead of the polls would have an impact, Pilot said a chief minister is the leader of the legislative party and if the majority of the MLAs of the legislative party want a change then the leadership can do very little.“That is why the leadership change happened. It was not because of somebody’s likes and dislikes. Most MLAs wanted a change in chief of the legislative party. If you lose the confidence of MLAs and they all come out and say they want a change, the leadership has to do what is to be done,” he said.It is unfortunate that Singh left the party and formed his own party and now has gone on and aligned with the BJP, Pilot said.“I don’t think this new party (Punjab Lok Congress), formed two months ago, along with the BJP, is going to have any sort of impact on the results that are going to come out on March 10,” Pilot said.He said the BJP itself is a marginal player in Punjab and so the larger partner in the alliance is itself a marginal player, he added.“I don’t think people would like to give their vote to a party that will not form the government,” Pilot said.Asked if Ashwani Kumar’s exit would impact the party’s chances, he said though Kumar was a minister in the UPA but his exit will not affect the voters’ choice in any way.“Anybody leaving the party is unfortunate...However, there is no party in India from which people don’t leave or join on the eve of polls. I don’t think it will have any effect on the fortunes of the Congress party,” he asserted.Pilot said all elections are important but Punjab polls were all the more important because the state is crucial politically and strategically.People want to give Channi a longer time as he has been able to capture people’s imagination, he said.Punjab goes to polls on February 20.“I have been to four poll-bound states and we are going to form governments in Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab. And if the BJP gets uprooted which it will be in UP, it was Congress that shook the foundations of the Yogi Adityanath government under Priyanka ji’s leadership,” he said.Pilot said be it Hathras, Unnao or the Lakhimpur Kheri incidents, Priyanka Gandhi led from the front while the BSP and the SP were missing from action in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-multi-cornered-contest-congress-best-suited-to-govern-punjab-opposition-fragmented-pilot-371024
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||Former Punjab MLAs Amrik Dhillon and Tarsem Singh expelled from Congress||Former Punjab MLAs Amrik Dhillon and Tarsem Singh DC were on Friday expelled from the party for “anti-party” activities.Another party leader Kewal Dhillon was expelled from the party on Thursday. #punjab congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-mlas-amrik-dhillon-and-tarsem-singh-dc-expelled-from-congress-371010
18-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Driver of truck that killed actor Deep Sidhu arrested from Nuh||Sonepat, February 17The police on Thursday arrested from Nuh the truck driver who was involved in the road accident that led to the death of actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu on Tuesday.Also read: Judge must probe Deep Sidhu's accident: Simranjit Singh MannDeep Sidhu's girlfriend a day after his death writes 'just when we were planning our future together, you are gone', posts picturesDeep Sidhu's accident: Head injury main cause of death, airbag burst due to collisionTried overtaking from leftThe laden truck was moving in the middle of the first and second lane on the road and Deep Sidhu tried to overtake it from the left. The speed of the SUV might be over 100 kmph at that time, sources said.The driver, identified as Kasim Khan of Shingar village in Nuh of Mewat district, had managed to escape from the spot after the accident.Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Kharkhoda, said that the 22-tyre truck was on the way to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh from Kandla in Gujarat.Kasim has been locked up and would be produced in court on Friday. He would be taken on remand for further investigation, the SHO maintained. Over 100-ft-long skid marks on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway near Pipli toll plaza are enough to show the gravity of the accident in which Deep Sidhu lost his life.However, the Sonepat police have ruled out any conspiracy or foul play behind the death of Deep Sidhu on the basis of primary investigation reports.. #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/driver-of-truck-that-killed-actor-arrested-from-nuh-370843
18-02-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Judge must probe Deep Sidhu's accident: Simranjit Singh Mann||Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president and Amargarh candidate Simranjit Singh Mann has demanded an investigation into the accident of Punjabi actor-activist-lawyer Deep Sidhu.Sidhu, the prime accused in the last year’s Republic Day violence at Red Fort, was killed in an accident on the Kundli-Manesar highway in Haryana’s Sonepat on Tuesday evening.Also read: Driver of truck that killed actor Deep Sidhu arrested from NuhDeep Sidhu's girlfriend a day after his death writes 'just when we were planning our future together, you are gone', posts picturesDeep Sidhu's accident: Head injury main cause of death, airbag burst due to collisionMann alleged the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi got Sidhu killed for his involvement in the Red Fort violence.“We want that a senior Sikh judge should probe the sequence of events leading to Sidhu’s killing, which could be planned by some agency,” said the SAD (A) chief.Meanwhile, supporters of Deep Sidhu organised a candle march on Wednesday night, which concluded at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk at Mandi Ahmedgarh. As Sidhu had been associated with the election campaign of Simranjit Singh Mann, the supporters called upon residents to vote in his (Mann) favour. #deep sidhu #simranjit singh mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judge-must-probe-deep-sidhus-accident-sad-a-370840
18-02-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: Ex-militant nabbed with 3 kg heroin||The Counter Intelligence wing of the Punjab Police has arrested a former militant, Harjant Singh, alias DC, of Batala, with 3 kg heroin smuggled from across the International Border. The police said the accused was arrested on a tip-off. Harjant was travelling on a scooter when he was intercepted. On search, the police recovered the contraband allegedly smuggled via a drone at Ghonewala village, falling under the Dera Baba Nanak police station in Gurdaspur.Shaildener Singh, AIG, Counter Intelligence, said it was found the heroin was smuggled by a Pakistan-based smuggler. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-ex-militant-nabbed-with-3-kg-heroin-370838
18-02-2022||---||Amritsar-bound flight suffers technical snag||New Delhi, February 17An Amritsar-bound Vistara flight today made an emergency and safe landing at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here soon after taking off as the pilot noticed a technical snag in the aircraft, said the officials.The pilot detected the snag soon after taking off the flight and immediately contacted the airport authorities. They said there were nearly 146 passengers on the flight when it took off from the IGI Airport for Amritsar.Security officials said they received a call about the emergency landing at 10.15 am on Thursday and then an alert was sounded at runway number 28 of terminal-2, which caters to domestic flights.The officials said many fire engines were rushed to the airport after receiving the information regarding the emergency landing. The flight landed safely and “no one was hurt in the incident”, they added.About the incident, a Vistara spokesperson said: “A technical snag was detected on Vistara flight UK 697 operating from Delhi to Amritsar on February 17. As a precautionary step, the pilots decided to turn back and land safely at the IGI Airport.”“Another aircraft was immediately arranged to fly the passengers to Amritsar which took off at 13.30 hours. Inconvenience to passengers is deeply regretted. Safety of our customers and staff is our priority,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-bound-flight-suffers-technical-snag-370837
18-02-2022||Kejriwal has taken an anti-Punjab stance in the top court on crucial issues. The AAP govt is against the release of Devinderpal Singh Bhullar. It has taken away the second language status to Punjabi in Delhi. — Harsimrat Badal||Kejriwal's stance always anti-Punjab: Harsimrat Badal||#arvind kejriwal #harsimrat badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-stance-always-anti-punjab-harsimrat-badal-370836
18-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: Senior Cong leader Malkeet Singh Heera quits party||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-senior-cong-leader-heera-quits-party-370835
18-02-2022||Ropar||Punjab needs experienced govt: Cong MP Manish Tewari||Local MP Manish Tewari said Punjab needed an experienced government like the Congress. Tiwari, interacting with mediapersons, claimed the Congress was poised to form the next government despite a multi-cornered contest.He said so far, the main contest remained between the Congress and SAD, he said. During the last polls, many had claimed the AAP would sweep polls but things turned out to be in favour of Congress. This time, too, it would be a repeat of 2017, he added.He said the Congress had the organisational structure, which would work in its favour. — #manish tewari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-needs-experienced-govt-cong-mp-manish-tewari-370834
18-02-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: Activist hurt, AAP hints at Akali role||The AAP leadership today alleged that some unidentified men came in a car displaying Akali flags and thrashed their party worker at Bhagu village in Lambi Assembly segment. The injured has been identified as Jaswinder Singh, whose wife is the sarpanch of Bhagu village.Tozzy Lambi, an AAP activist, claimed, “Both legs of Jaswinder were broken in the attack. He was going towards fields, when three people came in a Swift car and attacked him. He is being taken to a multi-specialty hospital in Mohali.”Inspector Amandeep Singh, SHO, Lambi police station, said, “We have registered a case against unidentified persons and started an investigation.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-activist-hurt-aap-hints-at-akali-role-370833
18-02-2022||Sangrur||Candidates go all out to woo voters in Sangrur||Having already pooled in resources for the Assembly elections, candidates of various political parties visited villages in their constituencies to in their last-ditch effort to impress voters today.Cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla visited Gharachon, Jhaneri, Batriana and other villages, while AAP, BJP and SAD-BSP candidates Narinder Kaur, Arvind Khanna and Winnerjit Singh Goldy, respectively addressed meetings.“I have brought about unprecedented development in Sangrur and voters are aware of it,” said Singla. Narinder claimed the Congress MLA had used poor quality material in various works and that only the AAP could bring overall development.SAD Sanyukt leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa visited Bhundar Bhaini, Maha Singhwala, Bishanpura Khokhar, Phullad and other villages and targeted his political opponents. “There was little development earlier. I have been fighting to improve amenities in my constituency,” claimed Dhindsa.Dirba AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema held meetings in various villages, promising to bring about all-round development. “The AAP will form the government in Punjab as we are getting massive support,” claimed Cheema. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/candidates-go-all-out-to-woo-voters-in-sangrur-370832
18-02-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: Dera Sacha Sauda's political wing in huddle||A meeting of Dera Sacha Sauda’s political wing was held on the dera premises at Kabulshah Khubban village here late last evening.Sources said senior functionaries from Sirsa headquarters attended the meeting. District incharge Subhash Chhabra said the suggestions of the Premis were sought as to which political party or candidate should be extended the support. “The message of support may be announced tomorrow, if so decided by the political wing.”However, the sources said the dera had decided to extend support to BJP’s Surjit Kumar Jyani from Fazilka, who was reportedly present at the meeting. It was stated that Shah Satnam Ji Green-S-Welfare Force activists had been asked to convey the message of extending support to the BJP candidate to the Premis. — #dera sacha sauda #surjit jyani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-dera-sacha-saudas-political-wing-in-huddle-370831
18-02-2022||Abohar||Abohar: Namdharis protest near PM Modi's rally, want Chand Kaur's killers nabbed||Namdhari supporters of Satguru Dileep Singh took out a silent march on Thursday, demanding the arrest of “real culprits” in the Chand Kaur murder case.They assembled outside Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Bhagat Singh Chowk, carrying placards bearing messages ‘We Want Justice’ and ‘Arrest killers of Chand Kaur’. Sukhdev Singh, president, Mata Chand Kaur Murder Action Committee, said they were protesting police failure to crack the case over the past six months.“As many as 50 security guards were deployed at Gurdwara Bhaini Sahib. Despite this, Mata Chand Kaur was killed. We demand the arrest of real culprits at the earliest.”The protesters said the case was referred to the CBI but the BJP government, by allegedly manipulating government records, was creating hindrances in cracking the case. “Why is the BJP government trying to impose Thakur Uday Singh on us?” they said.“We had met Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at Jalandhar, where he assured us to discuss the issue with the Home Minister after the polls. But we want the BJP to clarify now,” said Daya Singh, senior vice-president of the committee. — OCFarmers detained in MuktsarMuktsar: The police on Thursday detained a group of farmers who had gathered at the Panniwala Fatta grain market here to lodge a protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the region. They were released after two hours. #namdharis #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-namdharis-protest-near-pms-rally-want-chand-kaurs-killers-nabbed-370830
18-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||BJP top brass' absence in Sangrur may hurt nominees||Sangrur, February 17The absence of central BJP leaders in farmers’ stronghold Sangrur district may create more problems for the party candidates here.The Congress and AAP have gone all out against their rivals in the area. To date, Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Kumari Selja, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Sachin Pilot, Charanjit Channi and Navjot Sidhu among others have visited various parts of the district.From the AAP, its national convener Arvind Kejriwal, his wife Sunita Kejriwal and daughter Harshita Kejriwal among other senior leaders have visited the Dhuri constituency of Sangrur to support party’s CM face and local candidate Bhagwant Mann.However, only a few BJP leaders have visited Sangrur so far. Though the BJP leaders have been denying, but the anger among farmers against the party seems to be the reason behind the absence of central leadership in Sangrur. The district is a stronghold of farmer unions, which are still protesting against the central BJP government for failing to fulfil their accepted demands.“The BJP government at the Centre has still not fulfilled many of our accepted demands, including the cancellation of FIRs registered against farmers and financial compensation to the families of those who died during the yearlong agitation. We are opposing the BJP candidates. In Sangrur, no central BJP leaders are coming as they are aware that we will oppose them,” said Amrik Singh, Sangrur, district president, BKU Ugrahan.Party already strong in districtCentral ministers or leaders aren’t visiting Sangrur as the BJP already has a strong hold here. After the laws were repealed, farmers don’t have any issues with us. Jatinder Kalra, bjp leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-top-brass-absence-in-sangrur-may-hurt-nominees-370829
18-02-2022||---||Balbir Singh Rajewal urges farmers' unions to back him||Chandigarh, February 17Embattled Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Thursday appealed to various farmer unions that have not joined the political outfit to come out in his support.The appeal, which was made on a social media platform, comes days after several desertions in the SSM, including one by Punjab Kisan Union, and the alleged inability of the morcha to catch the fancy of voters.In the appeal, Rajewal is seen asking all other leaders, who were with him in the SKM that successfully fought against the three farm laws, to come to his help and ensure the traditional parties do not succeed in the elections, and a “true people’s government” is formed.Naming Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Darshan Pal, Rakesh Tikait and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, he asked them to forget differences and join hands. But they have not responded. #balbir singh rajewal #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balbir-singh-rajewal-urges-farmers-unions-to-back-him-370828
18-02-2022||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana West: Bharat Bhushan Ashu eyes hat-trick, banks on development works||Ludhiana, February 17Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is eyeing a hat-trick even as two of his close aides have turned rivals in a five-cornered contest in the Ludhiana West constituency.SAD ex-minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, AAP’s Gurpreet Bassi Gogi, BJP’s Bikram Singh Sidhu and SSM’s Tarun Jain Bawa have made the contest tough in this urban seat, which had been represented either by the Congress or the SAD in the past.Grewal, 72, had represented this seat in 1997 by defeating the then Congress heavyweight Harnam Das Johar and had remained the Cabinet Minister in the Parkash Singh Badal Cabinet. First-timers Gogi, 54, and Bawa, 49, who were the close associates of Ashu, 49, quit the Congress and jumped into the electoral battle against him. Sidhu, 50, is also a first-timer.Besides, Independent candidate Balwinder Sekhon, 58, a dismissed DSP, Bahujan Mukti Party’s Anita Shah, 42, and Aas Punjab Party’s Sarbjit Kaur, 34, are also in the poll fray.While Ashu, who had won both the polls from here in 2017 and 2012, is banking on “massive development” done by him in the constituency, his opponents were countering his claims and highlighting the “widespread corruption”, lack of basic civic amenities and poor infrastructure despite the “heavy expenditure” claimed by the Congress minister.Ashu said he had fulfilled what all he had promised during the previous elections. Meanwhile, Grewal said there was strong resentment among the public against Ashu. Gogi, however, said he was forced to quit the Congress, which he served for over 22 years, after the party became a “private limited company”. #bharat bhushan ashu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-west-bharat-bhushan-ashu-eyes-hat-trick-banks-on-development-works-370824
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||Kewal Dhillon expelled for 'anti-party' activities: Congress||Senior Congress leader and former MLA Kewal Dhillon was today expelled from the party. Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, in a statement, said the disciplinary action committee had expelled Dhillon for “anti-party” activities.Dhillon said he learnt about the decision from the social media. “I have not got any letter or notice from the party. I will give a reply on getting the notice,” said Dhillon. Hours after reports of Dhillon being expelled from the party went viral on the social media, MP Manish took to Twitter expressing shock. — #harish chaudhary #kewal dhillon #manish tewari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kewal-dhillon-expelled-for-anti-party-activities-congress-370819
18-02-2022||Patiala||Congress nominees from Sanaur, Samana bury hatchet||Days ahead of polling, two warring Congress leaders called it a truce today by declaring support to one another and the party in their respective constituencies of Samana and Sanaur.At a joint press conference, Sanaur candidate Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann and Samana MLA Rajinder Singh, accompanied by his father Lal Singh, said they would work for the interest of the party. “We will ask every supporter in Sanaur to work for the party and ensure the victory of Mann, who is contesting the polls”, said Lal Singh who has a good support base in Sanaur.Mann said he had already asked his supporters in Samana to back Rajinder and the party. “The idea is to work together and we had to hold the conference to tell our supporters not to believe in rumours and work for the party,” he said. In the run-up to the polls, the two had been accusing one another of helping rival candidates. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nominees-from-sanaur-samana-bury-hatchet-370818
18-02-2022||---||Ensure curbs 48 hours before Punjab poll: Election Commission||Chandigarh, February 17The Election Commission of India today issued extensive guidelines to the District Election Officers to ensure prohibitions during the period of 48 hours (6 pm on February 18) before the polling that is to be held on February 20.Giving details, Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said all political leaders, functionaries or party workers who are not registered voters in that constituency should leave the area within this period. However, the elected MP or MLA should not be asked to leave their areas during the election even if he/she is not an elector of the poll-going Assembly constituency.The EC has asked the police and civil administration to ensure that outsiders who are not required in the area leave immediately. The commission has also directed the election and police administration to keep a tab on community centres, guest houses and lodges so that outsiders, if any, could be kept housed to check any disturbance during the electoral process. The identity cards of those who stay there in the constituency would be checked, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-curbs-48-hours-before-poll-election-commission-370817
18-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||PM Modi: Both Charanjit Channi, Arvind Kejriwal playing divisive politics||Abohar, February 17Prime Minister Narendra Modi today lashed out at Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for playing “divisive and separatist” politics.Addressing a rally today at Abohar, the PM appealed to the people of Punjab to give the NDA government a chance to bring all-round development in the state.Migrants part of Punjab, says ChanniMy statement was aimed at Kejriwal and other AAP leaders who were ‘disturbing’ Punjab from outside. Migrants are very much part of Punjab. Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Chief MinisterBJP’s nationalism fakeBased on policy of divide and rule, BJP’s nationalism is fake. The govt, rather than admitting mistakes, is blaming Nehru for people’s woes. Manmohan Singh, Ex-Prime MinisterReject outsidersKejriwal filed cases to rob Punjab of river waters and banned the teaching of the language of Gurus in Delhi. Allowing outsiders to enslave Punjab will be betrayal. Parkash Singh Badal, Ex- Chief MinisterModi Appeals to first-time votersI especially want to tell first-time voters this is an important occasion in your life. You will be part of the decision to decide Punjab’s future and bring a change. Narendra Modi, Prime MinisterPM Modi hit out at Channi for his “UP, Bihar and Delhi de bhaiye” remark, saying people with such “divisive thought” shouldn’t have the right to rule the state.Channi during a roadshow in Ropar on Tuesday courted controversy by asking people not to let “bhaiyas” of UP, Bihar and Delhi enter Punjab. In a video circulating on social media, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is seen cheering Channi when he made the remark.Tearing into the Congress, the PM said it “always makes people of one region fight against another region for its own gains”. PM Modi said the remark was not only an insult to the people of UP and Bihar but also to Guru Ravidas and Guru Gobind Singh, who were born in UP and Bihar, respectively.The Prime Minister also lashed out at Arvind Kejriwal over the “revelations” made by Kumar Vishwas, former member of AAP’s national executive, that the Delhi CM was “resorting to separatist politics” to grab power in Punjab.Modi said Vishwas had revealed the real intentions of Kejriwal, “who can go to any extent to grab power in Punjab, even if it meant dividing the country”. He warned Punjab against the designs of such people who were out to divide the country. He alleged that they can even align with separatists and anti-nationals. “They speak the same language as that of Pakistan, which is why they even questioned surgical strikes against that country.”Modi said AAP leaders had been spreading lies too. “They have opened liquor vends outside schools in Delhi, while here they are claiming they’ll put an end to the drug menace.” He said that with the presence of mafia in the state, small traders were feeling insecure. “Industry is going out of the state, and as a result young people are not getting jobs.” The PM assured the people that the BJP’s double-engine government would bring in better infrastructure, industry and transparency.The BJP candidate from Abohar, Arun Narang, could not attend the rally since he had contracted Covid. #arvind kejriwal #charanjit channi #narendra modi #rana gurmit singh sodhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-both-channi-kejriwal-playing-divisive-politics-370779
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||Bid to defame Arvind Kejriwal: Raghav Chadha||With Arvind Kejriwal under the target of the Congress, SAD and BJP, state co-incharge of the AAP Raghav Chadha has said these parties have come together to stop them from forming the government in Punjab.“As part of a conspiracy, Congress, BJP and Akali leaders are making false statements and spreading disinformation to defame Kejriwal.”Chadha said during the Delhi polls too, Opposition parties had said Kejriwal was “a Naxalite and a terrorist”. Calling Kejriwal a nationalist, Chadha said he had built world-class schools and hospitals in Delhi. Bus fares had been waived for women and Rs 1 crore was being given to the kin of martyred soldiers, he added.When parties could not find any evidence against Kejriwal, they resorted to lying to sully his image as part of a conspiracy, he claimed. — #arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-defame-aap-convener-raghav-chadha-370816
18-02-2022||Jalandhar||Punjabi a casualty in Delhi schools: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister Anurag Thakur today said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should clarify whether he harbours any dreams related to Khalistan. He was referring to statements made by former AAP leader Kumar Vishwas. Anurag also targeted CM Charanjit Singh Channi on his recent statement on people from UP and Bihar.He was in Jalandhar to address public meetings in favour of party candidates and to hold an interactive session with industrialists.Referring to statements made by poet Kumar Vishwas on Kejriwal seeking the help of fringe elements in the previous elections, Anurag said, “His own old associates and his party’s founding members have made such allegations. So Kejriwal should clarify whether he harbours dreams regarding Khalistan.”He said, “Kejriwal talks about freeing Punjab from drugs. Does he see Bhagwant Mann as the role model for this?”“The Kejriwal-led government made Punjabi disappear from Delhi schools and gave more importance to Urdu.”He flayed CM Channi on his statement about people from UP and Bihar. He also said, “Rather than filling the state’s coffers, he has been working to fill the coffers of his nephew. The Congress had promised to give a drug-free Punjab, besides farm debt waivers and jobs in every home, but have they been able to deliver?” — TNSTeachers oustedKejriwal had talked about appointing 3,000 Punjabi teachers in Delhi but even the 850 who were already there were ousted. — Anurag Thakur, Union Minister #anurag thakur #arvind kejriwal #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-a-casualty-in-delhi-schools-anurag-thakur-370815
18-02-2022||Tribune Reporters||Fatehgarh Sahib: BJP will pay for anti-farmer stand, says Rahul Gandhi||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 17AICC former president Rahul Gandhi today said the BJP should forget forming the next government in the state as Punjabis would not let its peace and stability be compromised.He said Capt Amarinder Singh’s failure to lower power prices citing contracts with private thermal plants led to his “removal as Chief Minister” and if the SAD or AAP formed the government, power rates would further go up.Addressing two back-to-back rallies in support of Kuljit Singh Nagra and Gurpreet Singh GP at Sirhind and Bassi Pathana, Rahul attacked the BJP and AAP for their poll promises. “They both are now talking about drugs, terrorism and farmers’ income, while in reality they have constantly ignored such issues… Punjab will not vote for them,” he said.“PM Narendra Modi should explain why 700 farmers died and thousands had to sit in the cold and during Covid for over a year. The PM never apologized to them. Now when he talks of the farming community, farmers are mocking him. They will not vote for the BJP”, he said.Manmohan Singh would have never allowed farmers to struggle had he been in place of Modi. “First of all such a law wouldn’t have been introduced. In any case, if farmers would have protested, Singh would have rolled back any measure they did not approve of. “During the UPA government, farmers raised the issue of rising debts. The government waived Rs 70,000 crore,” he said.Speaking about Kejriwal, Rahul said one of the founding members of AAP, Kumar Vishwas, has questioned Kejriwal’s stand on taking help from anti-nationals. “Kejriwal must come clean and answer the people of Punjab. His visit and stays at the houses of terrorists raises doubts. How can a border state like Punjab, vote for him,” he said.He added Capt Amarinder Singh was removed as the CM as he refused to bring power prices down and act against private thermal plants. “We had no option but to remove him when he sided with private companies to protect their interests over Punjab’s,” Gandhi said, claiming the state had made up its mind to bring the Congress led by a poor man like Channi, back to power. #farmers #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-will-pay-for-anti-farmer-stand-rahul-gandhi-370814
18-02-2022||Patiala||Arvind Kejriwal trying to divide people, says Patiala ex-MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi||Patiala ex-MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi today accused AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal of playing polarisation politics and demanded that the EC send him a notice and seek clarification on his statement.Also read: Bid to defame Arvind Kejriwal: Raghav ChadhaIn a statement, he said Kejriwal had said a Hindu businessman had come to meet him in Ludhiana and claimed Hindus felt unsafe in Punjab. “This is a completely fake and concocted story. It is a bid to divide people on religious lines despite the fact that Hindu-Sikh relations have always remained cordial, even during the 1980s.”Lashing out at the Delhi Chief Minister, Gandhi said Kejriwal was trying to dismember Punjabi culture’s trait of brotherhood and togetherness. He said, “He (Kejriwal) holds a constitutional post as Delhi CM. But he has attempted to play the Hindu card much like he played the Sikh card in the 2017 Assembly polls. These are bids to divide the people. There is no threat to any community in the state. All have lived here in peace and harmony. The election commission should issue him a notice and demand a clarification.”On a question on rendering support to a particular political party, Gandhi said, “I do not support any political party. I am only talking about the qualities of various individuals. People should cast their vote as per their understanding and the candidate’s stature. They should not vote for anyone who jumps parties.”Lodge FIR Against AAP supremo: SSMChandigarh: The SSM has moved a plaint to the CEO against Arvind Kejriwal for his alleged communal and divisive statement made at a press meet in Ludhiana. It has asked the EC to bar him from holding any poll events and requested an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and Representation of the People Act. TNS #arvind kejriwal #dharamvira gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-trying-to-divide-people-says-patiala-ex-mp-dr-dharamvira-gandhi-370813
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||Remark aimed at Arvind Kejriwal, migrants part of Punjab: Charanjit Singh Channi||Even as the BJP-led NDA has taken beyond Punjab the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s remarks of not letting people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar enter the state, the latter broke his silence on Thursday saying it was aimed at AAP chief Arvind Keriwal, who wanted to rule the state through backdoor.Also read: Bid to defame Arvind Kejriwal: Raghav ChadhaChanni said his statement had been misconstrued. “My statement was aimed at Kejriwal and other AAP leaders — Durgesh Pathak and Sanjay Singh — who were disturbing Punjab from outside, he sought to clarify. With the third round of polling in Uttar Pradesh and that of Punjab slated for February 20, the BJP has through its attack on the CM also targeted UP Congress incharge Priyanka Gandhi, who was accompanying Channi when he made the remark during a roadshow in Ropar on Tuesday.Channi’s remark has attracted a sharp reaction from rivals AAP and BJP. They have called it “shameful” that Channi and Priyanka were targeting “a particular community”.On tour of Punjab, Priyanka said Channi’s remark was aimed at outsiders Modi and Kejriwal, and that there was nothing wrong in it. Congress insiders say Channi’s remarks only resonate the “Punjabi versus outsider” narrative of the party. The controversy could add fresh impetus to the Congress, which is facing a stiff challenge from the AAP. They feel the remarks could invoke Punjabis to stop the march of Kejriwal. — #arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remark-aimed-at-kejriwal-migrants-part-of-punjab-charanjit-singh-channi-370812
18-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab poll 2022: Leaders make last-minute effort to mobilise support||Gurdaspur, February 17The “leading lights” of the main political parties made the last-minute push in favour of their respective candidates even as all 10 seats of Gurdaspur and Pathankot are set to witness a photo finish.Today, CM Charanjit Channi canvassed for Aruna Chaudhary in Dinanagar. Barely 6 km away in Gurdaspur, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal held a roadshow which, many say, has the potential to tilt the scales in favour of Raman Bahl. In Pathankot, Priyanka Gandhi gave a fillip to the prospects of Amit Vij.Pollsters are taking keen interest in six seats where things are being stretched to the wire. Survey reports also forecast neck-to-neck battles.In Dera Baba Nanak, it no longer remains a David versus Goliath battle. Earlier, everything was working in favour of the Congress and predictions were that Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa would walk past the finishing line with ease. “SAD’s Ravi Karan Kahlon is fast picking up pace. With smart campaigning, Ravi has now brought the battle to the door of Randhawa,” said an ex- minister.Dinanagar was witnessing a one-horse race with Aruna Chaudhary all set to win for a fourth time. However, repeated visits by Kejriwal have sparked off a visible wave in favour of the AAP. Chaudhary ticks all boxes needed for a winner, but the AAP is closely following her making it a battle among equals.In Batala, all four mainline candidates — Ashwani Sekhri (Congress) Sucha Singh Chhotepur (SAD), Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa (BJP) and Sherry Kalsi (AAP) — should be declared joint winners for it is difficult to separate them. “Sekhri holds a slight edge, but I repeat it’s only slight,” quipped a Congress loyalist.In Gurdaspur, after separating the chaff from the grain, a three-way contest emerged between Raman Bahl (AAP), Barindermeet Singh Pahra (Congress) and GS Babbehali (SAD).Meanwhile, Kejriwal’s roadshow today has definitely given Bahl an edge. Pathankot and Sujanpur will also have close calls.Bhagwant Mann’s roadshow in 5 Patiala segmentsGhanaur: Massive crowd gathered at AAP CM face and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann's roadshow in five constituencies of Patiala district on Thursday. Mann started from the Ghanaur constituency where former international kabaddi player Gurlal Ghanaur is contesting on the AAP ticket and later went to Patiala Urban, Sanaur, Samana and Shutrana segments. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-votes-2022-leaders-make-last-minute-effort-to-mobilise-support-370801
18-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Once prosperous, Punjab on the brink due to drug menace: High Court||Chandigarh, February 17Bringing to the fore drug menace in the state even as political parties, in a run-up to the Assembly polls, are promising to eliminate it, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that Punjab — once known as one of the prosperous states — was on the brink. The assertion came as the High Court called for dealing stringently with the accused even at the stage of granting a bail in drug cases involving commercial quantity.The assertion by Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the High Court came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab by an accused for regular bail in a case registered on June 2, 2020, at Dina Nagar police station in Gurdaspur under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Among other things, his counsel contended that “intoxicating capsules” were allegedly recovered from an envelope from a co-accused. It was “near” the back seat of a car occupied by the co-accused. As such, it could not be said the petitioner was in conscious possession of the intoxicating tablets. Besides, he was in custody for last over eight months.The State counsel, on the other hand, opposed the bail plea by submitting that the alleged recovery fell under commercial quantity and Section 37 of the NDPS Act barred the grant of bail to an accused in such cases. The State counsel added the petitioner was also involved in another FIR under the provisions of the NDPS Act, wherein he stood released on bail.Dismissing the plea, Justice Gill said a regular bail could pave the way for his involvement in another such case.Petitioner’s contentionThe counsel for petitioner, seeking regular bail, contended that ‘intoxicating capsules’ were allegedly recovered from an envelope from a co-accused. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-once-prosperous-punjab-on-the-brink-due-to-drug-menace-370789
18-02-2022||Moga/Amritsar February 17||Rajnath Singh promises drug-free regime in Punjab||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh today said the BJP was the best party to provide a corruption-free and drug-free regime in the state.He lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party for allegedly making false promises. He was in Moga to campaign for the local BJP candidate and sitting MLA Dr Harjot Kamal.In Amritsar, he addressed a rally in support of BJP candidate from Amritsar Central Dr Ram Chawla. He visited Durgiana Mandir and the Golden Temple. The Defence Minister promised all Centre-sponsored schemes would be fully implemented in the state if the BJP assumed power. He appealed to the public to keep the “Congress and AAP away from power.He said while the AAP had allotted liquor shops in every street of Delhi, it ironically talked about making Punjab a ‘drug-free’ state. Attacking the Congress, he said the two batsmen (CM Channi and PCC chief Navjot Sidhu) had been batting simultaneously. “No one in the Congress wants to be a non-striker, he said. In Nangal, he campaigned in support of party candidate Dr Parminder Sharma. — #drug menace #rajnath singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajnath-singh-promises-drug-free-regime-in-punjab-370786
18-02-2022||Abohar||Sunil Jakhar: SAD set to be wiped out in Punjab||PCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar said SAD chief Sukhbir Badal was cherishing a false dream of becoming the CM, ignoring the public opinion which indicated that the SAD would be wiped out in the polls.In Abohar and Balluana today, he slammed Sukhbir for not even organising one sangat darshan here. It’s unfortunate that Sukhbir had forced his 94-year-old father to contest the polls for vested interests but it won’t serve the purpose, he added.Talking about the AAP, he said: “Its real face has been exposed by old colleague Kumar Vishwas, who claimed that Arvind Kejriwal was a big supporter of Khalistan and allegedly conspired to become the PM after separating Punjab from the country.” Jakhar urged the PM to get the allegations levelled by Vishwas probed at a high level. “The AAP is trying to fool Punjab people with false claims that stood nowhere in Delhi.”Also read: Bid to defame Arvind Kejriwal: Raghav Chadha #arvind kejriwal #sukhbir badal #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-sad-set-to-be-wiped-out-in-punjab-370781
18-02-2022||---||Punjab poll 2022: Badals train guns on Congress & AAP, spare BJP||Lambi/Chandigarh, February 17As Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a rally at Abohar in neighbouring Fazilka, barely 50 km away five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal and his son and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, too, held a parallel rally on their home turf Lambi. SAD leaders, however, did not speak a single word about the BJP, Centre or the PM and targeted the AAP and Congress.Badal, 94, the oldest candidate in the fray, called upon the people not to elect those who would defect to other parties for personal gains once the elections are over.“There are political opportunists in the fray who are eager to turn the state into an open political mandi,” said Badal, alleging 62 candidates of the AAP and Congressmen were defectors and they had neither commitment nor integrity. “If these candidates get elected, you will see Punjab turning into a haven for horse trading.”He challenged both the Congress and the AAP leaders to name just one issue on which the SAD government did not fulfil the promises it had made to the people in the past.The former CM said he had chosen to contest the elections mainly to stop outsiders from getting roots in Punjab and enslave its people. “I am here to ensure political stability in the state. Peace and communal harmony are the prerequisites for development.”Playing an emotional card, he said: “This is not my election, but the election of your prestige. Earlier, I was unwilling to contest, but the party’s order is always supreme. Further, I did not want to cheat you as I am serving you for a long time and continue to serve till my last breath.”Training his guns on the AAP and Congress, he said: “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is not a man of his words. He should clear his stand on the Punjab’s river waters, thermal plants, stubble burn, etc. Further, the Congress is responsible for anti-Sikh riots. It even cheated us on the important issues of state capital, Punjabi-speaking areas and river waters. Capt Amarinder last time became the CM after making false promises. Now, the Congress replaced him with Channi in an attempt to regain power. However, people have realised that Channi is a liar.”Meanwhile, the SAD patron announced that the SAD-BSP government would give free power supply to water-lifting pumps at the tail end of canals. Sukhbir however could not speak due to a sore throat.Sukhbir courts controversyAt Malout, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal courted a controversy when he said: “When we were in power, people did not pay the bills. In Jalalabad constituency, some also did not pay the road tax and still used their vehicles for five years.”Singer promotes guns & liquorSinger Mankirt Aulakh, who performed for 15 minutes at the rally, promoted gun culture with his song '8 raflaan' and liquor with another. The Mansa police had last year booked Mankirt for allegedly promoting gun culture. #parkash singh badal #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-votes-2022-badals-train-guns-on-cong-aap-370778
18-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab poll 2022: Final push, Cong leaders close ranks||Chandigarh, February 17Facing heat from the Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress high command has stepped up efforts to rein in senior party leaders who have been keeping away from campaigning for party candidates in these crucial elections.Senior party leaders KC Venugopal, All-India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) Ajay Maken and other senior leaders, have been camping in Chandigarh to monitor the situation on a day-to-day basis. In the past few days, party leaders have closed ranks to work unitedly after being pulled up by the party high command.Sending out a stern warning to “trouble-makers”, senior Congress leader Kewal Dhillon has been expelled from the party for “anti-party” activities, said Harish Chaudhary, Punjab affairs incharge. Manish Bansal, son of party leader Pawan Bansal, was allotted the party ticket in place of Dhillon.Indicative of mobilisation, Chief Minister Charanjit Channi campaigned in the Amritsar East constituency represented by Pradesh Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu today to send out a message of unity ahead of polls. On Friday, Sidhu is expected to campaign in Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur from where CM Channi is contesting. Three leaders — Channi, Sidhu and Sunil Jakhar — will be brought together on stage, reflecting a united front.Jakhar has been campaigning in Balluana, Mansa, Hoshiarpur, Dhuri, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Rampur Phul. “The last two to three days are crucial for campaign to counter the narrative of other parties. We have stepped up our presence on social media platforms,” said Gokul Butail, joint secretary, All India Congress Committee, and incharge of the party’s election control room for Punjab.Sources said another example of leaders closing the ranks is in the Majha region. MP Partap Bajwa, who is contesting from Qadian, is campaigning in neighbouring constituencies. Similar quid pro quo has been witnessed among Tript Bajwa, Sukjinder Randhawa and Partap Bajwa in the past few days.Channi canvasses for Navjot Sidhu in Amritsar #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-final-push-cong-leaders-close-ranks-370777
