19-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab's chief electoral officer directs registration of FIRs on complaints against Kejriwal and Sukhbir Badal for alleged model code violation||Punjab's Chief Electoral Officer on Saturday directed the registration two separate FIRs in Mohali on complaints lodged against AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for alleged violation of the model code of code.The orders, issued on the eve of voting in Punjab assembly elections, came on complaints by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akai Dal (SAD) against each other over videos posted on social media.The AAP has alleged that “in the silent period, Badal circulated a video on his Facebook page which consists of his vote appeal with an intent to misguide voters and undue influence the voters”. It accused him of violating Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act. SAD leader and advocate Arshdeep Singh Kler, in a complaint lodged with the Election Commission, had objected to a video uploaded by the AAP on social media, alleging it was done to “to malign the image of SAD and other political parties in the eyes of the general public.” In a letter to the Mohali district election officer and SSP on the SAD complaint, the office of the Punjab chief electoral officer said “no party can put any objectionable videos targeting particular political leaders on any prevalent handles on the internet” in view of the model code of conduct, which was enforced on January 8.The office said the video clip has not been approved by the state-level media certification monitoring committee (MCMC).It has come to the notice of this office on February 18 that this video was playing on internet platforms, which is “sheer violation of the rule 4.4.2 (B) DONTs (v) of manual on model code of conduct”, the office said.“In view of the above, you are hereby requested to register an FIR accordingly as per the legal provisions,” the letter said.Meanwhile, on AAP's complaint, the office of Punjab's Chief Electoral Officer stated, “the PR team of office of CEO, has reported that the said media content is still running on the Facebook page of Sukhbir Singh Badal which is in violation of section 126 (1) (b) of Representation of People Act, 1951 as enshrined in chapter 8.3.1 of manual of model conduct of conduct…” “In view of the above, you are hereby requested to register the FIR accordingly as per the legal provisions,” stated the letter to the Mohali administration and police.Polling for 117 assembly seats is scheduled to be held on February 20 while counting of votes will take place on March 10.PTI #Punjabpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-admin-told-to-register-fir-after-sad-complaint-against-kejriwal-over-video-clip-371326
19-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat police nabs 4 for ‘contract killings’ in Punjab on direction of banned terror groups||Sonepat, February 19With the arrest of four persons, the Sonepat police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang which was involved in ‘contract killings’ in Punjab on the directions of the banned terrorist group handlers of ‘Khalistan Tiger Force’ (KTF) and ‘International Sikh Youth Federation’ (ISYF).The CIA unit of the district police recovered an AK-47 rifle, 49 rounds of AK, three foreign-made pistols and cartridges from the possession of the accused.Besides, teams of Punjab Police and National Investigation Agency (NIA) along with other intelligence agencies arrived at Sonepat to interrogate the accused.Three accused arrested have been identified as Sagar alias Binni, Sunil alias Pehalwan and Jatin of Juan village who were involved in a murder case in Punjab. Later in the evening, the police also nabbed their one more associate Surender alias Sonu from Rajpur village of the district. Two pistols were recovered from his possession.Sonepat Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma said in a press conference that, “We received a tip-off from the Punjab police that some youths of Sonepat district have a relations with terrorists – Gurjant Singh alias Janta in Australlia, Arshdeep Singh Dala Canada, Hardeep Singh Nijjar Canada and Lakhbeer Singh Rod in Pakistan of banned terrorist groups KTF and ISYF through social media platforms.”The terror groups used these youths for targeted killings to spread terror in Punjab, he said.Sagar alias Binni is the kingpin of the gang and also has a criminal record in the district. He was the close associate of the notorious gangster Ravinder Pughthala, who was gunned down by police earlier.Following the tip-off, Inspector Bijender Singh, CIA team incharge, raided the residence of Sagar alias Binni on Saturday and nabbed three accused and recovered automatic weapons from their possessions, the SP said.The team recovered US-made Beretta pistol with two rounds from Sachin; Glock pistol with two rounds from Jatin and a Glock pistol made in Autria with one round recovered from Sagar. An AK-47 rifle with 49 rounds of cartridges was recovered from the room of Sagar, the SP said.It was revealed during preliminary investigation that Sagar along with his two associates had murdered one Avtar Singh of Udhampur Kalan village of Morinda in Ropar district on December 8 on the direction of Arshdeep Singh Canada. They had planned to murder another person in Mohali after elections, he said.The accused revealed that kingpin of the group revealed that he was in contract with Gurjant Singh alias Janta in Australlia, Arshdeep Singh alias Dala in Canada, Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Canada and Lakhbeer Singh Rode in Pakistan through social media for a long time and they had provided them weapons to kill the targets in Punjab and they had sent lakhs of rupees into their accounts, the SP said.A case has been registered under Sections 16, 17, 18 and 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) 1967; 120 B of IPC and 25,54,59 of Arms Act in Mohana police station.The sources said prima facie it was revealed that the accused were in contact with the banned terrorist groups for the past 3-4 months and they were searching for such youths who have criminal records in the past in Haryana but not in the Punjab.They were preparing such criminals for contract killings in Punjab on the directions of their handlers in Canada and Australia. #contract killing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-police-nabs-4-for-contract-killings-in-punjab-on-direction-of-banned-terror-groups-371325
19-02-2022||New Delhi||NGT directs Punjab govt to act on panel report on illegal mining||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab government to take action as per the report of an NGT-assigned committee which found environmental violations due to illegal mining and use of excavated soil for leveling the agriculture fields in Fatehgarh Sahib district in the state.The bench of Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel was dealing a plea alleging illegal mining at village Bhallmajra, near Chanarthal in connivance with the authorities. It was stated that heavy tippers, trucks, JCB machines, and cranes are used in the course of mining.Acting on the complaint, the tribunal had formed a committee headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, former Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court last year to visit the soil excavation and mining sites of the villages.Accordingly, a report has been filed by the Committee and it was observed that the excavated soil from the agriculture fields, which are on the higher altitude, has been used to level agriculture fields, which are at lower altitude and agriculture corps are being sown regularly during the last five years by some landowners.The Monitoring Committee is of the view that legal action and environmental compensation has to be taken upon the landowners of Bhallmajra and Sohagari villages, where mining has been found in an area of 5.5 acres of land.Using the excavated soil for leveling the agriculture fields, which are at low altitudes, may not be justified, the committee noted.The committee also recommended that the roads which have been damaged due to movement of overloaded tippers, carrying soil, may be repaired within two months by getting the cost of repair from the owners of overloaded vehicles.In view of the Monitoring Committee recommends the Executive Engineer, Construction Division, PWD (B&R), Sirhind branch shall make detailed survey of all the link roads falling under the jurisdiction of his office and make an assessment as to whether any damage has been caused to these roads with the movement of overloaded tippers carrying soil, within a month, said the order dated February 17.In case the damage, caused to the link roads due to movement of overloaded tippers carrying soil is found, NHAI-1 and railway authorities may be issued notice for recovery of damage caused to the roads within two months, and the cost of the damage caused to the roads may be recovered from the said authorities within three months and the damaged roads may be repaired within four months, read the order. IANS #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngt-directs-punjab-govt-to-act-on-panel-report-on-illegal-mining-371322
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, Sidhu Moosewala booked for violating poll code||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress candidate Sidhu Moosewala from Mansa seat have been booked for violating the model code of conduct.They were found campaigning in Mansa after the 6 pm electioneering deadline on Friday, the last day for campaigning, an FIR lodged against them said.The case was lodged on a complaint by Aam Aadmi Party candidate Vijay Singla from Mansa.Channi had gone to Mansa to campaign for Moosewala on Friday.Channi and Moosewala have been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, the FIR revealed.The case has been registered at Mansa police station City-1.The Punjab Chief Election Officer also ordered an FIR against Sukhbir Badal for poll code violations.Polling for 117 assembly seats is scheduled to be held on February 20 while counting of votes will take place on March 10. Election Commission directed SSP, SAS Nagar to lodge FIR against @officeofssbadal for violation of Section 126 of Representation of People's Act. pic.twitter.com/kHIp9pG43R   #charanjit channi #sidhu moosewala #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-sidhu-moosewala-booked-for-violating-poll-code-371305
19-02-2022||New Delhi||Afghan Sikh-Hindu delegation meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi||A delegation of Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Saturday.A large number of Afghan Hindus and Sikhs have been living in India, and the Indian Government recently evacuated many of them following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.The Modi Government has often asserted its commitment to the minorities of Afghanistan who have faced religious persecution, especially from the Talibans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/afghan-sikh-hindu-delegation-meets-pm-modi-371277
19-02-2022||New Delhi||Two branches of family reunite after 74 years at Kartarpur||It was a very emotional moment for the second-generation members of the Christian Mithu family which had separated during the tumultuous days during the 1947 Partition of India, when they met at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur, Dawn reported.The Kartarpur Corridor provided the two branches of the family with an opportunity to reunite after 74 years as they came to know about each other through a Punjabi news channel.Shahid Rafiq Mithu, a resident of Mananawala in Nankana district, reached Kartarpur with 40 members of his family, while Sono Mithu, a resident of Shahpur Dogran, a village in Ajnala tehsil of Amritsar district in Punjab, arrived at the gurdwara on Friday via Kartarpur Corridor with eight members of his family to meet the former, the report said.The members of the family were so overwhelmed that they hugged each other and cried.Shahid Rafiq Mithu said that their elder Iqbal Masih had migrated to Pakistan with his family during Partition, while his (Iqbal's) brother Inayat got lost during the tumult and was left behind in Punjab."Around a year ago, my interview was aired by a Punjabi news channel in which I talked about the separation of our elders during Partition, which was watched by our relatives in Punjab, who contacted us and we planned reunion at Kartarpur," Shahid Mithu said, regretting that both the elders— Iqbal and Inayat— had died."I am very happy after meeting Shahid Rafiq Mithu and 35 other relatives at Kartarpur," Sono Mithu said.The reunited relatives had heart-to-heart chat and shared with each other their stories and memories of their late elders.On the occasion, the Kartarpur administration served sweets to both families.Later, the family members visited different parts of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib and had lunch together at the Baba Guru Nanak Langar Hall. They also visited a local market for shopping and kept chatting.They planned to meet again and Sono's family was asked by their relative here to bring more members during their next visit to the Gurdwara. IANS #kartarpur corridor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-branches-of-family-reunite-after-74-years-in-kartarpur-371270
19-02-2022||---||Hot seat: All eyes on Amritsar East where Navjot Sidhu and Bikram Majithia in close contest||Amritsar, February 18Till the last day of campaigning, there is a close contest in Amritsar’s Central and West constituencies whereas in North, East and South no indication of absolute wave in favour of any political party.However, all eyes are on Amritsar East where Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia is contesting, but there are interesting triangular fights in Amritsar North and South.Though the supporters of the Aam Adami Party are vocal about their opinion in South constituency, the SAD and the Congress has strong cadre in the constituency. Congress candidate Inderbir Singh Bolaria is struggling to repeat his victory but this time it would be not be that easy. SAD’s Talbir Singh Gill gained a good support and it would not be surprising if he perform better than Bolaria. AAP’s Inderbir Singh Nijjar is also in the race and residents are expecting that he may get more votes than previous elections.Meanwhile, voters in North constituency are silent about their choice. The sitting MLA, Sunil Dutti, got a setback with Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu joining the Aam Aadmi Party. AAP candidate Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh is getting a good response in the poll meetings, but SAD-BSP candidate Anil Joshi has a strong bond with the voters. Political experts in the area claim that the North constituency may witness a fight between SAD’s Joshi and AAP’s Kunwar Vijay Partap.“There is no wave of any political party in the city till the end of campaign. Out of five, two seats are with the Congress, where other parties failed to provide strong candidates. While there is a strong fight between the SAD and the Congress on two constituencies. Only one constituency will witness a triangular fight where AAP is also in the scene,” said Kuljit Singh, a political expert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hot-seat-all-eyes-on-asr-east-where-sidhu-and-majithia-in-close-contest-371206
19-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Christian deras of Punjab inclined towards BJP?||Jalandhar, February 18Like other main deras of Punjab, a number of Christian deras that started proliferating in Doaba about three to four years back, too, are learnt to be supporting the BJP this time.Also read: BJP turns to deras in PunjabDera Sacha Sauda may spoil poll math in MalwaEven though leaders have been holding meetings with pastors of these Pentecostal churches, sources and some video evidences point out that they have recently got more inclined towards the BJP.Notably, most of these deras have following from the converted Dalit community. The Church of Signs and Wonders led by Pastor Ankur Narula in Khambra, The Church of Glory and Wisdom of Pastor Barjinder Singh in Tajpur village on Nakodar road and The Open Door Church of Pastor Harpreet Deol of Khojewal in Kapurthala are some of the big churches here and have the maximum following from these communities.John Kotli, who leads the political wing of Narula’s church, had recently joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat. Kotli said: “I joined the party as I feel it is only the leaders like Narendra Modi who can lead the nation.”Ankur Narula, who runs the biggest church in Jalandhar, had taken out a huge procession in the city on the occasion of Christmas. The procession had several turbaned men, too, holding the cross in their hands. He had invited leaders of all parties for the event but he specifically mentioned it in his speech that day, “People have the notion that we run a church. We are Christians and, hence, we would be opposing the BJP and RSS. But this is not true. There is no reason why we should oppose them.” His video went viral and has got nearly 3 lakh views.Community told not to change religion, continue to avail SC benefitsThe most interesting part is that the followers of these churches are told not to change their religion on record and just follow Jesus and the principles of Christianity. The idea behind not changing the religion is the fact that by converting to Christianity, they lose their status of being Scheduled Caste and can no longer avail the benefits of the government schemes for the SCs including reservation in jobs, admission in colleges etc.Churches on their behalf too offer financial assistance, ration and other needs to its followers, who are thus reportedly availing double benefit from either side. The pastors tell their followers: “There is no dharma parivartan at our premises. We do not expect you to add Peter or Masih behind your names. We just want you to consider Jesus as your Father and He will surely heal all your ailments.” #BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/christian-deras-inclined-towards-saffron-party-371189
19-02-2022||Sheetal||As Punjabi singers jumped on to the campaigning bandwagon by making songs for different political parties, we check the reasons||As Punjab goes to polls on February 20, regional as well as national political parties have banked on singers to woo the voters. The campaigns string together previous successful policies and future schemes for the welfare of Punjab. Do the singers associate with political outfits for their ideology or money, we figure out…Singer Sidhu Moosewala rolled out Youngest In Charge that had music by The Kidd. The Kidd says, “The intent of the songs is not to influence voters to vote for him or the party, but convey his vision about joining politics.” Meanwhile, do not miss the tunes Veer Sukhbir or Channi Karda Masle Hal. The latter has been sung by Surmandeep Singh Mansa for the Congress party in Punjab.Singer Sukhwinder Singh’s Punjab Da Putt Jitouna Hai was released on Thursday in a press conference held by AAP’s projected CM for Punjab, Bhagwant Mann, in Amritsar. The singer, a few months ago, had come to Punjab to perform live for Congress at the opening of Daastan-e-Shahaadat. He was all praise for Channi when he visited Chandigarh ahead of the event. Clearly, it’s a professional call for the Chaiyyan Chaiyyan singer.Singer Harvinder Harry, who sang Sada Veer Sukhbir for Shiromani Akali Dal, also took the project for professional reasons. “The lyrics were given by Sachin Ahuja sir. Ever since I have sung it, many other political parties have approached me for singing their songs too,” says Harry. The singer has kept a distance from political parties, but has been associated with cultural programmes for Students Organisation of India (SOI) and recorded the theme song for Students Organisation Of Panjab University (SOPU), Chandigarh.Informative approachAao Punjabio has been sung by Gurrjit Singh Kohli, in charge of cultural cell of BJP, Punjab. “Due to the farmers’ protest and the misinformation, it was important to convey all the good deeds done by our Prime Minister for the state. Punjabis relate to songs more than conversations, so I wrote Aao Punjabio. The artistes from Punjab were hesitant to sing it for the party, as they fear the public would react unfavourably and may boycott them. So, while we were finalising the music in Mumbai, I sang it and the party decided to go with my voice.”Apart from Gurrjit’s Aao Punjabio, two other songs, Punjab Umar Ke Bola Hun Rang De Basanti Chola and Apna Punjab, sung by renowned singers Manoj Tiwari and Daler Mehndi, are doing the rounds on social media and other platforms for BJP. From the AAP corner, their star campaigner and young politician, Raghav Chadha, also penned and sung a song, Ik Mauka Kejriwal Nu.Na Rishte di na bin soche/ na bottle din a nottan di/ saudebaji hon ni deni/ kadar karange vottan di—these are the lyrics of the song, Vote, sung by popular face of farmers’ protest, Kanwar Grewal. The singer has stressed that Punjabi voters won’t be swayed by a liquor bottle or cash. So while political parties are trying hard to earn every vote, others are rendering songs to entertain and educate the audience about their rights.  #daler mehndi #kanwar grewal #sidhu moosewala #sukhwinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/as-punjabi-singers-jumped-on-to-the-campaigning-bandwagon-by-making-songs-for-different-political-parties-we-check-the-reasons-371174
19-02-2022||Harshraj Singh||Vote for AAP to end corruption, mafia: Bhagwant Mann||Ludhiana, February 18On the last day of the election campaign, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab Chief Ministerial candidate and MP, Bhagwant Mann, campaigned in support of party candidates in six constituencies, including Khanna, Payal, Gill, Dakha, Jagraon and Raikot in Ludhiana district.During his roadshows in six constituencies today, Mann campaigned in support of AAP candidates Dr KNS Kang in Dakha, Sarvjit Kaur Manuke in Jagraon, Hakam Singh Thekedar in Raikot, Jiwan Singh Sangowal in Gill, Manwinder Singh Giaspura in Payal and Tarunpreet Singh Sondh in Khanna.Large number of people, especially youngsters, had gathered to welcome Bhagwant Mann in the constituencies. Carrying party flags in their hands, they were raising slogans in support of Mann. The excited supporters were seen dancing to AAP’s campaign songs.During campaigning, Mann appealed to people to give one chance to the AAP and form party’s government in Punjab by casting every single vote for the ‘Jharoo’ (broom) symbol on February 20.While addressing the gathering in support of the AAP candidate, Dr KNS Kang, in Mullanpur-Dakha, Mann said, “Once the AAP is voted to power, the people will be the owner of the green pen that he will use to sign decisions taken by them.”Meanwhile, Mann warned people that corrupt parties would distribute liquor and money from today as a short time was left for the elections. “The politicians, who are buying votes today, won’t work for the welfare of the people and Punjab tomorrow. The corrupt politicians will get power with your votes and then forget about you while indulging in that power,” said Mann.Punjab could no longer tolerate the drug mafia, Mann added. “The AAP will eradicate drug trafficking from Punjab. Our party will get the youth out of the drug swamp and give them good education and employment,” said Mann. “AAP has promised to improve the health and education sectors once it is voted to power in the state,” Mann added. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vote-for-aap-to-end-corruption-mafia-bhagwant-mann-371096
19-02-2022||---||PM Modi: Sikh spirit of service needs greater global acclaim||New Delhi, February 18On the eve of Punjab elections, PM Narendra Modi on Friday hosted 34 Sikh leaders at his official residence. “I was humbled by the kind words from distinguished members of the Sikh community on various efforts of the Centre. I consider it my honour that the respected Sikh Gurus have taken Seva from me and their blessings have enabled me to work for society,” the PM said.Disguised as a Sikh during Emergency: Narendra ModiEach guest presented the PM with a siropa and “Siri Sahib” and hailed the steps the government has taken for the welfare of the Sikh community, especially the declaration of December 26 as Veer Baal Diwas to honour the sacrifices of the Sahibzadas.The PM said the Sikh spirit of service needed greater global acclaim and awareness. The delegation included environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal from Punjab; Surinder Singh, Namdhari Darbar (Bhaini Sahib); Harbhajan Singh, Damdami Taksal; Giani Ranjit Singh, Jathedar, Takht Shri Patna Sahib; DSGMC chief HS Kalka; BJP leader Manjinder Sirsa and former MP Tarlochan Singh.A section of the guests described the PM as a “Sikh at heart”. Ravinder Singh Ahuja, Sikh Forum, New Delhi, said: “The PM is a Sikh at heart. He has a deep understanding of Sikh scriptures, the Gurus, the language and culture.” #Modi #Sikh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/pm-modi-sikh-spirit-of-service-needs-greater-global-acclaim-371084
19-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab poll 2022: Tight contest, divided voters may surprise||Chandigarh, February 18Campaigning for the Punjab Assembly elections ended today amid indications that none of the contesting parties may get a clear majority (59 seats). Anxious candidates held closed-door meetings with their poll managers and party loyalists later in the evening for a feedback on the ground situation.Editorial: Too close to call: Contest wide open in high-stakes Punjab electionsThe main parties in the fray are the Congress, AAP, SAD-BSP, BJP-PLC-SAD (Sanyukt) and Sanyukt Samaj Morcha. The campaigning ended peacefully even though there were moments of anxiety prior to the announcement of elections — lynching of a man after attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18 last year and a blast in Ludhiana on December 23. Also, cancellation of PM’s rally on January 5 owing to a security lapse raised questions on the arrangements by the state government.Putting up a united face, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu jointly released a 13-point Congress manifesto here after canvassing in their constituencies. The manifesto promises end to ‘mafia raj’, eight gas cylinders in a year for housewives free of cost, hike in old age pension to Rs 3,100 and free education to the needy.Most parties concluded campaigning with impressive roadshows. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal held one in Akali stronghold Jalalabad where SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal is in the fray. He attacked the rivals for “confusing the voters by calling him a separatist”. Sukhbir thanked the people for the “massive” response to Shiromani Akali Dal’s social media posts.The party’s war cry: “Lah paggan topiyan pa uttare, phir bhi gur piaryan jhukna nahin...” is clearly aimed at retrieving the party’s core vote bank. Former Chief Minister and Punjab Lok Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh held a rally in Patiala. He was accompanied by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. #arvind kejriwal #charanjit singh channi #navjot sidhu #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-tight-contest-divided-voters-may-surprise-371071
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice on plea for Fazilka SSP’s transfer||The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha candidate contesting from the Jalalabad constituency today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking the transfer of the Fazilka SSP. Directions were also sought for ensuring safety of the petitioner and his agents during the time of elections.Taking up the petition filed against the Chief Electoral Officer, the District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner and other respondents by polling agent Hansraj Golden, the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma issued notice of motion. — #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-on-plea-for-ssps-transfer-371070
19-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||In Ropar, illegal mining at centre of debate again||Ropar, February 18People are tired of how the illegal mining has played havoc with the already dilapidated road infrastructure, caused air pollution, made sand and gravel expensive, and how the syndication of business has taken away the related work of transport from the area residents.The last major crackdown on illegal mining was in 2020, when 25 cases were registered in Ropar between June and August. Hundreds of excavators, tippers and tractor-trolleys were seized.In March 2021, hundreds of villagers had staged a dharna for several days on the banks of Swan and Satluj rivers in Ropar, demanding a clampdown on the illegal mining mafia as the water table in villages was falling drastically.There are 63 legal quarries auctioned by the state. Of these, 18 are functional, while hundreds of illegal sites are operational too. The government says sand is available at pithead for Rs 5.50 per cubic ft, but locals claim they get it for Rs 25 per cubic ftOfficially, about 121 lakh tonnes of sand and gravel reserves are estimated to be in Ropar district. Locals claim the extraction is ten times more than allowed by the department concerned.Darshan Singh, a businessman, rues how the contracts of desilting the Sutlej bed are given as a cover-up for allowing the contractors to extract minerals without the NGT nod.A visit to the spot by The Tribune team revealed that mining operations are being carried out all along the river bed, between the two major bridges.Though the ED raids last month had halted the mining operations for now, the machinery — excavators, boats fitted with motors to separate sand from water and some tractors to ferry the minor minerals — is still lying here.“We fear that once the poll process is over, the operations will start again,” says Bachitar Singh of Phool Kalan village.In Lodhimajra village, Harjit Kumar complains that as the business has been syndicated, transporters from outside the state are hired, taking away their means of livelihood.Last crackdown in 2020The last major crackdown on illegal mining was in 2020, when 25 cases were registered in Ropar between June and August. Hundreds of excavators, tippers and tractor-trailers were confiscated by the police. #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ropar-illegal-mining-at-centre-of-debate-again-371069
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||MLAs Amrik Dhillon, Tarsem Singh DC expelled from Congress||‘Poll code violated’ in MuktsarMuktsar: As per the EC norms, campaigning had to be stopped at 6 pm but SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal continued his speech till 6.05 pm in Muktsar, while addressing a gathering in favour of party nominee Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi at the grainmarket in Muktsar. The Ec had clearly said only door-to-door campaign can be done allowed by the candidates and supporters after 6 pm. Swaranjeet Kaur, SDM-cum-Returning Officer for Muktsar Assembly constituency, said: “We will check the footage. If the speech concluded at 6.05 pm then it is a violation of the poll code.” TNSLEADERSPEAKWill end mafia raj in stateThe manifesto is inspired by Guru Nanak Dev and it is the gateway to change people’s lives. The Congress will end mafia raj by creating corporations for liquor sale and illegal mining in the state. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefKejriwal anti-state & anti-poorPeople have seen through Kejriwal’s game. He is not only anti-Punjab, but also anti-farmer. The AAP will find it difficult to repeat its 2017 performance. It is non-existent in Majha and Doaba. — Sukhbir singh Badal, SAD Chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-mlas-expelled-from-congress-371068
19-02-2022||---||Congress, AAP candidates booked||Moga/Mansa, February 18The police have booked Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) candidate from Baghapurana constituency Amritpal Singh for violation of the model code of conduct and prohibitory orders issued by the district administration in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Similarly, a Congress candidate was booked for violating the model code of conduct in Sardulgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-aap-candidates-booked-371067
19-02-2022||Hoshiarpur||AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal must come clean: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister Anurag Thakur addressed an election meeting in favour of BJP candidate Dr Dilbag Rai in Chabbewal Assembly constituency of Hoshiarpur district. Thakur said Kejriwal, who talks about making Punjab drug-free, had failed to check the sale of liquor in the national capital.The Uninon minister said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should clarify whether he harbours any dreams related to Khalistan. He said during previous elections, Kejriwal used to stay at Khalistanis’ house and make plans for polls from there. — #anurag thakur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-chief-must-come-clean-bjp-371066
19-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||It's fight for prestige in Amritsar East||Amritsar, February 18Unlike other parts of the state, election fever is in full crescendo in the Amritsar East constituency. Political flags adorn housetops and cutouts of candidates dot roadsides as two titans try their luck from the seat.The candidates seem to have not spared an inch of space to put up billboards and posters. This is besides the umpteen offices that have sprung up on both sides of the road leading to the constituency, where Congress’ bigwig Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD heavyweight Bikram Singh Majithia are contesting against each other, making it the hottest constituency to watch. AAP’s Jeevanjot Kaur is a first-timer, who is taking on the both big guns.It is a contest for prestige in the segment. On one side is three-time MP and incumbent MLA Sidhu, who is seeking re-election, and on the other is Majithia, who left his home turf Majitha to take on Sidhu. Majithia’s grouse is that Sidhu got a false drugs smuggling case registered against him. BJP candidate Dr Jagmohan Raju is not lagging behind, but it is Jeewanjot who is the dark horse.“Sidhu did not get us a job in compensation for the loss of my son Dalbir Singh Ghuggu in the Dasehra train mishap. We got monetary compensation from the state and Centre, but he never visited us,” says Swaran Kaur in street No. 2 near the Jora Phatak where the mishap took place. Stresses his friend Gursharan Singh: “We have seen all parties and their promises. This time we will go for the AAP.”Ranbir Johal, a trader, said. “It is a battle for prestige. Some fireworks are necessary. And Amritsaris call a spade a spade. Sidhu ‘dhakkad banda hai’.” #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-fight-for-prestige-in-amritsar-east-371065
19-02-2022||New Delhi||Will look into SFJ issue: Amit Shah to Punjab CM Channi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday wrote to Punjab CM Charanjit Channi assuring him that he would “personally” look into the alleged support to AAP by the proscribed Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). In a letter to the Punjab Chief Minister, Shah said it was condemnable that to grab power some people would go to the extent of joining hands with separatists.Also read: Arvind Kejriwal accuses oppositon of diverting issue“I want to assure you that no one will be allowed to play with the unity and integrity of the country. The government has taken the matter very seriously and I myself will look into it,” the Home Minister wrote.Channi had written to Shah, claiming that he had a letter by the SFJ which showed that latter was in "constant touch" with AAP.Shah noted that the issue of a political party having ties with a banned organisation was a “serious matter” and the agenda of such forces “is no different from the agenda of country’s enemies”.Harpal Cheema of AAP said: “For many days, AAP had been warning of a fixed match being played by all traditional parties and their leaders — Modi, Gandhis, Channi, Capt Amarinder Singh and Badals.” — #amit shah #charanjit channi #sfj #sikhs for justice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-look-into-sfj-issue-amit-shah-to-punjab-cm-371064
19-02-2022||Fazilka||Arvind Kejriwal accuses oppositon of diverting issue||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal took out a huge roadshow in Jalalabad in support of AAP candidate Jagdeep ‘Goldy’ Kamboj, from where his bête noir SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal is in the fray. He lambasted the Opposition leaders for creating confusion among voters by calling him a separatist and said he believed only in the development model of politics. He said Sukhbir had failed to provide even basic amenities such as drinking water in the border town. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppositon-diverting-issue-says-aap-371063
19-02-2022||Abohar||Arvind Kejriwal playing victim card: Shiromani Akali Dal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal had admitted that his party was facing an imminent defeat and was now crying wolf about political parties ganging up against him even though the truth was that Punjabis were consolidating as one in favour of the SAD-BSP alliance which was marching towards a historic victory.BJP hand in gloveThe BJP tried to protect Arvind Kejriwal by getting the EC issue a directive to the media not to use Kumar Vishwas’ video. After we protested, the EC withdrew its order. Randeep Singh Surjewala, CongressAddressing the last meeting in Abohar, the SAD chief said playing with the sentiments of Punjabis by projecting himself as a victim would not help Arvind Kejriwal or the AAP. Asserting that the SAD-BSP alliance was committed to developing the border belt, Badal said: “We will come out with an industrial package to give a fillip to youth employment .” He also announced that Rs 3,000-crore pipe installation project would be undertaken to ensure adequate water reaches every field in the border area. #arvind kejriwal #shiromani akali dal #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-playing-victim-card-shiromani-akali-dal-371062
19-02-2022||Vishav Bharti||BJP turns to deras in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 18The BJP, facing hostility till recently in Punjab, pushed its entire might, be it RSS cadre, CMs of neighbouring states, Union Ministers and support from some of the biggest deras, into its campaign.Also read: Punjab election: Dera Sacha Sauda may spoil poll math in MalwaChristian deras of Punjab inclined towards BJP?The party, which is contesting 65 seats as part of alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress and SAD (Sanyukt), is pulling out all the stops to make its presence felt in the elections.Apart from four rallies of PM Narendra Modi, 12 Union Ministers, two CMs and several ministers and leaders from the neighbouring states were pushed into the campaign.In the last leg of campaign, PM Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were seen making rounds of various deras. Their meeting with Baba Gurinder Singh of Radha Soami Satsang Beas and release of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on furlough on the eve of elections is being seen with much curiosity. Insiders say the party wants only passive vote of deras to avoid annoying Sikhs.However, its biggest strength remains the RSS cadre, which has been even brought from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan to manage elections at the booth level. In the past few weeks, the entire control of campaigning was taken over by the RSS, which for the past two months has been taking daily ground reports from the cadre.The bigger game seems to be unfolding for the saffron party, which had been contesting just 23 seats as a junior partner to SAD for two and half decades. The BJP and RSS have been able to activate their cadre for the future. The political observers say the party is preparing ground for 2027. “We got tremendous response. The results will be surprising this time,” says Subhash Sharma, BJP’s state general secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saffron-party-turns-to-deras-371061
19-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Shiromani Akali Dal banks on traditional vote||Chandigarh, February 18Having started campaign much earlier than other parties, the SAD leadership is claiming it will get “comfortable majority” in the Assembly polls.“We have got an encouraging response all over the state,” says party spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema. “The youth of the state have especially stood with us. We are hoping this will translate into victory.”In the multi-party contest this time, the SAD is hoping that retaining its cadre and traditional vote would help candidates win on many seats. “The victory margin may not be much on several seats and the party who retains its cadre and traditional vote will excel. Further. The young voters have campaigned enthusiastically for us.The surveys are not in favour of the Akalis as the top or even the second best party, but the SAD terms them false propaganda. “These are all paid surveys,” party president Sukhbir Singh Badal insists in his election campaign.Notably, the party has changed its poll slogan this election. In the 2017 polls, it sought votes claiming “Raj nahi sewa”. But the slogan in this election is “Gal raj di nahi, Punjab di hai.”“We knew the Congress campaign was a disaster from the start and the AAP claims were a social media bubble and a repeat of the 2017 false bravado. The AAP’s anti-Punjab and anti-farmer stance in the Supreme Court has killed them. We kept our ears to the ground, our shoulders on the wheel and worked hard at the grassroots. We have peaked at the right time. We are the only party smiling at the end of the campaign. We are poised for a triumphant return,” says Parkash Singh Badal, party patron. #daljeet singh cheema #SAD #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-banks-on-traditional-vote-371060
19-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Vowing 'change', AAP fancies sweep in Punjab||Chandigarh, Febraury 18It is catch phrase coined by AAP poll strategists, “Ek mauka Mann te Kejriwal nu”, that seems to have caught the fancy of voters in many segments.The party, though initially rattled by the stirring of caste-pot by rival Congress, which chose a Dalit leader as its CM face, now stands strong as the poll becomes a “class war”, rather than a caste war.KD Tiwari, a retired banker in Banga constituency, says he will vote for “change” on February 20. What has come in handy for the party is the overwhelming questioning that voters are subjecting the election contestants to. Both the Congress — ridden as much by infighting as by anti-incumbency — and Akali Dal have a past baggage of unfulfilled promises during their tenures.The AAP, on the contrary, is offering hope — better education, healthcare and social security through pensions and promise of cheaper power. Voters, across Malwa (where the party has a significant following) and in Doaba (where political awareness is highest because of the NRI influence), say the party may ultimately not be able to deliver on the promises, but since they themselves hope for a “nawan” (new) Punjab, they are willing to put their bet on the party that is giving them hope for a better future.Even in the Majha region, where the party had drawn a blank in 2017, the party has suddenly picked up steam. People say the party seems to be taking the space of ruling political party, which faces anti-incumbency there.The fact that the party was the first to announce its CM face has gone in its favour, and consolidated the ranks behind Mann. The question, however, is will it be able to have a clean sweep, considering that few of its sitting MLAs, too, face anti-incumbency. #AAP #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vowing-change-aap-fancies-sweep-371059
19-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||United Congress rides on Charanjit Singh Channi's work||Chandigarh, February 18With just a day left for polling for the Assembly elections, the Congress is facing the double challenge of its leaders resolving differences and stiff competition from the AAP and BJP-led NDA trying to spoil its plot.Party insiders admit the day-to-day change in political equations, has pushed up the anxiety levels of poll managers. Multiple factors in the five-way contest could prove to be a serious challenge to the party in reaching the magic mark of 59. With Navjot Sidhu stepping back from proactive campaigning across the state, the party is banking on CM Channi’s performance to retain power.Poll strategists are analysing the impact of the recent controversy wherein CM Channi asked people of Punjab to reject the outsiders from UP, Bihar and Delhi, on Punjabis and migrant voters in the state, though he has clarified it was aimed at AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal.CM Channi is confident of getting re-elected based on his 111-day performance. The party thinks people are convinced that it delivers what it promises. Party feels the pro-AAP narrative in the air was just a repeat of what happened in the 2017 elections. “People will vote for a stable government,” he said.Party insiders point out there was an initial wave in favour of CM Channi after the imposition of the model code of conduct on January 8, based on his performance. But controversies over ticket distribution and ED raids on Channi’s nephew did give tense moments to the party.Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary says the Congress had given reason to Punjabis to see through the designs of the AAP and BJP, which were trying to rule the state from outside. #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/united-congress-rides-on-charanjit-singh-channi-channis-work-371058
19-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Doaba: In Dalit belt, Congress banking on Charanjit Singh Channi pull, Akalis BSP||Jalandhar, February 18On September 20, when the Congress played its trump card by appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as the first Dalit Chief Minister, its biggest impact came in favour of the party from Doaba.On voter’s mindLack of development | Joblessness | Illegal mining | corruption | drug menaceIt was being felt the Congress, which had won 15 out of 23 seats in the region in 2017, could repeat the results and the impact of SAD’s alliance with the BSP had also got somewhat negated. The impact remained there for good four months and became stronger once again in the community and the Sikhs when he took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi after his Ferozepur visit fiasco.But in the past one month, the Channi factor has diminished to some extent, especially since the recovery ofRs 8 crore from his nephew Bhupinder Honey’s place by the ED and his subsequent arrest. Even as the Congress tried to draw sympathy on the issue by starting a narrative that the BJP uses central forces to attack rivals ahead of elections, his graph somehow kept falling as his rivals continued to attack him over his repeated claim of coming from a “humble background”. The “Sada Channi” campaign did not actually take off the way as was being thought of.His competition with PCC chief Navjot Sidhu for the CM candidature and Sidhu’s attack on the party also dented the party’s prospects. While Channi toured 16-17 seats in Doaba since the elections were announced, Sidhu visited the region just twice, that too only when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Jalandhar for a virtual rally on January 27 and Hoshiarpur on February 14.He did not even campaign for his closest aide Pargat Singh and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, whose candidature and victory he had announced in advance. In his absence, party’s national leaders, including Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Kanhaiya Kumar, toured Jalandhar.If the Congress committed some mistakes, especially of repeating most candidates and not being able to quell rebellion on seats like Sultanpur Lodhi, Nawanshahr and Adampur, the AAP too fumbled along the way.It changed seats of most candidates but fielded some rejected leaders of other parties. The allegations of selling the ticket in Doaba also caused damage to the party from which it slowly recovered as the campaign gathered pace. The party had managed to get only two seats in 2017 from the region and is expected to do certainly better this time.The BJP, which had got a lone seat from Doaba in Phagwara, remains on a sticky wicket. Even though the PM’s rally brought a boost to its candidates, they have still not got a clear edge.In this scenario, the Akali Dal has once again started emerging as a strong contender and is set to improve its tally from five in 2017. The rally of Mayawati in Nawanshahr had a good turnout despite Covid restrictions.As far as the Dalit votes are concerned, there are enough indications it will split among all parties. PM Narendra Modi, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi and Punjab CM Channi had all gone to Varanasi on Guru Ravidas Jayanti. Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann had visited Guru Ravidas Dham in Jalandhar. Though Dera Sachkhand Ballan followers may partly support Channi, a clear message has reportedly not been sent out.KEY SEATSDOABASultanpur Lodhi: Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap is contesting as an Independent against Congress MLA Navtej CheemaNawanshahr: Congress MLA Angad Singh in the fray as an Independent post the denial of ticketJalandhar Cantt: Minister Pargat Singh is locked in contest with SAD ex-MLA Jagbir BrarPhagwara: SAD state chief Jasvir Garhi up against BJP ex-minister Vijay Sampla, Congress MLA BS Dhaliwal and AAP’s Joginder MannBholath: Sukhpal Khaira, who remained in jail for 78 days, is taking on SGPC ex-chief Jagir Kaur #charanjit channi #Dalit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-dalit-belt-congress-banking-on-charanjit-singh-channi-pull-akalis-bsp-371057
19-02-2022||GS Paul||Uphill task for Congress to repeat  2017 show in Majha||Amritsar, February 18While the Congress is likely to incur significant losses in terms of tally and may find it hard to repeat the resounding mandate it received in 2017, it still has a slight edge in the border belt of Majha.On voter’s mindDrugs | Unemployment | Canal water in border area | Poor infra | Easy access for farmers to land across fencingMajha sends 25 MLAs to the Vidhan Sabha, comprising Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts.The Congress, which had pocketed 22 seats last time, may have to face the backlash for its failure to curb the drug menace, punish the guilty in the Bargari case or deliver on its “ghar ghar naukri” promise. Besides, differences within the party and brightening up of SAD’s prospects in this Panthic belt pose challenge. In the 2022 Assembly polls, the votes may be split between the SAD and Congress, with neck and neck fight in some key constituencies.The SAD, which had to contend with just two seats the last time, has revived in the area to some extent and many of its prominent candidates may register victories. In Tarn Taran district and rural parts of Amritsar and Gurdaspur, the Akalis have made their presence felt with strong campaigning.The SAD has an additional advantage of the SGPC playing the “Panthic card” on its behalf. For the first time in 37 years, the bullet-riddled saroop of the Guru Granth Sahib “injured” during Operation Bluestar, along with the bullet that had pierced through 95 angs were put on public display. Similarly, the 1955 attack on the Golden Temple complex to scuttle Punjabi Suba Morcha and 1984 Op Bluestar were raked up.The AAP, which could not open its account in 2017, has failed to penetrate significantly, although it has influence on scattered pockets of the region, with party supremo Arvind Kejriwal making repeated rounds of the region. Ironically, the voters who look for “change” talk about jhadu (broom) but how much of this sentiment translates into votes is not clear, as most of their candidates remained “unknown faces” in most of the seats.The BJP is contesting without the Akalis for the first time. Though its vote share could increase, there may be negligible rise in its seat tally. In 2017, only one seat, Sujanpur, went into its kitty.The Congress has a stout line-up in Majha, which includes PCC head Navjot Sidhu in Amritsar East, working president Sukhwinder Danny Bandala in Jandiala Guru, Deputy CM OP Soni in Amritsar Central, Sukhbinder Sarkaria in Raja Sansi and Raj Kumar Verka in Amritsar West.Similarly, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa commands sound position in Dera Baba Nanak, Tript Rajinder Bajwa in Fatehgarh Churian, Aruna Chaudhary in Dinanagar and former PCC chief Partap Singh Bajwa in Qadian.On the high-profile seat of Amritsar East, where Sidhu is pitted against SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia, sources say Sidhu’s rivals within the party have been backing Majithia. Yet, Sidhu is on a strong footing on this Congress-dominated seat, whereas the SAD has been making a debut and has to start from the scratch. Earlier, SAD’s estranged partner BJP used to field its candidate from the seat. Given the political profile of both candidates, who have remained undefeated till now, the balance may tilt either way with a thin margin.KEY SEATSMAJHAAmritsar East: PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu is up against SAD’s Bikram Singh MajithiaAmritsar North: AAP’s Kunwar Vijay Partap is challenging SAD’s Anil Joshi and Congress’ Sunil DuttiKhadoor Sahib: SAD’s Ranjit Singh Brahampura is contesting against Ramanjit Singh Sikki (Congress)Batala: Ashwani Sekhri (Congress), Sucha Singh Chhotepur (SAD), Fateh Jung Bajwa (BJP) and Sherry Kalsi (AAP) are locked in tough fightQadian: Partap Singh Bajwa (Congress), Jagroop Singh Sekhwan (AAP), Guriqbal Singh Mahal (SAD) #majha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uphill-task-for-congress-to-repeat-2017-show-in-majha-371056
19-02-2022||Aman Sood||Punjab election: Dera Sacha Sauda may spoil poll math in Malwa||Patiala, February 18It is not common for traditional parties to open election offices, but they did so this time. Just near the Congress offices in Fatehgarh Sahib and Malerkotla, and SAD offices in Rajpura and Sanaur, a group of people who are usually there for tea and lunch as party workers, after a brief chat, confirmed the political flavour this time is for “change”.Also read: BJP turns to deras in PunjabChristian deras of Punjab inclined towards BJP?On voter’s mindUnemployment | Drugs | sacrilege | power tariff | Plight of farmers, Traders | graft | Unkept promisesThe common man — be it Dalits, farmers, Hindus, Sikhs middle-class or those below the poverty line — in Malwa, considered the backwaters of Punjab, is confused due to the political scenario, taking frequent twists and turns with leaders of the area overnight shifting loyalties. But the common buzzword this time is all about “vote for change”.A sordid tale of broken promises, undelivered announcements over several decades is getting reflected in the strong presence of AAP candidates on the ground. With BJP pulling out all stops to woo its traditional vote bank in cities, Malwa may throw up some close but surprising results.“It has been over 50 years of rule by the two traditional parties in Punjab, and still civic amenities, cancer deaths and even farm suicides are common. Let’s try the third option,” says Nikita Dhawan, a first-time voter in the border district of Ferozepur.From Ludhiana to Khanna, Fatehgarh Sahib to Mohali, Patiala to Sangrur and till Bathinda and Ferozepur in Malwa — the common phrase is “we want change”.All three chief ministerial faces in Punjab are locked in battles in Malwa, underscoring the importance of the region — AAP’s Bhagwant Mann is contesting from Dhuri, Congress’ Charanjit Singh Channi is in the fray from his second seat of Bhadaur and Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Badal from Jalalabad. Even Punjab Lok Congress chief, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, is contesting from his citadel of Patiala.“Despite organisational and political blunders, the AAP has emerged as a substantial player in state’s electoral politics. Neither does it have the organisational network that the SAD has nor traditional cadre like that of the Congress. It is the silence which the AAP is counting on and which unnerves the trio of BJP, SAD and the Congress,” said a political analyst.The ground support in 2017 had given the AAP reasons to dream of pulling off an improbable victory. The party, however, had to content with only 18 of the 69 seats in the region. But that was enough to go ahead of the SAD-BJP, which won just eight seats. The Congress won 40 seats in Malwa alone, riding on the popularity of Capt Amarinder Singh.The “mishandling” of the probe into the 2015 sacrilege incidents has dented the party’s image, and the SAD and AAP are eyeing gains. Capt Amarinder floating his own party in understanding with the BJP has only made matters worse for the Congress.The entry of farmers in the poll fray as candidates from the SSM has created problems for traditional parties as these farmer leaders are eating into their vote share. But this division is working to the advantage of the BJP in urban areas.The Dera Sacha Sauda sect head and self-proclaimed religious leader Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, currently serving life imprisonment for the murder of former journalist Ramchandra Chhatrapati and the rape of his two disciples, was released 10 days ago.The dera wields considerable influence in Malwa. In Punjab, this time, all parties are eyeing the Dalit votes as 32 per cent of the population is from the community and a majority of dera’s followers in this belt belong to the community. Dera votes can tilt the tide in this belt, though majority of its followers in the villages are siding with the AAP.“We are yet to get a clear message from our political think-tank, whom to vote for. But I am sure it would not be only for the BJP or SAD. At many places they are dismal fourth and therefore wasting our votes would not help matters. A feedback was sought from the Malwa belt and seat-wise feedback was given,” said a senior dera functionary, preferring anonymity.KEY SEATSMALWAPatiala Urban: Capt Amarinder Singh (PLC) is up against Vishnu Sharma (Congress), Harpal Juneja (SAD-BSP) and Ajit Pal Kohli (AAP)Ghanaur: Madan Lal Jalalpur (Congress) is facing Prem Singh Chandumajra (SAD-BSP) and Gurlal Ghanaur (AAP)Bhadaur: Charanjit Channi (Congress) faces challenge from Labh Singh Ugoke (AAP) and Satnam Singh Rahi (SAD-BSP)Jalalabad: Sukhbir Singh Badal (SAD) pitted against Mohan Singh Phalianwala (Congress) and Jagdeep Goldy Kamboj (AAP)Lehra: Rajinder Kaur Bhattal (Congress) is fighting against Parminder Singh Dhindsa (SAD-S)Mansa: Sidhu Moosewala (Congress) is fighting against Dr Vijay Singla (AAP) and Prem Arora (SAD-BSP)Rampura Phul: Sikander Singh Maluka (SAD-BSP) up against Gurpreet Singh Kangar (Congress) and Balkar Sidhu (AAP)Gidderbaha: Amrinder Singh Raja Warring (Congress), Preetpal Sharma (AAP) and Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon (SAD)Bathinda Urban: Manpreet Badal (Congress), Sarup Chand Singla (SAD-BSP) and Jagroop Singh Gill (AAP)Ferozepur Urban: Rana Gurmit Sodhi (BJP), Parminder Singh Pinki (Congress) and Ranbir Bhullar (AAP)(With inputs from Nitin Jain in Ludhiana, Parvesh Sharma in Sangrur, Sukhmeet Bhasin in Bathinda and Anirudh Gupta in Ferozepur) #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-may-spoil-poll-math-in-malwa-371055
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||Manifesto released: Congress promises 1 lakh jobs, 8 free cylinders||Hours before the campaign for the Assembly elections ended, the state Congress in its 13-point manifesto released on Friday promised to end the “mafia raj” in sand, liquor and cable businesses, while announcing Rs 1,100 for women every month, eight free gas cylinders per year and one lakh government jobs every year.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar flew from different districts of the state to Chandigarh to release the manifesto.Meanwhile, manifesto committee chairman Partap Singh Bajwa was conspicuous by his absence.The Congress party has promised to give Rs 5,000 to girls reaching Class V, Rs 10,000 to those reaching Class X, and Rs 20,000 and a computer to girls reaching Class XII.With Sidhu by his side, Channi promised to implement his “Punjab model”. “It will be a teamwork and Sidhu will have the main role. The government will be run under the guidance of the party,” he noted.Sidhu told the media that ending the “mafia raj” would pave the way for implementing 12 other points in the manifesto.“The manifesto reflects Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s vision. If the Congress returns to power, its first decision will be to give one lakh government jobs every year,” he said.The PCC chief further said the manifesto was inspired by Guru Nanak Dev and it was the gateway to change people’s lives.“The grand old party will end the mafia raj by creating government corporations for liquor sale and sand mining. The party also promises procurement of oilseed, pulses and corn by government agencies,” said Sidhu.“Anybody can be the pilot when the sea is calm. But when there’s a storm, we should be able to convert adversity into an opportunity. That’s the aim of this manifesto,” the Congress leader added.Women to get Rs 1,100 every month||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manifesto-released-congress-promises-1-lakh-jobs-8-free-cylinders-371054
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress releases 13-point manifesto; promises financial assistance to women, 1 lakh govt jobs||Punjab Congress promised to end the mafia ‘raj’ in sand, liquor, and cable businesses; Rs 1,100 to women; eight free cooking gas cylinders a year; and one lakh government jobs in the 13-point poll manifesto.Chief Minister Charanjit Channi, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and former Sunil Jakhar resolved to work together in a show of strength. Channi promised to fully implement Sidhu’s “Punjab model”.Sidhu said the Congress government would procure oilseed, pulses, and corn from farmers.The Congress manifesto has come on the last day of the campaigning for the Assembly polls. Sidhu said the party’s 13-point agenda reflects Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s vision.Arvind Kejriwal was creating panic and insecurity among Hindus to grab power, Channi said.“So many Hindus have sacrificed their lives for peace and prosperity of Punjab. Kejriwal had lost his mind” said Channi.The chief minister said he saw himself in the role of “Bhai kanhaiya”—a disciple of Guru Tegh Bahadur—and that he wanted to “take everyone together to serve the people”.“It will be teamwork and Navjot Singh Sidhu will have the main role. The government will run under the party,” he said. #congress manifesto #mafia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/congress-releases-13-point-manifesto-promises-to-end-mafia-in-punjab-371029
19-02-2022||New Delhi||'Comedy', says Arvind Kejriwal on 'separatist' remarks||Terming allegations levelled against him by former party leader Kumar Vishwas ‘comedy’, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday described himself as “world's sweetest terrorist who builds roads, hospitals and sends elderly people to pilgrimage”.Former AAP leader Kumar Vishwas had alleged that Kejriwal had spoken about becoming PM of a separate state.In a video, Kumar is seen saying, "One day, he (Kejriwal) told me he would either become CM (of Punjab) or first PM of an independent nation…he wants power at any cost."“They have all teamed up against me and they are calling me a terrorist. It is comedy. If that is the case, then why doesn't (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ji have me arrested?" asked Kejriwal in a press conference on Friday.Addressing the press conference, Kejriwal asked what were the Centre's security agencies doing until now. "What were agencies during the Congress and BJP's tenures doing till now? Why did they not arrest me? This is such a humorous matter," he added.He said: "I must be the world's sweetest terrorist, a terrorist who provides schools, hospitals, electricity, roads, water…"PM Modi and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were among those who targeted Kejriwal over Kumar Vishwas’s video wherein he accused Kejriwal of making separatist comments. IANS #arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/comedy-arvind-kejriwal-on-separatist-remarks-371017
19-02-2022||Karam Prakash||2 rival candidates in Patiala cross paths while on campaign, what happened next has left netizens impressed. Watch||Patiala, February 18Despite having a political animosity, Congress Candidate Mohit Mohindra and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate exchanged smiles with folded hands and showered petals on one another when they happened to face each other while campaigning, on Thursday.In a video that has gone viral, Mohit Mohindra, who is fighting elections for the first time, is seen showering the flower petals -- first.  In exchange, Dr Balbir returned the pleasing gesture. After the video went viral, Mohit – on his Facebook page – wrote that he believed in a clean and issue-based politics. He further said that one should always respect their counterparts – going beyond the political differences. #Patiala #Punjabpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-rival-candidates-in-patiala-cross-paths-while-on-campaign-what-happened-next-has-left-netizens-impressed-watch-370998
19-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Sikh spirit of service needs greater global acclaim: PM Modi||New Delhi, February 18In major signalling on the eve of February 20 Punjab elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hosted a group of Sikh leaders at his official residence and said it was his honour to have been able to serve the community.“I was humbled by the kind words from the distinguished members of the Sikh community on various efforts of the Central Government. I consider it my honour that the respected Sikh Gurus have taken ‘sewa’ from me and their blessings have enabled me to work for society,” the PM said after hosting over 34 Sikh leaders at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg.Each guest presented the PM with a ‘Siropa’ and ‘Siri Sahib’ and hailed the steps the government has taken for the welfare of the Sikh community, especially the declaration of December 26 as Veer Baal Diwas to honour the sacrifices of the Sahibzaadas.The PM said many regions of India didn’t know about the inspiring lives of Chaar Sahibzaade and that he always mentioned their contributions to school students whenever he had a chance.“The decision to celebrate 26 December as Veer Baal Diwas will go a long way in making kids from all corners of the country aware about the Sahibzaadas,” said the PM recalling his days in Punjab and adding that his doors were always open for Sikhs.The PM said the Sikh spirit of service needed greater global acclaim and awareness.He told the delegation about special arrangements the government made to bring back Guru Granth Sahib from Afghanistan with full honours and diplomatic steps that led to the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor.The delegation included environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal from Punjab; Mahant Karamjeet Singh, president of Sewapanthi, Yamuna Nagar; Baba Joga Singh of Dera Baba Jang Singh (Nanaksar), Karnal; Sant Baba Mejor Singh Waa, Mukhi Dera Baba Tara Singh Waa (Amritsar); Jathedar Baba Sahib Singh, Kar Sewa (Anandpur Sahib); Surinder Singh, Namdhari Darbar (Bhaini Sahib); Baba Jassa Singh, Shiromani Akali Budha Dal, Panjwa Takht; Harbhajan Singh, Damdami Taksal; Giani Ranjit Singh, Jathedar, Takht Shri Patna Sahib; Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Harmeet Singh Kalka; BJP leader Manjinder Sirsa; and former MP Tarlochan Singh.After the meeting, a section of the guests described the PM as a “Sikh at heart” hailing the declaration of Veer Baal Divas; opening of the Kartarpur Corridor; constitution of the Special Investigation Team to probe the 1984 Sikh killings, waiving GST on langar and scrapping the black list.Ravinder Singh Ahuja, President, Sikh Forum, New Delhi, said, “‘The PM is a Sikh at heart. He has a deep understanding of Sikh scriptures, the Gurus, the language and culture. No other prime minister has had this level of understanding.” Mahant Karamjeet Singh noted, “The Prime Minister said Sikhi was in his blood; sewa was in his blood.”While Kalka spoke of how the SIT brought former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar to justice in the anti-Sikh riot case, Manjit Singh Bhatia, President, Singh Sabha Gurdwara Sahib said PM Modi had strengthened India’s global image in line with the teachings of Guru Gobind Singh.Tarlochan Singh, the former Chairman of National Minority Commission, said that for the first time since Independence the contribution of Sikhs was being recognised.I was humbled by the kind words from the distinguished members of the Sikh community on various efforts of the Central Government. I consider it my honour that the respected Sikh Gurus have taken Seva from me and their blessings have enabled me to work for society. pic.twitter.com/8jqHZ0QL3f||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-hosts-prominent-sikh-personalities-at-his-residence-370996
19-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Deep Sidhu's SUV was 100 kmph at the time of crash, says Haryana police probe||Sonepat, February 18Haryana police have ruled out any conspiracy or foul play behind the death of Deep Sidhu on the basis of the preliminary investigation report.Also read: Judge must probe Deep Sidhu's accident: Simranjit Singh MannDeep Sidhu's girlfriend a day after his death writes 'just when we were planning our future together, you are gone', posts picturesHere are some of the developments in the probe by Panipat Police:1) Over 100-ft-long skid marks on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway near Pipli toll plaza are enough to show the gravity of the accident in which Deep Sidhu lost his life.2) The ‘scene of crime’ team, including forensic experts and police personnel, recreated the scene of the accident and collected evidence from the spot and the CCTV footage.3) Sources said that the collision was so strong that the right side of Sidhu’s sports utility vehicle (SUV) was badly damaged from the front bumper to the roof.4) According to sources, the pair of wheels on the left rear side of the 22-tyre truck burst and the lower metallic part of the truck was also found broken.5) The truck’s skidding marks measuring over 100 ft were found on the road. Dragging marks by the rim or broken metallic part were also found on the road. But no marks of Sidhu’s vehicle applying brakes were found on the road, sources said.6) The laden truck was moving in the middle of the first and second lanes on the road and Sidhu had tried to overtake it from the left. The speed of the SUV might be over 100 kmph at that time, sources said. #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhus-suv-was-100-kmph-at-the-time-of-crash-haryana-police-probe-370987
19-02-2022||---||Watch: Leaders dance to each other's tunes as video war erupts between Punjab AAP and Congress||Chandigarh, February 18From sharing Shark Tank meme to now sharing an edited video of Channi dancing on the theme song ‘Ik mauka Kejriwal te Bhagwant Mann nu’, AAP seems to leave no stone unturned to push the election through. As AAP is set to get embattled with Congress in forthcoming elections on February 20, the party seems to be proactively campaigning and the testimony to this is the new edited video of Channi’s dance.The dancer in Channi sahab couldn't stop him from grooving to 'Ik Mauka Kejriwal te Bhagwant Mann nu' 🕺🏻🎶 pic.twitter.com/5ekSE9XTScCongress party too realized the heat of the moment and they too lashed out at Kejriwal with yet another edited video of Kejriwal grooving to ‘Ghar de wich challi gal channi krda masle hal’. The video has been shared by Congress’ national coordinator Nitin Agarwal.The poor Dancer in Kejriwal couldn't stop him from grooving to "Ghar de vich challi gal channi karda masle hal" pic.twitter.com/qjHGYz2MUtWhile the poll surveys predict a neck and neck battle between AAP and Congress, a state of hung assembly cannot be denied as well. #AAP #Congress #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/trending/watch-leaders-dance-to-each-others-tune-as-video-war-erupts-between-aap-and-congress-370983
