20-02-2022||Patiala||Capt Amarinder Singh confident of winning Patiala Urban||Former chief minister Amarinder Singh said he was confident of securing a win from Patiala Urban.“Our booths are full. This shows we’re doing exceedingly well,” Capt Amarinder Singh said after he cast his vote with his wife Preneet Kaur, a Congress Member of Parliament.Capt Amarinder Singh said he had only two months to announce their new party and fight the elections.“Still, the party is doing very well. We’re positive that our combination (with the BJP) will perform very well. We have good reports coming in from all our booths.”His former party, he said, was living in a “different world”.“I think they will be wiped out from Punjab,” he said.He accused rivals Aam Aadmi Party and its chief convener, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of having “Khalistani links”.“Gurpatwant Singh Pannu is a Khalistani and he is supporting Arvind Kejriwal. We don’t know how much effect he will have.” #capt amarinder singh #punjab polls #punjab polls 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/capt-amarinder-singh-confident-of-winning-patiala-urban-371543
20-02-2022||Amritsar||Two stabbed to death near Hall Gate in Punjab’s Amritsar||Two men were stabbed to death by unidentified assailants near Hall Gate here, the business hub of the city, on Sunday, police said.Amritsar’s Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the motive behind the two murders was not clear.He, however, told reporters that the crime was unrelated to the ongoing election process.Voting is under way for the Punjab Assembly on Sunday.Various police teams have been deputed to find nab the killers.The deceased were identified as Rishab (27) and Jagdish (32), both residents of the walled city of Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-stabbed-to-death-near-hall-gate-in-punjabs-amritsar-371531
20-02-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||Punjab polls: SAD's Bikram Majithia takes PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu head-on in Amritsar East||Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Akali leader Bikram Majithia went head-to-head for the Amritsar East seat on Sunday.This election is a fight for Punjab’s soul, Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Sidhu said as he and his wife cast their votes.The fight remains one of the most interesting battles of the day—this is the first time Majithia’s fighting for the seat that is Sidhu’s home ground. “These elections are unlike any other,” Sidhu told reporters at the polling station. “It’s a dharmayudh. On the one hand, you have people looting the states and eating away Punjab’s insides like termites. One the other is a side that wants to bring change and bring back Punjab’s lost glory.”His party’s goal, he said, was to Punjab’s “resurrection”.“The ‘mafia’ who have mortgaged Punjab under the garb of ‘thekedari’ system and looted the state exchequer has been exposed. I believe the people of Punjab have realised the difference and will seal their mandate keeping in view the welfare of the state,” he said.  Majithia on the other hand said Sidhu’s own constituency lies in a state of neglect. “People will reject Sidhu Saheb’s arrogance and politics of hatred.  People there are cribbing about having no access to the most basic facilities. It has no job opportunities and its healthcare and education systems are broken,” Majithia said.The Congress, Majithia claimed, was never public-friendly.“Now, the Congress has projected Channi as a ‘poor man’ who owns property worth crores and wears expensive watches. This has been exposed and people will give their verdict wisely,” he said.Punjab has not bought Aam Aadmi Party’s Delhi model, Majitha said.   “Punjabis are nationalists, universal brotherhood and take their own call,” he said. #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu #punjab polls #punjab polls 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/in-amritsar-bikram-majithia-takes-navjot-sidhu-head-on-371528
20-02-2022||Ruchika M. KhannaChandigarh||Punjab polls: In key region Malwa, early voter turnout impressive||In the crucial Malwa region of Punjab, which largely holds the key as to who would form the next government in Punjab, polling in the first two hours has remained largely peaceful.Barring a few minor incidents, where the polling agents of different parties, complained about positions given to their rivals in polling booths and held minor protests, the polling has been going on smoothly. In all polling booths, the Election Commission has made elaborate arrangements to make the booths Covid-19 safe. Gloves and masks are being handed over to voters.As The Tribune team traverses through Malwa region, having 69 of 117 assembly segments, voter turnout has been impressive. In Kurali, which falls in Kharar assembly seat, SAD candidate Ranjit Singh Gill, complained about a disagreement between presiding officer at Model Town booth and his polling agents, leading to some protests.In Morinda, which falls in Chamkaur Sahib, the constituency represented by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, booths in villages as well as the town had long queues. Even at the CM’s party booths, there was a huge rush, whereas almost negligible voters could be seen at booths of other parties.In Bassi Pathana, where CM Channi’s brother Manohar Singh is contesting as independent against Congress official candidate and sitting MLA, Gurpreet Singh GP, the latter, who The Tribune met in village Kalaur, expressed confidence that he would win with a good margin although the former has a significant following in rural areas.Across the region, however, election hustle remains almost absent as voters prefer to maintain silence. In Datarpur village, some village elders talk of “badlao”. #punjab polls #punjab polls 2002||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-key-region-malwa-early-voter-turnout-is-impressive-371521
20-02-2022||Bathinda/ Fazilka||Borders with Haryana, Rajasthan sealed||The inter-state borders with Haryana, Doomwali in Bathinda and Sardulgarh in Mansa, have been sealed ahead of voting for the 2022 Assembly elections.Around 4,500 police personnel and 28 CRPF companies have been deployed in Bathinda district.The administration has made arrangements for the voting. The electronic voting machines (EVMs) were given to the staff at PESCO, IHM and Govt Polytechnic College.In Bathinda Urban, Hindu voters hold the key. DC Vineet Kumar said 1,192 polling booths have been set up for six Assembly seats.Meanwhile, Fazilka DC Babita Kler said 23 nakas have been laid along Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts of Rajasthan. She said 22 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed in the district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/borders-with-hry-rajasthan-sealed-371397
20-02-2022||Abohar||Opposition uses its might against debutant Sandeep Jakhar||The AAP, SAD and BJP have used their full might to prevent entry of Balram Jakhar’s grandson Sandeep Jakhar into the Vidhan Sabha. Since 1972, Jakhars have won seven Assembly poll.The BJP held the last and third rally of PM Narendra Modi in Abohar, which is in Ferozepur parliamentary constituency. Sahi Ram, who had won as a Jan Sangh candidate in 1957, was invited for the rally reportedly to influence the Bishnoi community in Balluana segment.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal campaigned vigorously in Abohar and criticised Jakhars. AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal also held his last roadshow in Abohar on Friday. Sandeep has been banking on the support of youngsters and women as a debutant. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-uses-its-might-against-debutant-sandeep-jakhar-371396
20-02-2022||Jalandhar||In Sultanpur Lodhi, Rana’s son fancies outside chance||Otherwise a Panthic, secluded seat, Sultanpur Lodhi has emerged as one of the most happening constituencies in Doaba. Sitting Congress MLA Navtej Cheema was riding high on development works carried out for the historic occasion of 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak. But the entry of Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Inder Partap Singh (42) into his constituency made him extremely uncomfortable.Ever since Cheema along with four other MLAs of Doaba took the cudgels to the high command last year against Rana Gurjeet Singh’s re-induction into the Cabinet, he perhaps sowed the thorns for himself. Rana Inder Partap intruded into the constituency as an entrepreneur who had come to help farmers, but eventually nurtured plans to give a fight to his father’s arch rival in the party. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sultanpur-lodhi-ranas-son-fancies-outside-chance-371392
20-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Fake videos, audios  surface on social media to ‘influence’ electorate||Chandigarh, February 19As Covid-restricted campaigning drew to a close on Friday, the focus was back on social media as voters were flooded with messages seeking support for a particular party/candidate or spreading “misinformation” about nominees.The managements of social media platforms as well as the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) have been in an overdrive to remove harmful and hate content.Real-time responseThe company’s election operations centre watches out for potential abuses related to the Assembly elections and it responds in real time. Rajiv Aggarwal, Director, Meta IndiaFake videos of several candidates either offering liquor or money were widely circulated on social media today. Some videos have telephone recordings playing in the background, alleging that certain leaders have “accepted” enticements or candidates are “arranging” things to lure voters.While the EC has special social media teams that monitor online content and ask for any objectionable content to be removed, Meta Platforms that owns Facebook and WhatsApp has set up an election operations centre to keep tabs on “inappropriate content, including hate speeches, misinformation and harmful content”.Dr S Karuna Raju, CEO, Punjab, told The Tribune that throughout the course of the campaigning, the EC received several complaints about misinformation and harmful content on social media platforms.“Any complaint from any contestant or political party was referred to the EC’s social media monitoring teams, comprising experts. Based on their assessment, the objectionable content was removed and action initiated against the guilty party,” said the CEO.Rajiv Aggarwal, Director and Head of Public Policy, Meta India, said: “The company’s election operations centre watches out for potential abuses related to the Assembly elections and it responds in real time. Massive investment has been made in teams and technologies to keep hate speech, misinformation and other forms of harmful content off the platform. Besides ramping up our regional language support, we are funding our fact-checking partners.”He further said, “The company removed more than 1.38 million pieces of hate speech content in India between May 15, 2021, and December 31, 2021. As a result, the prevalence of hate speech is down to 0.03 per cent on our platforms.”Audio ‘doctored’The AAP on Saturday submitted a complaint before the CEO, Punjab, seeking the removal of an audio recording from social media. The party claimed that audio recording purportedly of Sunita Kejriwal, wife of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, was “fake and doctored”. It further said the voice was not of Sunita’s. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-videos-audios-surface-on-social-media-to-influence-electorate-371389
20-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Spoilt for choice, Nakodar villagers weigh options||Dhaliwal/Boparai Kalan (Nakodar), February 19Contrary to hectic activity in cities, with preparations on at polling booths on the eve of polling, village streets are empty and silent — like a holiday. At the sath of Dhaliwal village in Nakodar, a group of villagers talks polls. “It’s a mix of parties this time, even we can’t understand,” says one of them.There is a conspicuous absence of party flags in villages, which dot every nook and cranny in cities.While they have been choosing between conventional parties — the Congress and SAD — in the past, with the emergence of other alternatives they are now spoilt for choice. While voters say it is confusing, what’s new is most voters say their voting will reveal their minds, rather than talk about it.Dalwinder Singh, sarpanch, says: “Earlier, we didn’t know what to do. We are also supporting farmers wholeheartedly. We have been going for the conventional parties and the entire village has a history of voting almost unanimously on the issue. We have planned to go the traditional way.”Dalbir Singh (70), a farmer, adds: “No one did any work for the past five years. It’s not necessary everyone will go their village way. Everyone has individual votes. There is no consensus as such.”Pal Singh (75), who takes out his grandson on a pram, says: “It’s a new scenario for us. We are seeing it for the first time. We are not getting divided. Every party is making their own noise. But the voter has his own mind.”Speaking about whether sacrilege remains an issue, the sarpanch says: “It hasn’t happened in our area. We will see what is beneficial for our village.”Bhajan Lal from Boprai Kalan village says: “During Channi’s tenure, some work has happened. He has listened to some people, paid attention to issues of employees. If he stayed for some more time, he might have dome more.” Another farmer from the village adds: “A competition is on for votes, we can’t say anything.”On AAP’s prospects, he says: “When they were strong, they didn’t declare the CM face. But now it’s too late. (They are popular more in other areas).” At Gohir village, villagers say they will bat for development. A villager says: “The AAP didn’t come all these years. Now they are coming. We will vote for those who help develop our village.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spoilt-for-choice-nakodar-villagers-weigh-options-371384
20-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Dera Sacha Sauda opens cards, to back SAD, BJP nominees||Moga, February 19A day before polling, politically influential Dera Sacha Sauda has decided to extend support to SAD and BJP candidates, barring a few seats where prominent personalities of other parties are contesting the elections.At places where the SAD and BJP candidates are facing one another, the dera will support the strong candidate having a clean image. The winning ability of the candidate has also been taken into account.A senior member of dera’s political affairs committee told The Tribune messages in this regard had been conveyed through phone and WhatsApp to district committees, which had further started conveying it to the followers at the ground level. The dera activists have started meeting candidates in their respective areas.The dera has maintained that support would not be extended to those candidates who do not adhered to their policies and programmes. “We have discussed the nature of parties and individual candidates before deciding on extending support,” said the functionary.The dera has over 40 lakh followers or “Premis” in Punjab with a huge socio-political influence in the Malwa belt, which has 69 seats out of the total 117, and holds key to the formation of government.There are more than 10,000 votes of ‘Premis’ in the Nihalsinghwala (reserved), 15,000 in Baghapurana, 12,000 in Moga and 8,000 in Dharamkot constituencies of Moga district.It has extended support to BJP candidate Dr Harjot Kamal in Moga, Akali stalwart Tota Singh in Dharamkot; besides BJP candidates in Ferozepur Urban, Fazilka, Abohar, Balluana and a few other constituencies in the Malwa belt. #dera sacha sauda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirsa-dera-opens-cards-to-back-sad-bjp-nominees-371382
20-02-2022||Archit Watts||Kaka, Kikki, Jassi… nicknames add colour to poll canvas||Muktsar, February 19Kaka, Kikki, Sikki, Jassi, Babbi, Babbu, Bittu... These are not names of schoolchildren, but some key candidates in the poll fray. Their catchy nicknames will appear on EVMs.Nicknames of some of the other nominees are Tinku, Channi, Bonny, Bunty, Dimpy, Rozy, Laddi, Goldy, Ruby, Lalli, Jagga and Raja.While AAP candidate from Muktsar Jagdeep Singh is known as ‘Kaka Brar’, Congress candidate from Faridkot Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon is popular as ‘Kikki’.Congress candidate from Khadoor Sahib Ramanjeet Singh Sahota is known as ‘Sikki’, Independent candidate from Talwandi Sabo Harminder Singh as ‘Jassi’, Independent candidate from Amloh Darshan Singh as ‘Babbi’ and SAD nominee from Sujanpur Raj Kumar Gupta ‘Bittu’.Congress candidate from Kharar Vijay Sharma is popular as ‘Tinku’, while SAD’s Adampur nominee Pawan Kumar is lovingly called ‘Tinu’. CM Charanjit Singh, who is the Congress candidate from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur, is more popular as ‘Channi’.SAD candidate from Ajnala Amarpal Singh Ajnala is ‘Bonny’ for his near and dear ones, while another SAD nominee Parambans Singh Romana (Faridkot ) is ‘Bunty’ for his family and friends. Akali Dal nominee Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi (Muktsar) is fondly referred to as ‘Rozy’,‘Goldy’ is the nickname of two of the nominees — Congress’ Dalvir Singh Khangura (Dhuri) and SAD’s Winnerjit Singh (Sangrur). Congress leader Amrinder Singh, contesting from Gidderbaha, is popular as ‘Raja Warring’.Besides, some candidates have added village names to their names. Some of these nominees are Parkash Singh Badal, Manpreet Singh Badal, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Sikander Singh Maluka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kaka-kikki-jassi%E2%80%A6-nicknames-add-colour-to-poll-canvas-371371
20-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Key Seat Amritsar North: Last-minute switchover may upset equations||Amritsar, February 19The political scenario in the Amritsar North constituency has further heated up just before the polling day, as political parties are not leaving any stone unturned to make their mark.Greenhorn in politics, former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) received a shot in the arm after sitting mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, a long-time Congress leader, switched over to the AAP.Rintu had lobbied hard to get the Congress ticket during the last parliamentary election. Rintu, a Jat Sikh, may be fielded as AAP’s Lok Sabha nominee in the next General Election.Being a mayor of the city, his area of jurisdiction includes all five urban Assembly segments and it may have a bearing on the poll outcome.This time he was keen on the North seat, but since it is a predominantly Hindu area, his candidature was not considered, sources said.On the other hand, the political career of SAD candidate Anil Joshi is at stake. A three-time BJP MLA, he was expelled by the saffron outfit after he spoke out against the enactment of the three farm laws. A Cabinet minister in the erstwhile Parkash Singh Badal government, Joshi had lost the 2017 Assembly election by 14,236 votes to Congress’ Sunil Dutti.Once a close aide of Joshi, Sukhminder Singh Pintu is contesting on the BJP ticket. He is banking on the core cadre-based votes of the saffron party. However, these conventional voters who come from trading families are irked at the BJP for clamping tax on textile, readymade garments and others and introduction of the cumbersome GST.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-seat-amritsar-north-last-minute-switchover-may-upset-equations-371369
20-02-2022||Archit Watts||Muktsar contestants slug it out||Muktsar, February 19In the Badals’ home district Muktsar, no senior politician of the ruling Congress campaigned for the party nominees. The district has four constituencies — Lambi, Gidderbaha, Muktsar and Malout. CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MP Deepinder Hooda came once to campaign for Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring in Gidderbaha.There is a close contest on all four seats in the district. The Congress has fielded former CM Harcharan Brar’s daughter-in-law Karan Kaur from Muktsar; late minister Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana’s foster son Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana from Lambi; Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby from Malout. For these candidates, just Raja Warring has campaigned as a star campaigner.Similarly, the BJP, too, mainly focused on just one seat — Muktsar, where Rajesh Pathela Gora is in the electoral fray. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Ministers Ganjendra Singh and Kailash Chaudhary campaigned in the constituency, which is the home turf of former CM Harcharan Singh Brar’s family.In AAP, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal addressed a rally in favour of party nominee Gurmeet Singh Khudian in Lambi. In Malout, Bhagwant Mann took out a road show in favour of party candidate Baljit Kaur and Mann's mother Harpal Kaur also campaigned. In Gidderbaha, Mann canvassed for party nominee Pritpal Sharma.However, the SAD put all its might in Lambi, where former CM Parkash Singh Badal is in the fray. Here Badal himself, his son Sukhbir and daughter-in-law Harsimrat, their son Aantveer, INLD supremo Om Parkash Chautala campaigned. In Malout, Badal, Sukhbir and Harsimrat campaigned for party candidate Harpreet Singh.In Gidderbaha and Muktsar, both Sukhbir and Harsimrat campaigned in favour of party nominees Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon and Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-contestants-slug-it-out-371368
20-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Big Fight: Down to wire in Batala, Pathankot||Batala, February 19Batala and Pathankot have emerged as two seats where the competition is “extremely intense” even as seasoned pollsters claim things are sure to go to the wire at both these places.In Batala, Congress’ Ashwani Sekhri is involved in a four-way contest with Sucha Singh Chhotepur (SAD), Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa (BJP) and Sherry Kalsi (AAP). Sekhri has contested the past seven elections, winning four of them. He has also remained a minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh Cabinet from 2002-07. He is seen as the Hindu face of the party in the area.He has a tight grip over the voters residing in the walled city, but he is seen to be comparatively weak in a majority of the 86-odd villages where the Jat Sikh vote holds sway.Chhotepur is banking on the votes in rural areas while Fateh Jung Bajwa lays claim to the BJP’s hardcore 25,000-strong vote bank. Sherry Kalsi flaunts survey reports to prove he is “miles ahead of his rivals.”Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa is seen as the X-factor who can swing the elections anyway he wants to. He was once a claimant to the Congress ticket from Batala.He is now trying his luck from the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian from where he is also the incumbent MLA. Bajwa has been at daggers drawn with Sekhri for the last couple of years. As a minister he has presided over almost all developmental works in the city much to Sekhri’s dismay. In Pathankot, an interesting three-way contest has developed among Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, Amit Vij of the Congress and Vibhuti Sharma of AAP. Sources say it could be anybody’s game.The other seats where keen contests will be seen are Dera Baba Nanak and Gurdaspur.In Dera Baba Nanak, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is engaged in a fierce contest with Ravi Karan Kahlon of SAD while in Gurdaspur, Raman Bahl of AAP, Barindermeet Singh Pahra of the Congress and Gurbachan Singh Babbehali are all on a par with each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/big-fight-down-to-wire-in-batala-pathankot-371367
20-02-2022||---||Key Seat: Battle of prestige in Lambi segment||Lambi (Muktsar), February 19Lambi, the home turf of Badals, is set to witness a battle of pride on Sunday. Five-time former Chief Minister-cum-SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal is the country’s oldest candidate in the electoral fray against two debutants Gurmeet Singh Khudian (AAP) and Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana (Congress), who are scions of Khudian and Abulkhurana, respectively.If the 94-year-old Badal wins, he will become a 12-time MLA, who has been winning the Assembly elections since 1969. This is Badal’s 13th Assembly elections. He first won the Assembly polls from Malout in 1957 before the reorganisation of the state. He is presently five-time MLA from Lambi.Meanwhile, a day before the elections, the hustle and bustle of SAD workers at the Badals’ residence here at Badal village was missing. Both Sukhbir and Harsimrat had gone to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and the former CM preferred to remain indoors.Sources said elderly Badal remained in touch with SAD activists over the phone and gathered reports of the area. A senior SAD leader said before leaving for Amritsar, Sukhbir met party workers and returned to their areas.Congress candidate Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana, a foster son of late Cabinet Minister Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana, met party workers at his residence and remained busy over his phone. Similarly, AAP candidate Gurmeet Singh Khudian, son of late MP Jagdev Singh Khudian, also met people at his residence at Khudian village, assigned the poll duties to his supporters and visited a few villages too.Meanwhile, a majority of people are silent and not revealing their inclination to any political party. The BJP has fielded its former district chief Rakesh Dhingra, a resident of Mohlan village here, but it did not put its might here as no central or state BJP leader came to canvass for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-seat-battle-of-prestige-in-lambi-segment-371366
20-02-2022||Aman Sood||Big Fight Patiala Urban: Ex-Mayors make it tough for Capt Amarinder Singh||Patiala, February 19It is going to be an uphill battle for former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh as he faces a stiff challenge from two former Mayors fielded by the AAP and Congress and a former councillor of the SAD.All three opponents are making a debut in the Vidhan Sabha, which makes this contest close. “Jat, Hindu and urban Sikh votes are divided and so are loyalties and party affiliations. I have never seen Patiala polls getting so close in my past three decades,” said a political analyst.The former CM, who quit the Congress and formed the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), won the seat in 2017 on a Congress ticket with more than 52,000 votes, defeating AAP’s Dr Balbir Singh. However, with winds of change, the New Moti Bagh Palace, his official residence, is not thronged by supporters in thousands nor is his popularity the same as it was in 2017.The Congress has fielded prominent Hindu face Vishnu Sharma, also a former Mayor. Sharma was Mayor when Amarinder was the CM from 2002-07, but later joined the Akali Dal. When Amarinder left the Congress, he rejoined the ruling party last month.Another challenge comes from AAP candidate Ajitpal Singh Kohli, a former Akali Dal Mayor. Ajitpal’s father Surjit Singh Kohli and grandfather Sardara Singh Kohli remained MLAs from Patiala and ministers in Akali governments. Kohli is banking on anti-incumbency against the sitting MLA.The SAD has fielded former councillor Harpal Juneja, a lawyer who has been actively involved in local politics for over a decade. His father Bhagwan Dass Juneja contested unsuccessfully against Amarinder’s wife Preneet Kaur in the 2015 byelection from Patiala Urban. “It is an open contest. None of the candidates can be sure of a victory, though Capt Amarinder still has the edge, given his political stature,” say voters. “The fact that Capt Amarinder is now banking on PM Modi and propagating the central funds for betterment of Punjab, shows no one is confident,” they add.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/big-fight-patiala-urban-ex-mayors-make-it-tough-for-capt-amarinder-singh-371365
20-02-2022||Chandigarh||Pick-up & drop facility; 700 CAPF companies on guard: Election Commission||Pick-up and drop facility will be provided to senior citizens and persons with disabilities to and from polling booths, Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said on Saturday, a day ahead of the elections to Punjab Assembly.Raju said the state machinery was working round the clock to ensure peaceful, free and fair elections. Polling would be held from 8 am to 6 pm, said a functionary of the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO).S Karuna Raju, Chief Electoral OfficerFlowers for first-time votersBattery-run vehicles, auto-rickshaws and minivans will be at the disposal of senior citizens and persons with disabilities. Young people casting vote for the first time will be given flowers.Raju said arrangements for pick-up and drop facility had been made in each Assembly constituency. “There can be battery-run vehicles, auto-rickshaws and minivans,” Raju said, adding young people casting votes for the first time, would be given flowers.He urged electors to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour at polling stations and added masks, gloves and sanitisers would be provided. Dustbins and coloured bags would be placed for disposal of Covid-waste material, the CEO said.On whether a vaccination certificate was a must at polling stations, Raju said: “There should be no confusion. Voting does not have any connection with vaccination.” A person carrying his voter card has a right to cast his vote, he added.To a question on deployment of security personnel for the polls, the CEO said 700 companies of central armed police forces had been deployed. Besides, the state police personnel would be on duty, he added.Ever since the model code of conduct came into force, various enforcement teams had made seizures of liquor, unaccounted cash and psychotropic substances worth Rs 500.70 crore.In view of the polls, a ban on sale of alcohol in Punjab started at 6 pm on February 18. It will end on February 20 after conclusion of polling. — #punjab polls 2022, election commission||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pick-up-drop-facility-700-capf-companies-on-guard-poll-panel-371363
20-02-2022||GS Paul||Punjab votes: Calls, feedback & prayers, leaders on edge||Amritsar, February 19On the election eve on Saturday, most leaders remained indoors, collecting information from campaign managers, attending innumerable calls and making desperate efforts to plug “loopholes”.At Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Sidhu’s residence, there was a stream of visitors throughout the day.Sidhu talked about his ‘Punjab Model’ animatedly. “I will fight for Punjab till the very end. As the state party chief, I will ensure that the road map to Punjab’s prosperity is implemented,” he was heard telling a group of youngsters, who looked impressed.Observers say though the Congress graph has dived, the ‘united’ show put up by its leaders during the last leg of campaigning could help the party bounce back, with Sidhu vowing not to leave Punjab in the lurch to return to the entertainment industry.Anticipating ‘good results’ Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders chose to keep it low key. Raghav Chadha visited a temple to seek Almighty’s blessings. Most BJP leaders were confident of performing well, arguing that the voters would choose a party they thought would ensure a “secure future” for their children.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has clearly opted for a “Punjab and Panth versus outsider” narrative. It believes polarisation of votes will help the party recover lost ground in the Malwa belt. It has been harping on its “past performance” to woo voters, reiterating its commitment to the rural economy. #punjab polls 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/calls-feedback-prayers-leaders-on-edge-371362
20-02-2022||Chandigarh||Keen contest, Punjab decides today||Punjab is all set for a multi-cornered contest in the Assembly polls as more than 2.14 crore voters would exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 1,304 candidates, including 93 women and two transgenders, across 117 constituencies today.The polling will be conducted from 8 am till 6 pm while the counting of votes will take place on March 10.Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said 4,965 polling stations had been identified as sensitive, of them 2,013 critical and 2,952 vulnerable, due to the possibility of violence and poll code violation. In all, 24,689 polling stations and 51 auxiliary polling stations have been set up at 14,684 locations.The ruling Congress has been banking on decisions like reduction in power tariff and fuel prices, taken during CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s 111-day tenure. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has emerged as a major contender, is eyeing to wrest power while projecting the Delhi model of governance.The stakes are also high for the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which is contesting the polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party after breaking ties with the BJP in 2020 over the farm laws issue. With Sukhbir Singh Badal in the driving seat, the SAD called itself “Punjab’s own party” and promised all-round development in the state.The BJP, which used to be a junior partner during its previous alliance with the SAD, is fighting the elections as a major partner. Entering into an alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-headed SAD (Sanyukt), the saffron party has asked voters to go for a “double-engine government” for “Nawan” (new) Punjab.The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, comprising various Punjab farmer bodies, which had taken part in the agitation against the Centre’s now-repealed farm laws, is contesting the polls too. All major political parties have promised a host of freebies to woo voters. While AAP has promised Rs 1,000 for all women, the Congress has assured Rs 1,100 per month for needy women. The SAD-BSP alliance has promised Rs 2,000 per month to all women heads of blue card holder families (BPL beneficiaries). The Congress and the SAD-BSP alliance have promised one lakh government jobs.The SAD-BSP has promised 75 per cent reservation for state youth in public and private sectors. The BJP-led alliance has made a similar promise, but for the government sector only. AAP has promised up to 300 units of free power while the SAD-BSP promised 400 units of free electricity.Raju said 231 candidates were from national parties, 250 from state parties, 362 from unrecognised parties and 461 Independent. He said 315 candidates were with criminal antecedents. He said there were 1,196 model polling stations, 196 women-managed while 70 would be managed by persons with disability (PwD). He said webcasting would be done at all polling stations.As many as 28,328 ballot units and 24,740 EVM-VVPATs were being used in this election, the Chief Electoral Officer said. There were six Assembly constituencies — Kharar, Sahnewal, Ludhiana South, Payal, Patiala Rural and Patiala — with two ballot units, he said.Raju said apart from three special state observers, the Election Commission had appointed 65 general observers, 50 expenditure observers and 29 police observers. As many as 2,083 sector officers had been deployed to assist polling parties, he said.He said 17 constituencies had been identified as expenditure sensitive. There are 117 dispatch centres and 117 collection centres while 117 EVM strong rooms had been established at 67 locations in the state. He said 4,44,721 persons above 80 years of age, 1,38,116 PwD voters and 162 Covid patients had been offered Form 12D for postal ballot facility. The Chief Electoral Officer said facilities such as potable water, tent, chairs and at least one wheelchair would be provided at every polling station. #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keen-contest-punjab-decides-today-371338
20-02-2022||---||Punjab Poll 2022: CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Sukhbir  Badal, Kejriwal, Moosewala booked for code violations||Mansa/Mohali, February 19An FIR has been registered against Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress candidate Shubhdeep Singh, alias Sidhu Moosewala, for alleged violation of the code of conduct in Mansa on Friday, the last day of the campaigning.CM Channi reportedly engaged in door-to-door campaigning for the Punjabi singer after the 6 pm deadline on Friday. Following a complaint by AAP candidate Vijay Singla, a flying squad conducted a spot verification and found CM Channi campaigning in Mansa despite being a resident of another constituency. Moosewala was also found campaigning with 400 supporters beyond the permissible limit. A case has been lodged at the Mansa City-1 police station. In Bathinda, District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Vineet Kumar said: “A notice was issued by the returning officer to Congress’ Bathinda (Urban) candidate Manpreet Singh Badal for allegedly organising a roadshow without prior permission.”SAD president Sukhbir Badal and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal were booked at the Phase-I police station in Mohali. Sukhbir allegedly made a “vote appeal” and “misguided” the voters. The violation reportedly occurred during the silent period (after 6 pm on February 18). The complaint by the AAP legal cell sought removal of the said video from social media.The case against Kejriwal came on the complaint of a SAD spokesperson that Kejriwal and his party violated the poll code by making false allegations against the SAD and other political parties.Meanwhile, EC officials on Friday night seized sewing machines, masks and other material from the Sector 78 residence of Amarjit Singh Sidhu in Mohali. He is the younger brother of Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu. ADC (General) Komal Mittal said, “A case has been registered and the police are investigating whether the seized material relates to the elections or not.” #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/violations-cm-sukhbir-kejri-moosewala-booked-371339
20-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||The Tribune INTERVIEW: Punjab needs govt run from within state, says Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||New Delhi, Feb 19Punjab needs a government run from within the state and "not parties like AAP and SAD that succumb to pressures of the BJP", Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Saturday.In an exclusive interview to the Tribune on Punjab election eve, Priyanka attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the charge of family-run parties being the biggest threat to democracy and said "the greatest danger to democracy is a PM who believes he is an emperor". The AICC general secretary, in charge of Uttar Pradesh, and party’s top campaigner for Punjab questioned AAP over allegations of separatist sympathy and said the Arvind Kejriwal led Delhi government was among the first to notify the black farm laws and "accept BJP's ideology." She also spoke of the Congress stakes in current polls and why the party projected Charanjit Channi as its CM face.Excerpts:How significant is the current election cycle for national politics and the Congress? How many states are you expecting to win?Every election is significant for National politics as it indicates the mood of the electorate and establishes the path the nation is on. We are fighting hard in all states, even those in which our organisation was previously defunct like UP. It’s the first time we are fighting in 400 seats there after thirty years. I am hopeful that people are beginning to understand how destructive the BJP’s politics has been for the nation. We desperately need a politics of development to pull our country out of the social and economic strife the BJP has brought upon it. I feel the Congress provides the only alternative with experience in governance and a clear direction for the economy and for progress. I am sure the public understands this. Event management and governance are two different things. A country cannot be run successfully on the former.What is the Congress Party's core message for Punjab?The core message for Punjab is to bring in a stable and strong government which focuses on creating jobs, curbing price rise, supporting farmers to flourish once more and working tirelessly for the upliftment of the poor. Punjab needs a government that reflects its character and stands for the rights of the people of Punjab; a government that is run from within the state. It can neither be run by the BJP nor by any party that succumbs to pressure from the BJP whether it is the Akali Dal or the AAP.Apart from anti-incumbency, what are your top challenges in Punjab?Our fight is against rising prices and unemployment caused by irresponsible actions of the central government. These are the top challenges along with strengthening the health and education infrastructure and solidly supporting small and medium businesses and agriculture to pull these sectors out of the pain inflicted by the government’s policies. CM Charanjit Channi ji has taken decisive steps to bring things back on course, reduced the electricity tariff and waived off outstanding water dues to reduce the burden on people. We are confident that given a five year term the peace and prosperity Punjab will see under Channi ji will transform the state,  generate large scale employment for Punjab’s youth and enable farmers to become prosperous again.Why’s there a feeling that the Congress wasn’t as proactive in Punjab as it could have been? You were the last to declare a CM face?I cannot speak for why this feeling prevailed. Our party has been working tirelessly since Channi ji took over. He has been more than proactive in taking brave decisions for the people of Punjab including taking on the drug mafia of the state. Personally, I don’t know of any other government that has been as decisive in a mere 111 days as Channi ji’s government has.How big a factor is farmers' agitation in these elections?The entire episode spells out the BJP’s politics starkly: They brought in laws that would have handed over the agricultural sector to a few of their billionaire friends without any discussion with lakhs of affected farmers.They refused to acknowledge the suffering being caused by the imposition of these laws.  They refused to speak to the agitating farmers and used every conceivable measure to oppress them including violence.They did nothing as 700 farmers sacrificed their lives during the agitation. Instead their propaganda machine and their top most leaders called the agitators anti-national, terrorists.Those same leaders turned a blind eye when their colleague’s son trampled six farmers to death. They took no action on him until there was a public uproar.Then the election came along. Suddenly, the Prime Minister found it in his heart to shed tears and apologise to the agitating farmers. He repealed the laws not because he listened to their pain but because it was about to cost him the election. His government still refuses to acknowledge the martyred farmers and enables the minister’s son to get bail.The reason this should be a major factor in the election is because this chain of events has completely exposed not only the BJP but also all those parties like AAP that accepted the Black Laws and succumbed to the BJP’s ideology.In UP, you are stressing development based politics but in Punjab the Congress has played the Scheduled Caste card by projecting the first SC CM?I don’t think these two issues are mutually exclusive. It’s not a question of “playing” the SC card. Development is about opportunity, it is about empowerment and it is about leadership that reflects the struggles and aspirations of the people. What better representation of this can there be than Channi ji? He has risen from the roots of Punjab, he understands and represents the people of Punjab, he is capable, hard-working, politically courageous and extremely astute. Why should his assumption of responsibility be defined as the playing of a caste card? Are his capabilities and his experience of no consequence to political commentators just because he happens to be Scheduled caste?PM Modi has been saying that family run parties are a danger to democracy. He has accused the Congress of divide and rule. Your comments?The greatest danger to democracy is a Prime Minister who believes he is an emperor, bullies the judiciary and the media, destroys the institutions upon which democracy stands, puts down dissent with force and violence, prioritizes monopolists in policy making and weakens the parliament. In any case, I would like to respectfully ask him why he has taken practically all the dynasts of the Congress party into his party and given them plum positions? If he is so averse to political families then why indeed do so many such families and their offspring flourish in the BJP?How do you view AAP’s claim that it stands for common man and development in Punjab? It’s a completely hollow claim.. The AAP leadership has zero experience in governance. It runs a government that does not have the capability to pass a single file without the permission of the BJP run central government. It does not even have the Delhi police under it. How can it claim to understand governance and delivery?The AAP government has not built a single hospital or a single educational institution during its term. The COVID pandemic wreaked havoc in Delhi. How can development take place without employment opportunities?Kejriwal Ji’s government has provided only 440 jobs during its entire term in Delhi- this is a staggering figure. It reveals the truth about the AAP government’s claims. Moreover, any shopkeeper or small businessman in Delhi will tell you that they have done nothing to provide support to small businesses through the tremendous difficulties they have been facing due to the BJP’s flawed policies. What makes you say AAP emerged from the RSS?Their movement was fully supported by the RSS. They were one of the first governments to notify the Kisan laws. Kejriwal ji stayed the night in the home of a known separatist during the last elections, not to mention the latest revelations by some founding members of the AAP party. They can hardly claim to provide security to the people of Punjab. #priyanka gandhi, #punjab polls 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-needs-govt-run-from-within-state-371347
20-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab all set for assembly polls, 2,952 polling stations recognised as vulnerable||Punjab is all set for polls on Sunday with the Office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) making all arrangements to ensure free, fair and peaceful elections in the state.Briefing the media, Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said the entire state machinery is working round the clock to ensure peaceful, free and fair elections.He said that as many as 2,14,99,804 electorates, including 1,12,98,081 male, 1,02,00,996 female and 727 transgenders are set to cast their votes. There are 1,304 candidates—1,209 male, 93 women and two transgenders, in fray in 117 constituencies, he added.He said that of total 1,304 candidates 231 are from national parties, 250 from state parties, 362 from unrecognised parties, while 461 are Independent candidates. He said that as many as 315 contesting candidates have criminal antecedents.Raju said that 24,689 polling stations and 51 auxiliary polling stations had been established at 14,684 polling station locations of which 2,013 had been identified as critical, while 2,952 were vulnerable.He said that there would be 1,196 model polling stations, 196 women-managed polling stations and 70 for persons with disabilities. He said that webcasting of all the polling stations is being done.He said that as many as 28,328 ballot units and 24,740 EVM-VVPATs are being used. There are six Assembly constituencies - Kharar, Sahnewal, Ludhiana South, Payal, Patiala Rural and Patiala with two ballot units, he added.The CEO said that apart from three special state observers, the Election Commission had appointed 65 general observers, 50 expenditure observers and 29 police observers, who were keeping a close vigil. As many as 2,083 sector officers have been deployed to assist polling parties, he added.He said 17 Assembly constituencies had been identified as expenditure-sensitive. There are 117 dispatch centres and 117 collection centres, while 117 EVM strong rooms had been established at 67 locations, he said.He said assured minimum facilities (AMF), including potable water, tent and chairs and at least one wheelchair at every polling station would be assured.Besides, every polling station will have Covid material, including gloves, sanitisers, soaps and masks, while, dustbins and colour bags would be placed for disposal of Covid waste material. He said food and refreshments would be provided to the polling staff.Raju urged electors to adhere to Covid protocol, including wearing masks and maintaining social distance.He said 4,44,721 people above 80, 1,38,116 people with disabilities and 162 Covid patients had been offered Form 12D for the postal ballot facility.The CEO said 3,48,836 electors of 18-19 years age group would exercise their right of franchise this time and all district administrations are taking adequate steps to motivate first-time voters.Raju said 9,966 GPS-enabled vehicles are being used for election-related duties. He said over 5,000 buses are being used to send polling parties to polling stations.Giving the briefing about law and order, Raju said police parties deployed across the state had been conducting thorough search to check the flow of liquor, narcotics and money.He said that since the model code of conduct came into force, various enforcement teams had seized valuables worth Rs 500.7 crore till February 18.He said the Punjab Excise surveillance teams had seized 58.18 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 35.43 crore. Similarly, the enforcement wings had also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to Rs 368.6 crore besides confiscating Rs 32.52 crore in unaccounted cash, he added.Raju said 3,467 FIRs had been registered in the state from January 9 to February 18. He said of total 3,467 FIRs, 93 are related to IPC, 22 RP Act, 203 Property Defacement, 40 Covid-related, 902 related with NDPS, 2,109 of excise, 80 regarding arms besides 18 others.He said 17 notices had been issued for causing noise pollution since the model code of conduct came into force.Raju said the state had been declared dry from 6pm on February 18 till conclusion of polls on February 20 and there will be complete ban on sale of liquor during this period. #ceo #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/punjab-all-set-for-polls-on-sunday-2952-polling-stations-recognised-as-vulnerable-371286
20-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Key seat: AAP's undercurrent worrisome for heavyweights Navjot Sidhu and Bikram Majithia in Amritsar East||Tribune News Service Amritsar, February 19In cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu’s den, his party’s CM face Charanjit Singh Channi echoes among voters, who are divided in criticism for Sidhu’s inaccessibility, rude and overbearing behaviour but praise for his clean honest image. The ‘double engine’ of the Congress may have the last laugh even as battle hardened after Amritsari’s SAD candidate Bikram Singh Majithia’s courageous move to take on Sidhu in his own den. Paramjit Singh sitting on a chair outside the infamous colony of widows -- Maqboolpura says, “I have no love lost for Sidhu or any Congress leader. It is Charanjit Singh Channi I would be voting for. No government has been able to contain drugs and drug deaths in our colony. Channi has done much in few months he got. He is our leader.” Baljinder Singh, another resident, echoes, “The Congress did well by making Channi the CM face. The double engine Sidhu and Channi of the Congress would pull the government’s train well to progress.” Sher Singh, who lost his two brothers and a brother-in-law is the only bread-earner of the family now. “My sister’s husband died due to drugs three months ago. No politician visited us. Channi sounds sincere. He can contain drugs. Several residents gave examples of free supply of drugs in the colony continuing unabated.”Majithia’s challenge to Sidhu in latter’s den has also won several hearts. Gupreet Singh, a resident of Golden Gates Residential Society, said that he had turned a fan of Majithia. “He has the dare to challenge Sidhu. He is a big leader of SAD. He will get many votes, but for Randeep Kaur the election scene is just a tamasha, “Our area is remembered only during elections or on special days concerning drugs abuse. The politician and the media forgets us later. This election tamasha would also be over in two days.” She shifts restless in her charpoy outside her house. Election fever and fervour hits with full crescendo, unlike other parts of the state lacking colour and usual election din. Political flags adorn housetops, cut-outs of candidates dot road-sides and dangle dangerously on electricity poles, as the titans try their luck in the elections. The candidates seem to have not spared an inch of space at many places to put up billboards and posters. This is beside the umpteen offices that have sprung up on both sides of the road leading to the constituency.“Do not go by the number of flags of any party or candidate. You do not know who will emerge the dark horse,” is the first advice of the voters as one enters. “The predominance of one party’s flag may be a good indicator of who is winning but not this time, at least in this constituency, said Parminder Singh, pointing towards his grey beard as sign of his experience, “ It is just money and muscle power.”BJP candidate Dr Jagmohan Raju is not lagging behind in presence in any way but Jiwanjot Kaur of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) can emerge as dark horse, as she enjoys an undercurrent of support in the February 20 elections.“Sidhu did not get us a job in compensation for the tragic loss of my son Dalbir Singh Ghuggu in the Dasehra train mishap. We got monetary compensation from the state and centre government but no healing balm from our local MLA. He has not visited us for long as well,” says Swaran Kaur in street No 2 near the infamous Jorra Phatak where the mishap took place. Stresses his friend Gursharan Singh standing near a roof top full of Akali flags,” we have seen all parties and their promises. This time we will go for the AAP. They are not loud mouth and are maintaining grace.” Use of harsh language by Sidhu and Majithia against each other and later apology for the same is already much talked about. But Ranbir Johal, a businessman brushes it aside. “It is high pitch and high prestige political battle. Some fireworks are necessary. And Amritsaris call a spade a spade. Sidhu Dhakkad Banda hai. “Here is sitting a group of burly Sardars determined to vote for Sidhu, “Yes. There has been an issue of accessibility of Sidhu and use of rough language but we are overlooking it. His wife Navjot Kaur did not lose touch with the area residents. Sidhu is an international name. He is an honest man. How many honest politicians are there these days?” he asks.“And he did not indulge in political vendetta against Akali workers all these years. We cannot vote for drugs and goonda raj. We are witnessing it since the election scene heated up,” his two friends stress but don’t want to disclose their identity. “We are business persons, you know.” #bikram singh majithia #navjot singh sidhu #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/punjab-polls-aaps-undercurrent-worrisome-for-heavyweights-sidhu-and-majithia-371280
