21-02-2022||Chandigarh||DRTs for Punjab, Haryana, UT get presiding officers||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Department of Financial Services for the appointment of former District and Sessions Judges Man Mohan Dhonchak and Anand Sagar Narang as the presiding officers of two Debts Recovery Tribunals in Chandigarh.In all, the appointments of presiding officers in 18 Debts Recovery Tribunals across India have been approved. The DRTs in Chandigarh have jurisdiction over the states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Narang, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-I, was Rohtak District and Sessions Judge, while Dhonchak, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-II, was Gurugram District and Sessions Judge prior to retirement upon attaining the age of superannuation.DRT-I has jurisdiction over Punjab and Himachal, while DRT-II has jurisdiction over Haryana and Chandigarh. The appointments come at a time when the Supreme Court and High Courts have been criticizing the Central Government for not filling up the DRT vacancies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drts-for-punjab-haryana-ut-get-presiding-officers-371854
21-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Punjab polls: FIR against Sonu Sood for 'influencing voters to vote for his sister Malvika Sood in Moga||Moga, February 21In a late night development after seeking opinion from the Election Commission, the Moga Police have registered an FIR under section 188 of the IPC for violation of prohibitory orders issued by the district magistrate with regard to the model code of conduct for the assembly elections.In the FIR, Sonu has been accused of campaigning to influence the voters for his sisterMalvika Sood. She is contesting election on Congress’s ticket from Moga.It has been alleged that Sonu was not a voter in the Moga assembly constituency, therefore, he was not authorised to move out and “influence” the voters or campaign for any political party or candidate.It may be mentioned that the Election Commission on Sunday restrained Sonu Sood from visiting polling stations in Moga over complaints that he was influencing the voters.The car in which he was travelling was impounded by the police and he was asked to go back to his residence and stay there.Yesterday, the local officials claimed that Sonu Sood was going from one polling booth to another, which some political parties found objectionable, due to which, he was asked to go back and stay at his residence.However, in the FIR, there was no mention of any complaint against him. A police official, Harpreet Singh, deputed on election duty claimed that he got secret information from an informer that Sonu was campaigning for his sister. When he (police officer) reached the spot Sonu was found sitting in a car outside a polling station at Landeke village.Before leaving for Mumbai, Sonu Sood, however, denied the allegations. "I'm a permanent resident of Moga city. I was born and brought-up here. I own a house and some shops in Moga. How could I be an outsider,” he questioned? “I have not asked anyone to vote for my sister or campaigned for her on the day of polling”, he claimed.“The Akali candidate, Barjinder Singh Brar alias Makhan Brar, was threatening our workers sitting in the party booth located outside the polling station, which was set-up with the permission of the election commission.“I went out to boost the morale of our workers who were sitting in the party booth to ensure free and fair polling for the assembly election”, he said while adding that he did not even get out of his car.Sonu alleged, “We have filed a complaint against Makhan Brar with the election commission and the local administration for legal action but no action has been taken against him”. #Punjabpolls #SonuSood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fir-against-sonu-sood-for-influencing-voters-to-vote-for-his-sister-malvika-sood-371775
21-02-2022||Sheetal||On International Mother Language Day, Punjabi celebs highlight the importance of maa boli||What is a nation without a mother tongue? – Jack Edwards, authorInternational Mother Language Day is celebrated each year on February 21 to promote awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity and to promote multilingualism. This year’s theme is Using Technology for Multilingual Learning: Challenges and Opportunities. Punjab is a state which sees a sizable population youth population migrating to foreign shores, so it is the need of the hour to preserve the beautiful language for generations to come and encourage them to read, write and speak. Some Punjabi celebs share how they are doing their bit for their mother tongue...This is how it startedFirst announced by UNESCO on November 17, 1999, it was formally recognised in 2002 by the United Nations General Assembly with the adoption of UN resolution. Did you know that the idea to celebrate International Mother Language Day was proposed by our neighbouring country Bangladesh? In Bangladesh, February 21 is the anniversary of the day when the people of Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) fought for recognition for the Bangla language which is also celebrated in West Bengal, India.Fun phoneticsIn our country there are so many languages but phonetics in Punjabi are ear-friendly, bouncy and fun. That’s why Punjabi songs stand out. I believe music is the best way to propagate our language. Believe it or not, all our songs, be it Chittiyaan Kalaiyaan or Baby Doll, which are in chaste Punjabi, are sung by many South Indians even if they don’t know the lyrics. In my opinion after Hindi songs, Punjabi songs are widely heard across India. We are happy and lucky to always bring Punjabi tracks to Bollywood. Through technology such as streaming platforms we are being heard across the country and overseas.”Manmeet Singh of Meet BrosLucky and responsibleI’m lucky to be born in a family which has their roots deep into Punjabi language. I’ve always been a fan of this language and Punjabi culture. And that’s one reason for my love for Punjabi folk music. Under my music act, The Collective Projekt, I’ve been working on reviving the Punjabi folk music. Technology is a big help in bringing us closer to our roots. There are so many apps that teach the language.I believe Punjabi music has become huge. It’s everywhere. Every Bollywood movie has at least one Punjabi track. And the entire marketing is done on that track. Punjabi artistes are having sold out events, even in the non-Punjabi speaking cities, which is one way to popularising our mother tongue.Sameer Singh Sandhu, music producerPride in PunjabiThere’s a famous saying of Nelson Mandela- “If you talk to a man in a language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his language, that goes to his heart.” Mother language is not mere words, but strong emotions that connect you with yourself, your family and your people. The Punjabi language is our pride. Parents should encourage their children to appreciate their mother tongue, so that they feel proud to speak it freely and confidently. The government too need to ensure that schools pay equal importance to Punjabi.Many apps on smartphones and tablets allow learners an interactive and fun way to learn Punjabi by using their phones and tablets. Educational websites teaching Punjabi language shall be a boon for society. Punjabi will be nourished only by constant use and that we should celebrate not only this day but every day as Maa Boli Diwas.Balraj Singh Khehra, actorMusical routeTechnology helps people learn a language. From pronunciation to meaning of a word to its context, digitalisation has an immense contribution. And the way Punjabi words have seeped into Hindi songs! It is because of Punjabi singers are propagating their language. So through music, a language can be promoted.Ragini Tandan, singerBack to the basicsTo respect your mother tongue, one has to start from Uda Aida, and consciously refrain from using English words while conversing in Punjabi. Only this can help in promoting Punjabi language. As far as artistes are concerned they are doing every bit to promote and educate the younger generations settled abroad through songs, films and stories. Also, more stress should be given to children’s literature, as they have English nursery rhymes. Punjabi language rhymes can help children learn their mother-tongue. Prince Rakhdi, lyricist #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/talking-points-371678
21-02-2022||---||Out on parole, Beant Singh murder convict Shamsher Singh votes for first time in Patiala||Patiala, February 20Shamsher Singh, convicted of the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, who was released on parole, exercised his right to vote today. He cast his vote for the first time along with his wife at Pilkhani village, near Rajpura in Patiala district.The 66-year-old Shamsher had been sentenced to life imprisonment for the assassination of Beant Singh in 1995.Talking to The Tribune, Shamsher said during his younger days he went abroad for a job. When he came back, he was immediately arrested and sentenced. Since 1995, I am in jail. I voted for the first time in my life on Sunday.Shamsher said though he got parole after 2014, but not during the elections. “This is the first time that I am out on parole and elections are being held. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I exercised my right to vote,” he added.He appealed voters to cast their votes to enrich the festival of democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-out-on-parole-murder-convict-votes-for-first-time-371721
21-02-2022||Chandigarh||Coin collection, artefacts, gatka  mark daylong SIKHlens festival in Chandigarh||The third edition of one-day SIKHlens Festival (India chapter) culminated at Tagore Theatre here today.Retired marathon runner Sardar Fauja Singh was felicitated at the event and a film based on his life – “Fauja Singh Going the Distance” - was also announced.From the display of coin collection and artefacts of history to books made available on Sikhism literature to musical and gatka performances, the event had all things covered under the entertainment section. Not to forget, 24 films including narratives, documentary, musical and animation as it were the highlight of the festival bringing Sikh stories to the foreground.Eminent personalities and organisations of the likes of Bahadur Singh, Rashpal Singh Dhindsa, United Sikh Mission, Dhan Sri Guru Ram Dass Langar Seva and Parminder Singh were honoured for their exemplary work towards mankind, humanity, society, culture, education and environment.The SIKHlens publication also used this opportunity to launch their book – “Jewels from Sikh Wisdom...A journey of Discovery” - by Harinder Singh.The hosts for the festival were Gurpreet Kaur and Bicky Singh, founders, Sikhlens, and Ojaswwee Sharma, India Head & Festival Director, Sikhlens. World premiere of Ojaswwee’s film “Sarbat Da Bhala” was chosen as the closing film of the event.He said: “From next year onwards, we will have a two-day festival and will also increase the number of films showcased in the festival.”Poetry reading by Jatin Salwan, special gatka performance by Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Ji Gatka Akhara, special performance by veteran Punjabi singer Dolly Guleria and her daughter Sunaini Sharma, performance by bodybuilders and fitness enthusiasts featuring 78-year-old Tripat Singh were also the attraction points of the festival. — #fauja singh #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coin-collection-artefacts-gatka-mark-daylong-sikhlens-festival-371691
21-02-2022||2 hurt as Sidhu||2 hurt as Navjot Sidhu, Bikram Majithia supporters clash||Altercation between key contestants seen in Amrisar NorthAmritsar: Blame and counter blames were made by key contestants in the Amritsar North constituency posing a tension-like situation during the last leg of the polling process here. The main contest here is between the IG-turned-politician Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, AAP candidate and former minister and SAD candidate Anil Joshi. It is alleged that the supporters of both the sides indulged in altercation around 6pm when the doors were closed at polling booth number 117 and 119 located in Gurukul Public School. Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh demanded a re-poll in both the booths while alleging that the contestants of opposite parties tried to influence the voters who were inside the closed polling station. He said he had informed the DGP and the Police Commissioner and returning officers in this regard. He claimed to have captured a video of the whole episode. He alleged that at least 500 outsiders gained access to create a ruckus. He said 200 voters who were inside the complex left without casting their votes out of fear. On the other hand, Joshi claimed that Kunwar tried to misuse his position as former IG to influence the cops who were on duty and was asking the voters to vote in his favour which was highly objectionable. This had agitated the workers who gathered outside the school premises. Prabhjot Singh Virk, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said the matter was resolved and the polling was executed in a fair manner. — PK JaiswarIt’s old vs new in Jandiala, Baba BakalaAmritsar: In rural areas, the idea of change as proposed by the Aam Aadmi Party seems to have caught the fancy of teenagers and people in early 20s, whom the elderly refer to as ‘mandeer’ (young and immature men). However, this ‘mandeer’ seemed to have given a tough competition to seasoned and experienced cadre of traditional political parties. From managing the party booths to holding the charge of polling agents, they seemed to have learnt it all. In comparison to other four rural segments, the idea seems more close to the hearts of the youth in two reserved constituencies — Jandiala and Baba Bakala. Interestingly, in both these constituencies, AAP candidates had fared well even during the 2017 Assembly elections. In Jandiala, AAP candidate Harbhajan Singh ETO had polled nearly 34,000 votes in 2017. In Baba Bakala, the party candidate Dalbir Singh Tong polled nearly 40,000 votes. The party had again fielded the duo from their respective constituencies. The Congressmen and SAD leaders from the constituencies, however, dismissed the support AAP is getting by claiming that people still listen to the old leaders in villages. It would be interesting to watch if the young and inexperienced would manage to break the citadels of the old guard. — Manmeet Singh GillVoters mask upAmritsar: The Covid-19 instructions were followed at polling stations in the district. The voters were not allowed to cast vote without masks. The masks were distributed inside the polling station. During a visit to several polling booths in the Attari, Jandiala, Baba Bakala and Majitha constituencies, it was observed that health staff was offering free masks and gloves to every voter. Infrared forehead thermometers for testing of Covid-19 were also being used on some of the polling stations. Saroup Singh, Senior Health officer at Khankot village, said, “It is mandatory to wear mask while casting vote. As per the guidelines, we are offering masks, sanitisers and gloves to the voters. The Health Department made these arrangements on all booths.” It has also been observed that after casting votes vote, the voters were throwing the used masks on roadside and outside the polling station. — Charanjit Singh TejaPoll violation: Former sarpanch bookedTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police have booked Gurmej Singh, former sarpanch of Bhagwanpur village, for violating Model Code of Conduct. The accused was organising a gathering of about 90 villagers and serving liquor to them. ASI Naresh Kumar, Investigating Officer (IO), said the accused had violated the instructions issued by the Election Commission and the District Magistrate. The ASI said a case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered. — Gurbaxpuri #bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-the-people-for-the-people-by-the-people-371670
21-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna & Rajmeet Singh||70% turnout in Punjab election, Malwa leads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20Dithering till the very end, nearly 70 per cent voters turned out to elect the 16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Sunday. The usual hustle-bustle at polling booths was missing. Only those supporting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spoke animatedly about their political affiliation. Party workers of the ruling Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) maintained a stoic silence.Voting percentage stood at 77.4 in 2017As The Tribune team traversed through the length and breadth of the state, it was evident that traditional parties had managed to retain their cadre vote though in several constituencies workers seemed reluctant to throw their weight behind candidates fielded by allies because of the “choice” of the candidate or infighting, or both. Farmers’ political outfit, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, which had hoped to benefit from the successful farmers’ stir, failed to catch the fancy of voters. In Chamkaur Sahib, one of the two constituencies where CM Charanjit Singh Channi is in the fray, urban and semi-urban voters in Morinda and Chamkaur Sahib said they were backing him because of the development works he had initiated during the past three months. However, in rural areas, AAP seemed to have the edge. In Nawanshahr, the Congress could be at a disadvantage owing to the rebellion by Angad Saini, who is contesting as an Independent. This could benefit BSP’s Nachhatar Pal Singh. In Banga, the party fielded Tarlochan Soondh a few days prior to the closing of nominations. The delay in his nomination seems to have benefited Akali Dal’s Sukhwinder Sukhi. AAP, though popular among the economically weaker sections, is unlikely to do well in the Doaba belt. The BJP-led alliance seems to have done well in Jalandhar district.Riding high on “badlao”, AAP seemed to have lost some of its sheen on the polling day, especially in the crucial Malwa region comprising 69 of the 117 Assembly seats. What may have upset the AAP applecart is not only the “terrorist link” slur hurled at its party leaders, but also strategic poll management. In the AAP stronghold of Sangrur and Barnala districts, the SAD (Amritsar) put up posters of actor Deep Sidhu, who was killed in a road accident recently, weaning away a section of AAP voters in Amargarh, Bhadaur and Mehal Kalan. AAP seemed to be going strong in Malwa, but Dera Sacha Sauda’s message to its followers on Saturday, asking them to support BJP and Akali Dal candidates, may have dented AAP’s vote base. In several seats in Ludhiana where till two days ago AAP had the edge, the BJP succeeded in polarising voters. As a result, AAP may now get only two or three seats.The fight at most places in Malwa is between AAP and SAD with the Congress, that had won 40 seats in this region in 2017, facing anti-incumbency. In a multi-cornered contest this time, the SAD and AAP seem to be on the upswing. At a polling booth in Amloh, there was a rush outside both SAD and AAP booths. In Fatehgarh Sahib and Bassi Pathana, young voters are staunchly with AAP, swayed by the promise of jobs, world-class education and health facilities. The party is likely to do well here.Jaila Ram of Fatehgarh Sahib said he had voted for AAP because he believed it would provide good schools and colleges. In Majha, infighting among Congress leaders seems to have worked to SAD’s advantage. #dera sacha sauda #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/70-turnout-in-punjab-malwa-leads-371622
21-02-2022||Aman Sood||Malwa: Brisk polling in crucial belt||Patiala, February 20Punjab woke up to a sunny morning on Sunday with long queues at various polling stations in the Malwa belt — believed to hold the key to the formation of the next government. Majority of the voters were youngsters, eager to exercise thier franchise for “change” in this belt where three chief ministerial faces and three former CMs are in the fray.3 CM candidates in frayBhagwant Mann DhuriSukhbir Badal JalalabadCharanjit Channi BhadaurMinus the stray incidents of violence, the Malwa belt, comprising 69 Vidhan Sabha seats, voted peacefully with a few FIRs registered for poll code violation and minor skirmishes among workers.The entire Malwa region saw constant strategy modifications, midway course correction and change of tactics by political parties in the run -up to the high-stakes Assembly elections. The general mood witnessed at various places in the Malwa belt was for change.Punjab Lok Congress founder and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he was sure of a win in the Assembly elections. “As per reports, the Congress will be wiped out from Punjab,” he said, after casting his vote.Brisk polling was witnessed in all districts of the Malwa region, including Bathinda, Muktsar, Mansa, Ferozepur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Faridkot, Fazilka, Moga, Sangrur and Ropar, where the turnout was heavy. Women and youth voters outnumbered men at many polling booths. They started queuing at the polling booths even before the polling time. “I have come to vote for the first time and play my role in the formation of the new government in the state. We need an accountable government and a responsible Opposition,” said Aadishwar Ahluwalia, a law student at Punjabi University.In Patiala, 72.5 per cent votes were polled. In Ferozepur, around 70 per cent people exercised their franchise. There were minor skirmishes reported also.At some places, EVM machines developed snag and were replaced.Earlier in the day, the situation became tense when Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and BJP workers clashed at Gatti Rajoke village in Ferozepur. An AAP worker was injured in the clash. In another incident, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress workers clashed at Mallanwala block in Zira segment. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan and SSP Narinder Bhargav reached the spot to control the situation. In Patiala, a person was injured in a fight between supporters of Congress and Akalis.In Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla districts, voters came out in large numbers. The polling in Bathinda and Mansa remained by and large peaceful, except an incident of firing in the air and attack on the vehicle of SAD former Councillor Harjinder Tony at Naruana Road in Amarpura Basti. The polling was 76.20 per cent in Bathinda. Three Assembly constituencies of Faridkot district recorded 66.53 per cent polling at 5 pm. The Faridkot constituency recorded 76 per cent voting.The turnout in the Kotkapura and Jaito constituencies was 65.90 and 66.67 per cent, respectively. The voter turnout in Ludhiana was recorded at 64 per cent till 7.15 pm, with district officials saying the figures may go up slightly when the entire data is tabulated. This was over 10 per cent less than 74.74 per cent polling recorded in the district during the 2017 Assembly elections, which gave eight seats to the Congress, three to the AAP, two to the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and one to the SAD. Ludhiana’s voter turnout was also over 4 per cent less than the state’s average of 68.5 per cent polling.For the first time AAP and BJP added a lot of spice to the high-voltage elections, with AAP riding high on its popularity graph among the youth, especially in villages. Even as the SAD-BSP combine and BJP and its allies are all confident of a victory, it seems to be a close call on majority of the seats. It all now leads to a wait and watch game till the final results are out on the counting day on March 10.The three chief ministerial candidates in fray from Malwa include AAP’s Bhagwant Mann from Dhuri, SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal from Jalalabad and Congress CM face Charanjit Singh Channi. Former CMs whose fates were sealed in Malwa today include Punjab Lok Congress candidate Capt Amarinder Singh from Patiala (urban), Rajinder Kaur Bhattal of Congress and former CM Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi.(With inputs from Bathinda, Ferozepur, Ludhiana, Faridkot & Sangrur)65-yr-old dies at Bathinda boothBathinda: A 65-year-old voter who had come to cast his ballot in the Bhucho constituency allegedly died after suffering a heart attack at a polling station in Bathinda. The deceased, Harbansh Singh, a resident of Aklia Kalan village in Bhucho, had come to cast his vote around 11 am. TNSSukhbir’s daughter skips votingBadal (Lambi): SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal's younger daughter Gurleen Kaur did not cast her vote on Sunday. His son Anantveer, 20, who had campaigned for ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal, is not enrolled as a voter. Gurleen was studying abroad and couldn’t come to vote. TNSIndependent moves EC against DhillonRopar: Davinder Singh Bajwa, an Independent supported by the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, has lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer against Congress candidate from Ropar Barinder Singh Dhillon after he posted a video purportedly giving an impression as if the latter had extended his support to him. TNSFIR against Bains for code violationMohali: The police booked senior SAD leader Harcharan Singh Bains for posting a video on YouTube with SAD election symbol in the background on February 19. The Police said a case was registered as it was a violation of the silent period of model code of conduct. TNS #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brisk-polling-in-crucial-belt-371585
21-02-2022||GS Paul||Majha: Rural voters out in large numbers||Amritsar, February 20Voting passed of peacefully in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts of the Majha region, which saw a drop in voters’ turnout at the polling stations in comparison to 2017.Amritsar witnessed an overall turnout of 62.68 per cent, Tarn Taran 64.9 per cent, Gurdaspur 71 per cent and Pathankot 73 per cent. In 2017, the overall voter turnout in Amritsar was 71.5 per cent, Tarn Taran 74.25 per cent, Gurdaspur 74.2 per cent and Pathankot 76.14 per cent.A total of 117 candidates are in the fray from Amritsar, 46 from Tarn Taran district, 70 from Gurdaspur and 24 from Pathankot.In Amritsar’s 11 Assembly segments, the rural belt voters showed more enthusiasm in voting in comparison to their urban counterparts. The average voter turnout remained consistently high in six rural constituencies — Ajnala (76.1 per cent), Majitha (70.2), Rajasansi (68.8), Jandiala (66.6) and Baba Bakala (64.4) and Attari (64).Among the five urban constituencies, keenly watched Amritsar East constituency saw lukewarm polling in the early hours, but it gathered pace to reach 63.3 per cent till reports last came in. This was followed by Amritsar North, another hot seat, where the voting percentage was 55.9. The Amritsar Central reported 55.2 per cent, Amritsar West 54.4 per cent and Amritsar South 50.2 per cent voting. The fight is chiefly between the two traditional parties — Congress and the SAD-BSP alliance. However, the undercurrent of the AAP too can also not be ignored, if the disenchantment with the traditional parties is any indication.Surprisingly, the AAP seems to have penetrated in the rural areas of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, the core Panthic belt, making a triangular contest. In Amritsar’s Baba Bakala, Congress’ sitting MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur is facing threat majorly from AAP’s Dalbir Singh Tong. Similarly, a close triangular fight is being viewed at Ajnala, where AAP’s former Majha in charge Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal has made its presence felt among Congress’ sitting MLA and candidate Harpartap Singh Ajnala and SAD’s former MLA Amarpal Singh Bony.In Jandiala, AAP’s Harbhajan Singh is challenging Congress’ working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny (sitting MLA). In Tarn Taran, barring the Tarn Taran seat, AAP candidates have caught the fancy of voters in Khadoor Sahib, Khemkaran and Patti. #majha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-voters-out-in-large-numbers-371586
21-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Doaba: Enthusiasm at pink booths||Jalandhar, February 20Except for a minor altercation between workers of rival parties in Jalandhar Central constituency and dharna by Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party workers at Phagwara, polling passed on peacefully across 23 Assembly segments of Doaba region today.The poll percentage remained significantly down this time as compared to the last two elections. Jalandhar reported a poll percentage of 65.2 per cent as against 73.16 per cent in 2017 and 75.15 per cent in 2012. Of the total 16.67 lakh voters in Jalandhar district, only 10.86 lakh cast their vote this time.In the three constituencies of Nawanshahr, poll percentage was down to 70.1 per cent from 78.1 per cent last time. In Kapurthala, the turnout dropped to 67.97 per cent as compared to 74 per cent in 2017. The seven constituencies of Hoshiarpur reported a poll percentage of 67.01 per cent as compared to 73 per cent in the last elections. The officials, however, said the figures were being continuously updated as per reports and there could be some minor changes.The good part this time was that as compared to previous years, there were less technical snags in the EVMs. Polling went on smoothly at almost all 1975 polling booths of Jalandhar. Four ballot units, four control units and 68 VVPAT machines had to be replaced in some booths. Two ballot and control units of the EVM had to be changed in the booths of Jalandhar Central and one each at Adampur and Jalandhar North.An interesting thing witnessed this time was that the Aam Aadmi Party candidates had managed their party booths outside the polling stations well. The facilities at the model ‘Pink booths’ handled only by the women polling officers were enjoyed by voters. Owing to instructions by the EC to ensure maintenance of the Covid protocol at all polling booths, provision of masks and one-time use hand gloves was made almost everywhere.The altercation at Rainik Bazaar in Jalandhar was resolved without any police complaint getting lodged. The SAD-BSP workers held a dharna outside the polling booth at Kot Rani in Phagwara for almost an hour this evening alleging only the Congress polling agent was allowed to be present during the sealing of EVMs, but later it was resolved at the intervention of the candidate and BSP state chief Jasvir Garhi. #Doaba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enthusiasm-at-pink-booths-371587
21-02-2022||Amritsar||Navjot Sidhu, Bikram Majithia cross paths||#bikram majithia #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-majithia-cross-paths-371588
21-02-2022||Phagwara||Phagwara: BSP nominee Jasvir Singh Garhi accused of double vote||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsp-nominee-accused-of-double-vote-371589
21-02-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Minor snag in machines, replaced||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-snag-in-machines-replaced-371590
21-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal &||Punjab poll: First-timers vote for change, growth||Sameer SinghTribune News ServiceDinanagar/Bathinda, Feb 20First-time voter Manjinder Singh Dala (18), a law student at GNDU, Amritsar, was taken aback when he was nudged by a Sikh standing just behind him in the queue at a polling station. He was surprised because the Sikh was asking him to vote for a “fellow Sikh”.Create jobs, upgrade infraI have decided to vote for change. The next government must take concrete steps to ensure ample job opportunities for the youth here only, end the problem of drugs and spruce up health infrastructure in the state. Pushpinder Pal, a first-time voter“There is just one Sikh contesting. Please vote for him because he belongs to our community,” he told Dala. “I have come here to cast my vote. I have not come here to vote for my caste,” Manjinder told him.There are 17,576 first-time voters in the district. Officials say “these youngsters came out in large numbers because they know their future depends on the quality of their rulers”. Voting for a candidate based on religious or communal lines was very much in evidence. “Perhaps illiteracy is the reason why the voting on such lines still exists even after seven decades of getting Independence. When voters exercise their franchise, they should not think on narrow lines,” said Upma Mahajan, a school principal.Lovepreet Singh, a college student, said, “First of all I thought of opting for NOTA because none of the candidates were up to my expectations. Then I thought not voting is not a protest, it is actually surrender of your right. I wanted to prove that I matter in the scheme of things. There is no such thing as a vote that does not matter,” he said.Many first timers said they voted for change and growth. “Change is the essence of growth. If we do not change, it means we are not growing. By voting, we add our voice to the chorus that forms opinions and the basis of future actions,” said Surbhi Singh.“The Congress is marred by infighting, the BJP has a communal slant, the SAD has already ruled us for 10 years while the farmers’ party is devoid of any agenda. I am still thinking about my choice,” said a first timer standing outside a polling booth in Dinanagar.In Bathinda district, there were as many as 16,852 first-time voters. Pushpinder Pal, a first-time voter, said: “I was quite excited to vote for the first time. So far I have observed that political parties or successive governments have not done enough on employment and environmental fronts. I have decided to vote for change.”Yaishnoor Sharma, another first-timer, said, “I have voted for the party that can usher in development, improve our global standing, take decisions in the nation’s interest and ensure secutiy to women and work for their empowerment. The state’s finance has to improve for better future of all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-timers-vote-for-change-growth-371591
21-02-2022||GS Paul||Secrecy ensured for conjoined twins Sohan & Mohan||Amritsar, February 20Amritsar’s conjoined twins Sohan Singh and Mohan Singh, popularly known as Sohna and Mohna, cast their votes separately early as voting opened on Sunday morning. Special arrangements were made for them as one was made to wear dark glasses when the other was casting his vote to maintain secrecy.The twins are the first-time voters, having turned 18 last year. “Everyone should cast his/her votes to help make a ‘Nava (new) Punjab’. When we can do it, why not others,” the visibly excited twins said at a polling station in Manawala. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera said the two were Amritsar administration’s ambassadors for its special ‘Sanman’ campaign to urge people, especially those with disabilities, first-time voters and those over 80, to come out for vote.Born on June 14, 2003 at a New Delhi hospital, Sohna and Mohna share a torso, a pair of legs, a liver, and a gallbladder but have separate arms, kidneys and spinal cords. Having been given up by their family and shunned by society, they were raised at an Amritsar orphanage. They now live at Amritsar’s Pingalwara, a charitable home of the destitute.Currently, they have been employed by Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd after completing their diploma at Industrial Training Institute. They draw one salary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/secrecy-ensured-for-sohan-mohan-371592
21-02-2022||Fazilka||114-yr-old Fazilka woman keeps date, never skipped voting||Perhaps the oldest woman of the region, 114-year-old Indro Bai cast her vote in the Jalalabad Assembly segment in Fazilka through postal ballot.Born in Sialkot district of Pakistan, before the Partition, she has been living in Ghubaya village that falls under the Jalalabad segment. She exercised her right of franchise on February 14 through the postal ballot. According to her voter card and Aadhaar card, her date of birth is January 1, 1906 and according to the record of the state election commission, her age has been mentioned as 114.She was married to one Inder Singh in Pakistan and after the Partition, the family migrated to the then Ferozepur district. Her husband had died few years ago. Indro Bai said she had continuously been casting her vote since the Independence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/114-yr-old-keeps-date-never-skipped-voting-371593
21-02-2022||Congress will get thumping majority||Punjab poll: Top leaders speak out||Congress is getting a thumping majority.... SAD-BJP partnership is out in open, both are taking dera’s help. People will teach them a lesson. Baraat jinni marzi vaddi hove, pind ton ghat hi hundi hai. (No matter how big a wedding party is, it can’t match village’s strength). — Charanjit Channi, Chief MinisterForming govt, Congress, BJP stand exposedThe AAP is forming government with a majority. Both Congress and BJP have joined hands in levelling allegations against AAP but people of the state know the truth. These parties will be outrightly rejected by the voter on March 10. — Bhagwant Mann, AAP Chief Ministerial FaceAlliance will bag over 80 seatsThe ground reality on Sunday showed that there was a clear wave in favour of the SAD-BSP alliance. We are poised to touch the mark of 80 and form the next state government. People have decided to give a clear mandate in our favour. — Sukhbir Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal ChiefConfident NDA will be victoriousAs the fate of candidates gets sealed in the EVMs, I am confident that our National Democratic Alliance will emerge victorious on the day of results. I am sure the people have decided and voted for a ‘double engine’ government in Punjab. — Capt Amarinder Singh, PLC ChiefPeaceful elections reflect sagacityThe peaceful polling by Punjabi voters reflects their mood. They have voted for the future of a peaceful Punjab. Being a border state next to a hostile country, it is not easy however, the Punjabis have always stood committed towards nationhood. — Ashwani Sharma, BJP State PresidentPOLL NUGGETDivisive forces rejected, claims JakharAbohar: Former PCC chief and Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar exercised his franchise at Panjkosi village on Sunday. His nephew, Sandeep Jakhar, is in the fray from Abohar segment. Speaking to mediapersons, Jakhar said voters would reject divisive forces, which allegedly planned to disturb communal harmony. Polling booths at RSD Girls High School in Nai Abadi, which witnessed brisk turnout in the 2017 Assembly poll, wore a deserted look till 10.30 am. ASHA workers were deployed at polling stations to provide masks and gloves to voters. #bhagwant mann #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-leaders-speak-out-371594
21-02-2022||Chandigarh/Bathinda/Muktsar||Stray violence, polling ends peacefully||Barring minor skirmishes in different parts of the state, polling was largely peaceful today. AAP candidate from Bhadaur, Labh Singh Ugoke, was allegedly attacked by a group of 20 persons. A clash was also reported between AAP and Congress workers in Handiaya village in Barnala village.A former SAD councillor from Bathinda, Harjinder Tony, alleged his car was attacked by Congress workers who were allegedly stopped from distributing money to workers. The police have registered an FIR.The police booked SAD candidate Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon’s brother Sunny in a case of attempt to murder in Gidderbaha. In another incident, personal assistants and security guards of Congress candidate Raja Warring were booked for thrashing a cameraman of the EC’s video surveillance team.Also, gunshots were exchanged between SAD and Congress workers at Verka in the Amritsar East constituency. A Congress worker suffered a bullet injury in the leg. A case has been registered. Further, a Congress worker suffered sword injuries during a fight with SAD workers in Patiala.In other incident, a scuffle was reported between Congress and BJP workers at the polling booth set up in the Punjab Mandi Board office in grain market. After BJP and Punjab Lok Congress Party’s joint candidate Raj Nambardar accused Congress councillor Sham Lal Jain of abusing and distributing money to voters, agitated Congress workers gheraoed Nambardar and raised slogans. A police team reached the scene and retrieved Nambardar and his supporters from there.Except for a clash, polling remained peaceful in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana constituencies. At booth Nos. 62 and 63 in Fatehgarh Sahib, AAP and BJP workers allegedly thrashed a Congress supporter for casting a “bogus” vote, a charge denied by Congress councillor Gurpreet Singh Lalli. As the video went viral, supporters of both parties rushed to the scene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stray-violence-polling-ends-peacefully-371595
21-02-2022||Moga||EC restrains Sonu Sood from visiting booths in Moga||The EC on Sunday restrained actor Sonu Sood from visiting polling stations in Moga following a complaint of influencing voters. Sood’s sister Malvika Sood is the Congress candidate from the seat.Police officials said Sood’s car was impounded to prevent him from visiting polling booths. A complaint was filed with the EC by a supporter of SAD candidate Barjinder Singh, alias Makhan Brar. Sood, however, denied the allegations. “I’m a local resident. I have not asked anyone to vote for any particular candidate or party. I was just visiting our (Congress) booths set up outside polling stations,” he claimed.District Magistrate Harish Nayyar has sought a report from the Moga SSP on the incident.Later, Sood took to Twitter accusing other candidates of trying to buy off votes. — #malvika sood #sonu sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-restrains-sood-from-visiting-booths-371596
21-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab election: Voters silent, candidates claim victory||Sangrur, February 20The absence of a clear wave in favour of any political party has made it tough for poll pundits to predict the outcome of Assembly elections in Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla districts. The refusal of voters to show their inclination has multiplied the anxiety of senior leaders, who are contesting from the areas.Will form govtWe will form the next government in Punjab. Our alliance is getting good support across the state. Parminder Dhindsa, SAD (sanyukt)It’s vote for changeEveryone is supporting me. Fearing problems from other leaders, people are silently voting for AAP. Harpal Cheema, AAPWorks hailedDevelopment works done by me in the area have ensured massive votes in my favour. Vijay Inder Singla, CongressFormer Punjab CM and Congress candidate Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former state finance minister and top leader of SAD Sanyukt Parminder Dhindsa and former SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal from the SAD are pitted against one another from the Lehra constituency. Punjab AAP president and CM face Bhagwant Mann is contesting from Dhuri and Leader of Opposition, Punjab, and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema is contesting from Dirba.Similarly, Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla is contesting from Sangrur while another senior AAP leader and MLA, Aman Arora, is fighting from Sunam to retain his seat. In Malerkotla, minister Razia Sultana, supported by her husband and state’s ex-DGP Mohammad Mustafa, is facing a tough challenge from AAP while in Bhadaur constituency of Barnala district, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi is also facing tough contest from AAP’s Labh Singh Ugoke.Since electioneering, people have seen twists and turns such as announcements to polarise voters on caste lines, involvement of various deras and the SFJ controversy involving AAP, so majority of voters preferred to remained silent till last moment.“I have voted as per my choice. I won’t reveal it as it will spoil my relations with others,” said Jasmale Singh from Khanauri.Meanwhile, leaders sounded confident. Parminder Dhindsa, SAD Sanyukt candidate from Lehra, said, “We will form the next government in Punjab as our alliance is getting good support across the state.”AAP candidate from Dirba Harpal Cheema said, “ Fearing problems from other leaders, people are voting for AAP.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voters-silent-candidates-claim-victory-371597
21-02-2022||Atti (Phillaur)||Road of woes in Phillaur's Atti village||A splash of muddied water leaves a nearby wall awash as an SUV tries to navigate through a huge gaping pothole in the road. This is embarrassingly just metres away from the Atti village’s much decked up model polling booth. As village youths queue up to cast their votes, among the issues which reign on their minds is the unkempt road awaiting repair for years, rampant unemployment, no gym and no playground.The same road connects the village to Government Middle School, Atti, (which acts as the polling booth today) posing a nightmare for its students.Manpreet Singh, a voter, says, “We don’t feel like voting as our works are not being done. The road has been the same for the past many years. It is an eyesore.”Boota Ram, 52, says, “For a long time the road is in the same state. Even before elections, no one bothered fixing it.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-of-woes-in-phillaurs-atti-village-371598
21-02-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu and Bikram Majithia come face to face at polling booth, exchange pleasantries||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, pitted against each other at the Amritsar East assembly seat, exchanged brief pleasantries as they come face to face at a polling booth in the city on Sunday.The two rivals had been unrelentingly attacking each other during the poll campaign for the Amritsar East seat which has turned into one of the most keenly watched contests in the Punjab polls.Senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Majithia has left his Majitha seat for his wife and has taken on Sidhu who is the sitting MLA from the Amritsar East constituency.As Sidhu was entering the booth building in the Verka area of the city, he came across Majithia emerging out of the entrance and the two leaders exchanged brief pleasantries.Majithia also came across with bureaucrat-turned-politician Jagmohan Singh Raju, the BJP candidate from Amritsar East constituency, and the two met warmly.Raju and Majithia warmly hugged each other with the BJP leader also putting a hand across the Akali leader’s shoulder and the two chatted for a couple of minutes.Punjab Minister and senior Congress leader Raj Kumar Verka and AAP leader and party candidate Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh too exchanged pleasantries as they came across each other at a polling booth. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-and-bikram-majithia-come-face-to-face-at-polling-booth-exchange-pleasantries-371549
21-02-2022||Raj Sadosh||Punjab polls: Hope people will reject divisive forces, says former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar||Abohar, February 20Former PPCC chief and Congress Campaign Committee Chairman Sunil Jakhar on Sunday cast his vote at the Government Primary School in his native village Panjkosi.Jakhar 's nephew Sandeep is the fourth member of the Jakhar family who is contesting from Abohar Assembly seat as Congress candidate.Speaking to the media at the polling station, Jakhar said people are expected to reject the divisive forces which are allegedly planning to harm the federal structure, heritage and communal harmony in Punjab.  Meanwhile, polling in the first two hours was recorded at 6 per cent. Voters were found waiting for their turn at a few polling booths, while polling booths at the RSD Girls High School in Nai Abadi, which saw brisk turnout in the opening hours in the previous elections, wore a deserted look today till 10.30 am.ASHA workers were deployed at polling stations to sensitise voters and provide them with masks and gloves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-hope-people-will-reject-divisive-forces-says-former-pccc-chief-sunil-jakhar-371525
21-02-2022||Badal (Muktsar)||I will continue to serve my people till my last breath: Former CM Parkash Singh Badal||“I will continue to serve my people till my last breath,” former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said after casting his vote along with his family members at a polling booth here on Sunday.Badal was accompanied by his son and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, daughter-in-law and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and his granddaughter Harkirat Badal. “This time a number of turncoats are in the fray in the Assembly elections. We broke alliance with the BJP over principles. The SAD is the lone party which has carried out development in the state. We have also worked for communal harmony and brotherhood in the state,” the former CM said.“People have faith in the SAD-BSP alliance which will make a clean sweep by getting more than 80 seats,” Sukhbir Singh Badal said after casting his vote.Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, “As Punjab is a border state, it needs a stable government, which the AAP and the Congress can’t give. The AAP has failed to keep its MLAs and MPs together. On the other hand, CM Charanjit Singh Channi is fighting for his own chair for the past few months. We are sure of forming the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-will-continue-to-serve-my-people-till-my-last-breath-former-cm-parkash-singh-badal-371524
21-02-2022||Kulwinder SandhuMoga||EC stops Bollywood actor Sonu Sood from visiting polling booths to 'influence' voters; his car impounded||The Election Commission has restrained Bollywood actor Sonu Sood from visiting polling stations in Moga over complaints that he was influencing voters.Sood’s sister Malvika Sood is the Congress party’s candidate from Moga.Officials said Sonu Sood’s car was impounded on Sunday to stop him from going to booths. This comes after a complaint from a supporter of Shiromani Akali Dal candidate Barjinder Singh alias Makhan Brar.Sonu Sood, however, denied the allegations."I'm a local resident. I have not asked anyone to vote for any particular candidate or party. I was just visiting our (Congress) booths set up outside polling stations,” he said.Meanwhile, District Magistrate Harish Nayyar has asked Moga SSP for a report.“Sonu Sood was going from one polling booth to another, which some political parties found objectionable,” he said.Later in the day, Sonu Sood took to Twitter to accuse other party candidates of trying to buy off votes.“Other Candidates in #Moga Constituency are buying votes. @ECISVEEP should take immediate action regarding the same,” he said, tagging Moga’s public relations office and police in the tweet. #punjab polls #punjab polls 2022 #sonu sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/ec-stops-bollywood-actor-sonu-sood-from-visiting-polling-booths-for-influencing-voters-371522
21-02-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||Punjab polls: This is how Amritsar's conjoined twins cast their votes in total secrecy||Amritsar’s conjoined twins Sohan Singh and Mohan Singh cast their votes separately early as voting opened on Sunday morning.The twins, popularly referred to as Sohna and Mohna, are first-time voters, having turned 18 only last year and had recently been handed over two separate electoral cards. “Everyone should cast their votes to help make a ‘Nava (new) Punjab’. When we can do it, why shouldn't others,” the visibly excited twins said at a polling station at Manawala. Special arrangements were made for them to ensure each kept his vote a secret for the other: they were made to wear dark glasses to vote, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera said. "It's kind of a very unique case. Earlier the Election Commission had directed the authorities to do proper videography. They're conjoined but two separate voters."The two are the Amritsar administration’s ambassadors for its special ‘Sanman’ campaign to urge people, especially those with disabilities, first-timers, and voters over 80, to come out to vote. They are currently employed in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL)—they had completed a diploma course at the Industrial Training Institute—but draw only one salary.Born on June 14, 2003, at a New Delhi hospital, Sohna and Mohna share a torso, a pair of legs, a liver, and a gallbladder but have separate arms, kidneys, and spinal cords.Having been given up by their family and shunned by society, they were raised at an Amritsar orphanage. They now live at Amritsar’s Pingalwara, a charitable home of the destitute.They were taken to a hospital to have them separated but a team of doctors had advised against it, saying that would mean one of them would die, officials said.--- With PTI  #Pingalwara #punjab polls #sohna mohna||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsars-conjoined-twins-cast-their-votes-for-the-first-time-371515
21-02-2022||New Delhi||Vote for one who answers fearlessly: Rahul to voters in Punjab||With Punjab going to polls on Sunday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged people of the state to vote for the one who supports them and answers fearlessly.He also urged voters in Uttar Pradesh, where polling is taking place for the third phase, to vote for development, and said a new future will be laid out with the formation of a new government.Voting for 117 Assembly seats in Punjab is taking place, while polling is also under way in 59 Assembly constituencies spread across 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh.“Give your vote to the one who supports people, answers fearlessly,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.“Vote for the progressive future of Punjab,” he said.                      Tweeting about UP polls, he said votes will be cast in Uttar Pradesh, but change will come in the entire country.“Vote for peace and development—new future will be laid out with the formation of a new government,” the former Congress chief said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/vote-for-one-who-answers-fearlessly-rahul-to-voters-in-punjab-371514
21-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Election 2022: Polling largely peaceful, barring minor incidents||Polling for 117 Assembly seats in Punjab was held amid tight security arrangements on Sunday. The voting remained peaceful, Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju told PTI.A voter turnout of over 66.4 per cent was recorded, according to the Election Commission's Turnout App till 5 pm.The voting started at 8 am and continued till 6 pm. At many places, where the voters had entered booths before 6 pm and were standing in queues, they were allowed to cast their votes.Counting of votes will take place on March 10.The final voting percentage, which is set to increase, will be known later after compilation of data, officials said. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls, the voting percentage stood at 77.4.A total of 1,304 candidates, including 93 women and two transgenders, are in the fray this time.Gidderbaha Assembly segment recorded the highest turnout of 77.80 per cent while Amritsar South seat recorded the lowest turnout at 48.06 per cent.Mansa district recorded a maximum voter turnout of 73.34 per cent while Mohali recorded the lowest at 53.10 per cent.Many districts falling in Malwa region, which accounts for 69 of total 117 seats, recorded more than 65 per cent turnout.In Majha region, Gurdaspur witnessed 64.59 percent polling, followed by Pathankot (63.89), Tarn Taran (60.47) and Amritsar (57.74).In Doaba region, the voter turnout in SBS Nagar was 64.03 per cent, Hoshiarpur 62.91 per cent, Jalandhar 58.47 per cent and Kapurthala 62.46 per cent.The Punjab CEO said 72 ballot units, 64 control units and 649 voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPATs) were replaced after they developed some snag.He said there was not a single case of disruption of polling.On law and order, Raju said, “Some minor poll-related incidents were witnessed in the state and a total of 18 FIRs were registered on the day of polling to avert any untoward incidents.”Pick-up and drop facility was provided to people above 80 years and persons with disabilities (PwD), said the CEO. While arrangement for wheelchairs was made for elderly at polling stations, first-time voters were given certificates at the polling booths.There were 196 pink polling stations for women while 70 polling stations are being managed by persons with disabilities (PwD).Polled EVMs will be kept in designated strongrooms under round the clock surveillance of CCTV cameras, said the officials.Punjab witnessed a multi-cornered contest among the Congress, AAP, SAD-BSP, BJP-PLC-SAD (Sanyukt) and the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political front of various farmer bodies.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) contested the polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).The BJP fought the elections in alliance with Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt).The SSM contested the polls with Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni-led Sanyukt Sangharsh Party.At a polling booth in Amritsar, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia came face to face and exchanged brief pleasantries. Both leaders are contesting against each other from Amritsar East.AAP’s chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann met his mother at his native place.Amritsar-based famous conjoined twins Sohan Singh and Mohan Singh, fondly known as Sohna-Mohna, cast their separate votes.Sohna-Mohna had recently been handed over two separate electoral photo identity cards by Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju.Both had turned 18 last year and voted for the first time.The conjoined twins said they are extremely happy as both were able to exercise their voting rights.Officials said the conjoined twins were treated as two separate voters.The Election Commission restrained actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood from visiting polling booths in Moga following complaints that he was trying to influence voters.His vehicle was also impounded by police, said officials.However, Sood, who denied the charges, alleged that other candidates were trying to buy votes.Sood’s sister Malvika Sood Sachar is a Congress candidate from Moga.In the morning, Charanjit Singh Channi paid obeisance at religious places at his home constituency Chamkaur Sahib. He claimed the Congress will get two-third majority in the polls.However, Channi accused the SAD and BJP of taking the support of the Dera Sacha Sauda.“Akali and BJP partnership is out in open, both are taking support from the Dera Sacha Sauda,” Channi alleged in a tweet.After casting his vote, SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal said, “I am happy that our democracy is very strong. I will continue to serve my people till my last breath.”SAD chief Sukhbir Badal said the SAD-BSP alliance will win over 80 seats.In Patiala, former chief minister Amarinder Singh also exuded confidence of his victory. Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, who is a Congress MP, said, “I always supported Captain sahib (Amarinder). It is my family and my family is above everything.”AAP leader Raghav Chadha in his tweets alleged that at a polling booth in Guruharsahai, a sarpanch tried to influence voters. He claimed that some EVMs malfunctioned at Sanaour, Attari and Majitha.A total of 2,14,99,804 people, including 1,02,00,996 women, were eligible to vote.There were 24,740 polling stations, of which 2,013 had been identified as critical while 2,952 were vulnerable. PTI #Punjabpolls2022 #punjabvotes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-votes-polling-begins-for-117-constituencies-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-sukhbir-badal-bhagwant-mann-capt-amarinder-in-fray-371448
