22-02-2022||New Delhi||Centre bans apps, website, social media accounts of SFJ-linked Punjab Politics TV||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Tuesday blocked applications, website, and social media accounts of foreign-based 'Punjab Politics TV', which is linked to banned organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), for allegedly attempting to use an online platform to disturb public order during assembly elections.The SFJ has been declared unlawful under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.“Relying on intelligence inputs that the channel was attempting to use online media to disturb public order during the ongoing State Assembly Elections, the Ministry used emergency powers under the IT Rules on February 18 to block the digital media resources of 'Punjab Politics TV',” it said.The ministry noted that the content of the blocked apps, websites, and social media accounts had had the potential to incite communal disharmony, separatism and were found to be detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the state, and public order.“It was also observed that the launch of new apps and social media accounts was timed to gain traction during the ongoing elections.“Government of India remains vigilant and committed to secure the overall information environment in India and thwart any actions having the potential to undermine India's sovereignty and integrity,” the ministry said.Assembly polls were held in Punjab on February 20 and the results will be declared on March 10. —  #sfj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-bans-apps-website-social-media-accounts-of-sfj-linked-punjab-politics-tv-372096
22-02-2022||Ravi S Singh||Non-BJP parties fingers crossed on Punjab; wonder if Congress walked into BJP’s trap||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 22The non-BJP parties at the Centre are fingers crossed on the possible effect of postponing of the election to 117-member Punjab Assembly from the earlier schedule of February 14 to February 20 on the poll outcome.Also, many in the non-BJP camp wonder if the ruling Congress goose-stepped into a trap of the BJP with regard to shelving of the election date.The delay gave crucial window to BJP and its allies, including Captain Amarinder Singh to organise themselves to pick up pieces in the backdrop of farmers’ agitation.It also provided SAD the leeway to organise its campaign against Congress and AAP.  The Election Commission had shelved the date following demand, including by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in view of birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas as on February 16.In a sudden development, a bandwagon roared in the State to defer the poll date. In the related din, it was hard to put a finger as to who originated the clamour for it.The anxiety among the opponents of the BJP now stems from the extra time allowed to it to sharpen its election campaign along with its allies, including former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The countdown for the election result in Punjab had begun with the debate generally centred on either Congress or Aam Aadmi Party emerging as the winner.However, after the poll, the debate has now veered to speculations on the possibility of the result throwing up a hung assembly.The view doing the rounds is that the BJP and its allies, and the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) finally bettered their positions in comparison to when the election campaign had begun, create a scenario of a multi-cornered contest in majority of the assembly seats.The Congress and the AAP campaigns had apparently peaked even while the BJP and its allies had their backs to the walls. BJP and its allies were engaged tying up loose ends.The sequence of the events suggest that BJP waded into thick of election campaign with gusto, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies in the state.Modi met notable Sikh personalities, including religious figures during the crucial window-period creating a favourable optics. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and senior BJP leaders were visible with public meetings and contact with people in the State.The BJP also used the celebrations of Guru Ravidas’s birth anniversary at his birthplace in Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on February 16 to good effect.A large number devotees of the Guru Ravidas from Punjab visited at his birth place Varanasi to homage. Varanasi is represented by Modi in Lok Sabha.While the BJP used the time gained for the polls to organise its acts continually upgrade its campaign during the margin period, the Congress was getting bogged down with its senior leaders including in public smack-down against each other.Also, during the fag end of the campaign, AAP was hit with a controversy out of the blue with Kumar Viswas, once its senior leader- putting out a vide post saying national Convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had  wanted to become Chief Minister of Punjab in the eventuality of  party winning the Assembly election in 2017.   #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/non-bjp-parties-fingers-crossed-on-punjab-wonder-if-congress-walked-into-bjps-trap-372076
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab electricity department refuses help to restore power supply in Chandigarh; UT will have to urge other states||PSEB Engineers' Association members have decided to support Chandigarh electricity employees, who have gone on a three-day strike, saying that they would not help the UT administration help restore power in the city.Also read: Chandigarh electricity employees go on 3-day strike; many sectors face outageChandigarh electricity employees are on the strike called by the Chandigarh Power Engineers and Officials against privatisation of the department.In this situation, the Chandigarh administration would have to seek help from other states as engineers from Punjab have refused to restore power.Many areas in Chandigarh are facing disruption in power supply since last night.The UT Powermen Union has also threatened to extend the strike for an indefinite period in case the proposal to privatise a “profit-making entity” is not withdrawn. #chandigarh power privatisation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-electricity-dept-refuses-help-to-restore-power-supply-in-chandigarh-ut-will-have-to-urge-other-states-372066
22-02-2022||Praful Chander Nagpal||Illegal mining unabated in Fazilka||Fazilka, February 21There has been a spurt in illegal excavation of sand in Fazilka. The police have arrested 17 persons for illegal sand mining in this border district in over a month. A total of 15 sand-laden tractor-trailers have also been impounded from the accused. Most of the accused have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and 21 of the Mining Act by the police.As per information gathered by The Tribune, illegal trade of white sand was going on unabated during the model code of conduct too as five persons were arrested and as many were booked in January. Similarly, five persons have been arrested and two booked in February so far.Mining Department official Rajiv Behal said as of then, no quarry was operating in Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Faridkot and Muktsar.However, the information suggests that after the capping of sand prices by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to Rs 5.5 per cubic feet, most of the contractors in various districts had to shut the operation due to alleged non-profitability. Besides, 5 per cent GST was also being levied by the state and Centre. Due to the present situation, persons involved in sand mafia were excavating sand from shut quarries and from the bed of the Sutlej in other places of the district. #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-unabated-in-fazilka-371906
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Substance abuse rampant across Punjab, says PGI study||More than three million people in Punjab are currently consuming one or the other kind of drugs, according to PGIMER study. Those consuming drugs are mainly the men.Alcohol is the maximally abused substance consumed by more than two million people, followed by tobacco, which is consumed by more than 1.5 million people. This is followed by abuse of opioids by 1.7 lakh individuals and cannabinoids as well as sedative-inhalant- stimulants.Key findingsThe latter are largely a class of pharmacological or prescription drugs being used illicitly. There are also a large number of injecting drug users in states with high prevalence of HIV (19.5 per cent) in a recent survey.The second edition of the Roadmap for Prevention and Control of Substance Abuse in Punjab by Dr JS Thakur, Professor of Community Medicine at the PGIMER, was released today by Banwarilal Purohit, Governor of Punjab.The report contains comprehensive information on burden of substance abuse in India and the state of Punjab, various types of substances abused by people, strategies for the prevention and control, the District Substance Abuse Prevention Plan and its implementation.Dr JS Thakur said, “It is time for the government to actively implement the plan as the state is already suffering from a great burden of substance dependence and addiction. Only curative services are not going to break the chain of supply and demand. Since the focus is on prevention, the life-cycle approach actually caters to individuals of every age group.” — #PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/substance-abuse-rampant-across-state-says-pgi-study-371908
22-02-2022||---||Don't finalise selection for 55 BRC-cum-CF posts, says court||Chandigarh, February 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put on hold the finalisation of selection process for 55 posts of Block Resource Coordinator (BRC)-cum-Community Facilitator (CF). The order against finalisation of the selection process will remain in force at least till February 28 — the next date of hearing in the case.The direction by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the Punjab and Haryana High Court came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Ravinder Kumar and by some other petitioners through counsel Sunny Singla.Appearing before the Bench, Singla submitted that 55 posts of BRC-cum-CF were advertised vide public notice dated December 31, 2021. But only two posts were meant for the ‘General category’. Elaborating, Singla submitted the respondents had, as such, made wholesale reservation without any justification.Taking up the matter, Justice Sindhu issued notice of motion and notice regarding interim relief to the state. “Till the next date of hearing, selection for 55 posts of BRC-cum-CF be not finalised,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-finalise-selection-for-55-brc-cum-cf-posts-says-court-371911
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Magistrate can issue notice to kin after cancellation report: High Court||In a significant judgment on the powers of a court to issue notice after the submission of a cancellation report by the police in a criminal matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a magistrate — if he chose — could issue a notice to “any particular relative” as well.The assertion by Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi of the High Court came in a matter where the complainant in a criminal case, registered nearly 13 years ago, passed away during the pendency of further investigation. He had initially opposed the cancellation report filed by the police. The trial court after his death issued a notice to his legal heirs. But they were not appearing before the court despite the issuance of warrants, the Bench was told. The counsel for petitioners-accused submitted that a notice was not required to be given to the legal heirs since they were not the first informants.Referring to a judgment in the case of “Bhagwant Singh versus Commissioner of Police”, Justice Bedi asserted the Supreme Court had only made it mandatory for a notice to be issued to the first informant, though the magistrate could, if he chose, issue the notice to any particular relative as well. Justice Bedi asserted the respondents-legal heirs were neither the first informants, nor the injured witnesses. If they chose to stay away from the proceedings despite being called upon to oppose the cancellation report, it was apparent that they wanted to delay the adjudication upon the cancellation report pertaining to the FIR registered in 2009.“The present petition is disposed of with directions to the Illaqa Magistrate, Patiala, to adjudicate upon the cancellation report within six weeks from receiving the order’s copy after giving the legal representatives of the deceased-complainant a final opportunity to appear and oppose the cancellation report if they so desire,” Justice Bedi concluded. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/magistrate-can-issue-notice-to-kin-after-cancellation-report-high-court-371912
22-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Provocative speech: Ex-DGP Mohammad Mustafa appears before SIT||Malerkotla, February 21Former DGP Mohammad Mustafa, husband of Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana and chief strategic adviser to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Sidhu, on Monday appeared before special investigation team (SIT) in connection with the FIR registered against him for allegedly giving a ‘provocative’ speech. While SIT members refused to share the details, Mustafa said he did not give any such speech.“When some local youngsters tried to create problem at our function during the election campaign in January, I used a word ‘fitna’ (Law breakers) against a group of Muslim supporters of the AAP and not Hindu, as was alleged by our political opponents. It has been proved that I used the word ‘fitna’ and not ‘Hindus’. I told the same to the SIT today,” Mustafa told The Tribune.On January 23, the City-1 Malerkotla police had registered a case under Sections 153-A of the IPC (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) and 125 of the Representation of People Act, 1950,1951 and 1989, against Mohammad Mustafa.Cops had alleged in the FIR that while patrolling in the area, they got information about a video wherein Mustafa was allegedly giving an inflammatory speech. “Mustafa’s speech can create problems between two communities and its violation of the model code of conduct,” cops added.After Mustafa allegedly threatened AAP workers with dire consequences on January 19 during a meeting in the evening and a video went viral, party leaders also lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and a notice was issued to Mustafa.After video created a storm on the social media, the police finally registered an FIR against Mustafa. “I respect all communities. I have never spoken against any community,” he said. “Mustafa appeared before the SIT and recorded his statement. We are conducting thorough investigation,” said DSP (D) Saurav Jindal. #hate speech #mohammad mustafa #razia sultana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provocative-speech-ex-dgp-mustafa-appears-before-sit-371914
22-02-2022||Raj Sadosh||Abohar: 1 van to collect biomed waste from 177 booths, ASHA workers fume||Abohar, February 21Most of the ASHA workers deployed at the polling stations had to stay there from 7 am to 11 pm as only one vehicle had been arranged to collect the biowaste from multiple centres.ASHA Workers’ Union district president Neelam said, “The Election Commission had asked 63 officials in Abohar and 180 in Sito Gunno block to reach the booths at 7 am. After reporting for work, they were told to make voters aware of the Covid protocol, ask them to sanitise their hands and distribute masks.”As per the EC norms, most of the staff on duty reportedly left after the polling concluded, but the ASHA workers had to stay at the booths, waiting for the biowaste collection vehicle. After weighing the biowaste and disposing it off in the collection vehicle, they filled a pro forma provided by the EC before leaving for home. Only one vehicle was arranged to collect biowaste from 177 booths of Abohar.Dr Gagandeep Singh, SMO, said, “The workers have done a good job. They will be paid full incentive. The administration arranged for only one vehicle to pick up the biowaste, due to which workers had to face inconvenience.” #asha workers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-van-to-collect-biomed-waste-from-177-booths-workers-fume-371915
22-02-2022||---||Debt Recovery Tribunals get top officers||Chandigarh, February 21The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Department of Financial Services for the appointment of former District and Sessions Judges Man Mohan Dhonchak and Anand Sagar Narang as the presiding officers of two Debts Recovery Tribunals (DRTs) in Chandigarh.In all, the appointments of presiding officers in 18 DRT across India have been approved. The DRTs in Chandigarh have jurisdiction over the states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Narang, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-I, was Rohtak District and Sessions Judge, while Dhonchak, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-II.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-recovery-tribunals-get-top-officers-371916
22-02-2022||Fazilka||BSF recovers 3 kg heroin in Fazilka||The Border Security Force claimed to have recovered 3 kg heroin worth Rs 15 crore here today.The official sources said jawans of the Second Battalion observed some suspicious movement ahead of the barbed fencing near the Bahadar Ke border outpost. As the jawans opened fire, a suspect managed to flee towards Pakistan.During search, the personnel recovered 3 kg heroin, wrapped in yellow packaging, from the scene. #BSF||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-3-kg-heroin-371917
22-02-2022||Amritsar||India, Pakistan mark Saka Nankana Sahib centenary||The 1921 Nankana massacre was commemorated on both sides of the India-Pakistan border by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) today.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh participated in the programme at Pakistan organised to mark the 101st anniversary of the massacre. The pandal was set up at the memorial inside Gurdwara Nankana Sahib. — #akal takht #giani harpreet singh #nankana sahib #Pakistan #psgpc #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-pak-mark-saka-nankana-centenary-371919
22-02-2022||Mansa||Firefighters stage protest over layoffs||The protest of Fire Brigade Employees’ Union Punjab has been continuing for the past over 29 days in Mansa district. Union leaders said employees working in the Fire Department were laid off. Despite repeated reminders and protests they had not been reinstated till now, union leaders added.Satnam Singh, a union leader said, “Eight employees were laid off by the Fire Department over one-and-a-half-month ago. Despite repeated reminders and protests, they have not been reinstated yet. Nagar council officials say these employees cannot be reinstated in wake of the code imposed due to the Assembly elections in the state.” “If services of are not restored in the coming days then protests will be intensified.” he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firefighters-stage-protest-over-layoffs-371925
22-02-2022||Jalandhar/Muktsar||Punjab election: Day on, leaders take it easy with kin, friends||After a gruelling month of canvassing that culminated in polling yesterday, candidates from various parties in the Doaba region unwound by indulging in leisure activities, besides taking a good rest today. Congress minister and Jalandhar Cantonment candidate Pargat Singh got up early as per his routine and went to the PAP grounds, where he jogged and exercised for over an hour. “I had been missing my routine for almost a month now. It felt good being able to start my fitness regimen once again,” he said.“On returning home, I met some visitors and had my breakfast before dozing off. It was eat, talk, sleep and repeat for me the whole day,” he added. “Desperately” needing some rest, BJP minister and Jalandhar Central candidate Manoranjan Kalia went to bed early last night. “I got up early and met visitors the entire day. I enjoyed rounds of ‘lassi’, tea, coffee and snacks with them. After a siesta, I reverted to phone calls that I had missed. In the evening, I will attend two weddings,” he said.Congress’ Kapurthala candidate and minister Rana Gurjeet Singh said he, along with his family, went to a gurdwara, where he organised a ‘paath’. “Later, I went to Golden Temple to pay obeisance. My son Rana Inder Partap (Independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi) went back to his constituency. In the evening, I enjoyed watching matches at kabaddi tournament,” he added. BJP candidate from Phagwara and former Union Minister Vijay Sampla got a haircut, while party leader from Kapurthala Ranjit Singh Khojewal offered prayers at a gurdwara with his family. “Besides getting a haircut, I spent time with my family and friends. In the afternoon, I held a meeting and had lunch with party workers. Tomorrow, I have plans to attend a wedding,” said Sampla. Khojewal had a contrarian view. “Rest is an illusion. Now that polls are over, my children are busy with exams. I took some time off to offer prayers with my family today. It’s back to the same routine from tomorrow,” he said.AAP canddiate from Sultanpur Lodhi Sajjan Singh Cheema visited his Jalandhar home after two months and tended to plants and played with grandchildren. Former CM Parkash Singh Badal and his son and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal were seen in a relaxed mood at their residence at Badal village here today. They met party leaders and workers, got feedback and told them that the SAD-BSP alliance would form the government. Badal, 94, the oldest candidate in the electoral fray, met party workers at his camp office. Sukhbir started his day late and after meeting some workers left for Chandigarh to attend a wedding. Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal performed ‘paath’ for the SAD-BSP alliance’s victory.On the other hand, Congress candidate from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring spent time with his family and relatives at his residence in Muktsar. “The Badals are likely to visit abroad,” said sources. Similarly, Raja Warring is also planning to go abroad with his family for a couple of days.Fatigued, CM takes time offElection fatigue has caught up with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, who has been keeping a low profile since polling. Channi said he had sore throat, was fatigued and had been resting since yesterday, besides spending quality time with his family.(Reports by Deepkamal Kaur, Aparna Banerji & Archit Watts) #charanjit channi #manoranjan kalia #pargat singh #sukhbir badal #vijay sampla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-leaders-take-it-easy-with-kin-friends-371884
22-02-2022||Abohar||Not averse to alliance with other parties in Punjab: BJP||To form the BJP-led government in Punjab, our doors will also be open for other parties, besides the Punjab Lok Congress. The Vidhan Sabha election results in the state will be surprising.This was stated by the BJP national organising secretary Praduman Kumar while speaking to the media at Sriganganagar recently. He said the BJP got wide public support during the campaign for the Punjab polls.All welcomeWhoever wants to come with the NDA, the doors of the BJP will be open for them. —Praduman Kumar, BJP National Secy“The BJP raised issues related to Punjab and targeted other parties on these problems. Now, the people feel that the BJP will take Punjab forward on the path of development, along with the people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies will give good results,” he added.Denying that a nationwide agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws may affect election results, Praduman said, “Not only Punjab, but the people across the country have now come to know, who were behind the agitation.”“We do not think that the farmers’ movement will have any adverse effect on the election results”, he added. While referring to the allegations levelled by poet Kumar Vishwas against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal the BJP leader said, “People have started understanding the customs and hidden agenda of this party.”“The polling in Uttar Pradesh indicates that the BJP will come back to power in the state. There was no scope for other parties. All the issues, including the farmers’ movement, have been left behind. The BJP is in trouble in Uttarakhand and Goa where voting has already taken place,” he added. — #BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-averse-to-alliance-with-other-parties-bjp-371886
22-02-2022||GS Paul||Victory or not, will fight on, says Navjot Sidhu||Amritsar, February 21With voters sealing the fate of candidates, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today maintained he always wanted people of Punjab to make him instrumental in bringing change to their lives.Talking to The Tribune about his plans ahead, Sidhu said though he won’t comment on people’s mandate, he was committed to making Punjab a welfare state “till my last breath”. “Come what may, my fight against the corrupt and mafia raj will continue. Personally, I have lived my life to the full. My next innings is dedicated to transforming Punjab. I breathe for Punjab and die for Punjab,” he said.Battle against mafia to continueMy fight against the corrupt and mafia raj will continue. My next innings is dedicated to transforming Punjab. I breathe for Punjab and die for Punjab. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefOn his wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu’s recent statement that she would choose to go back to her medical profession if things didn’t work out for them in the political arena, he said: “What my wife said was correct. We also have to run the family. She could go back to practise medicine, but I chose Punjab over the entertainment industry worth crores. I can never leave Punjab in the lurch,” he said.Sidhu said his ‘Punjab model’, which was the foundation of the 13-point Congress manifesto, was conceptualised to ensure state’s progress. Only the Congress had an agenda to avert the mafias and establish a governance that had a moral authority, he asserted. Sidhu said as the PCC president, he would be duty-bound to take all colleagues together and get it implemented. “Voting for the AAP or Akalis is a retrograde step. Voting for ‘change’ in the system that has eaten up the vitals of Punjab is a step forward. This revolution could come only if you have a roadmap to follow. And, the Congress has come up ‘unitedly’ with a vision that would pay dividends,” he maintained.Giving a glimpse of the Congress’ agenda, he said the day their government was formed, it would sign on the order for providing 1 lakh jobs per year to put a cap on brain drain under the urban employment guarantee mission. #navjot kaur sidhu #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/victory-or-not-will-fight-on-says-sidhu-371888
22-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Buzz of last-minute 'shift' in Dhuri, but AAP confident||Sangrur, February 21Amid talk of some SAD workers having tried to shift vote to the Congress to keep AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann at bay in the high-stakes Dhuri constituency, AAP leaders are confident of a win.With the AAP raising the stakes by fielding Mann from the seat, various parties have pulled out all the stops to woo voters during campaigning.“We are aware that several local SAD leaders tried to shift their votes to the Congress to prevent Mann from winning. But they won’t succeed as a majority of their voters had already decided to vote for the AAP. Many SAD voters rebelled against their own party. Mann will win by a big margin,” claimed Anwar Bhasaur, district president of AAP’s minority wing.The segment has 74 villages with Dhuri city being the only urban area. Farmers’ concerns and lack of development have remained the main issues in this primarily rural constituency. Of the total 1,64,322 voters, 86,593 are male, 77,721 female and the remaining eight third gender. In the last Assembly elections, Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy had polled 49,347 votes to defeat AAP’s Jasvir Singh Jassi Sekhon, who got 46,536 votes. Refuting the claim, SAD-BSP nominee Parkash Chand Garg said: “These are baseless assertions as our leaders have worked hard to increase SAD’s vote share.”On his part, Sangrur district Congress committee president Mahinderpal Singh Bhola claimed since his party had brought about development in Punjab, their candidates managed to draw votes from supporters of SAD, AAP and other parties.Barring the Congress, the three other main parties — the SAD, BJP and AAP — had fielded outsiders. While AAP’s Mann belongs to Satauj village in Dirba constituency and stays in Sangrur, SAD-BSP’s Garg hails from Bhawanigarh in Sangrur. BJP candidate Randeep Singh Deol, who is also the district president, belongs to the Sangrur constituency. Goldy belongs to Punnawal village and stays in Dhuri along with his family. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/buzz-of-last-minute-shift-in-dhuri-but-aap-confident-371889
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||SAD, BJP tacit pact proven: AAP on Bikram Majithia's remark||The AAP today accused the SAD and BJP of betraying Punjab and Punjabis. AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said Bikram Singh Majithia had exposed the face of the SAD in front of the people of Punjab by saying Akalis would again ally with the BJP to form the government in the Punjab. In a statement, Cheema said the claim made by Majithia on the day of voting proved the SAD always had a tacit alliance with the BJP even today. However, to deceive people of Punjab, the SAD continues to pretend it is not with the BJP. — #bikram majithia #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bjp-tacit-pact-proven-aap-on-majithias-remark-371891
22-02-2022||Vishav Bharti||Punjab voters disillusioned with political parties, indicates turnout: Experts||Chandigarh, February 21The state witnessed the lowest voter turnout of the past two decades in this elections. If experts are to be believed the polling reflects the people’s diminishing hope in political parties and disillusion with the electoral process.In the last elections, the vote poll percentage was 77.40. In 2002, it was 65.14 per cent, when in a tight contest with the SAD-BJP combine, the Congress had come to power.No waveIt is clear that there was no wave in favour of any political party. Instead it shows people are going away from the political parties and populist promises failed to seduce voters. —Prof Ashutosh Kumar, Panjab universityThe low polling indicates it was not a vote for change, says Dr Promod Kumar of Institute for Development and Communication. “If the number of polled votes decline, it indicates not much choice was available for the voters. It also shows people preferred to stay away from the poll process. It means options were many but choice was not available to the voters,” he says.Prof Ashutosh Kumar, Department Political Science, Panjab University, Chandigarh, says this election has proved that there was no big vote mobliser. “In the last elections, the polling was higher as Capt Amarinder Singh emerged as the vote mobliser. But in this election he was a spent force and other leader emerged to that stature,” he stresses. He adds Channi was supposed to moblise the Dalit votes but he couldn’t do that.Jatinder Singh, who teaches political science at Panjabi University, Patiala, says not just disillusionment, but the low polling also reflects resentment of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voters-disillusioned-with-political-parties-indicates-turnout-experts-371893
22-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Uncanny pattern: Pamphlets on Deep Sidhu, dera message on poll eve||Chandigarh, February 21The Malwa belt reported over 73 per cent polling, higher than Doaba and Majha. The higher turnout in Malwa, comprising 15 districts, can be attributed to two factors — the dera element and Deep Sidhu-SAD (Amritsar) effect — which may have dented the AAP’s prospects.Also read: Congress weighs impact of Deep Sidhu in MalwaA night before the February 20 polling, posters of actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu with emotive messages to voters came up in many areas of Barnala, Bhadaur, Amargarh and Mehal Kalan. Sources say some pamphlets were also distributed, invoking the emotions of people, saying the best tribute they could pay to Deep Sidhu, who died recently, would be to support SAD Amritsar chief Simranjit Singh Mann. The votes polled in favour of the SAD Amritsar may have cut into AAP’s vote share. This has a striking similarity to incidents on the eve of the 2017 elections, when pamphlets were distributed across Punjab questioning people if they would vote for a party that overlooked the 2015 sacrilege incidents. This had aroused sentiment and worked against the SAD-BJP combine.May hit outcomeAlso, on Friday night, just after the “silence period” started, dera voters in 27 constituencies of Malwa were sent messages asking them to vote in favour of the SAD-BSP and BJP-led alliances besides one or two Congress candidates. In a multi-cornered contest, even if 60 per cent of the “Premis” in each constituency towed the dera’s line, it is likely they cut into AAP’s vote share.In the 2007 elections, when the dera factor had played to the advantage of the Congress, they got 37 of the then 65 seats (seats increased to 69 in Malwa post delimitation).Though the Congress had lost the election to the Akalis, its tally got a boost because of the dera support. Since then, management of dera votes is a strategy that each party has tried. Poll pundits say though in the last Assembly elections, it did not work in favour of the SAD-BJP, it did increase their vote share in a triangular fight. #deep sidhu #dera sacha sauda #Malwa #simranjit singh mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uncanny-pattern-pamphlets-dera-message-on-poll-eve-371895
22-02-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Congress weighs impact of Deep Sidhu in Malwa||Chandigarh, February 21The chances of Congress’ return to power may hinge on the effect the controversy over actor Deep Sidhu’s death has had in the Malwa region.Also read: Uncanny pattern: Pamphlets on Deep Sidhu, dera message on poll eveKeeping their fingers crossed, the party leaders are also studying the impact of the lower polling percentage in the urban areas on the party. Party insiders admit compared to Majha and Doaba, the party may not perform better in the southern part of Malwa.Day after polling, the Punjab Congress war room assessed the polling patterns after an emotionally charged speech by Deep Sidhu in Amargarh, where, during his campaign for SAD (Amritsar) chief Simranjeet Singh Mann, he had made an appeal to voters not to take the broom discarding sword, besides the narrative built around the cremation of the actor at his native Tharike village in Ludhiana.Party’s poll strategist sought a detailed seat-by-seat feedback on the narrative of symbolism weaved around Deep Sidhu’s speech. “We are analysing where it would work to the advantage or disadvantage of the Congress, especially in the central Malwa region,” pointed out a senior party leader. It was also being analysed whether projecting Channi as the CM face actually worked at the ground level on the day of polling. #deep sidhu #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-weighs-impact-of-deep-sidhu-in-malwa-371897
22-02-2022||Moga||Sonu Sood, Congress district president booked for code violation||In a late-night development, the Moga police after seeking opinion from the Election Commission have registered an FIR against actor Sonu Sood for violation of prohibitory orders issued by the district magistrate with regard to the model code of conduct for the Assembly elections.Sonu has been accused of campaigning to influence voters for his sister Malvika Sood, a Congress nominee. The car in which he was travelling was impounded by the police and he was asked to go back to his residence and stay there. The police have booked Congress’ district president Kamaljeet Singh Brar, the elder son of Baghapurana MLA Darshan Singh Brar, for violating the model code. — #malvika sood #sonu sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sood-congress-district-president-booked-for-code-violation-371900
22-02-2022||Bathinda||Four poll-related FIRs in Bathinda||Four cases have been registered in connection with election-related violations in Bathinda city yesterday.The Civil Line police station booked five persons after Congress workers allegedly kidnapped a youth. In another case, 25 unidentified persons were booked after they clashed. In Canal Colony, a group of 20 bouncers were booked for trying to influence voters. One more FIR was registered for luring voters. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-poll-related-firs-in-bathinda-371902
22-02-2022||Aman Sood||Poll toll: Illegal structures mushroom across Punjab||Patiala, February 21Illegal constructions are fast progressing in various parts of the state, causing losses worth crores, as the functioning of the town planning wing under Municipal Corporations has come to a halt because of the polls and connivance of officials. Under the garb of the Election Commission’s code of conduct, many lower-rung officials in the MCs of Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda “allowed day-night constructions”.Won’t spare guiltyI will seek a detailed report from all corporations. Officials involved in this racket will not be spared. We will also write to the Election Commission to initiate action against the violators. —Puneet Goyal, Director, Local govtIllegal constructions also mushroomed with political leaders extending support to such violators in the hope of garnering votes. “The building mafia gets active during every poll season. Everyone gets their share,” said a senior corporation official.Sources said while Local Bodies Department has now sought a report, they are a toothless tiger till the Election Commission gives them a nod to proceed against all such buildings and officials responsible for it.Dozens of such buildings have come up within a month, with active connivance of corporation officials and local politicians. While majority of them don’t have requisite permits, or are flouting building bylaws. Many buildings don’t even leave proper parking space, while in many others, unsafe constructions have been carried out, causing a threat to nearby buildings.In Ludhiana and Patiala, many such buildings — both commercial and residential were allowed construction with the active role of corporation inspectors and top officers. In certain cases, bribe per building was paid to ensure no action was taken till the completion of work. In Patiala, buildings behind Officers Colony, Model Town, Punjabi Bagh, Bhupindra Road were allowed constructions without any check for past two months.A top official of the town planning wing in the department confirmed to The Tribune that there were around 120 such unauthorised buildings that have come up in the past couple of months. “A majority of them are in Patiala, Amritsar, Lduhiana, Jalandhar and Bathinda. Officials followed orders of their local political masters and have not acted against such construction. In certain cases, bribes ensured corporation officials turned a blind eye to such violations,” he said.“It was the responsibility of the MC commissioners to ensure that such buildings do not come up, but in a majority of the cases they just did not act, despite complaints. It is now for the Election Commission to take action against all such officials in whose jurisdiction such buildings were constructed”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-toll-illegal-structures-mushroom-371903
22-02-2022||Vishav BhartiChandigarh||Punjab polling 71.95%, Gidderbaha tops: EC||The Election Commission (EC) today revised the overall voting percentage in the Punjab Assembly poll to 71.95 per cent, up from 70 per cent recorded yesterday.Over 80 per cent polling was witnessed in 11 seats, including Sardulgarh and Budhladha in Mansa; Gidderbaha and Lambi (Muktsar), Fazilka and Jalalabad (Fazilka); Guruharsahai and Zira (Ferozepur); and Maur, Bhucho Mandi and Talwandi Sabo (Bathinda). These segments comprise the Malwa region which, with 69 seats, is politically significant.Editorial: Below-par turnout: Apathy fuelled by poor show of successive govts in PunjabAt 84.93 per cent, Gidderbaha saw the highest turnout. Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is facing a challenge from Akali Dal candidate Dimpy Dhillon from the constituency.There are nine constituencies where less than 62 per cent votes were polled. Four of these are in Amritsar district (Amritsar North, Amritsar South, Amritsar West and Amritsar Central) and the rest in Ludhiana (Ludhiana Central, Ludhiana North, Ludhiana South, Ludhiana North and Atam Nagar). The lowest polling was witnessed in Amritsar West (55.10 per cent), the constituency from where Medical Education and Research Minister Raj Kumar Verka is contesting.Among the districts, Mansa topped the polling chart at 81.24 per cent, followed by Muktsar at 80.49 per cent. Amritsar district, which is witnessing some interesting contests, recorded 65.84 per cent polling. SAS Nagar saw 66.87 per cent voting and Jalandhar 66.95 per cent. #dimpy dhillon #gidderbaha #raja warring||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polling-71-95-gidderbaha-tops-ec-371887
22-02-2022||---||Punjab records 71.95 pc turnout on polling day; Gidderbaha tops with 84.9 pc voting||Chandigarh, February 21Polling for Punjab Assembly Elections on Sunday ended peacefully with 71.95 per cent of the total 2.14 crore voters in the state turning out to exercise their franchise.Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Punjab, S Karuna Raju said of total 1,54,69,618 persons who have cast votes, there were 81,33,930 males and 73,35,406 females, while 282 were transgenders/others.Giving the final details here on Monday, the CEO said of total 117 constituencies of the state, Gidderbaha remained at the top with highest polling percentage 84.93%, followed by Talwandi Sabo (83.70%) and Sardulgarh (83.64%), while Amritsar West (55.40%), Ludhiana South (59.04%) and Amritsar Central (59.19%) constituencies have witnessed lowest voting percentage.He said scrutiny reports of all the 23 districts have been received at the Office of Chief Electoral Officer.He said over 23 tonnes of Covid waste, which includes PPE Kits, face masks, hand gloves, face shields, etc., was generated from 24,740 polling stations on polling day in the state. The waste was collected and disposed of with the help of District Nodal Officers of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) appointed in each district in an environmentally sound manner, he added.On law and order situation, CEO Raju said some minor poll related incidents witnessed in the state and a total of 33 First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered on day of polling to avert any untoward incidents. Of the total 33 FIRs, 10 were related minor clashes, 16 of violation of prohibitory orders, three of poll-related offences, three of other cases and one was related to firing Incident.Raju said after voting ended peacefully at 6 pm on Sunday all the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) have been moved to the respective strong rooms. All the 117 strong rooms at 66 locations were sealed and as per the ECI guidelines, three-tier security measures have been set up with deployment of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), Armed Police and Punjab Police. He said security forces have been keeping strict vigil round the clock at strong rooms.He said 65 ballot units, 60 control units and 738 VVPATs were replaced during the conduct of poll.The CEO again thanked people of Punjab for coming out in large numbers to exercise their democratic right in a peaceful in the festive environment. He also thanked all the polling personnel, security personnel, Punjab Police personnel, 25,000 booth level officers, PWD coordinators, Asha workers, aanganwadi workers, mid-day-meal workers and village chowkidars for working day and night to ensure free, fair peaceful and inclusive polls in the state. #punjab elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-71-95-pc-turnout-on-polling-day-gidderbaha-tops-with-84-9-pc-voting-371860
22-02-2022||Karam PrakashPatiala||Attempted snatching in Patiala leads to mob justice; suspects beaten, paraded through city streets||Two men were roughed up and paraded bleeding through the streets of Patiala’s Tripuri by a mob on Monday over theft allegations.The men were both in their twenties. Videos that have gone viral since shows a mob beat up the two men, who were accused of trying to steal a woman’s mobile phone. The woman is believed to sustained injuries while resisting the snatching attempt.The video showed that the men’s hands are tied and blood pours down one suspect’s face. Some people in the mob are heard accusing the two men of past thefts as well.Police said they would register first information reports against the two theft suspects.Inspector Jagjeet Singh, the Station House Officer of Tripuri, said: “We are first filing an FIR against the victims of the mob fury. A woman was injured in the incident when the accused snatched her mobile phone. She is undergoing treatment Rajindra Hospital”.Deputy Superintendent of Police Mohit Aggarwal however said they had also filed an FIR over the mob justice that followed.“No one’s not allowed to take the law into their own hands. We have also filed a case against unidentified people for thrashing the two men,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attempted-snatching-in-patiala-leads-to-mob-justice-suspects-beaten-paraded-through-city-streets-371859
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Over 2 million people in Punjab consume alcohol: PGI survey||More than three million people, mainly men, in Punjab are consuming one or the other kind of drug.Alcohol is the maximally abused substance by more than two million, followed by tobacco consumed by more than 1.5 million people, a study by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here said on Monday.The abuse of opioids is by 1.7 lakh individuals, followed by cannabinoids as well as sedative-inhalant stimulants. The latter are largely a class of pharmacological or prescription drugs being used illicitly.There are also a large number of injecting drug users in Punjab with high prevalence of HIV (19.5 per cent), said the recent survey.It was published in the second edition of 'Roadmap for Prevention and Control of Substance Abuse in Punjab'.Edited by J.S. Thakur, Professor of Community Medicine at PGIMER, it was released by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit in the presence of PGIMER Director Surjit Singh and Director Health Services G.B. Singh.The report contains information on the burden of substance abuse in the country and in Punjab, various types of substances abused by people, strategies for prevention and control and the district substance abuse prevention plan and its implementation.As per the State of Punjab Household Survey (SPHS) and statewide NCD STEPs Survey by the PGIMER, the projected number of overall substance use in Punjab is 15.4 per cent.The book is in simple form, easily understood by the technical and the layman."The book has incorporated a few interesting case studies from different parts of Punjab. It has advocated introduction of life skills education in the school and college curriculums. It also emphasises peer group approach in educational institutions which is an effective way to motivate adolescents and young adults. Since the focus is on prevention, the life-cycle approach actually caters to individuals of every age group," said Thakur.The Governor appreciated the role of public health approaches to deal with these social menaces. He endorsed the essence of this report -- prevention is better than cure in all respects. IANS #alcohol #pgi study||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-million-people-in-punjab-consume-alcohol-pgi-survey-371840
