23-02-2022||Jalandhar||Kisan Nama: Book on 733 farmers who lost their lives during protest||The life of 733 farmers, who lost their lives in protest at the Delhi borders, has been recorded in a book titled ‘Kisan Nama’ which was released here today.The book has been penned by Australia-based NRI Harkirat Singh Sandhar. The book carries a detailed report from the time when the three farm laws were notified on June 5, 2020, till their withdrawal on December 11, 2021. The problems that the farmers faced for 378 days of their protest, including entry through Haryana, extreme weather conditions, etc, find a mention in the book.Sandhar has written that the impact of Kisan Andolan was not just seen across the country but across other nations too. He said he thought of penning the book so that record of the events becomes a part of the history and coming generations can know in detail as to what had happened during this biggest farmers’ struggle. He said the role of women farmers, youth, elders, writers, artists, poets, singers, journalists etc too had been cited in the book. Even the related incidents at Red Cross Fort and killings at Lakhimpur Kheri and their impact are a part of separate stories in the book.Lensman Jagdev S Tapa, who clicked 80,000 photographs in the Kisan Andolan, finds a special mention in the book. Among those present at the book release function were Doaba Kisan Committee president Jangvir Chauhan, Sugarcane Sangharsh Committee president Sukhpal S Sahota and Punjab Jagriti Manch general secretary Deepak Bali. #farmers protest #lakhimpur kheri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kisan-nama-book-on-farmers-who-lost-their-lives-during-protest-372285
23-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Punjabi poet to get Haryana Gaurav Award||Dr Ramesh Kumar, a Punjabi poet, educationist and a leading literary figure of Haryana, will be honoured with Haryana Gaurav Award.The award will be bestowed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at a function to be held at Tagore Theatre, Chandigarh, on February 24. The Haryana government under the aegis of Haryana Punjabi Sahitya Academy announced to bestow Haryana Gaurav Award to Dr Ramesh Kumar for his literary contribution to Punjabi poetry and literature in 2015.Haryana Gaurav Award is the highest literary award of the Haryana government, which carries award money of Rs 2.5 lakh, a shawl and a memento. It is bestowed on the literary luminary as a life-time achievement award for their contribution in the field of promoting literature. Dr Ramesh Kumar has about 20 books of poetry, short stories and biography to his credit. Dr Kumar was also honoured with the Silver Jubilee Award by the government in 1993. #haryana gaurav award #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjabi-poet-to-get-haryana-gaurav-award-372228
23-02-2022||Chandigarh ||'Forgetting' Sufi poet Syed Waris Shah's birth anniversary inexcusable, says Bir Devinder||Former Deputy Speaker of Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh said the occasion of 300th birth anniversary of legendary poet Syed Waris Shah should have been planned in advance and celebrated by not only the Language Department of the Punjab Government but also by the universities of the state, literary academies and writer’s forums such as Punjabi Sahit Academy.Legendary Sufi poet of undivided Punjab, Syed Waris Shah born on January 23, 1722 at Jandiala, (Sher khan) now in Pakistan, is remembered and celebrated in the Punjabi subcontinent of the Mughal era, for authoring timeless epic of ‘Heer Waris’.He said the Punjab Arts Council however should have played a pivotal role to plan and coordinate this great event. Unfortunately all the above mentioned institutes and organisations, relevant to the cause under discussion have been found wanting in this case and could be squarely blamed for forgetting legendary Sufi poet Syed Waris Shah. — #bir devinder singh #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forgetting-sufi-poet-syed-waris-shahs-birth-anniversary-inexcusable-says-bir-devinder-372208
23-02-2022||Chandigarh||Power woes of Punjab may end as coal mine to become functional in Jharkhand||Punjab could finally see an end to its power woes with operationalisation of its captive coal mine at Pachhwara in Jharkhand. The mining from this coal block is expected to begin by April end.Sources in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) said top officials from the department visited the coal block recently and made all arrangements for commencing the operations.Baldev Singh Sra, CMD, PSPCL, “The PSPCL is monitoring the progress at the site on regular basis. We have set a target to start mining and get coal supplies from this captive coal mine before the paddy season.”Operating own mine could bring down the cost of power production by 30-40 paisa per unit. However, as Coal India is looking to hike prices, the money saved through own mining could be offset by the increase in price of coal to be bought through Coal India and the likely increase in rail freight charges.For several months now, Punjab has been getting restricted coal supply. The state-run thermal plants at Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat have coal stock for 25 and 21 days, respectively. While Nabha Power Plant has stock for just six-and-a-half days, Talwandi Sabo plant has stock for two-and-a-half days and GVK plant has stock for five days. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-woes-of-punjab-may-end-as-coal-mine-to-become-functional-in-jharkhand-372206
23-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab sees three Covid deaths, 125 fresh cases||Three more people died from COVID-19 in Punjab while 125 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 7,57,475, according to a medical bulletin issued on Tuesday. Deaths were reported from Jalandhar, Pathankot and Patiala, taking the death toll to 17,689. The number of active cases was 1,120.Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported 24, followed by 19 in Jalandhar and 13 in Hoshiarpur. A total of 88 patients are on oxygen support while 15 critical patients are on ventilator, as per the bulletin. As many as 307 people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have recovered to 7,38,666, the bulletin said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-three-covid-deaths-125-fresh-cases-372204
23-02-2022||Faridkot||Bring fee for 50% seats for MBBS and MD/MS courses in private colleges on par with govt centres: NMC||The National Medical Commission (NMC) said the fee for 50 per cent seats for MBBS and MD/MS courses in private medical colleges and deemed universities should be on a par with that of the government medical colleges of the states and the UTs.The NMC said for determination of fee, the principle of education being “not for profit”, was adhered to. The sanctioned number of seats is to be taken into account for deciding cost per student, separately for MBBS and postgraduate courses, read the notification.Releasing a comprehensive set of principles for fee regulatory authorities to follow, the NMC, in its guidelines, said all hospital expenses were not to be included while computing the cost for providing medical education. While, a portion of the hospital expenses, on the basis of usage of hospital facilities and equipment for imparting education, may be added.However, if a hospital is running under loss in the initial days of a newly established college, it may need to be supported for a few years. A time limit of five to seven years could be set for absorbing losses by students through increased fee, stated the notification. Listing down the operating costs at medical colleges, keeping in view of the ongoing pandemic, the NMC has asked the respective state fee regulatory authorities to consider the average audited financial result of the previous three years, with appropriate inflation adjustment. — #MBBS #md/ms #national medical commission||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bring-fee-for-50-seats-for-mbbs-and-md-ms-courses-in-private-colleges-on-par-with-govt-centres-nmc-372202
23-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Flats built sans permission in Sangrur||Sangrur, February 22Doctors’ flats in Maharaja Ranbir Club Residential Quarters have allegedly been constructed sans building plan approval by the Sangrur Nagar Council.As per information, the contract for the project was given by the Public Works Department (PWD). The flats are being constructed near the official residences of the Additional Deputy Commissioners (ADCs) and Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM).The construction has also endangered the heritage site of renowned Maharaja Ranbir Club as the building is near its main gate.Four floors of the building have been constructed by the contractor without even submitting an application for the approval of the building plan with the Nagar Council. Residents said they had submitted repeated complaints to the authorities concerned but to no avail.A resident said a senior officer of the department had blocked his number as he wanted to hush up the matter. “When ADCs, SDM and other officers have failed to prevent illegal construction near their official residences, you can imagine the situation in other parts of the city. It shows that PWD officers are abetting illegal construction in the city,” said a resident, requesting anonymity, while showing the complaints which he had sent to senior officers.Meanwhile, to preserve and protect the Maharaja Ranbir Club (Skating Rink), a petition is pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“The PWD is getting the doctors’ residence constructed in violation of the building bylaws. A building can’t be constructed without getting the plans approved from the Nagar Council and the work must not be started before it. The construction has been halted many times, but PWD officers are trying to complete the work at fast pace. I have asked them for documents, but they have not applied for approval as yet. We would demolish the illegal building,” said Hargobind Singh, Junior Engineer of Sangrur Nagar Council. However, Charanjit Singh Bains, Executive Engineer, PWD, said the Punjab Chief Architect had approved their building plan. “We do not need to get our building plan approved from the Nagar Council. No rules have been flouted,” said Bains.When contacted, Sangrur SDM Charnjot Walia, who is also the administrator of the Nagar Council, said the council’s approval is must for constructions within the municipal limits. “I will look into the matter and check the grounds on which PWD officers are claiming that they don’t need the Nagar Council’s approval,” said the SDM.Building bylaws violatedThe PWD is getting the doctors’ flats constructed in violation of the building bylaws. A building can't be constructed without getting the plan approved from the Nagar Council and the work must not be started before it. — Hargobind Singh, Junior Engineer, Sangrur Nagar Council||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flats-built-sans-permission-in-sangrur-372201
23-02-2022||Abohar||Not paid dues for 8 months, Abohar ASHA workers protest||Health workers today held a meeting in protest against the state government for not paying the prescribed remuneration to the ASHA workers who had been working during the Covid vaccination drive for eight months.Anju Rani, president, ASHA Workers’ Union local unit, said the state Health Department had announced to give honorarium of Rs 200 per day when the vaccination drive started during the pandemic. “The ASHA workers were on duty from 8 am to 6 pm, and they met the targets fixed by the government. So far 2.10 lakh people have been vaccinated in Abohar. However, the government has not released the amount due.”Rs200 per day was announcedThe Health Department had announced to give honorarium of Rs200 per day. The ASHA workers were on duty from 8 am to 6 pm. However, the government has not released the dues. Anju Rani, president, ASHA workers’ unionShe said there was no dearth of funds with the Health Department. However, the officials concerned were not releasing the honorarium deliberately, she alleged. Abohar topped Fazilka district in administering Covid vaccination. Despite this, the administration was not paying attention to their request for honorarium. “We will continue our protest if justice is delayed,” the union president said.Praveen Rani and Laxmi Rani, heads of the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) Union, said health workers and ANMs played an important role in making the vaccination campaign successful, but the staff working on nominal wages were not being given honorarium. As per the new instructions of the government, children from 12 to 15 years of age would be given vaccine, but ANMs had decided to not to participate in the campaign until the government paid their dues, the union said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-paid-dues-for-8-months-abohar-asha-workers-protest-372199
23-02-2022||Anirudh Gupta||3 officials sacked, show-cause notice to 22 over MGNREGA recruitment in Ferozepur||Ferozepur, February 22Three officials of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats have been terminated while FIR has been recommended against another five, including the ADC, after irregularities were allegedly found in recruitment under MGNREGA in the border district.As per the information, services of two gram rozgar sewaks (GRS), Gurpreet Singh and Jaswinder Singh, have been short-terminated, while those of Assistant Block Coordinator Sameer Sharma have been terminated, after it was found in the enquiry report that they were allegedly allotted fictitious roll numbers and marked absent in the attendance sheet, but selected.Amandeep Gujral ADC (Development) said the action had been initiated following orders from the Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayats, Rahul Bhandari.Earlier, an enquiry was conducted by Paramvir Singh, an IAS officer, into recruitment under the MGNREGA during the previous two financial years in the district. The report submitted by him on February 3 revealed several irregularities such as tampering of answer sheets and the final merit list and anomalies in awarding marks. Taking cognisance of the report, the department not only issued charge sheet to the members of the selection committee, comprising the then ADC (Development) Ferozepur, but also asked the SSP Ferozepur, to register FIR against the selection committee comprising Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, ADC, Development, Gurmit Singh Dhillon, Deputy CEO, and Rajesh Kansal, XEN, Panchayati Raj, besides two other officials, Anil Palta, District Informatics Officer, and Harpal Singh, District Welfare Officer.The department has also issued show cause notices to 22 other candidates for irregularities in answer scripts. Sources said if their reply was not satisfactory, their contracts could be terminated.Ramandeep Sachdeva, District Nodal Officer, MGNREGA, denied the allegations, saying the recruitment was made as per the legal process.“No wrongdoings have been done during the selection of these candidates. As far as, recruitment of more candidates is concerned, it was done after getting the permission from the head office,” he said.Sachdeva refuted charges of tempering of answer sheets and merit lists. “The entire examination process was video-graphed,” he said.On the other hand, the enquiry report stated against 12 posts of GRS, 28 were filled. Also, against four posts of Computer Assistant, eight were recruited, and against one post of Assistant Coordinator, three were allegedly appointed.No irregularitiesThe candidates were selected in a transparent manner. The permission was taken to recruit more candidates. The entire examination process was video-graphed. — Ramandeep Sachdeva, District Nodal Officer, MGNREG||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-officials-sacked-show-cause-notice-to-22-over-mgnrega-recruitment-in-ferozepur-372198
23-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin & Archit Watts||Ukraine crisis: Three-fold hike in flight fares, students in a fix||Tribune News ServiceMansa, February 22Like many others, a Muktsar family is praying for the early and safe return of their daughters from strife-torn Ukraine. Ranjit Singh of Thandewala village, who is a retired government employee, said: “My daughter had booked her ticket twice but could not board the flight. She has got a hope third time now and we are endlessly praying for her safe return and for hundreds of others who are stuck there.”A ticket costing approximately Rs 20,000 has risen to above Rs 70,000 since the Ukrainian crisis.It is worth mentioning that a number of students from the region go to Ukraine to pursue undergraduate and postgraduate in medical, dental and nursing courses as they are recognised around the globe.A section of parents contacted by the Tribune correspondents said high prices of tickets was said to be one of the biggest reasons for the current crises. There are no confirmed figures of those still there. However, students who have returned said a large number of students, of total 50,000 odd, were still stuck in Ukraine. The Indian embassy has advised its citizens, especially students, to leave Ukraine temporarily and avoid non-essential travel to and within the country.Nitin Sharma (19) of Bareta town in Mansa, who has just returned from Ukraine, said: “On February 13, I booked a flight to India through Germany. I paid Rs 41,500. I was not allowed to board the flight. Later, I got a ticket for Rs 55,000 via Dubai on February 19.”He said many students were still stuck there and even prices of the essential commodities had gone up.Nitin said: “The situation is bad and might worsen.” Another youth Piyush Goyal from Bareta is still stuck in Ukraine and his father, who is a government teacher, is making frantic calls at all possible sources of information he could to get the latest information about his son.A travel agent confirmed that many among those stuck there were facing financial problems in securing a ticket to return home. “They are facing many problems in managing their stay there, besides worrying about their flight back home,” he said.Another parent, Gurmukh Singh, said: “Our daughter is calling us regularly and assuring us that she will be flying back soon. However, our anxiety rises with each passing day.”Ordeal to reach hereOn February 13, I booked a flight to India through Germany. I paid Rs41,500. I was not allowed to board the flight. Later, I got a ticket for Rs55,000 via Dubai on February 19. Nitin Sharma , Mansa resident #Ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-three-fold-hike-in-flight-fares-students-in-a-fix-372197
23-02-2022||---||India sends 2,500 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Attari-Wagah||Attari, February 22As a humanitarian aid to Kabul, India today sent the first shipment of 2,500 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistan land route.A total of 41 Afghan trucks, were flagged off by Foreign Secretary of India Harsh Vardhan Shringla along with Afghanistan’s Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay and World Food Programme (WFP) Country Director Bishaw Parajauli from the Integrated Check Post (ICP), at Attari-Wagah border.Shringla said, “We are extending humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan in the form of 50,000 tonnes of wheat. The first consignment of 2,500 tonnes has been flagged off today. It will be delivered to World Food Programme for dissemination.”Under a deal with New Delhi, Pakistan had allowed trucks from Afghanistan to collect wheat from India by way of the frontier crossing at Attari-Wagah.This was the first lot of 50,000 tonnes of wheat that India had committed to send to Afghanistan since the Taliban took over Kabul in August last year. This follows a pact inked between India and the WFP to supply foodgrains to Afghanistan.Earlier, India had supplied 5,00,000 dozes of Covaxin, 13 tonnes of life saving medicines and 500 units of winter clothing. These were handed over to the WHO and Indira Gandhi Hospital in Kabul.Showing gratitude towards the Indians, Afghanistan’s diplomat said the generosity displayed was very timely as millions of Afghans were facing food crisis.Mamundzay said,“I thank the Government of India for taking a timely initiative in this difficult hour. Afghans are facing food scarcity since October. I believe that 50,000 tonnes of wheat can be delivered within a span of one month.”Meanwhile, Mamundzay took to twitter and wrote, “I am back to the historic city of Amritsar after less than six weeks & this time to witness the flagging off ceremony of India’s wheat assistance shipment of 50,000 tonnes to Afghanistan today. Amritsar, a beautiful city with rich history & proud culture is the shortest land.”Message in Pashto||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-sends-2-500-tonnes-of-wheat-to-afghanistan-via-attari-wagah-372196
23-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Senior cops violated laws to help accused: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 22In a major embarrassment for the Punjab Police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that its senior officers were well aware of law relating to the investigations, but deliberately violated the same for extraneous considerations to help the accused.Justice Manoj Bajaj asserted senior officers gave positive reports in favour of the accused and the subordinate investigating officer had no option, but to mould the final report to avoid senior police officer’s wrath. It encouraged criminals.“The state of Punjab enjoys power of superintendence upon the Police Department. But it, too, has failed to check this illegal practice being carried out openly in every other criminal case,” Justice Bajaj asserted. The assertion came more than five years after a woman artiste was killed during celebratory fire at a wedding in Bathinda. An FIR was registered on December 4, 2016, at police station Maur in Bathinda, initially for murder and other offences. But murder offence under Section 302 was substituted with offences punishable under Section 304-A. The trial Court, however, framed charge under Sections 304 and 336. The Court of Bathinda Additional Sessions, subsequently, turned down a plea for alteration of charge to Section 302, following which the matter reached the High Court. Justice Bajaj asserted the trial Court, unfortunately, proceeded to frame the charge in a mechanical manner. It was imperative for the trial Court to evaluate the material on record.Justice Bajaj added SP (Headquarters), instead of carrying out a pragmatic and meaningful investigation in the crime, interfered in the probe by illegally entertaining a representation. Justice Bajaj also noticed the trend adopted by senior police officers, who engaged themselves in holding inquiries on representations on behalf of the accused after registration of the FIR.Justice Bajaj asserted the practice was prevalent largely in Punjab for a long time. Such reports based upon defence of the accused were often delivered in their favour. The inquiry officers illegally assumed judicial role during this exercise.“The accused make an attempt to dig a secret tunnel to create an escape route to avoid punishment, as this kind of disintegrated procedure of investigation throws doubts on the prosecution case, and makes it fragile…. In order to combat with this menace, which attempts to pollute the stream of justice, the judiciary at all levels has to play a vital role in blocking these slip away points…,” Justice Bajaj asserted, while directing that the trial Court would frame the charges afresh and proceed with the trial.Take necessary steps, state toldThe state would take necessary effective steps to bring in order the procedure of investigation and prosecution of accused, in accordance with statutory provisions contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. — Justice Manoj Bajaj, Punjab & Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-cops-violated-laws-to-help-accused-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-372195
23-02-2022||New Delhi||Centre bans social media accounts, apps linked to Sikhs For Justice||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Tuesday blocked applications, website and social media accounts of foreign-based ‘Punjab Politics TV’, which is linked to banned organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), for allegedly attempting to use an online platform to disturb public order during the Assembly poll.The SFJ has been declared unlawful under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Relying on intelligence inputs that the channel was attempting to use online media to disturb public order during the 2022 Assembly elections, the Ministry used emergency powers under the IT Rules on February 18 to block the digital media resources of ‘Punjab Politics TV’,” it said.The ministry noted that the content of the blocked apps, websites and social media accounts had had the potential to incite communal disharmony, separatism and were found to be detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the state, and public order.“It was also observed that the launch of new apps and social media accounts was timed to gain traction during the ongoing elections.“Government of India remains vigilant and committed to secure the overall information environment in India and thwart any actions having the potential to undermine India’s sovereignty and integrity,” the ministry said.The Assembly poll were held in Punjab on February 20 and the results will be declared on March 10. — PTI Security risk #sfj #sikhs for justice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-bans-social-media-accounts-apps-linked-to-sfj-372189
23-02-2022||Moga||SAD expels Moga ex-MLA Joginder Pal Jain, son||Former MLA Joginder Pal Jain, his younger son and former Mayor Akshit Jain and four other local leaders have been expelled from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for anti-party activities.The Jain family allegedly supported Congress candidate Malvika Sood, the younger sister of actor Sonu Sood, in the Assembly elections. However, Akshit denied the allegations and claimed that he and his father were ‘sevadars’ of the Akali Dal. “We will soon meet party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and discuss this issue with him,” he said.Joginder Pal Jain was elected to the Assembly thrice, including the 2013 byelection. He had won on the Congress ticket in 2007 and 2012. He joined the SAD and won the 2013 byelection.The senior Jain had been away from active politics for past few years on account of ill-health. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-expels-moga-ex-mla-joginder-pal-jain-son-372183
23-02-2022||---||Sunil Jakhar: Congress always stood for women empowerment||Abohar, February 22Former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar today said their party has always stood for women empowerment and much more needs to be done in this direction.He said out of 1,304 candidates, who contested the Assembly poll, only 93 were women.Jakhar added that 33 per cent women were nominated as polling agents by the Congress at 109 booths in Abohar.He said the Congress fielded 25 women candidates in the first Abohar Municipal Corporation poll held last year and 24 emerged winners. Such decisions increase morale of women, said Jakhar. #sunil jakhar #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-congress-always-stood-for-women-empowerment-372179
23-02-2022||Vishav Bharti||Women voters outnumber men in 12 segments of Punjab||Chandigarh, February 22Out of 117, there are just 13 constituencies where women voters outnumbered men. Interestingly, all these segments fall in Doaba.Going by the final poll figures of the Election Commission, 1.54 crore voters exercised their franchise in Punjab. Out of these, 81,33,930 were men and 73,35,406 were women. Thus, men-women ratio was 52.58 per cent and 47.41 per cent, respectively. Apart from that 282 transgenders also exercised their right to vote.Out of 12 constituencies where women voters outnumbered men fall in three districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar. Anandpur Sahib in Ropar district has also witnessed more women voters. On all these seats, the number of women electorate was more than men. The eleven constituencies where women voters polled more include Bholath, Shahkot, Adampur, Mukerian, Dasuya, Urmar, Sham Churasi, Chabbewal, Garhshankar, Banga, Nawanshahr, Balachaur and Anandpur Sahib.Among all such seats, the highest difference of votes was in Bholath constituency, which has 46,781 women voters. #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-voters-outnumber-men-in-12-segments-of-punjab-372176
23-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||PUNJAB POLL 2022: Nominees accuse poll staff of not updating electoral rolls||Jalandhar, February 22As polling percentage dipped around 6-7 per cent in four districts of Doaba compared to 2017 Assembly poll, most candidates have blamed the election staff for not revising the electoral rolls and deleting names of absent, dead or shifted voters.The candidates alleged that focus of the Booth Level Officers remained on increasing the number of voters by registering new ones and did not work on deletions.Further, huge migration of youngsters from Doaba has become a reason for low turnout. They maintain that the dip had a little to do with multi-corner contests or people getting confused on whom they should go for.15K listed voters were deadApart from indifference to politics, we found that nearly 15,000 voters listed with us were dead. We got this data when our BLOs went to deliver voter slips. Ghanshyam Thori, Jalandhar Deputy CommissionerJalandhar reported a poll percentage of only 66.95 per cent as compared to 73.16 per cent in 2017 and 75.15 per cent in 2012. Of the total 16.67 lakh voters in Jalandhar district, only 11.30 lakh voters exercised their franchise this time.Rajinder Beri, Jalandhar Central MLA and Congress candidate, said, “It cannot be possible that a whopping number of 5.37 lakh people in Jalandhar stayed indoors and did not cast their vote. Actually, most of them were not here.”Jalandhar Central had the lowest poll percentage in Doaba at 60.65 per cent.Beri rued, “We had got the voter lists 25 days ahead of the polling. When our teams went door-to-door, they used to return with a feedback that a large number of voters in the list have migrated abroad or had shifted to other localities in Jalandhar and its periphery.”He said, “We pointed this out to the election staff. We also raised objection that polling booths of some localities have been made around 8 km away. Thus, polling was less in some pockets.”Jasleen Kaur, a councillor, said, “Of the 140 houses in New Jawahar Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, at least 20 houses were found locked, but the names of the voters were on the list. At many places, only elderly couple lived, while their children migrated to another place.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, said, “Migration is certainly a big factor behind low poll percentage in Doaba. The number of voters who are NRIs may be more than 5 per cent. ASHA workers who go door-to-door to ensure 100 per cent vaccination, failed to cross 90 per cent mark.”He said, “Deletion of votes cannot be a suo motu process. Information has to come from the family – be it in the case of the NRIs or dead persons. A family member has to fill up Form number 7 to get the votes deleted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-nominees-accuse-poll-staff-of-not-updating-electoral-rolls-372174
23-02-2022||Aman Sood||PUNJAB POLL 2022: No breather for security personnel||Patiala, February 22While candidates have devised plans to unwind with their family members as voting concluded on February 20 for the 2022 Assembly poll, security personnel deputed on election duty are yet to get a breather—forget a break.The Punjab Police and paramilitary personnel have been deputed outside the strong rooms to guard the electronic voting machines (EVMs) till March 10, when the results will be announced.Around 73,000 police personnel had been deputed on the election duty for the past over a month.For most of the cops, it’s back to routine after hectic duty. A senior police officer said, “We will get around a month to clear the backlog of important files. There are a number of pending cases related to thefts and routine crime, which needs attention. We will clear the backlog till March 10.”With the Election Commission relying heavily on them to keep things under control, their job was all the more demanding.A senior IPS officer said,“With the election duty over and no more VIPs visits on the cards, we can concentrate on routine policing. The VIP movement will pick up once the new government gets formed next month.”“Due to round-the-clock police vigil, there was a drop in the crime rate,” he added, claiming that they would now focus on core policing.After ensuring free and fair poll in Punjab, paramilitary forces have been directed to head to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where the last phase would be held on March 7.A CRPF officer deputed in Patiala said, “Our stay is almost for a month in Uttar Pradesh, where we will be stationed till the results are declared on March 10 and further till the new government is formed.”“The hospitality in Punjab was good. Also, there was no violence here. We will not forget the food we used to get on duty,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-no-breather-for-security-personnel-372172
23-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Apprehensive, AAP keeps vigil outside strongrooms||Sangrur, February 22Sangrur district AAP leaders are not satisfied with security arrangements made for electronic voting machines (EVMs). They have erected their tent at the main gate of Bardwal college, where EVMs from the district are locked and counting would take place. AAP volunteers have announced that they would guard the EVMs on rotation basis from various villages daily.“Since AAP has got maximum votes and our political opponents might try to reach near EVMs, We do not want to take any chance. We have put up tents here to guard the machines. The special teams of our volunteers from various villages would sit here round the clock. A special committee would make other necessary arrangements for them,” said Anwar Bhasaur, AAP leader from Dhuri.In the Dhuri constituency, AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann is pitted against local congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, other candidates are SAD- BSP’s Parkash Chand Garg and BJP’s Randeep Singh Deol. The security post put up by AAP has elicited mixed response.“When the government has already made required security arrangements, what is the need for AAP to act as guards?” said Balwinder Singh, a farmer from area.But Sangrur resident Suresh Kumar said that there was nothing wrong in it.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said that Election Commission (EC) had made elaborate security arrangements.‘Foolproof security’As per the EC’s directions, we are have made elaborate security arrangements and keeping a close watch. The arrangements are foolproof. Ramvir, Sangrur DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apprehensive-aap-keeps-vigil-outside-strongrooms-372171
23-02-2022||Chandigarh||'Parties in Punjab planning to keep AAP away', says Bhagwant Mann||With speculation rife that Akalis, BJP and Capt Amarinder’s PLC will forge a post-poll alliance, AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann claimed in their lust for power they were planning to unite against AAP, but their plans wouldn’t succeed.Mann said BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement in favour of an alliance with the SAD and Akali leader Bikram Majithia, too, hinting at the post-poll coalition proved that these two parties were always on the same page. “They just severed ties to fool people and get the votes of farmers and labourers,” he said. — #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-in-punjab-planning-to-keep-aap-away-says-bhagwant-mann-372167
23-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Akali Dal, BJP 'exploring' post-poll alliance option in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 22Even as punters are favouring the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to form the next government in Punjab, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has warmed up to former ally BJP for a possible poll alliance to form a coalition government.Leaders of both the SAD and BJP, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said there was a strong likelihood for a coalition government between SAD, BSP, the BJP and Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress, but for that to happen, one of the parties, likely the Akali Dal, has to take 40 seats at least. This comes in the backdrop of media reports of “understanding” between the BJP-PLC and the Akalis for swinging votes in some key constituencies. Some Congress leaders, including Sunil Jakhar and Raja Warring, have openly talked about it.SAD senior vice-president Harcharan Bains said the Akali Dal was open to a coalition government for the betterment of the state and to provide political stability. “Our only problem with the BJP was over the farm laws, which have been withdrawn. We have natural alliance with some parties due to Akali Dal being a representative of the Sikh-Hindu unity.”A senior BJP leader also hinted at the likely post-poll alliance, saying it was important to keep the divisive forces at bay. When reminded that BJP leaders and workers had been opposing alliance with the Akalis on the argument that the party would never stand on its own in the state, the senior leader said the Opposition was for a pre-poll alliance not a post-poll alliance.During the campaign, P?M Narendra Modi had attacked the SAD for backstabbing the BJP and not giving the post of Deputy CM to the BJP in various governments. Modi had however been keeping communication channel open with the Akalis by speaking over the phone with SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on latter’s birthday or other occasions. The Akali Dal had desisted from criticising the BJP in any way during the campaign or response to Modi’s criticism.What broke the ice #sad bjp #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-dal-bjp-exploring-post-poll-alliance-option-in-punjab-372164
23-02-2022||Ferozepur||Ferozepur Rural MLA Satkar Kaur accuses Charanjit Channi  of nepotism||Sitting MLA from Ferozepur Rural Satkar Kaur, who was earlier denied Congress ticket and subsequently expelled from the party on the eve of polling day, has accused CM Charanjit Channi of promoting his own kith and kin, and ignoring loyal Congressmen.The Congress had allocated ticket to turncoat Ashu Banger, who had joined the party just few days before the polls. Satkar said she won the last elections by a margin of over 21,000 votes. “I was denied ticket as Ashu was allegedly related to Channi, due to which he went out of the way to support his candidature,” alleged the MLA. — #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-rural-mla-satkar-kaur-accuses-charanjit-channi-of-nepotism-372161
23-02-2022||---||Infighting in Congress to fore again, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla targets Navjot Sidhu||Amritsar/Chandigarh, February 22Days after Assembly elections, infighting in the Punjab Congress has resurfaced. Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has targeted PCC president Navjot Sidhu over his style of speaking. Going public, Aujla said: “Sidhu’s way of speaking and his inaccessibility for the people of his constituency are doing him no good. Several party workers are disappointed with his rude conduct. This is the reason many workers left the party feeling disrespected.”According to party insiders, the point of Aujla’s provocation was that the MP was not allowed to board Priyanka Gandhi’s vehicle when she was in Amritsar to campaign for Sidhu. Later, Aujla was asked to keep silent till voting after he lodged a protest with the party high command.The PCC chief, who has been vocal on crucial issues such as drugs and sacrilege besides reviving the state’s economy, has so far not reacted to Aujla’s charge. Sidhu had played a crucial role in the ouster of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.After the announcement of Channi as the CM face, Sidhu despite being a star campaigner had been lying low and campaigned in a few constituencies. Sources in the party said though the outcome of the poll results would reflect the party high command’s decision to announce Channi as the CM face, the role of Sidhu after taking over as the PCC chief last year would also be evaluated. Ahead of the polling, the party struggled with controlling the infighting among the party leaders.“Whichever way the poll results go, it will have bearing on the future state leadership of the party. The infighting is likely to surface more prominently after the results,” said a senior party leader.‘Told to keep silent’ #gurjeet aujla #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infighting-in-congress-to-fore-again-amritsar-mp-gurjeet-singh-aujla-targets-navjot-sidhu-372160
