24-02-2022||Hoshiarpur||Parkash Singh Badal gets bail in dual constitution case against his party||A court here on Thursday granted bail to former Punjab chief minister and SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal in a dual constitution case that was filed against his party in 2009.The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (ACJM) Rupinder Singh granted bail to Badal (94) in the case wherein the complainant had accused the SAD of submitting two different constitutions -- one with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the second with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political party.Hitesh Puri, lawyer for social activist and complainant Balwant Singh Khera, said that Badal had furnished his surety bonds/bail bonds in the local trial court of ACJM to the tune of Rs 1 lakh in pursuance of the interim bail order of Wednesday passed by the court of J P S Khurmi, Additional Sessions Judge, Hoshiarpur.Badal on Thursday appeared in the trial court of ACJM.In October last year, a court here had granted interim bail to Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the same case involving the allegation that his party had submitted a false undertaking to the poll panel to seek recognition for his party.The complainant had alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism whereas it continued its activities as a panthic party and openly participated in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-gets-bail-in-dual-constitution-case-against-his-party-372721
24-02-2022||New Delhi||Mayank Agarwal set to captain Punjab Kings in IPL||India batter Mayank Agarwal is set to captain Punjab Kings in the upcoming Indian Premier League.Agarwal, who is part of the Indian Test team, was one of the two players retained by Punjab Kings alongside young pacer Arshdeep Singh ahead of the mega auction earlier this month.A formal announcement is expected soon."In all likelihood, Mayank will captain the side. The announcement is expected later this week," an IPL source told PTI.Punjab, who went into the auction with the maximum purse, made good use of the money by getting the likes of Shikhar Dhawan, Jonny Bairstow, Liam Livingstone, Kagiso Rabada and buying back left-arm spinner Harpreet Brar and explosive Tamil Nadu batter Shahrukh Khan.Dhawan's name as captain was also doing the rounds but the management was keen on Agarwal as the leader even before the auction."Dhawan is a welcome addition to the side and was always on the radar at the auction. He is a champion player but it seems Punjab were keen on Mayank as captain ever since KL Rahul left the team," the source added.Agarwal and Rahul formed one of the most prolific opening pairs in the IPL over the past couple of years. Rahul will lead Lucknow Super Giants this season.Agarwal had captained the team briefly last year when Rahul was injured. Agarwal aggregated 400-plus runs in the past two seasons. He had made his IPL debut in 2011 and has so far played 100 games.The 31-year-old has also played 19 Tests and five ODIs for India. With a strong squad at their disposal, Punjab Kings are aiming to end their title drought in the IPL. Their only final appearance came way back in 2014. They finished sixth out of eight teams in last three editions.             #Cricket #IPL #mayank agarwal #punjab kings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/mayank-agarwal-set-to-captain-punjab-kings-in-ipl-372671
24-02-2022||---||‘Chacha Raunki Ram’ gets Lifetime Achievement Award||Amritsar, February 23Punjab Naatshala hosted the 10th Jaspal Bhatti Award ceremony on behalf of Idiot Club here on Wednesday. The awards are given in memory of comedian Jaspal Bhatti under the chairmanship of Rajinder Rikhi.Rikhi said like every year, this award ceremony honoured various artistes in the field of theatre and acting for their contribution. Shiromani playwright Jatinder Brar, who is also the founder of Punjab Naatshala, Harinderpal Tikka, former chairman of the World Kabbadi Federation, and Shammi Chaudhary were the chief guests at the event. A special presentation was made on the life of late actor Jaspal Bhatti and his contribution towards Punjabi performing arts and cinema.Artiste Kumar Sharma was given the Nritya Samrat Award while noted actor Balwinder Singh Vicky, better known as ‘Chacha Raunki Ram’, was given the Lifetime Achievement Award. Balwinder’s entertaining avatar Chacha Ronki Ram has been a popular comedy character since the ’90s ever since he first played the character on Doordarshan. He fondly remembered how the popularity of the character got him instant fame and he is still addressed as Ronki Ram instead of his real name.Punjabi poet Dev Dard was presented the Kalam Ka Dhani award, Krishna Dawesar received award for best art promoter, singer Romi Ranjan was given Sangeet Ke Heir award. Many new and rising artistes from the field of theatre, singing and performing arts were also given awards for appreciation.Popular since ’90sBetter known as ‘Chacha Raunki Ram’, noted actor Balwinder Singh Vicky’s entertaining avatar has been a popular comedy character since the ’90s ever since he first played the character on Doordarshan. He fondly remembered how the popularity of the character got him instant fame so much so that he is still addressed as Ronki Ram instead of his real name. #chacha raunki ram #jaspal bhatti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raunki-ram-gets-lifetime-achievement-award-372552
24-02-2022||Ferozepur||Pakistan national held, handed over to cops||Poll bonanza for Patiala civic bodyPatiala: In the run-up to the elections, the local Municipal Corporation earned Rs 34 lakh in a month from outdoor advertisement tax. Usually, the MC earns Rs 12-15 lakh in a month from outdoor advertisement tax. In the election season, the MC earned Rs 21 lakh from its own sites (kiosks and poles), officials said. TNS Two killed in Abohar accidentsAbohar: An 18-year-old student, Riva Jakhar, died when her scooter collided with an auto-rickshaw here on Wednesday. Teacher Sultan Ram Swami (52) was killed when his bike collided with a tanker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-national-held-handed-over-to-cops-372532
24-02-2022||Ropar||Teen jumps into Sirhind canal||A Class IX student jumped into Sirhind canal today. Sukhpreet’s father Harmanjeet Singh said his son was suffering from a skin disease. He said he was going to drop him to school when the latter jumped into the canal. A passer-by also jumped, but failed to rescue him. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teen-jumps-into-sirhind-canal-372530
24-02-2022||Nangal||Nangal: School owner booked on rape charge||The local police today booked a school owner on rape charge. Objectionable pictures, which are purportedly several years old, of accused Amritpal Dhiman with the victims have gone viral on social media.The FIR has been filed on the complaint of Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Daghor. Ashwani alleged Dhiman, who is also a former sarpanch of Nangran village, used to run a school at Passiwal village till a few years ago. Due to his suspicious activities, locals forced him to shut his school.Nangal DSP Satish Kumar said they had started the investigation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-school-owner-booked-on-rape-charge-372528
24-02-2022||Abohar||Four peddlers held in Abohar||A bid to smuggle 160-kg poppy husk from Rajasthan to Jalalabad sub-division in Fazilka was foiled when the police today intercepted two cars on the NH-62 that connects Abohar to Pindwara in Rajasthan.The police said the drug was recovered from five plastic packets seized from the cars. Three persons, identified as Prem Singh of Mohan Ke Uttar, Paramjit Singh of Megharai Uttar and Bittu Singh of Chhangarai Uttar in Jalalabad, have been arrested.The police claimed that the accused brought poppy husk from Bikampur Bikaner for delivery in Rattewala village of Jalalabad. The police have also named Kesar of Bikampur and Makhan Singh of Rattewala in a case registered under the NDPS Act.In another case, a biker Naresh Odh of Chak 6-BLM village was arrested for carrying 400 intoxicating tablets. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-peddlers-held-in-abohar-372525
24-02-2022||New Delhi||Man absconding in visa fraud case held after 18 years||A 57-year-old fraudster, who managed to marry thrice with one wife living in Punjab and two in Delhi, has been arrested in a visa racket case after absconding for 18 years.The accused, identified as Karnail Singh of Kapurthala, and presently residing in Tilak Nagar, Delhi, was declared a Proclaimed Offender in 2003.Furnishing the details about the case, ACP Shibesh Singh said Karnail was accused of cheating one person on the pretext of providing a visa for Switzerland.The accused lured Jeet Singh on the pretext of job in Switzerland and promised to arrange a visa for him for a sum of Rs 5.5 lakh. “After taking the money, Karnail could not be traced and was thus booked,” the ACP said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-absconding-in-visa-fraud-case-held-after-18-years-372524
24-02-2022||Chandigarh||Pulse Polio drive in Punjab from February  27||Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Raj Kamal Chaudhary today said the Pulse polio campaign-2022 would be started in the state from February 27. It will culminate on March 1. He said 31,08,660 children (0-5 years) would be given polio drops by health workers.On the first day of the campaign 14,468 polio booths would be set up across the state and on the second day 26,741 teams would go door to door to administer these drops to the children. The Principal Secretary said 848 mobile teams and 764 transit teams have been formed to administer polio drops to children. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pulse-polio-drive-in-punjab-from-february-27-372522
24-02-2022||---||Vaccination resumes in Abohar||Abohar, February 23The vaccination programme for women and kids that had been suspended for the past two months due to the Covid pandemic was resumed today at 11 places in the city apart from the Subdivisional Civil Hospital, in which about 1,500 women and children were vaccinated.Postpartum Unit incharge Lakshmi Rani and Dinesh Rani said on Wednesday, special vaccination camps were organised at 11 places in the city. About 214 women and children were vaccinated in the unit, in other camps set up by the ANMs, children were vaccinated against polio, tuberculosis, whooping cough, tetanus, pneumonia, rotavirus, measles, rubella etc. About 1,300 vaccines were administered to protect them against the diseases.Laxmi Rani said after two months such camps had been organised to give relief to women and children. From now onwards, the camp will be held each Wednesday, covering pregnant women and children who have been left out of vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccination-resumes-in-abohar-372520
24-02-2022||Raj Sadosh||Soon, 400-bigha Lyallpur Fruit Farm on Abohar-Sriganganagar highway to be made residential colony||Abohar/Sriganganagar, February 23The Lyallpur Fruit Farm that ‘kinnow king’ Kartar Singh Narula, the first recipient of the Udyan Pandit Award, had developed near Sadhuwali village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway in 1947, will soon become a thing of the past. A developer has purchased the 400 bigha farm to develop a residential colony.Jawaharlal Nehru, the then Prime Minister, was keen to visit the Lyallpur Fruit Farm on February 28, 1963, but while he was on his way, he received the news about the death of the President Rajendra Prasad and rushed back to Delhi. He, however, on June 13, 1963, honoured Kartar Singh Narula with the Udyan Pandit Award for growing the best quality of citrus fruit.Indira Gandhi had also visited the farms along with former Rajasthan Chief Minister Mohan Lal Sukhadia, and she too was impressed with the labour put in by the family.Narula was born on December 22, 1922 in Lyallpur. He had come to Sriganganagar in 1939, when the family purchased a desert land from Justice Sir Shadi Lal of the Punjab High Court and others at Rs 8,250 per murabba (a measurement for land). In 1946, he completed a one-year vernacular course from Government College of Agriculture, Lyallpur, and attained the certificate signed by Rai Bahadur Jai Chand Luthra.The family started a citrus fruit plantation in 1952. He was the first to grow mangoes in the region in 1958.Jawaharlal Nehru had brought four plants of kinnow from Pakistan in 1962. Two plants were put at Pusa Institute, New Delhi, two at the botanical garden, Lucknow. Narula had collected some buds of these plants in 1963. Kinnow plants started giving fruits in 1966 at the Lyallpur Fruit Farm. MS Randhawa, then Vice-Chancellor, Punjab Agricultural University, had also visited the farms.Quality citrus fruit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-400-bigha-lyallpur-farm-to-be-made-residential-colony-372517
24-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||60 petrol stations of Punjab along Himachal Pradesh border on verge of closure||Pathankot, February 23Around 60 petrol pumps located near the border with Himachal Pradesh are on the verge of closure following a sharp dip in sales triggered by a big price difference in the neighbouring state.A difference of Rs 5.11 a litre of diesel has been enough to trigger a daily rush of tankers, both small and big, from pumps located in HP towards Punjab. This development has been going on for the past four months.Harried pump owners claim officials of the food and civil supply and taxation departments are “not at all interested in checking the hoarding for reasons best known to them”.Harsh Mahajan, President of the Pathankot Petrol Pump Dealers Association, said there were a total of 150 outlets in the district, of which 60 located near the HP border were the worst-affected. “These pumps are facing a huge financial loss. A majority of them may shut in the next few days. We have petitioned the authorities several times but to no avail. I myself had led a delegation of pump owners to the DC Sanyam Aggarwal,” he said.This development has come as a blessing in disguise for 150-odd stone crushing units located in the area who are the biggest beneficiaries of the cheaper fuel.Sources say VAT earnings from the sale of diesel in Pathankot are showing a downward spiral. Commuters are happy to get their vehicles refueled from hoarders who are selling diesel much below the rates offered by pumps located in Punjab. “Officials are not at all bothered despite the fact that VAT earnings are declining. Fuel meant for consumption in HP is being sold in Punjab which is illegal,” said Gurmeet Singh Dala, owner of an outlet at Sunderchak.Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Pathankot, Anita Guleria, said whatever was happening was beyond her jurisdiction. She asked this correspondent to contact the Amritsar-based mobile wing officials. Mahesh Gupta, AETC (mobile wing) said he would look into the matter.Cry for helpOur petrol pumps are facing a huge financial loss. A majority of them may shut soon. We have petitioned authorities, but to no avail. Harsh Mahajan, chief, petrol pump dealers’ assnWill take actionWe will take strict action against all those indulging in such activity. We have sought a detailed report from officials. Nilkanth Singh Avhad, Commissioner (Taxation)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-petrol-stations-of-punjab-along-himachal-pradesh-border-on-verge-of-closure-372514
24-02-2022||Karam Prakash||Expert panel not formed by Punjab, labour welfare fund being 'misused'||Patiala, February 23Despite the directions of the Supreme Court in 2018 and the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, the state government has failed to form an expert committee to frame various statutory rules to implement welfare schemes of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare (BOCW) Board.Sans committee, the board is said to have been making the rules arbitrarily, allegedly, in connivance with middleman. Consequently, eligible beneficiaries of various schemes are being deprived, and ineligible ones are enjoying the benefits of welfare schemes.It has been learned that the board has continually (intermittently) been amending the rules, the provision of which lies with the expert committee. The board has also registered majority of the workers taking into consideration their voter ID, ration card or Aadhaar card as their age proof documents, which are not mandated as per the Act. As a result, many beneficiaries — who were not eligible — got the benefits of the welfare schemes. There are instances, wherein, the Labour Department has disbursed the amount to beneficiaries, who had died after the age of 60 years, which is also not mandated by the Act.Meanwhile, the CAG report — published by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in 2020 — had also mentioned that no records of holding any expert committee meetings were found with the Labour Department since long.Vijay Walia, an activist, who has continuously been requesting the board for the formation of committee, said: “Several provisions of the BOCW Act have already been amended without an approval of the expert committee. Besides, criteria to disburse the benefits of the welfare schemes have been blatantly misused by the BOCW board. An expert committee should be formed immediately to stop further exploitation of labour funds.”Confirming the development, Labour Department Principal Secretary Ravneet Kaur said: “I have already received a representation on the issue. The Labour Commissioner has ben directed to put up a draft in this regard.”Welfare board violating norms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expert-panel-not-formed-by-punjab-labour-welfare-fund-being-misused-372510
24-02-2022||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Investors duped of Rs 1.3 cr, 1 held||The police have arrested Girdhar Singh Sodha, who is a chairman of Navjivan Co-operative Society, for duping investors of Rs 1.30 crore.Complainant Laxminarayan Nirvana, who is a manager of the society’s Sriganganagar branch, told the police on February 18, 2021, that Sodha and managing director Rawat Singh, were not refunding Rs 1.30 crore deposited by investors. Similar cases were filed against Sodha at various other places in Rajasthan and Gujarat.Last week, the Padampur police had registered a case of Rs 2-lakh fraud on the statement of Paso Devi of Chak 6-EEA village. Earlier, Sodha was brought from Jaipur jail. Now, the Sriganganagar police have again taken his production warrant. The society had opened a branch office in Sriganganagar and Nirvana was appointed a branch manager. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/investors-duped-of-1-3-cr-1-held-372507
24-02-2022||Phagwara||ED arrests Phagwara-based bizman in Rs 24-cr fraud case||A Phagwara-based businessman, Suresh Seth, has been arrested by the Zonal Office of the Enforcement Directorate in an alleged case of Rs 24-crore fraud in Bank of Baroda and alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.He was presented in a Mohali court and sent to judicial custody. The ED officials disclosed that he was an accused but was not appearing before the court. Bailable warrants were also issued but he still did not appear. Since he was evading the process of law, non-bailable warrants had been issued for his arrest. He will now be produced before the court on March 7 through videoconferencing.The elder brother of Suresh, Vikram Seth, is the main accused in the case which had been lodged by the Anti-Corruption Bureau in Chandigarh in January 2015. He was booked under Sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and under various Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The ED had arrested Vikram on September 22 last year. The charges were that in connivance with the bank staff, he had got passed 19 loans worth Rs 24 crore by forgery of documents. A total of 14 persons, including seven members of his family, had been chargesheeted by the ED.It was found that he had used Rs 18.17 crore of the loan money to invest in properties in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. Connecting the money trail, the ED found 42 such properties, including residential, industrial, agricultural and commercial. Other than his properties, his luxury cars and SUVs purchased through the alleged ill-gotten money have also been attached in the case. — #ED #pmla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-arrests-phagwara-based-bizman-in-24-cr-fraud-case-372505
24-02-2022||Amritsar||Relax passport rule for visit to Kartarpur Sahib, says SGPC||The newly constructed building of Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib, Dera Baba Nanak, a historical site associated with Guru Nanak Dev, the first Sikh Guru, was inaugurated on Wednesday.With the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, devotees from across the world have been visiting here to pay obeisance. Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib, Dera Baba Nanak, falls on the way to Kartarpur Sahib.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the Centre must ease the norms for devotees, especially senior citizens, wishing to visit Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan.“There are senior citizens who had to leave Pakistan during the Partition and wish to visit various shrines, but are deprived of the chance for the want of a passport. This condition should be relaxed and other Indian identification documents can be considered for the same,” he said while assuring that the SGPC would take up the matter with the Centre. Dhami also objected to the Z-plus security being provided to Sirsa dera head. #harjinder singh dhami #kartarpur sahib #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relax-passport-rule-for-visit-to-kartarpur-sahib-says-sgpc-372504
24-02-2022||Bathinda/ Fatehgarh Sahib||Canadian Mayor attends vigil for Deep Sidhu||Brampton Mayor Patrick Brown attended and addressed a vigil of actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu at Canada’s Greater Toronto Area (GTA) amid Khalistan flags and anti-India slogans. This event was reportedly arranged by Brampton councillor Harkirat Singh.Brown said, “His (Deep Sidhu) struggle, his courage, his voice will live long beyond his days on this Earth.” The event led to outrage among other members of the Indian diaspora.Meanwhile, Kulbir Kaur, mother of Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, who lost his life in a road accident on February 15, took stock of the arrangements related to his bhog ceremony, which will be held at Diwan Todar Mal Hall of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib on Thursday. Thousands of people are expected to attend the bhogh ceremony of late actor.She also warned Gursimran Singh Mand to desist from spreading propaganda on social media platforms against her son for being an RSS agent. She asked Mand to remove all the posts and videos, else he would be taught a lesson. SAD(A) chief Simranjit Singh Mann has been making arrangements for langar at the gurdwara. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canadian-mayor-attends-vigil-for-deep-sidhu-372502
24-02-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Wanted drug smuggler Sarbjit Sander killed in Canada||Chandigarh, January 23Wanted drug smuggler Sarbjit Singh Sander was found murdered in Langley, Canada, on February 10, central and state security agencies confirmed today.Sander was a co-accused in the Rs 6,000-crore drug smuggling case, in which dismissed cop Jagdish Bhola’s name also cropped up.He was among 11 wanted drug smugglers hiding in Canada. In February 2018, then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had handed over the list of the 11 smugglers to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for their speedy extradition. The Punjab Police and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also moved applications for the extradition of the accused.Police officials said the murder of Sander ahead of the Assembly elections in Punjab was a curious development. “Sander’s murder is a setback to the investigation into the international drug smuggling that involves big fish,” said a police official.Though Canadian officials have established the deceased man’s name, it was not immediately ascertained whether or not he was the same smuggler wanted by the Indian Police.Officials of a central agency said they were in touch with the Canadian police to find the motive behind the alleged murder.Sergeant David Lee of the Integrated Homicide Investigation Team BC RCMP issued a press statement, saying: “On February 10, around 1.30 am, the Langley RCMP found a dead man in 1700 block of 224 Street. He was identified as 57-year-old Sarbjit Sander. Based on information gathered so far, there appears to be no link to the ongoing Lower Mainland gang conflict. This incident is believed to be isolated and not random.”Sander’s name has figured in the investigation by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Punjab Police and the ED into high-profile drug smuggling cases. It has been alleged that Sander arranged couriers for transportation of drugs and routed money via illegal means.Was found dead in Langley||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-drug-smuggler-killed-in-canada-372498
24-02-2022||---||AAP writes to Punjab EC, seeks 3-tier security system of EVMs||Chandigarh, February 23The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Punjab, demanding that EVMs should be monitored under a three-layered security system to remove the possibility of tampering.AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha, in his letter to the EC, stated various candidates of the AAP had expressed concern over the lack of adequate security arrangements in the buildings where EVMs are kept. The reports are coming that buildings don’t have proper lighting and security.The party has also demanded adequate number of CCTV cameras inside and outside the strong rooms. The movement of people inside the strong rooms should be recorded on CCTV and online link of live feed should be provided to all the candidates to clear their doubts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-writes-to-punjab-ec-seeks-3-tier-security-system-of-evms-372496
24-02-2022||---||Kangana Ranaut summoned in defamation case filed by Mahinder Kaur||Bathinda, February 23A local court has issued summons to actor Kangana Ranaut to appear on April 19 in a defamation case filed by Mahinder Kaur (73) over the defamatory tweet against her during the farmers’ agitation.Mahinder Kaur’s advocate Raghuveer Singh Bahniwal said the trial had lasted for about 13 months and now the court had issued summons to Kangana and directed her to appear before the court.Mohinder Kaur had filed a case against Kangana in a district court in Bathinda on January 4, 2021, after the former made headlines when the latter shared a picture of her, claiming that she was the same famous Bilkis Bano also known as ‘Dadi’ who was a part of the Shaheen Bagh protest. However, she deleted the tweet later.In her complaint, Mohinder Kaur stated that because of the misleading post on the microblogging website, she suffered from grave mental tension, agony, harassment, humiliation, loss of reputation and defamation.It also stated Kangana had not issued an apology on social media to her, and the other farmers. Kangana shared the “false tweet”, without any reasonable or probable cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-kangana-ranaut-summoned-in-defamation-case-372492
24-02-2022||---||Ukraine crisis: Act against airlines for increasing fare, Bhagwant Mann to Centre||Chandigarh, February 23AAP chief ministerial candidate and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann has appealed to the Union Government and the Governor to ensure the safe return of the Indian students, including from Punjab, studying in Ukraine. He also demanded strict action against airlines for increasing ticket prices arbitrarily in a time of crisis.He said hundreds of students from different districts of Punjab are studying in crisis-hit Ukraine. Their parents are worried about their safety. The Centre should make immediate arrangement for the safe return of Indian students.The AAP leader said, “Students studying in Ukraine are facing severe difficulties due to the unfavourable situation. Hundreds of students from all over India, including Punjab, went to study medicine in Ukraine. The central government has ordered the students to return home, but has not made any arrangement to bring them back safely. No airline was given the responsibility, nor have plane ticket prices been fixed.”Mann said private airlines had tripled air ticket prices. A ticket earlier sold for Rs 25,000 is now available for Rs 75,000.He added students and their parents had accused the Indian Embassy in Ukraine of not cooperating. #bhagwant mann #Ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-act-against-airlines-for-increasing-fare-bhagwant-mann-to-centre-372490
24-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Custody can't be perceived  as illegal detention, rules Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 23The Punjab and Haryana HC has made it clear that physical or open custody of a person taken under the authority of law could not be perceived as illegal detention. The custody or confinement of the person so held would have the sanctity and authority of law unless the order authorising the same was set aside by a process known to law.The assertion came as Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj refused to entertain a habeas corpus plea seeking the release of a man initially taken in custody on November 1, 2018, by the BSF on the allegations of passing on information to ISI in Pakistan.Directions were also sought for the release of the person’s wife in the petition filed by a person claiming to be the next best friend of the two. He was seeking their release on the ground that they had been taken into illegal custody by BSF Commanding Officer for facing trial before the BSF special court in Manipur.Referring to a recent SC judgment in the case of “Home Secretary (Prison) and others versus H Nilofer Nisha”, Justice Bhardwaj asserted it would be necessary to refer to the development in law so far as the jurisdiction in the matter of writ of habeas corpus was concerned.“A perusal of the judgment clearly establishes that when a person is taken in custody (actual physical custody or open custody) under the authority of law, such custody or confinement cannot be perceived as illegal detention,” Justice Bhardwaj asserted.The Bench was told that a decision was taken to hand over the man’s custody to the Punjab Police after exercising the discretion in terms of the BSF Act, resulting in the registration of an FIR on November 3, 2018, under the Official Secrets Act and the National Security Act in Ferozepur district.An application was moved by BSF Commanding Officer seeking his release to present him before the Security Forces Court for conducting his trial was allowed. It was held that the court could claim his custody for conducting his trial.Justice Bhardwaj observed the man’s custody had been released by court order in favour of BSF Commanding Officer. It was not in dispute that interim protection was not extended and the order’s operation had not been stayed. As a result, his release for being put to trial could not be held to be an act without authority of law. Dismissing the plea, Justice Bhardwaj added it appeared that his wife voluntarily opted to travel with him to Manipur and the same could not be perceived as her detention.Dismisses pleaThe court refuses to entertain a habeas corpus plea seeking the release of a man initially taken in custody on November 1, 2018, by the BSF on the allegations of passing on information to ISI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/custody-cant-be-perceived-as-illegal-detention-rules-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-372487
24-02-2022||Aman Sood||Freebies in offing in poll season, UP labourers working in Punjab head home||Patiala, February 23From ghee to five years of free ration per family, gas cylinders, 300 units of electricity to unemployment allowance, crop loan waiver, and for girls, it is free two-wheelers and smartphones — the poll season in UP is now attracting state residents back to their home state.As political parties in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh promise a slew of freebies and incentives to prospective voters during the last few rounds of polling, thousands of migrants from the state working in Punjab have packed their bags to return home. The large-scale migration is expected to spell trouble for thousands of Punjab farmers and industry.To begin with, parties were offering around Rs 10,000 for votes of a family, but as the UP ballot battle heated up, the sops included government quota, free laptops and even plots, the offers which are hard to resist.For Pritpal and his extended family of three brothers and their wives, all vegetable farm labours in Sanaur, toiling through three-month (March to May) vegetable and wheat season fetches him around Rs 20,000. But with the poll season in full swing back home in UP, he hopes to double the income in his hometown, Pratapgarh. “I will get to stay with my parents and work on my small farm too,” he says.Waseem Anwar, a shift supervisor at a rolling mill in Mandi Gobindgarh, said he received a call from his sister informing him that candidates had promised to make their kutcha houses pucca and assured government jobs.“I have three daughters and a son. I earn around Rs 1 lakh after working hard through the year. Going back home can change my life,” says Anwar. “In addition to free ration, there are two-wheelers and smartphones in the offing for my daughters. I will consider staying back home for a few months,” said Anwar, who hails from Domariyaganj.For thousands like Anwar, who barely manage to eke out a living in Punjab, the UP Assembly elections and lofty promises by political parties are a God-sent opportunity to better their future.“It makes sense to return to UP. We leave our homes and families behind to come and work here. And what do we get? A tough life and limited savings. Going back means staying with the family and who knows, one of us may land a government job, as promised,” says Anil Yadav , head of a six-member family, waiting at the Rajpura railway station to return to Shahganj.The migration is worrying landlords. “The wheat harvesting season is almost here and paddy season will follow. With the labour returning home, the already high labour input costs will spiral,” says Diljot Singh from Ghanaur.“They will not return before three months, so wheat harvest will suffer,” he says. The farm labour that comes from UP specialises in paddy transplantation and is an asset during the season,” he said.Makes sense to return homeWe leave our families behind to work in Punjab. And what do we get in return? A tough life and limited savings. It makes sense to return to UP. Who knows, some of us may land a government job, as promised. — Anil Yadav, Shahganj native #up poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/freebies-in-offing-up-labourers-working-in-punjab-head-home-372486
24-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha to elect five Rajya Sabha members||Chandigarh, February 23The 16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha, once it is constituted after the results are declared on March 10, will have the onerous task of immediately electing five members to represent the state in the Upper House.Elections to the Rajya Sabha are due in early April, as the term of five of the seven Upper House members from the state will end on April 10. The term of Shwait Malik (BJP), Naresh Gujral (SAD), Partap Singh Bajwa (Congress), Shamsher Singh Dullo (Congress) and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa (elected as an SAD representative, but he is now the chief of the breakaway group, SAD Sanyukt) is set to end.The term of two other Rajya Sabha members from the state — Ambika Soni (Congress) and Balwinder Singh Bhunder (SAD) — will end in July.Sources in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha have told The Tribune the Election Commission (EC) has started the electoral process, while the names of the Returning Officer and Assistant Returning Officer have been sent to the EC.The elections will be held once the notification is issued soon after the Vidhan Sabha results are announced.This election is unique because the state will be sending its representatives to the Upper House after a gap of six years; the last time it happened was in 2016.The outgoing Vidhan Sabha did not get a chance to elect any member to the Rajya Sabha. Though Congress, BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) representatives in the Vidhan Sabha participated in the elections, Aam Aadmi Party legislators, which made its maiden entry in the Vidhan Sabha in 2017, did not get a chance to vote in its first term.One-third of the Rajya Sabha members retire every two years. In Punjab, which remained under President’s Rule between 1985 and 1992, did not get a chance to send its representation every two years. It was in 1992 that all representatives were sent to the Upper House. Since then, the Rajya Sabha elections are held every six years and all members elected in one year.This time, the Vidhan Sabha will vote for electing Rajya Sabha members, considering that the two-party system is no longer present.Since 1997, the members have been elected unanimously, with the Congress and former SAD-BJP alliance sending theirrepresentatives to the Upper House. With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and BJP-led alliance also in the House, voting for electing Rajya Sabha members seems inevitable.Other 2 MPsThe term of two other Rajya Sabha members from the state — Ambika Soni (Congress) and Balwinder Singh Bhunder (SAD) — will end in July. Elections to the Rajya Sabha are due in early April.Upper house poll matrixSAD (S) chiefBJPSAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16th-punjab-vidhan-sabha-to-elect-five-rajya-sabha-members-372478
24-02-2022||---||Crop loss relief 'deliberately' delayed, Mansa farmers protest||Mansa, February 23Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) staged a protest and blocked Mansa-Sirsa road at Jhunir village in Mansa district and sought compensation for cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm attack last year.The protesting farmers raised slogans against the district administration alleging that the latter has “deliberately” stalled the compensation process.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, chief, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “We protested on different occasions in the past, but the compensation has not been released by the administration so far. The administration is claiming to have completed all modalities to release the compensation, however, farmers who suffered substantial damage to their crop have not received even a single penny to date. The administration is deliberately stalling the process.”“We will continue the agitation for an indefinite period. The administration must understand that farmers with small landholdings are under heavy debt and need immediate financial assistance. Affected farmers are finding it very difficult to bear their household expenses,” said Bagha.As per the government data, cotton crop in Talwandi Sabo block of Bathinda district suffered 75-100 per cent damage because of pink bollworm attack last year. Many villages in Mansa district also suffered damage between 60 and 100 per cent, while few villages in Muktsar district were hit with pink bollworm infestation, triggering a shortfall in the cotton production this season.In debt, cotton growers need aidThe administration is claiming to have completed all modalities. Farmers, however, have not received even a single rupee to date. The authorities must understand that small farmers are under debt and need immediate aid. — Ram Singh, BKU leader #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-loss-relief-deliberately-delayed-mansa-farmers-protest-372471
24-02-2022||Amritsar||Congress' Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla targets own govt, says it failed to root out drug menace||A day after questioning Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s style of functioning, party’s Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla today targeted his own government in the state for allegedly failing to root out the drug menace.Aujla has, in fact, blamed the alleged police-politician nexus for “failure” to check drug trafficking despite it being the main agenda of the Congress before assuming power in 2017.Shoots off letter to Punjab DGPOur govt failed to curb drug trade. On the contrary, it prospered under the patronage of black sheep in govt & police. — Gurjeet AujlaThe MP has shot off a letter to Punjab DGP Viresh Kumar Bhawra, expressing discontent over the police’s anti-drug campaigns and investigations in drug peddling cases. “The drug menace prospered under the patronage of black sheep in the government and the police. Our government drastically failed to check it. The DGP must fix accountability and have in place an efficient system that breaks the supply chain. Otherwise, protests will be staged outside police stations no matter which party forms the government after March 10,” he said. Aujla said he had raised the matter on several occasions in Parliament too. “The people of Punjab who were once known for their intellect and valour are now being termed drug addicts... Police and intelligence officials have become lethargic and depend only on tips provided by affected parties,” he said. #drug menace #gurjeet aujla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congs-amritsar-mp-targets-own-govt-says-it-failed-to-root-out-drug-menace-372469
