25-02-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab government sets up 24x7 control room to help people stranded in Ukraine||In a bid to provide all possible assistance to the distressed families in this hour of crisis, the Punjab Government has set up a dedicated 24x7 control room to help the people from Punjab stuck up in war-hit Ukraine.An official spokesperson said that affected persons or their relatives can call from within Punjab on Helpline No. 1100 and others from outside India on +91-172-4111905 for seeking relevant information.Pointing out further, the spokesperson said that queries on these helpline numbers would be immediately forwarded to the Ministry of External Affairs. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-sets-up-24x7-control-room-to-help-people-stranded-in-ukraine-373052
25-02-2022||Saurabh MalikChandigarh||Punjab HC confirms anticipatory bail to 'Tarak Mehta' actor Munmun Dutta||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday “made absolute” or confirmed the interim anticipatory bail granted to actor Munmun Dutta in a case registered under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Disposing of her plea, Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court asserted the petitioner, vide order dated February 4, was directed to join the investigation subject to compliance of condition envisaged in the CrPC. The State counsel, on instructions from a deputy superintendent of police, submitted that the petitioner had joined the investigation and was co-operating. Justice Jhingan added the interim bail granted to her on February 4 was made absolute as custodial interrogation was not needed.Best known for her portrayal of Babita Iyer in Hindi serial 'Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah', Dutta had moved the Court for anticipatory bail through counsel Ruchi Sekhri in an FIR registered in May last year under Sections 3(1)(u) of the Act at city police station in Hansi district. Four FIRs, registered for the same incident, were clubbed with the present case after a petition was filed in the Supreme Court.Justice Jhingan, on the previous date of hearing, had observed it would be a debatable issue whether the use of an objectionable term for describing herself would itself be enough to fall within the ambit of the Act.“This Court exercises self restrain from saying that 'prima-facie’ the provisions of Act are not applicable, as it may affect the investigation and the trial,” Justice Jhingan asserted. Referring to a plethora of Supreme Court judgments, Justice Jhingan added it would not be appropriate at the current stage for the High Court to hold a mini-trial to conclude whether the offence under Section 3 of the SC&ST Act was made out. “It would not be a stage to dilate as to whether a loosely used term would be enough to bring the issue within the teeth of the provisions of the Act”.Justice Jhingan had asserted the petitioner was related to media and used the objectionable term in a video. As per the contention raised, the objectionable term was used by the petitioner for herself and not for any other person belonging to any particular community. #punjab and haryana high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hc-confirms-anticipatory-bail-to-tarak-mehta-actor-munmum-dutta-373044
25-02-2022||GS Paul||Ukraine crisis: Parents appeal to Indian government for safe evacuation of their children||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 25The hapless parents whose children have been stranded in trouble-torn Ukraine have no choice, but to wait and watch. They have been in touch with their children through video calls every half an hour, to know their well-beings.With no communication yet received from the government authorities about ‘concrete’ measures being taken up for their safe evacuation, the anxious parents consoled each other in this panic-stricken situation, praying for the safety of their children stranded in Ukraine.Majority of the students belonging to Punjab have been undergoing the MBBS course from Kharkiv National Medical University and Lviv National Medical University in Ukraine. Kainaat Mahajan, who had gone to Ukraine last year to undergo medicine course at Kharkiv National Medical University, informed her parents, through a video call this morning, a bomb had blasted just outside their hostel last night. She said that they have all been sheltered safely in an underground tube station. However, some students were shifted to mess last night, to have their dinner when the bomb blast occurred. Consequently, they got stranded in the mess only, while others are in the bunker without food since last night.   She said that with banks and ATMs getting defunct, they were all short of money, as most of the students possessed US dollars and could not convert them into Hryvnia, the Ukrainian currency.Kainaat’s mother Rekha Mahajan resented that except for circulating the help line numbers, the Indian government could not do anything yet for the safe evacuation of the students.Saloni Soni, whose son Ambuj Soni is pursuing fifth year of MBBS in Ukraine, said, “We have no option but to look up to the Indian government to bring back our children. So far we have been getting updates and are in touch with our children only through video calls and are glued to the television to know what efforts were being made by our government”Komal Hasija, whose daughter Saumya Hasija, too got trapped in Ukraine, blamed the university authorities for being lenient in allowing the students to board the flight back home beforehand. Now, with air space getting shut, uncertainty prevailed over catching the return flight for those students who have booked their tickets for February 27.“The Ukraine university authorities did not pay any heed to Indian students’ pleas to relieve them in advance so that they could make arrangements for their safe return. The students, including my daughter, had requested the university authorities to allow them finish their course online later on, but the authorities were adamant on taking offline classes.  Now, the situation has got out of reach and is life threatening for our children”, she said.  #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-parents-appeal-to-indian-government-for-safe-evacuation-of-their-children-373009
25-02-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar admn issues helpline number to compile info on Ukraine-stuck students||In a move to compile information on students of Jalandhar stuck in Ukraine, the district administration has issued a helpline number 0181-2224 417 so that the information can be given to the authorities concerned through the state government, whenever asked.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the information would be kept ready to share it with the authorities as and when sought. He said the district administration was compiling the information before any official communication as a proactive measure to share it with the Ministry of External Affairs through the state government, when sought.The DC said those whose families are stuck in Ukraine could share the information at the helpline.He said people could visit the Room 22 at the DC office during office hours and provide information on their families or relatives stuck in Ukraine.The visitors are required to furnish maximum information, including name of the stranded person, father’s name, passport number, name of university/college, their location in Ukraine, etc, so that all requisite information could be shared with the authorities. #Ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-admn-issues-helpline-number-to-compile-info-on-ukraine-stuck-students-372987
25-02-2022||Ludhiana||Farmers can get good returns from exotic fruits, veggies: PAU Expert||With change in lifestyle patterns due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a lot of emphasis is being laid on healthy and nutritious diet. Exotic fruits and vegetables are in trend due to their appeal, colour, nutrition, pleasant aroma, delicate flavour and luscious taste.The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed several varieties of strawberry, figs, date palm, grapes, broccoli, Chinese cabbage, celery, lettuce, sweet pepper and baby corn, which can be cultivated by farmers for consumers as well as domestic consumption.Sheetal Chawla, Assistant Director, Publications, PAU, shared, “The university has developed new varieties of strawberry namely Chandler and Winter Dawn last year.”“Fruits are consumed as fresh and for the processing purpose. A wide range of products like squash, ice-creams, jams, syrups, ready to serve, cosmetic and confectionaries can be prepared from strawberry,” said Sheetal Chawla.Among figs (anjeer), two varieties Black Fig 1 and Brown Turkey have been recommended by the PAU. Known for their excellent flavours, medicinal and dietary properties, figs are consumed as fresh, dried, candied, preserved, canned or used for making of jam.“Hillawi and Barhee are the varieties of date palm (khajoor) which can be eaten as raw, dry and soft dates. They are rich source of minerals, vitamins and antioxidants,” Sheetal Chawla added.In grapes, Superior Seedless, Punjab MACS Purple (for red wine), Flame Seedless, Beauty Seedless and Perlette (for vinegar preparation) are the PAU recommended varieties.Among vegetables, Palam Samridhi and Punjab Broccoli I are the varieties developed by the PAU. Saag Sarson and Chini Sarson-I varieties are recommended by the PAU. “Baby corn has export potential and is a delicacy in hotels, airlines and shipping companies because of its sweet flavour. Farmers can get remunerative returns from the cultivation of exotic fruits and vegetables. They can follow package of practices for fruits and vegetables, brought out by the PAU, for successful cultivation of these crops,” said Sheetal Chawla. — #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-can-get-good-returns-from-exotic-fruits-veggies-expert-372929
25-02-2022||Chandigarh||Gold award to Punjab for 'mSeva'||In recognition of ‘mSeva’ initiative of the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), the Centre has conferred ‘Gold award’ to the state under the Award Scheme of National Awards for e-Governance 2020-21 in the category-I — Excellence in Government Process Re-engineering for Digital Transformation.An official spokesperson on Thursday said Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances secretary V Srinivas complimented PMIDC CEO Ajoy Sharma for the valuable contribution towards achieving the best performance. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gold-award-to-punjab-for-mseva-372852
25-02-2022||Nangal||Nangal: Police launch hunt for private school principal||The police have conducted raids to nab owner of a private school accused of sexually assaulting students.The police had booked Amritpal Dhiman, who is also a former sarpanch of Nangran village, after his obscene pictures went viral on social media platforms.Ashwani Kumar of Daghor village had filed a police complaint in this regard.Nangal DSP Satish Kumar said they have formed three teams to nab Dhiman. Raids have been conducted at seven places, said the DSP.Meanwhile, cops have began identification process of the victims so that their statements can be registered.Ropar DEO Jarnail Singh said he has formed a panel to look in to the allegations. He said the report would be sent to higher authorities to take action in this regard. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-police-launch-hunt-for-private-school-principal-372850
25-02-2022||New York||Indian-American student Jaskaran Singh wins $250K prize||In a three-contest winning streak by Indian-American students, Jaskaran Singh has won the premiere quiz tournament for students, the National College Championship Jeopardy with a prize of $250,000.The 22-year-old Sikh studying at the University of Texas at Austin on Tuesday beat 35 other students selected from about the 26,000 who competed for a chance to be on the tournament held over two weeks.After winning the championship, Jaskaran was modest about his success.“I sort of just buzzed fast and know things, pretty much. I don’t think there’s much more,” he told an interviewer from the show. The quarter million dollars win will pay for his college fees “and a lot more”, he said. The college tournament is an offshoot of Jeopardy, the most popular daily quiz show. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-american-student-wins-250k-prize-372849
25-02-2022||---||Nod to Rs200 cr for Ferozepur feeder canal||Abohar/Sriganganagar, February 24Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved Rs 200 crore for renovation of Ferozepur feeder canal that emanates from Harike barrage.The canal supplies water to Sriganganagar, known as “Punjab of Rajasthan”.A survey indicated that lining of the feeder canal had collapsed at several places. The feeder canal has a capacity to carry 6,000 cusecs of water, but 4,800 to 5,300 cusecs of water was being released.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti spokesman Subhash Sehgal said leakage in the feeder canal had a direct impact on agriculture. The Ferozepur Feeder canal was constructed in 1957.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nod-to-200-cr-for-ferozepur-feeder-canal-372847
25-02-2022||Patiala||Patiala: Sena Medal to martyr Lance Naik Salim Khan on March 4||The Army will award Lance Naik Salim Khan, who was a resident of Mardanheri village of Sanaur, Patiala, with a Sena Medal. The soldier was killed in the line of duty on June 25, 2020, when his boat capsized in Ladakh. Representatives from the Army today reached his village to present an invitation letter to his family members. He will be awarded the medal on National Security Day (March 4) in Pathankot.Lance Naik Salim Khan (24), who was unmarried, is survived by an elder brother, a sister and his mother. His father died in the line of duty years ago.Villagers are also setting up a sports stadium which was announced by the Amarinder government. Sarpanch Jagdeep Singh said the announcement for the stadium was made by the state government, but its work has not yet begun. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-sena-medal-to-martyr-lance-naik-on-march-4-372845
25-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Prolonged cold wave to boost wheat yield: Experts||Moga, February 24Prolonged cold wave conditions from December 15 to February 15 with good rainfall have come as a boon for farmers growing wheat crop in Punjab with agriculture experts anticipating an increase in yield by 1-2 quintals per hectare across the state, despite reports of yellow rust in sub-mountainous regions of the state.However, agriculture experts have asked farmers to keep monitoring their wheat fields regularly and check the attack of aphids and yellow rust. They have also been asked to take preventive measures, if needed, as per the advice of agriculture scientists.Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a senior agro-scientist of the state agriculture department, described two months of prolonged cold weather conditions as ‘conducive’ and ‘beneficial’ for the wheat crop because the rain stopped on time paving way for a good sunshine in all regions of the state.The cold weather conditions not only restrained the attack of insects or pests on the wheat crop during that period but also helped the growth of plants. “There is no attack of aphids or other insects and also no signs of yellow rust on wheat plants in our fields. We are hopeful of a good yield this year,” said Swaran Singh and Narinder Singh, farmers of Rode village in Moga.No matter, the recent surveys conducted by the scientists of Punjab Agricultural University have revealed the presence of yellow rust in wheat fields on HD 2967, HD 3086 and some other un-recommended varieties near Anandpur Sahib and Nangal in Ropar district, but, it would have no negative impact on overall average production of wheat in the state.The prevailing weather conditions are favourable for infection and spread of yellow rust in sub-mountaineous areas of Punjab; therefore, the Head of the Department of Plant Pathology of PAU, Ludhiana, Dr Narpinderjit Kaur Dhillon has advised the farmers of these areas to regularly monitor their wheat fields.In case yellow rust is observed, it should be immediately managed by using fungicides. The adjoining fields near the infected ones should also be monitored critically for timely intervention to manage further spread of yellow rust, she said.Helped plant growthThe cold weather conditions not only restrained the attack of insects or pests on the wheat crop during the period but also helped the growth of plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prolonged-cold-wave-to-boost-wheat-yield-experts-372843
25-02-2022||Bathinda||One more nabbed in Bathinda firing case||The police have arrested another accused in a case where a group of assailants allegedly shot a man dead in the broad daylight in October last year. The police said they arrested Charanjit Singh from Deon village and recovered weapons from his possession.DSP Aaswant Singh said, “Last year, three persons were attacked owing to old enmity. In the attack, two persons died. While two accused have already been arrested, eight others involved in the crime are on the run.”He added, “The accused was produced before a local court and he was sent in four-day remand.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-more-nabbed-in-bathinda-firing-case-372841
25-02-2022||Chandigarh||Ban controversial textbooks on Sikh history: AAP||The AAP has demanded an immediate withdrawal and ban on controversial textbooks of history for Class XII, levelling allegations against the Akali Dal-BJP and Congress governments for “tampering with the Sikh history”.Party spokesperson and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said a conspiracy had been hatched to distort the facts about the Sikh history and that of Punjab and its martyrs. He said this misinformation and distorted facts were being served to the new generation, but the Congress and SAD-BJP governments did not care because they were only thinking of making money through ‘book mafia’ in collaboration with the private publishing houses. “That is why books with many mistakes are being sold for Rs 400 to the Class XII students,” it claimed. Sandhwan demanded withdrawal of the book and ban on certain such books. — #kultar singh sandhwan #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ban-controversial-textbooks-aap-372839
25-02-2022||Moga||Moga: Rice millers protest against FCI||A section of the rice millers staged a protest against the Food Corporation of India (FCI) at Baghapurana town on Thursday, alleging that did not get adequate space in the storehouses to keep the custom milled rice, due to which, they were incurring huge financial losses.They raised slogans against the corporation and demanded departmental action against the local authorities for ignoring their interests.Amarjit Singh Brar, Raman Kumar Mittal, Gauri Shankar, Jatinder Chawla and others alleged that the FCI authorities had adopted a step-motherly treatment with them while an influential rice miller of the area was being given ‘VVIP treatment’.“A large section of the space in Food Corporation of India-owned and Central Warehouse Corporation storehouses has been allotted only to selected rice millers much to the discomfort of a large section of the millers,” they alleged.The angry protestersfurther alleged that the rice custom milled by them was lying in the mills for the past many weeks and no space was being given them to deliver it to the central food agency. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-rice-millers-protest-against-fci-372837
25-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Nominees launch drive to thank voters in Punjab||Sangrur, February 24Some politicians have been relaxing after working hard for the elections, but there are many who have started thanking area residents for their support, even before the announcement of the results.“On Wednesday, I started a special campaign to visit each house of the Lehra constituency. I will meet all residents in coming days to thank them for their support in the elections,” said Rahulinder Singh Sidhu (Bhattal), son of Bibi Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former Chief Minister and Congress candidate from the Lehra constituency.Bhattal had faced tough contest from SAD (Sanyukt) leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa.Similarly, Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Dhuri Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, has also started attending functions in her constituency to thank the area residents for supporting her husband. Goldy is pitted against AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann.“I didn’t rest even for a day after the elections and thanked my area residents for their affection and support. Today I am going to New Delhi for some work and will be back in a day or two. Sangrur needs urgent attention for development and I will do my best,” said Arvind Khanna, BJP candidate from Sangrur.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema said he had been visiting various villages to express his gratitude. “All residents of my constituency are my family members and I have got unexpected support from them,” Cheema added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nominees-launch-drive-to-thank-voters-in-punjab-372835
25-02-2022||Ravneet Singh||Promised last year, Punjabi University, Patiala, yet to get over Rs 150-cr grant||Patiala, February 24The state government is yet to honour its announcement of taking over Punjabi University Patiala’s bank overdraft of Rs 150 crore and increasing its monthly grant to Rs 20 crore, announced by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in November last year. As a result, the university has been facing a shortage of funds to an extent that it failed to provide salaries to its employees on time, leading to protests.CM Charanjit Singh Channi had made the announcement of increasing the university’s grant during his visit to the campus. He had said the state government wanted to elevate the university’s burden. But university officials today said: “We have not received the grants so far. The matter has also been raised with the government. We are hopeful the funds will be transferred soon.”Past budget expenditures: As per the university’s financial statement passed in the first week of April last year, its expenditure for the current year was estimated at Rs 472.26 crore, of which, as per its estimated earnings throughout the year, it was set to be short of Rs 129.91 crore. Besides, with the government grants for payments of salaries remaining static, the university also failed to pay salaries to its employees (over 3,000 non-teaching and 900 teaching staff) on time who resorted to regular protests.The university’s income from examination fee has remained almost static throughout the years at Rs 88 to 89 crore, while its tuition fee for various master-level courses also witnessed a fall, from Rs 41.23 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 30.17 crore in 2020-21.Fall in grants for research: The university’s grant from the UGC (development scheme) for general development, research projects, and other purposes has also plummeted. It had received Rs 24.39 crore from the UGC in 2016-17, which came down to Rs 2.02 crore in 2020-21. The grants from other departments, including the Department of Science and Technology, CSIR, ICSSR and others, also came down with time.Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said: “We are eagerly waiting for the government’s announced grants as it is important for the functioning of the university. The files for both the matters are in process.” About the decrease in grants received from the UGC, he said: “The UGC’s own budget has decreased in the past many years.”Set to be short of Rs129 crAs per the university's financial statement passed in April last year, its expenditure for the current year was estimated at Rs472.26 crore, of which, as per its estimated earnings throughout the year, it was set to be short of Rs129.91 crore. #punjabi university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promised-last-year-patiala-varsity-yet-to-get-over-150-cr-grant-372832
25-02-2022||GS Paul||10K spectators allowed at Attari 'Beating the Retreat' ceremony||Amritsar, February 24The hustle and bustle at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP) has returned with the resumption of visitors’ entry to the gallery to watch the ‘Beating the Retreat’ ceremony.The daily evening ceremony, also known as the flag lowering routine, is conducted between India’s Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Rangers, jointly at the zero line of the India-Pakistan border.With the impact of Covid threat decreasing, the authorities have allowed around 10,000 guests, half the capacity of the spectators’ gallery at the JCP daily.The move has also brought a relief to hundreds of local sellers, dhaba owners, tattoo makers, flag painters and juice vendors, among others, who are dependent on tourists for their business.They have been struggling to make ends meet ever since the ceremony was restricted for visitors since March 7, 2020. Though it was partially allowed with a limit of 300 persons in September last year, followed by enhancing it to 5,000 in October, a blanket ban on visitors’ entry was imposed since January 6 as per the health guidelines by the Union Health Ministry.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said: “The gallery at the JCP has a capacity to accommodate 25,000 visitors. Keeping in view the relaxation of Covid guidelines, it was decided to allow 10,000-12,000 visitors to watch the ceremony,” he said.The ‘Hop on Hop off’ double decker bus which tours key spots of Amritsar, too has started attracting visitors. Sanjeev Aggarwal, who runs the operation of the bus, said they had been instructed to accept the bookings up to half the capacity of the buses.“Majority of the tourists, especially foreigners, will opt for the double decker bus to visit the Attari-Wagah border. The bus operation remained suspended for want of passengers as they preferred taxis to visit local spots. We have been getting a number of bookings now with the resumption of visitors to the Attari-Wagah border,” he said.Sarhad, an Indian-Pakistan cuisine restaurant near the border, which had shut its operations since March 2020, too would open soon. Owner Aman Jaspal said the resumption of visitors to the retreat ceremony was a good reason to revive the restaurant. “This move will also help generate employment and trade for thousands of small-time traders who belong to the Attari border belt, which is otherwise devoid of any economic activity,” he said.Joginder Singh who runs a roadside shop in Attari said he had to close his food joint for want of customers. “Earlier, we were dependent on policemen, BSF staffers and porters but now I will make it fully operational,” he said.Local bizmen eye good trade||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10k-spectators-allowed-at-attari-beating-the-retreat-ceremony-372829
25-02-2022||Vishav Bharti||Curtains on Ayushman Bharat plan in Punjab||Chandigarh, February 24The curtains are going to come down on the largest health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat-Mukh Mantri Sehat Bima Yojana in Punjab tomorrow.As per the message sent by the State Health Agency through an email to the empanelled hospitals, it has been stated that the SBI-GIC, the insurance company that was given the contract, won’t be offering it services after February 25.Sources said the step had been taken by the company as it had been suffering losses for the past several months due to the huge claims made by the hospitals. Earlier in December, the companyhad conveyed to the government that it won’t be able to continue the scheme as huge claims were being made by private hospitals.Following that, the sources revealed due to the elections, the government convinced the company to continue the services till the polling day. On February 20, the company again extended the services by five days till February 25. Now the empanelled hospitals have not received any communication regarding the further extension of the scheme.A Civil Surgeon, who wished not to be quoted, said tomorrow would be the last day as per the last communication.The sources further said the company that was providing human resource for the implementation of the scheme had also conveyed to its staff that it was coming to an end.Notably, Punjab had made changes to the scheme as per local requirements and named it Ayushman Bharat–Mukh Mantri Sehat Bima Yojana. Launched in 2019, the scheme covers around 40 lakh families and under which the government claims to have offered free treatment worth Rs 1,112.41 crore provided to 9.63 lakh entitled beneficiaries.Bhupinder Singh, who is heading the state health agency that handles the scheme, was not available for the comments. Dr GB Singh, Director, Health Services, also remained inaccessible. #ayushman bharat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/curtains-on-ayushman-plan-in-punjab-372827
25-02-2022||---||Salary budget yet to be cleared, Punjab Government teachers at receiving end||Bathinda, February 24Teachers working under the state Education Department are quite perturbed as their salary for February is likely to be delayed. The reason behind the delay is said to be the budget for the month, which is yet to be cleared by the department concerned.According to department officials, after recent salary hikes, the budget for salaries could not be cleared and it would take some more time before salaries could be released.There are 276 secondary and high schools and 256 primary and 60 middle schools in Bathinda where more than 6,000 teachers have been providing their services.Talking to The Tribune, a group of teachers requesting anonymity alleged that the budget of salaries for the month of February was not forwarded to the education department for clearance on time as a result their salaries are quite likely to be delayed.Sources said the budget for salaries is forwarded for clearance after third week of every month and though it was sent on time as usual, it did not get an approval from the higher authorities at the Chandigarh head office.While the budget for around 4,500 teachersserving in high and secondary schools in the district is approximately Rs 34-36 crore and for 1,800 teachers in primary and middle schools is around Rs 11.60 crore.Resham Singh Khemuana, president of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, said: “Majority of the teachers have instalments to pay back their loans which are usually paid in the first week of every month. Moreover, arrears for the period between January 2016 and July 1 last year have also not been cleared so far. If pending dues are not cleared soon, we will gherao the DEO’s office to lodge our protest soon.”While acknowledging that the budget for salaries did not get approval, Shiv Pal Goyal, District Education Officer (DEO), Primary, said: “We have written to the Director Public Instructions (DPI) office for the clearance of the budget. The matter will be resolved soon and salaries will be released.”Matter will be resolved soonWe’ve written to the DPI office for the budget clearance. The matter will be resolved soon and salary will be released. — Shiv Pal Goyal, DEO Primary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/salary-budget-yet-to-be-cleared-punjab-government-teachers-at-receiving-end-372825
25-02-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Thousands attend Deep Sidhu's bhog in Fatehgarh Sahib||Thousands attended bhog ceremony of Deep Sidhu, which was held at Diwan Todar Mal Hall of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, today.SAD(A) president Simranjit Singh Mann said the late actor was working in coordination with his party and had campaigned for the party candidates.Karnail Singh Panjoli, secretary, SGPC, also appreciated the role of Deep Sidhu during farmers’ stir and said the late actor has become an icon for youngsters. Panjoli assured full cooperation to the aggrieved family.Heads of various sects, deras and nihangs along with Mann presented gold medal and siropas to mother, wife and children, of Deep Sidhu. #deep sidhu #karnail singh panjoli #simranjit singh mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thousands-attend-deep-sidhus-bhog-in-fatehgarh-sahib-372823
25-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sikh girl turban issue: UN-affiliated body United Sikhs writes to NHRC||Amid hijab row, reports of a Bengaluru college asking a Sikh girl not to come in turban have come forth.Sunil Jakhar, a senior Congress leader, said, “Unfortunately, it appears that earlier apprehensions of Punjab were not unfounded. Reports of an ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh girl being asked to remove her turban in a Bengaluru college are very disconcerting.”Also read: Sikh girl asked to remove turban in Bengaluru amid hijab rowAttack on Sikh traditions: Akal Takht on Bengaluru turban incidentJakhar shared his February 13 tweet in which he had hoped that Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh would raise apprehensions of Punjabis about Karnataka CM’s statement about not allowing “religious clothing” in educational institutions, as he met Home Minister Amit Shah.Meanwhile, the United Sikhs, a UN-affiliated organisation, has written to Justice Arun Kumar Mishra (retd), Chairperson, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), and sought his intervention on restrictions on religious clothing as it was in contravention of the Constitution in protecting the basic right to practice one’s faith and right to education.Dr Esher Singh, legal director of the United Sikhs, in a letter to Justice Mishra, said, “The Article 25 of the Constitution provides religious freedom. It was discriminatory hijab ban on Muslim women in Karnataka, becoming a flash point for minority rights. It has resulted in violence and protests.”The United Sikhs has won three cases that were filed before the United Nations Human Rights Committee in 2008 against French turban ban, he said.It’s very disconcerting: JakharUnfortunately, it appears that earlier apprehensions of Punjab were not unfounded. Reports of an Amritdhari Sikh girl being asked to remove her turban in a Bengaluru college are very disconcerting. Sunil Jakhar, Congress leader #nhrc #Sikhs #sunil jakhar #turban #united sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/un-affiliated-body-writes-to-nhrc-372820
25-02-2022||Amritsar||Attack on Sikh traditions: Akal Takht on Bengaluru turban incident||Akal Takht and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) have strongly objected to an incident that pertained to forcing an Amritdhari (baptised) Sikh girl to remove turban, before attending the college in Bengaluru.Also read: Sikh girl asked to remove turban in Bengaluru amid hijab rowSikh girl turban issue: UN-affiliated body United Sikhs writes to NHRCThe SGPC has also written a letter in this regard to Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai asking him to ensure preservation of religious freedom of Sikhs in the state and also reminded him of the contribution of Sikhs to India.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said it could not tolerate the Sikhs being forced to remove their turbans in their own country.“It was a Nadirshahi decision (unconstitutional), which will never be accepted. Turban is very important to the Sikh faith. Forcing anybody to remove the dastar (turban) is in violation of Sikh traditions and principles,” he said.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the questions were being raised on the turban of Sikhs in India, whereas turban-wearing Sikhs have served as the President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice and Army Chief. “Sikhs all over the world wear turban and are working on various top positions, whereas, in our own country, turbans are being challenged,” he said.Meanwhile, the SGPC president has also demanded the intervention of the Prime Minister in this matter and issuance of instructions to every state to uphold the religious freedom of the people. #akal takht #giani harpreet singh #harjinder singh dhami #SGPC #Sikhs #turban||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attack-on-sikh-traditions-takht-on-bengaluru-incident-372819
25-02-2022||Hoshiarpur||Bail to Parkash Singh Badal in party constitution case||Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Rupinder Singh today granted bail to former Chief Minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal in a dual constitution case that was filed in 2009.The case was scheduled to be heard on February 25, but Badal appeared in the court today. Hitesh Puri, lawyer for social activist and complainant Balwant Singh Khera, said Badal had furnished his surety bonds/bail bonds in the trial court of the ACJM to the tune of Rs 1 lakh in pursuance of the interim bail order of Wednesday passed by the court of JPS Khurmi, Additional Sessions Judge, Hoshiarpur.In October last year, the court had granted interim bail to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the same case involving the allegation that his party had submitted a false undertaking to the poll panel to seek recognition for his party.The complainant had alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the EC that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism whereas it continued its activities as a panthic party and openly participated in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elections. #parkash singh badal #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bail-to-parkash-singh-badal-in-party-constitution-case-372818
25-02-2022||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Bikram Singh Majithia questioned on links with high-profile smugglers||The questioning of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia at the trial court in Mohali on Thursday centred around his alleged links with several high-profile peddlers.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by AIG Balraj had earlier questioned Majithia . The SIT members told the court that Majithia was evasive in his replies. The SIT sought his remand, but the court gave them one hour to question Majithia in the court room only.The SIT members asked Majithia whether he had provided support and funds to drugs smugglers.It was alleged that Majithia had association with dismissed and convicted cop Jagdish Bhola, besides Bittu Aulakh, Parminder Singh Pindi and Satpreet Singh alias Satta among others.Majithia’s replies to the queries could not be ascertained. — #bikram majithia #drugs menace #jagdish bhola||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-case-bikram-singh-majithia-questioned-on-links-with-high-profile-smugglers-372817
25-02-2022||Rajmeet SinghChandigarh||Nervous Congress tries to keep flock together in Punjab||As uncertainty looms over the poll results, the Congress has started the exercise to keep its flock together amid the ongoing infighting among its leaders.Based on internal post-poll surveys and seat-to-seat assessment by the party’s war room, Congress leaders claim to have reached an idea of where it would stand in the results.Not hopeful of the Congress crossing the 40-seat mark, a senior party leader said infighting could further widen once the results were out. “In case the Congress fails to make it to the 59-mark, churning could start within the party on the state leadership. There are many claimants among the Jat and Hindu leaders. Sunil Jakhar has already announced to quit active politics after the way the party handled the issue of deciding on the CM face and removing Capt Amarinder Singh,” he added.Post elections, the Navjot Singh Sidhu factor will also play an important role in deciding the fate of the party in coming days. “Whatever the result, Sidhu seems to be waiting for it before playing his cards,” said a senior leader from Majha. Sources close to Sidhu say that he is unhappy with the state of affairs in the local party unit. Without naming anyone, Sidhu has been repeatedly saying that only “the Congress can defeat the Congress”.Party’s top leadership had, however, asked the MLAs not to target Sidhu till the polling. MP Gurjeet Aujla also spoke against him only after the polling.On opinion among certain leaders about the Congress not reaching the 40-mark, the party’s top leadership does not agree. “The party will touch the 50-mark, can be five plus or five minus. Also, the political developments two to three days prior to the polling will spring a surprise,” the party leader added.Two days ago, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi interacted with a few party MLAs to get their feedback. “Various permutation and combinations on the basis of possible poll results were discussed. The performance of the SAD-BSP combine, BJP-led NDA alliance and the AAP was part of the discussion,” said senior leaders engaged in the poll strategy.CM sought feedback from MLAsTwo days ago, Congress’ Punjab affairs incharge and Chief Minister Charanjit Channi interacted with a few party MLAs to get their feedback. Party insiders say discussions on how to get a majority in case the party fell of 59-seat mark were held. #capt amarinder singh #navjot sidhu #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nervous-congress-tries-to-keep-flock-together-in-punjab-372816
25-02-2022||Faridkot||NMC advisory against admissions in Kyrgyzstan medical colleges||In view of escalated tension between Russia and Ukraine, while it is keeping parents of hundreds of medical students of the region on tenterhooks, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has issued an advisory to students who are seeking admission to medical colleges of Kyrgyzstan.Like Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan is also a former constituent of the erstwhile USSR. According to an estimate, over 100 students from Punjab are enrolled in MBBS course in Ukraine. Due to high competition for a MBBS seat in government medical colleges and private institutes, which charge high tuition fee particularly on the management quota seats in the state, many students prefer medical colleges in Ukraine and other foreign countries where the tuition fee is comparatively low.The NMC has issued an advisory to students who are seeking admission to medical colleges of Kyrgyzstan and other foreign countries after it came to know that many students were overlooking the supervisory, regulatory and infrastructural issues in these institutions. In an official notification, the NMC said it had come to the notice of the Ministry of External Affairs that a few new medical colleges had been launched in Kyrgyzstan in last one year and about 200 Indian students had already been enrolled in these institutions. Interestingly, not even a single Kyrgyz student has enrolled in these institutions.The NMC said students needed to be aware that there might be regulatory and infrastructural issues in these colleges that should not be overlooked. — TNSRush for enrolmentThe NMC has said a few new medical colleges have been launched in Kyrgyzstan in the past one year and about 200 Indian students have already been enrolled in these institutions. Interestingly, not even a single Kyrgyz student has enrolled in these institutions. #MBBS #national medical commission #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nmc-advisory-against-admissions-in-kyrgyzstan-colleges-372815
25-02-2022||Vijay C Roy||Shipments on hold due to Ukraine crisis, exporters in Punjab fear losses||Chandigarh, February 24Exporters in Punjab are worried over the possible impact on their shipments and fears delay in payment amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The exporters are in wait and watch mode on dispatching fresh orders to the two nations and some of the Commonwealth countries.Punjab-based manufacturer’s exports plastic, rubber, garments, hosiery, fertilisers, agriculture implements, scaffolding and hand tools to Russia and Ukraine.According SC Ralhan, president, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, the conflict will have a cascading impact on the hand tools’ exports not only to these two countries but other countries as well.The quantum of impact on trade would depend on the duration of the war, which would affect both movements of goods and payments, said another exporter. The current crisis would affect the country’s exports as the West is imposing sanctions on Russia.Russia is India’s 25th largest trading partner, with exports of $2.5 billion and imports of $6.9 billion in the first nine months of FY2022. While the bilateral trade with Ukraine stands at $2.3 billion so far this fiscal.The ripples of the war are already being felt in India. For example, an apparel shipment bound to France has been asked by the buyer to put on hold as there is uncertainty in the air. “In the morning, we were intimated by our buyers to put the shipment on hold amid uncertainty. In a day or two it will be clear that how many consignments were either put on hold or cancelled,” said Harish Dua, MD of KG Exports.Exporters also fear that there is looming prospect that it could be impacted if wider sanctions on Russia are announced. Amid the conflict, All Industries & Trade Forum has requested the Prime Minister to take care of the financial interests of the Industries trading with Russia & Ukraine.“Due to the war, exporters may face delay in payments of goods supplied or already in transit. Those who have released the Letter of Credit may face losses due to delay,” said Badish Jindal.Manufacturers likely to be hitPunjab-based manufacturer’s exports plastic, rubber, garments, hosiery, fertilisers, agriculture implements, scaffolding and hand tools to Russia and Ukraine, which is likely to be impacted due to the conflictCentre urged to announce relief #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shipments-on-hold-exporters-in-punjab-fear-losses-372814
25-02-2022||Archit Watts||Muktsar students stuck in Ukraine, kin concerned||Muktsar, February 24As the tension is escalating in Ukraine and the airspace is closed for civilian flights, some students from Muktsar district, who were scheduled to start their return journey today, could not board their flights and are stuck there. Some of them are yet to leave their places to return to India. Mehakpreet Kaur, an MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, is presently stuck between Kharkiv and Kyiv as she had boarded a bus in the wee hours today to take a flight back home.Her father Gurmukh Singh, a government employee, said, “My daughter along with 24 others had boarded a bus to reach the Kyiv airport at 7 am (IST) today. However, on the way, they got a message that all flights have been cancelled. I last spoke to her at about 1 pm and till then their bus was stuck at a gas station. Everyone is scared and we are praying for their safety.”Similarly, Ranjit Singh, a retired government employee, whose daughter Jasmeen Kaur is also pursuing the MBBS at Kharkiv university, said, “A few days ago, the situation was normal at Kharkiv. Even my daughter sent some photos and videos of a zoo and other public places. We used to speak to her just once at night, but now we are in constant touch with her. My daughter had booked her flight ticket for today, but could not board it. We as parents are tense.“Students in Ukraine don’t even do any job unlike other countries. Further, each class has maximum 15 students, thus they don’t have much interaction with anyone. The government should make some arrangements for their safety.” Major Singh from Muktsar, whose grandson and granddaughter are studying at Kharkiv, said, “The tickets of my grandchildren were booked for February 26, but now the flights are cancelled.”Meanwhile, SAD MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi appealed to parents to contact him for any kind of help. He along with parents are planning to meet the Deputy Commissioner to share the detials of those stranded for further assistance.Govt not doing muchThe government has not done much to bring students back. My son, two children of a policeman, one of a teacher at Bhullar village and two others from Malout are stuck in Ukraine. Avtar Singh, Gidderbaha resident #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-students-stuck-in-ukraine-kin-concerned-372813
25-02-2022||Raj Sadosh||Abohar student recounts ordeal in Ukraine||Abohar, February 24Two students — Hina Soni and Yuvraj Bhadoo — returned to Abohar safely two days ago from Ukraine. Both are MBBS students at National Medical University in Ukraine.Hina said she had to travel 1,500 km by train from Labib to board a flight. During this, she did not see any war-like situation, she even went shopping for some time. She had to pay double the airfare to come to India from Ukraine. Earlier, air tickets from Ukraine to New Delhi cost $300, but this time she had to pay $600.Harjinder Singh, son of retired school principal Gurcharan Singh, is also stuck in Ukraine. Gurcharan said he spoke to his son over phone. Though Harjinder said he was fine, today’s developments have made the family tense.Raju Vij of Nanak Nagari said his daughter Diksha is also doing MBBS there. “I spoke to her on phone today, she said Indian Embassy officials had shifted Indian students from there to another safe place,” he said. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-student-recounts-ordeal-372812
25-02-2022||Deepkamal KaurJalandhar||Several students camp in University basement in Ukraine||Till last evening, the family of Hemant Sharma, a resident of Guru Gobind Singh Avenue here, had been quite hopeful that their son Aniket Sharma, who is on a study visa to Ukraine, would be back in four days.Aniket was to take back flight to India on February 27. But this morning, when they heard that Russia had launched the attack, all their hopes of rescuing their son from the war zone anytime soon dashed completely. “The first thing that we checked was the status of flights and our fear came true. Even the Air India flight which was to bring back Indian students had to be called back midway,” said Hemant, who works for the Indian Railways, adding, “Had we not waited for so long and managed ticket earlier or had the Russian attack come a little later, our son would have been safe with us here in few days.”Hemant shared details: “Like us, my son, too, was a bit panicky this morning and was in touch with us on phone. We tried to calm him down and by the end of the day, he was quite fine and seemed to have reconciled with the situation”.Like Aniket Sharma, Jalandhar-based Dr Ashwani Sharma’s son Ishan Sharma, his nephew Pratham Sharma and niece Vanshika, all of who are doing MBBS from Ukraine, too, have got stuck up there. All three of them were to fly back tomorrow. The family members have said that they were now putting up in a bunker at a place 50 km from Kyiv.It, however, has been a huge escape for Manpreet Singh of TV Tower here, who too was on study visa to Ukraine and had returned home on February 15. “I had no plans to come back and had returned on my parents’ insistence. As I am in touch with my classmates who are from Kala Bakra village in Jalandhar, Malerkotla and other parts of Punjab, they had been telling me that everything was still fine till yesterday. After talking to them, I had been thinking that maybe I took a hasty decision to return. But when this morning the news of Russian attack came, I have thanked God and my parents a million times for rescuing me in time,” he said.Adequate suppliesMy son is pursuing MBBS from Kharkiv National Medical University. He, two more from Jalandhar and others have been shifted to the basement of the building for safety. They have adequate ration to last days. — Hemant Sharma, Jalandhar resident #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/several-camp-in-varsity-basement-372811
25-02-2022||GS Paul||Parents in Punjab worry for safety of wards in Ukraine||Amritsar, February 24Several students hailing from various parts of Punjab are stuck up in war-hit Ukraine. So far, at least 25 of them have been identified who belong to Amritsar alone. Stranded students and parents have been pleading with the Indian authorities for evacuation. Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said he had approached the Ministry of External Affairs to help the students. The Centre has also launched a 24-hour helpline to assist Indian students.Also read: Several students camp in University basement in UkraineAs an immediate safety measure, many students have been shifted underground. A majority of students belonging to the state are pursuing MBBS from Kharkiv National Medical University and Lviv National Medical University in Ukraine. “We have identified 61 students belonging to Punjab so far. Of these, 25 are from Amritsar. We are trying to locate others too”, he said.A tense Kuldeep Kaur, whose daughter is in the fifth year of MBBS said worried students had requested the university authorities to conduct the remaining course online so that they could complete it while staying safe in India, but in vain.“I just received a call from my daughter who said around 250 Indian students have been shifted to Metro station for safety. My daughter was to board the flight on February 27, but now uncertainty prevailed with the airspace getting shut down. Now, all hopes are from the Indian government to bring our children back”, she said.Narinder Sharma said his daughter, who is also in the fifth year of MBBS, has informed him about her well-being through a video call. She lived in Kharkiv. “I am in constant touch with her. We are waiting for the flights to resume. She has also booked a return flight for February 27. At present, she and others have been shifted to a Metro station, located 50 ft underneath, and are safe”, he said.Two days back, she had shown the crisis in Ukraine via video call. She informed us how Indians were facing cash crunch as the banks and many ATMs got defunct.‘In touch with MEA for evacuation’ Amid frantic calls from anxious parents and students, I have got in touch with the External Affairs Minister. The arrangements are being made for their safe evacuation. Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amritsar MP #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-worry-for-safety-of-wards-in-ukraine-372809
25-02-2022||Mohali/Patiala||Drugs case: Bikram Majithia surrenders, sent to Patiala jail||Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia was today remanded in judicial custody after he surrendered before a local court in connection with a drugs case, complying with the directions of the Supreme Court.Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla remanded Majithia in judicial custody for two weeks. The Akali leader moved a plea for regular bail, which will be taken up on Friday, said his counsel Arshdeep Singh Kler. The apex court had recently directed the state police to not arrest him till February 23 so that he could campaign in the state.Quizzed by SIT; bail plea hearing todayAfter taking permission of the court, the SIT led by AIG Balraj Singh interrogated Majithia for over an hour. He was then taken to the Civil Hospital for a medical examination before being shifted to the Sangrur jail. Late in the evening, the police took him to the Patiala jail.Sangrur SP (Jails) Manjit Singh could not be contacted. SAD spokesperson Winnerjit Goldy said, “Majithia has been shifted to Patiala due to security reasons. The government has registered a baseless case against him.”Majithia, meanwhile, reiterated he had been implicated in the case by the Congress government as an act of political vendetta. A number of SAD supporters led by legislators NK Sharma and Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi were present in the court complex.In Patiala, Majithia was given a rousing welcome by Akali workers. He waved at his supporters who raised slogans in his favour. Sources said Majithia had been lodged in a cell meant for VIPs.The case against the three-time legislator was registered in December last year under various sections of the NDPS Act on the basis of a report of Special Task Force chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu. The latter submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018, and since kept under wraps. #bikram majithia #ndps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-surrenders-sent-to-patiala-jail-372790
25-02-2022||Bengaluru||Sikh girl asked to remove turban in Bengaluru amid hijab row||Amid crisis related to wearing of hijab in classrooms, an Amritdhari (baptised) Sikh girl was asked to remove her turban in the reputed Mount Carmel PU College here in accordance with the February 10 High Court's interim order. Some parents of the college also complained of being targeted after their daughters were asked to remove the hijab.The authorities are now crossing their fingers over the turn of events on Thursday, as the sensitive issue could spread more and to other colleges as well in the state capital.Though colleges across the state witnessed widespread agitations, protests regarding denial of permission to attend classes with hijab, the agitations so far had not touched Bengaluru in a major way. The Special bench of the High Court has made it clear on Wednesday that no religious symbols are allowed in the classrooms in PU as well as graduation colleges until the matter is disposed of.Parents of college students who were asked to remove hijab by the authorities have demanded that the order of the High Court must be implemented equally to all students. The problem started when G. Sriram, deputy director of PU Education, who was inspecting the college during practical exams on Monday, directed two students to remove their hijab as per the court order. This led to outrage among the students and more students strongly protested against it.The college authorities conducted a series of meetings and asked the students to follow orders, demanding that they should be treated equally. Though the college authorities successfully convinced the majority of the students, a few insisted that if they were to remove hijab, others should also not be allowed to wear any religious symbols.Meanwhile, the college authorities of Mount Carmel PU College asked the 17-year-old Sikh girl student to remove her turban to follow the High Court order. The authorities also mailed about it to her father. The girl was asked to remove her turban on February 16, but she did not agree. However, after G. Sriram, deputy director of PU Education visited the college and asked students not to wear hijab, they demanded that others who were wearing religious symbols too should not be allowed.The school authorities informed the father of the Sikh girl about the situation and her family informed the college that she would not take off her turban and they would seek a legal opinion on the issue. The education department maintains that the High Court interim order does not talk about turbans.IANS #hijab #Sikhs #turban||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sikh-girl-asked-to-remove-turban-amid-hijab-row-in-bengaluru-372689
25-02-2022||Mohali||Bikram Majithia sent in judicial custody in drugs case||SAD leader Bikram Majithia was on Thursday sent in judicial custody ina drugs case.His bail application will come up for hearing on Friday.Earlier, Majithia appeared before the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla.He was accompanied by senior lawyers, advocate Cheema and HS Dhanoa.Majithia arrived at the court complex at 10.30 am.He told the media he had come to the court to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court.A bench comprising Chief Justices NV Ramana and Justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli had directed Majithia to surrender before the trial court after the Punjab Assembly polls on February 20. His interim bail had ended on Wednesday night.The court allowed the Special investigation Team to interrogate Majithia for about an hour in the court complex.After interrogation, he was again produced before the court. #bikram majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-appears-before-mohali-court-in-drugs-case-372676
