26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress, SAD, AAP object to Centre ending Punjab, Haryana’s permanent membership in BBMB||The Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party have raised strong objection to the Centre reportedly ending Punjab and Haryana’s permanent membership in the Bhakra-Beas Management Board.Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday objected to the Union Power Ministry reportedly amending the rules which govern the appointment of the member (power) and the member (Irrigation) on the Bhakra-Beas Management Board (BBMB) from Punjab and Haryana, respectively.Hooda, who is the Leader of Opposition in Haryana, termed it an attack on the rights of the state.Hooda said, “According to the Bhakra-Beas Management Board Rules, 1974, the member (power) in the BBMB was from Punjab and the member (irrigation) was from Haryana. But in the amended rules of 2022, this requirement has been done away with.“Under the amended rules, the criteria for the selection of members have also been defined in such a way that the power departments of Haryana and Punjab cannot meet the criteria,” Hooda said in a statement here.Hooda said there has been a reduction in the posts available from Haryana quota in the BBMB in the past as well due to the alleged neglect of the BJP-led state government.“The Haryana government did not say anything then and they continue to be silent even after the new decision of the Union government. This silence of the BJP-JJP government is anti-state,” he said.“All political parties of Punjab, including the Congress, are unanimous and raising their voice against this decision to protect the interest of the state. In such a situation, the Haryana government, along with all the parties, should oppose this decision and protect the rights of the state,” he added.Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said by ending the representation of Haryana and Punjab in the BBMB, the Narendra Modi government has once again “crushed” the rights of Haryana and Punjab.“This is a direct attack on the federal structure and the rights of the states,” Surjewala said in a statement.“Once again, Haryana and Punjab are paying the price for making the BJP government bow down in the farmers’ movement,” he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal described it “a frighteningly grave development fraught with serious consequences for the state of Punjab”.Badal said, “The fact of the matter is that as per the law of the country, precedents and the prevailing practices, the control of Satluj-Beas headworks belongs exclusively to Punjab as a riparian state. But first they unconstitutionally took that control away from us and now they are shutting Punjab completely out the BBMB.” “This is the height of injustice against us. This is also another instance of the federal principle has been outraged repeatedly by governments at the Centre. We will fight it with all the might at our disposal,” Badal said in a statement.The Akali Dal president appealed to every Punjabi to close ranks to fight for justice for the state.He alleged that the decision was “yet another link in the long and painful chain of political, economic and religious discrimination against Punjabis in general and the Sikhs in particular”.Badal further said the decision was certain to rub salt into the already festering wounds of Punjabis in general and Sikhs and other farmers in particular.Congress leader from Punjab Sunil Jakhar said “BBMB rules are tweaked to the detriment of Punjab”.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also termed it another direct attack on the rights of Punjab.AAPs Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann said that the move is “a direct blow to India’s federal system”.“The Union government should refrain from taking arbitrary decisions in the BBMB rules and abandon the step-motherly attitude towards Punjab,” he said.Mann said he would take up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Mann also said that “various conspiracies were being hatched to hurt the brotherly bond of Punjab and Haryana formed during the farmers’ agitation. Eliminating the permanent representation of Punjab in the management of the BBMB is also part of this conspiracy and people should stay cautious, he said.  #AAP #bbmb #Congress #SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-aap-object-to-centre-ending-punjab-haryanas-permanent-membership-in-bbmb-373346
26-02-2022||---||Amritsar poets to participate in Faiz festival at Lahore||Amritsar, February 25City-based poet, writer Arvinder Chamak, who has been curating Sanjha Punjab series of literary events virtually in collaboration with Majha House, has been invited to participate in the Faiz International festival to be held in Lahore from March 3 to March 6. Chamak has been invited along with several other noted writers from India, including Saif Mahmood from Delhi. The Faiz Literature festival is organised by Moneeza Hashmi, daughter of Faiz Ahmed Faiz. The festival will host literary seminars, workshops, theatre and performing arts events over the period of three days.Chamak, who has previously also been part of several cultural and literary delegations across the border, said that its a tremendous opportunity to revive cultural and literary exchange between two countries. “Its a prestigious literary event and I have been invited to perform as well as host events for Sanjha Punjab initiative. The Sanjha Punjab event will focus on discussing the way ahead for Punjab in terms of culture, lifestyle, traditions and geo-political approach. It will host policy makers, artists, writers, youth to discuss concretised steps that can revive the tangible impact bridge between India and Pakistan,” said Chamak. Along with Chamak, another Amritsar-based poet and academician Dr SS Behal has also been invited.The festival was earlier scheduled for February 11 to coincide with Faiz’s 111th birth anniversary. But due to Covid-19 wave, the event was rescheduled. Since the borders between the two countries are closed, Chamak has sought a special permission to participate in the festival. Renowned Pakistani artistes, including Amjad Islam Amjad, Kishwar Naeed, Zehra Nigah and many others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-poets-to-participate-in-faiz-festival-at-lahore-373139
26-02-2022||---||Katas Raj temple pilgrimage on Mahashivratri cancelled, grief rocks devotees||Amritsar, February 25Devotees and religious organisations are disheartened over the cancellation of pilgrimage to the ancient Katas Raj temple in Pakistan to celebrate Mahashivratri.Shiv Pratap Bajaj, president, Kendriya Sanatan Dharam Sabha, said they were disheartened at the refusal on undertaking the pilgrimage on the occasion of Mahashivratri.He said they were shocked to read the Ministry of External Affairs letter that stated considering the pandemic situation caused by the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the travel regulations put in place to contain it, it is not possible to facilitate the Katas Raj pilgrimage from February 27 to March 4.He said 118 applications were sent to the Ministry of External Affairs. However, the request was refused. He felt that apart from Omicron, the political atmosphere also played a major role in denying them permission. The hijab row has also fuelled anger.The communication released by Ann Mary George, Under Secretary (Pakistan Affairs), Ministry of External Affairs, South Block, New Delhi, initimated them about the development.The communiqué further stated: “It may be noted that other pilgrimages covered under the India Pakistan Bilateral Protocol on visits to religious shrines are also similarly affected.”Rakesh Arora Prem Nath Narang, those who had applied for the pilgrimage to Katas Raj shrine, stated that they were disheartened at the refusal to visit the ancient temple where Pandavas in exile were engaged in a riddle contest with Yakshas, which finds mention in Mahabharata.Covid hits faithA letter from the Ministry of External Affairs reads that considering the pandemic situation caused by the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the travel regulations put in place to contain it, it is not possible to facilitate the Katas Raj pilgrimage from February 27 to March 4. #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/katas-raj-temple-pilgrimage-cancelled-grief-rocks-devotees-373137
26-02-2022||Tribune Reporters||Ukraine crisis: Anxiety growing, kin say 'rescue our kids'||Amritsar/Ferozepur/Mansa, Feb 25Their anxiety is growing with each passing moment. With the situation only worsening in the war-torn Ukraine, the hapless parents, whose children are stranded in various universities there, are knocking every door to get their wards rescued from the war-torn nation at the earliest.Share details of those stuck: Amritsar DCAmritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has urged people to share the credentials of those who have been stranded in Ukraine. The information will be further shared with the Union Ministry of External Affairs. A helpline number 0183-2500598 has also been released by the District Red Cross Society.In bunker, running out of suppliesMy daughter approached the Indian Embassy there, but was advised to wait. She is now staying with friends in a bunker and is left with food for few days. — Rakesh Sharma, Ferozepur ResidentThey have also appealed to the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to make the necessary arrangement for the student’s safe evacuation.“We have no choice but to ‘wait and watch’. The ‘video call’ is the only medium to know about their wellbeing. We appeal to the Union Government to act swiftly,” said a worried Rekha Mahajan, an Amritsar resident, whose daughter Kainaat is among the Indian students stranded in Ukraine.Kainaat, who is pursuing medicine at Kharkiv National Medical University, told her mother via video call that a bomb exploded just outside their hostel last night. Though she and her classmates were all safe in an underground tube station, some got stuck in the mess, where they were shifted to have dinner last evening.She also informed them that banks and ATMs were not functioning and they were all short of money as most of them possessed US dollars and could not convert them into Hryvnia, the Ukrainian currency. Majority of students from Punjab are studying at Kharkiv National Medical University and Lviv National Medical University in Ukraine.Saloni Soni, whose son Ambuj Soni is in the fifth year of MBBS, is constantly glued to TV to know the evacuation plan. “We came to know the government was in touch with Hungary for evacuation. It is too far from the place where students are putting up. But what can we do, except for praying for their safe return,” she said. Komal Hasija, whose daughter Saumya Hasija, too, is in Ukraine, alleged university authorities did not pay any heed to Indian students’ pleas to relieve them in advance so that they could make arrangements for their safe return.“Students had requested the university to allow them to continue their remaining course online, but the authorities did not yield. They therefore opted to risk their lives to complete the course,” she said.In Mansa, parents have urged the Centre and the state government to take immediate steps to evacuate their wards from Ukraine.Vijay, a local, said his son Mukesh Singla, who is stuck in Ukraine, had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking help for returning to India.Another student Sukhpreet Kaur of Ralla village in Mansa is also in Ukraine. Her father Nirmal Singh said, “She was to board a flight on February 26, but now the airports have been closed. We do not know when she will come back.”Piyush Goyal of Bareta, who was to return from Ukraine on February 27, also can’t come now as airports have been closed. His parents here are worried and praying for his safe return. His father Bharat Bhushan said, “In a video call, Piyush told me that many students from Mansa, Sangrur, Patiala and other districts are stuck there.”Muskan, who returned from Ukraine, said, “I had to return leaving my studies midway and I don’t know about my future now.”Gurjinder Singh of Talwandi Sabo said his son Harshdeep Singh and daughter Palakpreet Kaur were doing MBBS in Ukraine. “It seems that they will run out of money and basic grocery items soon,” he added.In Ferozepur, Rakesh Sharma, an agriculturist and his wife Kalpana Sharma, are having sleepless night ever since they came to know about the Russian invasion in Ukraine, where their daughter Sakshi is pursuing her MBBS. Sharma appealed to the government to make arrangements for early airlifting of students by arranging special flights. Two other students, Lovepreet Singh and Love Inder Singh, both residents of Malsian Kalan Village in Zira sub-division, are also caught in the warzone.(Reports by GS Paul, Sukhmeet Bhasin & Anirudh Gupta ) #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anxiety-growing-kin-say-rescue-our-kids-373093
26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Students in Ukraine: Punjab CM Channi shoots off letter to Jaishankar||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday urged Union Minister of External Affairs Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar to make necessary arrangements for safe evacuation of Punjabis stuck in war-torn Ukraine.24x7 control room set upIn a bid to provide help to distressed families, the Punjab Government has set-up a 24x7 control room for stranded Punjabis. An official spokesperson said affected persons or relatives could call helpline ‘1100’ (from Punjab) and +91-172-4111905 (from outside India) for relevant information. The queries would be forwarded to the Ministry of External Affairs for safe evacuation. TNSHarsimrat shares list of 56 studentsFormer Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday urged External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar to take immediate steps to ensure the safety of Punjabi students in Ukraine as well as their safe passage to India. She shared a list of 56 students studying in various colleges of Ukraine.In a letter, the Chief Minister stated a number of students and other Punjabis were stranded in Ukraine. Channi further pointed out their parents and family members were worried about their safety in the wake of the ongoing conflict.Besides, the stranded persons in Ukraine were facing problems such as lack of shelter, cash crunch, etc. He requested the Ministry of External Affairs to further intensify efforts to explore all diplomatic channels to ensure safe and secure return of such persons to India.Meanwhile, Congress MP from Amritsar GS Aujla has written to PM Narendra Modi, seeking fast-tracking of the method to grant visas by Indian Missions abroad.Aujla said it had come to notice that foreign nationals at Indian Missions abroad were facing problems in obtaining visa due to certain new norms, quota restrictions or poor infrastructure.He said behaviour of certain officials with foreign nationals was not “cordial”. In 2019, the government granted 2.9 million e-visas and 3.2 million regular visas, while the numbers were 2.5 million and 3.5 million, respectively, in 2018. However, the number of e-visas granted to foreign nationals registered a decline. — #charanjit channi #indians in ukraine #Jaishankar #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-shoots-off-letter-to-jaishankar-373094
26-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Shelling on in Ukraine, students families make frantic calls to MEA||Sangrur, February 25Families of students, who are stuck in Ukraine, are anxiously waiting for any quick response from the central government to evacuate their children. Many have been calling repeatedly at the New Delhi office of the Ministry of External Affairs, while others are constantly online to get any positive news.Must act quicklyMy son is pursuing MBBS from Ukraine. He has told me shelling is going on and students are in a bunker. The Centre must act quickly as no one is safe in warzone. — Dr Dheeraj Sharma, Barnala Resident“My son Kunwar Sharma is pursuing MBBS from there and he told me today that shelling was going on and they were in a bunker near a metro. He was scheduled to come to India on Sunday. Though the Barnala administration and state authorities have taken details of my son, we have not seen any positive development to bring back my son and other students,” said Dr Dheeraj Sharma from Tapa town of Barnala district.Initially they were hopeful of quick evacuation, but with the passage of time, they said their hopes were diminishing and they could only pray for their children. “The Union Government must act quickly as during war anything can happen,” said Dr Sharma.Similarly in Malerkotla, a teacher Abdul Hamid from Malerkotla has been trying to approach senior authorities to help his son Mohd Jahangir, who is also stuck in Ukraine. His son had gone there in last November to study language. “My son said that since last night, they had changed their location thrice, but shelling is going on everywhere. They are still trying to find some safer place by walking as fare of taxis has increased manifold. The Government must act fast to bring them back quickly,” said Hamid. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shelling-on-families-make-frantic-calls-to-mea-373096
26-02-2022||Bathinda/Karnal||Fee difference for medical education driving pupils to foreign shores||The biggest reason for Indian students opting for medical education in Ukraine is that the fee there is almost one-third of what is charged by private medical colleges here.Costs half the priceThe MBBS course fee is around Rs 30 lakh in Ukraine, while it ranges from Rs60 lakh to Rs80 lakh in private institutes of Haryana. — Viresh Kumar Jain, Haryana residentDr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor (VC), Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, said, “The fee in private medical colleges here is Rs 6 lakh per year, but colleges are charging around Rs 8-9 lakh per year. The matter is under study in a court. Moreover, this fee does not include hostel and food charges, so the total cost for the MBBS course per student is around Rs 50 lakh in private colleges here.”Dr Raj Bahadur said, “Students go to Ukraine for the MBBS course because the fee there is less when compared to what is charged by private colleges here. It is also easy for them to get admission in any institute there. In India, admissions are through the NEET merit list. In Ukraine, a student just has to qualify NEET.”Dr Dheeraj Sharma from Tapa Mandi, whose son is stranded in Ukraine, said, “There is a big difference in the fee. In Ukraine, it works out to less than one-third of what we are charged on different pretexts by the colleges here. There the fee is Rs 3-4 lakh annually. Also, there is a big variation in fee charged by different private medical colleges in our country.”Fifth-year MBBS student Ria, who recently returned to her home in Karnal, said, “If a student has to get admission in a government-run medical college or university here, he/she has to secure a good rank. If the student fails to do so, he/she takes admission in a private institute where the tuition fee is very high. Before exploring the option of Ukraine, my family had inquired from private institutes. The tuition fee ranged from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 20 lakh per year, while in Ukraine, the complete course fee is between Rs 25-30 lakh.”Viresh Kumar Jain, father of Bhavya Jain who is in first year of the MBBS course in Ukraine, said a degree from there was globally accepted. “The MBBS course fee is around Rs 30 lakh in Ukraine, while it ranges from Rs 60 lakh to Rs 80 lakh in private institutes of Haryana.” #indians in ukraine #MBBS #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fee-difference-driving-pupils-to-foreign-shores-373098
26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Norms tweaked, Punjab may lose BBMB slot||Change in the rules for appointment of full-time members of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has kicked up a controversy, with a section of stakeholders averring the new criteria makes it difficult for aspirants from Punjab to get selected.Also read: BBMB issue: It is direct attack on Punjab's rights, says Bhagwant MannAlarming developmentAlarming developments in last few day. Punjab being systematically stripped of its claim over Chandigarh and say in BBMB. — Sunil Jakhar, Congress LeaderOutsiders can be considered for two key postsUnder new rules notified by the Ministry of Power, the two posts of Member Power (MP) and Member Irrigation (MI), have been opened up to candidates belonging to any state across the country. As a long-standing convention, MP was drawn from Punjab, while MI was from Haryana.The BBMB, which manages the water resources of the Sutlej and Beas and operates hydro-power generation plants located on these rivers, comprises chairman and two full-time members, besides ex-officio functionaries.The two members are appointed by the central government after selection from a panel of engineers forwarded to the Ministry of Power by the respective states.Earlier, as a practice, the BBMB chairman used to be appointed from outside the member states, but a few years ago, following a court case, a chairman was appointed from Himachal Pradesh after it emerged that the appointment rules were silent on this issue.Bhakra Beas Management Board’s member states include Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Raja-sthan and Delhi, which are direct beneficiaries of its irrigation and power projects. They also provide a large chunk of funding for the BBMB and share water released from dams by the BBMB in a prescribed manner. Rajasthan and Himachal have also been seeking posts of members from their states.According to a senior engineer from Punjab, the new conditions are detrimental to the interests of the state.“The Bhakra Beas Management Board Rules, 1974, which govern the organisation, clearly provide that Punjab is represented by its member on the board. The amended qualifications are highly skewed in favour of hydro organisations such as the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and very few engineers from agencies such as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited will qualify,” he said.The Punjab State Electricity Board Engineers Association has written to the Chief Secretary, Punjab, in this regard and sought a meeting with state government officials to discuss the issue so that the interests of Punjab are not diluted.It is also being averred by some employees of the Bhakra Beas Management Board that since the organisation is dealing with water management in the aforementioned states, full-time members ought to be drawn from these states as they will have a better understanding of local issues and technicalities.Reacting to the development, senior Congress leader and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted the BBMB rules have been tweaked to the detriment of Punjab. #bbmb #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-tweaked-state-may-lose-bbmb-slot-373099
26-02-2022||Chandigarh||BBMB issue: It is direct attack on Punjab's rights, says Bhagwant Mann||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has taken stern note of move to abolish permanent representation of Punjab in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), terming it another “direct attack” on the rights of the state.Also read: Norms tweaked, Punjab may lose BBMB slotIn a statement here on Friday, party’s state president Bhagwant Mann accused the BJP-led Modi government of robbing the state of its rights. “It is a direct blow to India’s federal system,” said Mann, condemning the central government’s move to “dilute” Punjab’s position in the Bhakra Beas Management Board. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review all “anti-Punjab” decisions and restore the rights of Punjab.Mann said: “The Union Government should refrain from taking arbitrary decisions on BBMB rules, abandon the stepmotherly attitude towards Punjab and stop the loot. Conspiracies are being hatched to oust Punjab from the BBMB management.”Besides blaming the subsequent Congress and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) regimes at the Centre, the AAP leader held state leadership, including Capt Amarinder Singh and Badals, equally responsible for diminishing Punjab’s status in the management of the Bhakra Beas Management Board. Mann said he would take up the matter with the Prime Minister.The AAP state president added various conspiracies were being hatched to hurt the brotherly bond between Punjab and Haryana formed during the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders.“Eliminating the permanent representation of Punjab in the Bhakra Beas Management Board management is part of this conspiracy and people should stay cautious,” he said. #bbmb #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/it-is-direct-attack-on-punjabs-rights-aap-373100
26-02-2022||Satya Prakash||Road rage: SC seeks Navjot Sidhu's reply to review petition||New Delhi, February 25The Supreme Court on Friday asked Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu to respond to a plea to enlarge the scope of a petition seeking review of its verdict letting him off in a more than 33-year-old road rage case with a Rs 1,000 fine.Next hearing after two weeksA Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice SK Kaul asked Sidhu to respond to the victim’s family’s plea to treat his offence as more serious than just causing hurt and accordingly enhance his punishment. The Bench, which had earlier deferred the hearing in view of the Assembly polls to February 25, posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks.Senior advocate P Chidambaram, representing Sidhu, opposed the court’s decision to enlarge the scope of the review plea even as on behalf of the review petitioner, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra urged the Bench to consider reviving the cricketer-turned politician’s conviction on homicide charges.The petitioner has sought a review of the Supreme Court’s 2018 order letting off Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in the 1988 road rage case in which Gurnam Singh had died. Sidhu was acquitted of homicide charges on May 15, 2018, by the top court, but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1,000.Responding to the court’s earlier notice, Sidhu cited his “impeccable political and sporting career in the last three decades” to urge the top court not to enhance his punishment. The SC had on September 12, 2018, agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018, order. While issuing notice to Sidhu “restricted to quantum of sentence”, it had agreed to reconsider the punishment given to him. However, on Friday, it sought his response on the plea to revive his conviction on homicide charge as well.Sidhu was initially tried for murder but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. But the top court in its May 15, 2018, verdict let him off by asking him to pay Rs 1,000 fine. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rage-sc-seeks-sidhus-reply-to-review-petition-373103
26-02-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala: 'Fake' entries made to jack up vaccination count||Patiala, February 25To jack up the Covid vaccination count, the Patiala Health Department has allegedly made multiple fake entries into the CoWIN portal through the contact numbers that were either “out of service” or invalid. This modus operandi, to enter fake vaccination entries, was reportedly used after getting a go-ahead from senior officials.Will enquireI will ask the Health Department about it. — Sandeep Hans, Deputy CommissionerNot aware of itI am not aware of any such development. The Health Department has not indulged in any such practice. — Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation officerThe Tribune discovered that officials first identified invalid or out of service mobile numbers of beneficiaries. Thereafter, multiple fake entries on a single contact number were reportedly made on the vaccination portal without administering the shots.Since, the mobile numbers were invalid, the beneficiaries, whose credentials were used, never came to know about the fake entries. Insiders said details of the data of beneficiaries were gathered from other government departments. It has been learned any random 10-digit number can be used as a mobile number for making entries.A health official said, “The CoWIN portal software does not check whether the number entered is that of a mobile phone or not. Taking advantage of this, invalid mobile numbers were used and the other data was entered from random voter identity cards.”After the fake entries, a significant difference was observed between the online data (on the portal) and offline data, maintained by the Health Department.Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said, “I am not aware of such development. The department has not indulged in any such practice.” Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans also said he was not aware of the matter and would ask Health Department about it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-entries-made-to-jack-up-vax-count-373105
26-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||War against 'chitta': Bathinda villagers vow to 'punish' drug peddlers themselves||Bathinda, February 25At a time when drug addiction is on the rise, residents of Kaljharani village in the district have literally waged a war against “chitta”, a highly addictive synthetic drug. Many youngsters have died due to drug overdose in the district in the recent past and the issue had been raked up by various political parties during the recently concluded Assembly elections.Also read: Congress, Akalis' incompetence to blame for people taking law into own hands against drug menace: AAPNo help in securing bail: PanchayatMuktsar: After a teenager allegedly died of drug overdose at Gurusar village in Gidderbaha, the panchayat on Friday decided not to help anyone secure bail if found selling drugs. The decision was taken after villagers assembled in protest.Irked at the sale of drugs at the village, the Kaljharani panchayat has resolved to “break the legs” of drug peddlers selling contraband in the village. Alarmed at the move, the district police have approached the villagers seeking cooperation in their fight against drugs and warning them against taking law into their own hands.Addressing villagers, sarpanch Kamal Kaur’s husband Datinder Singh said they had decided to “punish” those peddling drugs in the village. Villagers claimed they had been forced to take law into their own hands owing to police “inaction”. “On most occasions when the police are informed about drug peddlers, the offenders are taken into custody but released after some time,” they claimed.Bathinda SSP Amneet Kondal said: “After the issue came to my notice, DSP (Rural) Gurdeep Singh and DSP (NDPS) Satvir Singh were sent to the village. Both held a meeting with villagers and assured them of taking strict action against drug peddlers. They sought their cooperation in our fight against drugs and warned them against taking law into their hands.”She said a notice had been issued to the Sangat police station SHO, asking him to explain why the village had taken such a decision and what action was being taken to deal with the drug menace.As per cases registered in various police stations, 20 persons have died due to drug overdose in the past six months in Bathinda. However, sources claim the actual number could be higher as many cases went unreported.Dr Vitull K Gupta, a social activist, said: “FIRs are registered in only a fraction of cases as most cases go unreported. It is a grave issue and the administration must step up and take remedial measures.” #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-village-vows-to-punish-drug-peddlers-373107
26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress, Akalis' incompetence to blame for people taking law into own hands against drug menace: AAP||Urging Kaljharani villagers in Bathinda district to follow the rule of law, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today said due to incompetence of subsequent Akali and Congress governments, people had been forced to take law into their own hands.Also read: War against 'chitta': Bathinda village vows to 'punish' drug peddlersHe said the AAP government, if voted to power, would eradicate drugs and punish drug smugglers and mafia.In a statement, Cheema alleged traditional political parties had been promising eradication of drugs, but once the government was formed, they patronised the drug mafia.Targeting SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, he said the Akali government had been unable to eradicate the drug menace, forcing residents of Kaljharani village to take it upon themselves to punish drug smugglers.He said the Congress government under Capt Amarinder Singh vowed to break the backbone of drug menace, but it was rampant due to political patronage to the mafia and interference in the police working. — #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-akalis-incompetence-to-blame-aap-373108
26-02-2022||---||Covid testing turnout dips in Abohar||Abohar, February 25With an improvement in the Covid situation, there has been a significant fall in the number of people visiting the Sub Divisional Hospital here for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or Rapid Antigen tests.Dr Gurkripal Kaur, incharge of the section, said earlier, around 200 persons used to visit the hospital for Covid testing every day, but the number was significantly low now. “A total of 60 samples for RT-PCR and 25 for Rapid Antigen tests were collected on Friday,” she said.The majority of people coming for tests now include those who have to get an arms licence or the under trials.Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said the vaccination drive was going on well. Till late evening on Friday, 338 beneficiaries were administered the dose at the hospital. So far, 1.16 lakh people have been administered the first dose, 90,808 have got the second dose, 3,371 have got the booster dose and 8,593 adolescents have also been vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-testing-turnout-dips-in-abohar-373109
26-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Have raised matter with govt, Sunny Deol tells parents of students stranded in Ukraine||Gurdaspur/Pathankot, Feb 25Actor and MP Sunny Deol, who had been “missing” from his parliamentary constituency for the past more than two years, finally emerged from the shadows following his assurance to the parents of 40 students of his constituency stranded in Ukraine “that he has taken up the issue of their return with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.”Deol said notwithstanding his absence from constituency, which sent him to Parliament with a massive margin of 70,000 votes, he was accessible to all and sundry.“I will be coming to Pathankot once the election results are announced on March 10,” he said. The last time the MP was seen here was in September, 2020. Even as his detractors were questioning his long absence, Deol sought to silence them by taking up the issue of students trapped in Ukraine.Pankaj Joshi, the MP’s Pathankot-based PA, said Deol was in touch with the parents of children in Ukraine. “He is making all-out efforts to ensure the government brings back the students,” he said. Congress leaders of the MP’s constituency claim his prolonged absence is impeding certain projects which need his direct intervention and that of the Centre. Deol, meanwhile, rubbished the MLA’s allegations and added that he would be a regular in the area soon. #indians in ukraine #sunny deol #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-raised-matter-with-govt-deol-tells-parents-373110
26-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Indian students in Ukraine: Car, train — anything to reach border for safe passage||Jalandhar, February 25Amid reports of the Indian Government trying to send flights to the neighbouring countries of Ukraine for evacuation, students from Punjab have started making desperate attempts to reach the borders by catching trains or driving their cars.The students say they are facing an array of problems while attempting to make it to the borders as the trains are running only to some parts of the country. The blocking of highways and shortage of cash, fuel, food, water, etc. were adding to their woes, they say.Hemant (27), a resident of Islamganj who moved to Ukraine on December 13 last year, is trying hard to reach Ukraine’s border with Poland in the hope of a safe passage to the NATO territory. His younger brother, Darpan, says: “My brother is pursuing a language course in Kyiv. Since the capital city is under attack and there are no direct flights, Hemant and his three other friends are on their way to the Polish border by car.”As mother Kavita Rani keeps track of Hemant’s movement, Darpan says: “They set off yesterday morning, but are still are on the road as they have had to take U-turns on several routes owing to bombing. This morning, they were an hour’s drive from Lviv (west of the country), when they were asked to move back owing to fresh strikes. Till this evening, they were 100 km from another border base camp. They have not got any place to take rest and are putting up in the car. They are also facing refuelling problems as only a few filling stations are operational. Managing food is yet another issue for them as markets are mostly shut.”Nitin Arora, another youth from Sangat Singh Nagar here who had gone to Ukraine a few years ago, too is trying to make it to the western border.“I was in Kharkiv (in northeast) and had been after my Ukrainian agent to bail me out. He took me to his flat in another city before taking me to a railway station. For whole day, we waited for a train to Lviv. We had six packets of biscuits but ate just one to save on supplies. I have just $100 on me and the taxi guys are asking for $300 for a trip to Lviv, 17 hours away. I have no option but to wait for the train,” he says. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/car-train-%E2%80%94-anything-to-reach-border-for-safe-passage-373111
26-02-2022||Morinda||Ukraine crisis: 2 from Ropar hunker down||Mukesh Kumar, a third-year MBBS student from the town, is still stranded in Kyiv.Talking to the media via phone, Mukesh said he along with three other roommates from Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh had moved to the basement of their residence for safety due to bombing.The drinking water supply had been disrupted and they only had bottled water, which would last just for couple of days, he said.The family of another Ropar native, Haripal, is also worried about their son’s safety. His father Yashpal said he settled down in Ukraine 19 years ago, after completing his medical education in 2003. He married a Ukrainian. Yesterday, they moved to a safer place, he added. Another student, Alka Sharma, pursuing MBBS in Ukraine, returned home safely yesterday. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-from-ropar-hunker-down-373112
26-02-2022||Mohali||2nd term PSEB exams from March 15||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will conduct the second term examinations for Classes V, VIII, X, and XII from March 15. As many as 12.60 lakh students will appear for the examinations.The information for these final exams has been uploaded on the board website www.pseb.ac.inPSEB Controller Examination Janak Raj Mehrok said, “the Class V exam will be held from March 15 to March 23 while the dates for Class VIII are from April 4-22. The exam for Class X will be held from April 25 to May 12 and for Class XII from April 7 to May 12.”PSEB Chairperson Yograj said the academic year was divided into two terms with each covering 50 per cent of the syllabus. The result would be declared according to the average of both terms, he added.The exams for special students will be conducted in their schools only, while others will be allocated different centres as used to be the norm earlier. — #PSEB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-term-pseb-exams-from-march-15-373113
26-02-2022||Jalandhar||Bhupinder Honey's judicial custody extended||The judicial custody of Bhupinder Honey, nephew of CM Charanjit Channi, was today extended by another 14 days. Honey was arrested on February 4 by the Enforcement Directorate, which had summoned him for interrogation. He is facing inquiry for the alleged violation of the PMLA in a case pertaining to illegal mining. — #bhupinder honey||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honeys-judicial-custody-extended-373114
26-02-2022||Anirudh Gupta||Ferozepur sees spurt in firing incidents||Ferozepur, February 25The lure to own a weapon scores over the passion for costly SUVs and mobile phones in Ferozepur district of the state. The trend is worrying as there has been a spurt in firing incidents over “petty” issues.Over 100 firs registered in a yearIn November last year, owner of a restaurant in Guruharsahai shot dead a person after the latter complained about poor quality of food. In Rukna Begu village, a father in an inebriated condition killed his son with a licensed weapon as the victim tried to stop him from consuming liquor.On December 13 last year, two brothers were killed at Nava Bareke village, over a property dispute. In Makhu, a man recently shot dead his wife with his licenced .32 bore revolver. Earlier, a youth was killed in Ferozepur city over parking issue.The trend to flaunt weapons is common across the age groups. As a result, use of licensed weapons to settle personal scores has increased.As per information, around 24,400 licences have been issued in the district and numerous persons hold atleast two firearms on a single licence, which takes the number of weapons to around 30,000.It is pertinent to mention that more than 100 cases were registered under the Arms Act last year.Psychiatrist Dr Sunil Thakkar said, “The craze for guns is not good for society. I think it is the time to wake up and condemn the glorification of weapons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-sees-spurt-in-firing-incidents-373115
26-02-2022||---||Sunam residents flag use of substandard material in works||Sangrur, February 25The use of poor quality material in various development works has raised serious questions on the working of Sunam Nagar Council (NC).Senior vice-president of civic body Komal Kansal has sought a high-level inquiry by the Vigilance Bureau.As per information, the NC had given a contract worth Rs 3.85 crore for various works, including laying of interlocking tiles and pipes for drainage of waste water in the city, among others.Kansal said, “At many places the contractor is using poor quality material despite repeated requests. Drainage pipes are being laid without concrete base. I have written to the higher authorities and asked the Vigilance Bureau to conduct the probe. I will not allow misuse of Rs 3.85 crore.”Residents alleged that the contractor had stopped the works during the Assembly poll and was using poor quality material.RTI activist Jatinder Jain said, “We will expose those who are using poor quality material in various development works.”Executive Officer (EO) Mahinder Singh denied the allegations and said he has not received any complaint in this connection so far.“I will look into the matter and take appropriate action,” said the Executive Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunam-residents-flag-use-of-substandard-material-in-works-373116
26-02-2022||Nangal||Principal held in sexual assault case||Two days after being booked for sexually assaulting students, the police have nabbed the principal of a private school.The police had booked Amritpal Dhiman, who is also a former sarpanch of Nangran village, after his obscene pictures went viral on social media platforms. Ashwani Kumar of Daghor village had filed a police complaint in this regard.Deputy Superintendent of Police Satish Kumar said Dhiman was arrested from Ajouli Mor. The DSP said the accused was presented at a Nangal court from where he was sent to two-day police custody.Meanwhile, AAP leader Harjot Singh Bains, in a press conference, alleged that the accused had political patronage and demanded inquiry into the matter by a sitting judge of the High Court. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/principal-held-in-sexual-assault-case-373117
26-02-2022||Bathinda||Farmers seek aid for damaged cotton crop||A group of farmer leaders from the Punjab Kisan Union met the Mansa Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) over the “non-payment” of compensation for cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm last year. The latter assured them that the compensation would be deposited to the bank accounts of the affected farmers before March 1.Will be released by March 1: SDMThe compensation will be deposited to the bank accounts of the affected farmers before March 1. Mansa SDMUnion leaders said if compensation wasn’t provided to them on the promised date then they would launch a state-wide stir. Gurmukh Singh, a union leader, said: “Cotton crop in many villages of the district was damaged in October last year. While the damage in some areas was approximately between 25 and 60 per cent, there are farmers whose crops suffered 100 per cent damage. We have been holding protests and bringing it in the notice of the administration time and again but to no avail.”“Though the government has been making all-out efforts for promotion of providing famers with compensation for damaged crop, many affected farmers have yet not received a single penny. There is strong resentment among farmers due to the indifferent stance of the government. We met the Mansa SDM and requested him to provide us with the compensation soon,” said the union leader. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-seek-aid-for-damaged-cotton-crop-373118
26-02-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Milling halted due to slow movement of rice||Chandigarh, February 25Milling of paddy across many places in Punjab has stopped because of slow movement of milled rice from the state to recipient states.Parleys onThe delay is because of local factors like court stay or strikes. Parleys with rice millers who have lodged complaints are on. AS Thind, FCI Regional General ManagerThis is because priority is being given to first move wheat stored on covered and plinth storage to other states, before the milled rice can be moved out. Though the number of railway rakes to transport the foodgrain from Punjab to other states is almost double as compared to February 2021, millers say slow movement of rice has forced them to stop milling paddy.Officials in the Food Corporation of India (FCI) say the number of railway rakes made available for transportation of foodgrain from Punjab is almost double this year, as compared to last year.“In February 2021, we had requisitioned and sent 133 rakes of foodgrain from Punjab, while this year, we already have requisitioned and sent 215 rakes of grains to other states, and another 60 rakes will be sent by the end of this month,” FCI Regional General Manager AS Thind told The Tribune.However, he added, since a large quantity of wheat stocks was stored in CAP (covered and plinth) storage, this was first being transported to avoid any damage to wheat stocks.The millers, however, fear the rice milled by them will be rejected by the FCI if its lifting is delayed. They fear in case of delay in lifting milled rice beyond two months, it will not meet the specifications laid by the FCI.“This is the reason that millers in Ferozepur, Moga, Barnala and Bathinda have stopped milling paddy till we are sure of it being lifted,” said Ranjit Singh Josan, a rice miller from Ferozepur.He, however, accused FCI officials in these districts of inability to plan the smooth flow of rice to other states, adding that of late many scheduled rakes were cancelled.In Sangrur, another miller, Prem Goel, accused the FCI officials of flouting the rules for “age-wise” lifting of rice (the older stocks to be lifted first).“The long-term storage of foodgrain and fumigation of grains reduces its nutritional value. So, immediate steps need to be taken to lift the old stocks by the FCI,” he said.Thind said: “The delay in accepting milled rice, though at very few places, is because of local factors like court stay in allocation of tenders and/or strike by labourers and truck unions, at some places. But we are fully committed to resolving all issues and parleys with the rice millers who have lodged complaints are on,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/milling-halted-due-to-slow-movement-of-rice-373119
26-02-2022||Ferozepur||11 cell phones recovered from jail inmates||A total of 11 mobile phones were seized in the Ferozepur Central Jail. As per information, a mobile phone was recovered from an undertrial identified as Lakhvir Singh.Another cell phone was recovered from undertrial Samar Singh while four mobile phones were recovered from undertrial Dhawan Singh and a mobile phone was found in possession of undertrial Vishal Sharma.Jail Superintendent Parvinder Singh said four more mobile phones were found lying abandoned. The accused have been booked. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-cell-phones-recovered-from-jail-inmates-373120
26-02-2022||Abohar||Contraband seized||The police nabbed 11 peddlers today. Six persons were arrested in Hanumangarh with 54 kg poppy husk. The police seized 13,600 pills and 20-gm heroin in two other cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contraband-seized-373121
26-02-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man sets self on fire||Daughter harassed, man ends lifeFazilka: A man committed suicide after his daughter was allegedly harassed in Chak Kheowala Bodla village in Jalalabad. The aggrieved family members staged a protest and blocked Fazilka-Ferozepur Road against the police inaction. Later, the police booked Darshan Singh, his wife Gindro Bai and their sons under the IPC. OCCensus data workstation soonRopar: Directorate of Census Operations (Punjab) joined hands with Indian Institute of Technology-Ropar to set up a Census Data Research Workstation. Rajeev Ahuja, Director, IIT-Ropar, said the initiative would allow greater and efficient utilisation of data. TNSSleepless nights for Faridkot familiesFaridkot: Parents of Khushwinder Kaur (Faridkot) and Bhaskar Kataria (Kotkapura) have not slept for past many days. Khuswinder's father Sarabjeet Singh Brar said: “We have raised the matter with the state and Centre and have got assurance of safe evacuation of all students.” Bhaskar’s mother Annu Kataria said: “Our children don’t know how long they will be stuck there. There is no help yet,” she said. TNSAmid blasts, 90 students ‘holed up in hostel’Abohar: Rijul, an MBBS student at Lugansk State Medical University, Rubizhne, on Friday informed her family in the border town of Anoopgarh in Sriganganagar through a video call that explosions forced people to wake up at 6 am on Thursday. As many as 90 students were accommodated in a hostel. Students from India are trying to contact the embassy for evacuation. OC‘Ukraine authorities failed to extend any assistance’Muktsar: Families of some of those trapped in Ukraine are a bit relaxed now as their children have reportedly reached “safer places”. However, they are annoyed with the Ukraine government for its failure to provide any help to Indian students. Gurmukh Singh's daughter Mehakpreet Kaur got stuck between Kharkiv and Kyiv while going to the airport in a bus. He said, “An immigration agent managed to speak to authorities there. Finally, my daughter reached a hotel having all basic amenities. She is bit safer there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-sets-self-on-fire-373122
26-02-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Bikram Singh Majithia denied bail in NDPS case||Mohali, February 25In a major setback to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who is lodged in a Patiala jail, a Mohali court today dismissed his plea for regular bail in a drugs case.The bail application was rejected by the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla. The court said, “There are serious allegations against the applicant of having been involved in drug trafficking. The applicant being a powerful politician, there is possibility that he may influence the investigation, if released on bail.”“The arguments raised by the counsel for the applicant are questions to be decided on merits of case and cannot form basis for the grant of bail to the applicant. Moreover, there is a bar under Section 37 of the NDPS Act to release persons involved in offence under Section 27-A... The applicant, Bikram Singh Majithia, is thus not entitled to be released on regular bail and his application is hereby dismissed.” #bikram majithia #ndps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithia-denied-bail-in-ndps-case-373124
26-02-2022||Mohali||Mohali court denies bail to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in drugs case||A Mohali court on Friday rejected Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s regular bail plea, a day after he was remanded in judicial custody following his surrender before a court in connection with a drug case.Majithia was remanded in judicial custody for two weeks by the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla.The Akali leader, who was on Thursday evening taken to a Patiala jail, had moved the bail plea, which was taken up by the Mohali court on Friday.“The court on Friday rejected the regular bail plea,” said Arshdeep Singh Kaler, one of Majithia’s counsels.“We will appeal before the High Court now,” he said.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had earlier called the registration of the FIR against Majithia as “political vendetta” and said three DGPs and three Directors of Bureau of Investigation were changed and police officers were allegedly coerced to falsely implicate the leader.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case had questioned Majithia for over an hour in the court complex in Mohali on Thursday.The apex court had recently directed the Punjab Police not to arrest the former Punjab minister till February 23 so that he could undertake electioneering in the state.A Bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli had, however, directed Majithia to surrender before a trial court after the Punjab Assembly polls on February 20.It had also directed the trial court to hear and expeditiously decide Majithia’s regular bail plea after his surrender in the case.The pre-arrest bail plea of Majithia, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20 last year, was dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on January 24.Majithia, who is the SAD MLA and brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, contested the February 20 polls from the Amritsar East against Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. The results of the Assembly elections will be announced on March 10.Majithia, 46, was booked under the NDPS Act on the basis of a 2018 probe report into a drug racket in the state.The 49-page FIR was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station last year. #BikramMajithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-court-denies-bail-to-sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-in-drugs-case-373041
26-02-2022||Satya PrakashNew Delhi||Road rage case: Trouble for Navjot Sidhu as SC asks him to respond to plea to enlarge scope of review petition||The Supreme Court on Friday asked Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu to respond to a plea to enlarge the scope of a petition seeking review of its verdict letting him off in a more than 33-year-old road rage case with a Rs 1,000 fine.A Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice SK Kaul asked Sidhu to respond to the victim’s family’s plea to treat his offence as more serious than just causing hurt and accordingly enhance his punishment.The Bench—which had earlier deferred the hearing in view of the assembly polls to February 2—posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks.Senior advocate P Chidambaram, representing Sidhu, opposed the court’s decision to enlarge the scope of the review plea even as on behalf of the review petitioner, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra urged the Bench to consider reviving the cricketer-turned politician’s conviction on homicide charges.The petitioner has sought a review of the Supreme Court’s 2018 order letting off Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in the 1988 road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died. Sidhu was acquitted of homicide charges on May 15, 2018, by the top court but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1,000.Responding to the court’s earlier notice, Sidhu cited his “impeccable political and sporting career in the last three decades” to urge the top court not to enhance his punishment.The Supreme Court had on September 12, 2018, agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018, order. While issuing notice to Sidhu “restricted to quantum of sentence”, it had agreed to reconsider the punishment given to him. However, on Friday, it sought his response on the plea to revive his conviction on homicide charge as well.Sidhu was initially tried for murder but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and gave him a three-year sentence. But the top court in its May 15, 2018 verdict let him off by asking him to pay a Rs 1,000 fine. #navjot sidhu #road rage case #supreme court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1988-road-rage-case-trouble-for-navjot-sidhu-as-sc-asks-him-to-respond-to-plea-to-enlarge-scope-of-review-petition-373007
