27-02-2022||---||BBMB controversy: Lead all-party delegation to PM: Jakhar to CM||Chandigarh, February 26Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar has written to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, urging him to lead an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the “unfair” amendment to the BBMB rules against rights of Punjab.Urging Channi to immediately take up the matter with the PM, Jakhar pointed out that when the legality of the establishment of the BBMB was under challenge in a matter pending in the Supreme Court, the amendment to the BBMB rules, taking away the existing rights and privileges of the owner-members of the BBMB, was “incorrect and invalid”.Matter before SCThe amendment should be withdrawn till such time the matter is finally decided by the apex court, he said.He pointed out the Centre had issued a notification on February 23 to amend the BBMB Rules, 1974, thereby changing the criteria for selection of whole-time members of the Board. With amended rules, the whole-time members could now be appointed through open selection. Earlier, they were taken on deputation from the member-states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab and Haryana are the owner-members of the BBMB. They provide funds towards the expenditure of the board and even staff was taken on deputation from these states. With the amendment, it would not be mandatory anymore to take these members from Haryana and Punjab.This was patently unfair, more so because Punjab had never recognised the establishment of the BBMB, considering it to be a child born invalid. The BBMB was established under Sections 78 and 80 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, he wrote.Punjab had challenged the constitutional validity of these sections through a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, which was pending the Supreme Court.The state had averred that the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, had been enacted under Article 3 of the Constitution, and therefore distribution, control, and management of inter-state waters, which was done by the BBMB, could not be dealt with under this Act.Inter-state water distribution, control, and management were covered under Article 262 of the Constitution, and there was no law enacted under these provisions of the Constitution.Further water was a state subject under entry 17 of the State List (List II of the Seventh Schedule), and interstate waters were covered under entry 56 of the Union List (List II of the Seventh Schedule) of the Constitution.Since the Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej were not inter-state rivers qua Haryana and Rajasthan, the distribution, management, and control of these river waters could not be done under any of the central laws, much less through any central agencies.Other than the legal aspect, PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah had time and again emphasised the need for maintaining peace and calm in Punjab due to the fact that Punjab is a sensitive border state. Any such change in the rules was sure to agitate the minds of Punjabis, he averred. #bbmb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bbmb-controversy-lead-all-party-delegation-to-pm-jakhar-to-cm-373363
27-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Ukraine Crisis: Rates of essentials zoom, commoners suffer||Amritsar, February 26Once again, families belonging to the middle and lower-income groups find themselves financially hard pressed following the price hike of key grocery products, including vegetable and refined oils, rice, wheat flour and other essential items.There has been a hike of at least 15% in the prices of these essential items during the past four to five days, with Ukraine crisis adding to the woes.All India Retailers’ Federation president Onkar Goel said the short supply of palm oil from Malaysia and other countries led to a 20% hike in the prices of different varieties of refined oils. Similarly, there was an appreciation of 20% and more in the rates of detergents, washing and bathing soaps. Similarly, the prices of sugar and wheat flour have also increased, stretching the budget of commoners.Rupinder Kaur, a homemaker, says: “Soaring inflation on basic essential items is burning a hole in the pocket of the consumers. However, haughty leaders don’t bother to notice the pressing issue.”Retail grocery store operators Comrade Buta Ram and Sandeep Gupta say the spiralling rise in the prices of essential items have a cascading impact on the monthly ration-buying capacity of the commoners, who were cutting down expenses on some eatables to keep their monthly budget within the limit of their income. “This trend could decrease their nutritional intake.” They said the prices of several essential items had almost doubled since the Covid outbreak. “For instance, mustard oil that was available at Rs 100 per litre in March 2020, now costs Rs 180.”Pharma firms jittery tooThe pharmaceutical industry, which annually exports products worth Rs500-crore, is also jittery. It fears that the war can be detrimental to their interests as they won’t receive payments. Amit Kapur, a proprietor, said the prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) had seen a sharp rise due to the stocking up of the items by importers & exporters. #price rise #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-rates-of-essentials-zoom-commoners-suffer-373364
27-02-2022||---||Ukraine war: Amritsar rice exporter in a fix as stock stuck midway||Amritsar, February 26Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, more than two dozen containers of rice stock of a local exporter have been stuck midway. This development is expected to cost him crores of rupees.Containers of basmati rice were recently despatched to Ukraine by Arvinderpal Singh, a prominent basmati rice exporter.Some containers were despatched on the day the war broke out while others are en route to Ukraine. Arvinderpal said six containers had landed at a Ukrainian port on the day when the war broke out. “Due to the current situation, about half a dozen en route containers have now been diverted to other countries.” He fears a loss worth crores of rupees.Meanwhile, the Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association has sought the Centre’s immediate intervention into the matter to protect their interests. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-rice-exporter-in-a-fix-as-stock-stuck-midway-373365
27-02-2022||Chandigarh||Update data, Punjab chief secretary tells officials||To ensure immediate help to distressed families, Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari on Saturday reviewed the status of calls received at the state government’s dedicated 24x7 control room, set up yesterday to assist people from Punjab stranded in war-torn Ukraine.He directed all DCs, commissioners of police and SSPs to immediately update the data with passport numbers of all stranded persons to ascertain the actual number of those stuck.Chairing a high-level meeting here, the Chief Secretary urged the affected persons and relatives to contact helpline numbers ‘1100’ (for callers within Punjab) and +91-172-4111905 (from abroad). He said 155 calls had been received so far and queries were being forwarded to the MEA for safe evacuation of the stranded.Tewari asked Rakhee Gupta Bhandari, Resident Commissioner, Punjab, to set up a Punjab Helpdesk at the Delhi airport to assist persons arriving from Ukraine, besides coordinating for their safe travel to homes. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/update-data-chief-secretary-tells-officials-373366
27-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||Ukraine war: After walking for miles, Punjab youth stuck at border||Jalandhar, February 26After walking for over 40 km towards the Poland border, Akarsh Dhingra, 21, today sent a picture of his blistered feet, sore from walking to the Shehyni border, a crossing between Ukraine and Poland.On February 24, Akarsh Dhingra, a Kapurthala resident, who is a student of Poltava University in Ukraine, left the city. Three days on, he is stuck at the Shehyni border, along with thousands of other Indian students, looking for a way out. The students said so far, they had not got any Indian embassy help at the border.Akarsh’s brother Saksham Dhingra, said, “Akarsh is pursuing a business management course at a university in Poltava. When the war broke out on February 24, he along with a roommate headed to Lviv. They started on Thursday and reached Kyiv on Friday evening by a bus. From there, they hitched a ride with a family to Lviv. First, they were misguided to reach Rava Rusk. Later, they walked to the Shehyni border, but there is no embassy help there. Ukrainians are being allowed across the border, but not Indians. They have only a few biscuits for the night. We don’t know where they will sleep. We appeal to the Indian Government for help.”Kapurthala resident Jasbir Singh’s son Amitpal Singh is in a Metro bunker at Kharkiv. A medical student at Kharkiv University, Amitpal escaped with his friends and landlord. Now, he along with hundreds of others is holed up in the bunker. With supplies running short, Jasbir said they were facing problems. Though the space is limited, the number of people at the underground facility is increasing with each passing day. “I’m concerned about my son’s well being. He was to return by flight today, but the war broke out. The border is at least 1,200 km away from Kharkiv. These students need to be evacuated by the Indian government.”Meanwhile, RCF employee Kuldeep Singh, whose son Ekamjit Singh, 19, is also staying at a university bunker in Kharkiv, said, “Constant shelling has been going on there. Poland is at least 18 to 20 hours from the place.”Stay put, DC urges studentsThe Kapurthala administration has identified 21 students stuck in Ukraine. DC Deepti Uppal has urged them not to travel without the logistic support of the Indian High Commission in Ukraine. The administration released a helpline number (01822-292001) on Friday, which was flooded with calls. The DC said the data had already been shared with the Punjab Government to further facilitate the Centre to bring back Indians safely. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-walking-for-miles-youth-stuck-at-border-373369
27-02-2022||Archit Watts||Parents of stranded students in Ukraine form support group on WhatsApp||Muktsar, February 26Parents of 16 students from Muktsar district, who are stuck in war-torn Ukraine, have formed a WhatsApp group to support and share updates with each other.Further, they have provided a list of their children to the administration, with their present addresses and phone numbers, seeking help to bring them back home.Two families, whose two children each are stuck in Kharkiv, have urged the Centre to request the Russian Government to give them a safe passage for entry, so that they could return home.Appeal to boost moraleI urge all parents to boost the morale of their kids. We have formed a WhatsApp group of the parents to share every development with each other. —Ranjeet Singh, ParentJasmeen, a fourth-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, said, “It is quiet tough to travel for 20-22 hours to reach the western part of the country from the north east in such a situation. The government should make some arrangements so that the Indian students living in Kharkiv can get a flight for home from Russia.”Meanwhile, her father Ranjeet Singh said, “The situation is really tense in Kharkiv, but our children are not telling us the reality. They fear that it will only increase our anxiety. I am also boosting the morale of my daughter.”A parent whose daughter is stuck in Kyiv said, “Today, she told me that she slept yesterday after two nights.”Another parent, however, said the ATMs were also running dry in Kharkiv. “We sent money to our daughter three weeks ago. Now, the students are running out of money there, which is another major problem.” #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-form-support-group-on-whatsapp-373370
27-02-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||No relief, Hoshiarpur lad starts 750-km trek to Poland border amid Ukraine war||Jalandhar, February 26It has been a nightmarish experience for Gurbhej Singh of Bhunder Di village, Hoshiarpur, who has been trying to make it to Poland border from Odessa city of Ukraine since last night.Accompanied by his three friends, he has no conveyance and is going on foot to the border located 750 km away. He has been able to cover only 34 km in 12 hours.“The trains and taxis have stopped plying here. A majority of vehicles plying on the road are oil tankers. We sought lift from all passing vehicles, but only the driver of an Army vehicle helped us. He dropped us after 16 km as he was going in a different direction. Ever since, we had no option but to keep on walking, carrying our luggage along and just munching biscuits that we had. In between, we could just find place in a church to take some rest and freshen up,” said Gurbhej, adding, “We are still 716 km away from the border. Under these circumstances, we really did not know when and how this journey will end.”Narrating his story, Gurbhej said, “I came to Poland seven months ago on a study visa. I also started working at a store. After the owner went on a holiday and shut the store for 15 days, I came to meet my friends in Odessa. Now I realise it was my life’s biggest mistake. Half of the city has already been bombarded. Yesterday, all windowpanes of my friends’ apartment were broken due to the impact from an attack on a nearby building. We were in the basement and the Army did not let us move for several hours. Finally, my friends and I sneaked out sensing that we were in the danger zone. Since I have the Poland visa, I have no option but to go its border only.”Unlike Gurbhej, Nitin Arora, who hails from Sangat Singh Nagar in Jalandhar, has been luckier. Having waited for a whole day, he finally managed to get a train to Lviv last night and reached the base camp this morning.It has been a difficult time for the family of Hemant, who had started on his car from Kyiv to Slovakian borders as they have lost contact with him. His brother Darpan, who resides at Islamganj here, said, “We talked to him last night. He had told us that he had reached near Slovakia and the forces were escorting them across the borders. Ever since, his phone and that of his three friends has been switched off and we are tense. We have been trying to contact MEA officials to help us find their whereabouts.” #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-relief-hoshiarpur-lad-starts-750-km-trek-373371
27-02-2022||Ravneet Singh||Nabha boy holed up in Ukraine school, rues lack of help||Patiala, February 26Part of a group of 200 Indian students stranded in Ukraine, a Nabha student has alleged lack of coordination among the Indian and Ukrainian authorities and sought help.Sharing his ordeal, Arjun Batish, a student of National Medical University, Kharkiv, said the situation was grim as cases of looting and snatching had been reported. “I was supposed to leave on a flight to India on February 24. But the country shut its airspace hours before our flight was scheduled. Since then, it has been a struggle. We earlier stayed at the airport, and then moved close to the Indian Embassy in Kyiv.”He is among 200 students who have taken refuge at a school adjacent to the Indian Embassy. “We have been in touch with officials at the embassy. They have provided us with food and shelter. Besides this, there is not much help they can offer. We received permission from the embassy to leave for a city near the Ukraine-Romanian border. From there, we were to move to Bucharest in Romania, to be further airlifted to India. We left for the railway station, but there were no trains, so we had to return.”His father, Harish Kumar, a faculty member at Punjabi University, said: “We have been in touch with him over the phone. There was scant availability of facilities. We hope the Indian authorities will help our children and bring them back home.” #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nabha-boy-holed-up-in-school-rues-lack-of-help-373372
27-02-2022||---||Covaxin shortage hits vaccination drive in schools||Chandigarh, February 26The Covid-19 vaccination programme in Punjab’s schools has hit a roadblock at several places due shortage of the vaccine. Vaccination camps in several districts have been cancelled over the past two days due to the shortage.The government has approved Covaxin for adolescent children between 15 and 17 years of age. However, for the past several days, the state has been witnessing a severe shortage of the vaccine.Raised matter with health deptWe have discussed the matter with the state health authorities and they are looking to restore the vax supply soon. —Girish Dogra, District immunisation officer, MohaliThe state government had shot off several emails to the Government of India regarding the shortage of Covaxin, but it had failed to make arrangements for the supply of the vaccine.The vaccine drive has been badly hit in Mohali district. District Immunisation Officer Girish Dogra said they had discussed the matter with the state health authorities and they were hopeful that the supply would be restored soon.Dr Balwinder Kaur, state incharge of immunisation, was not available for comment. Significantly, 7.74 lakh adolescent children between 15 and 17 years have been vaccinated with the first dose and another 13,000 had been given the second dose. #covid-19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covaxin-shortage-hits-drive-in-schools-373373
27-02-2022||---||Sikh girl turban issue: SGPC team to meet Karnataka CM||Amritsar, February 26The SGPC has sought an appointment with Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after a Mangalore-based private school refused admission to a six-year-old Sikh child.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami has termed the denial of admission to the Sikh boy an “attack on the religious freedom” of Sikhs. Expressing concern, he pointed out earlier a college in Karnataka had asked an Amritdhari Gursikh girl not to sit in the class over her turban.Minister clarifiesDhami said it violated the Constitution, which guaranteed religious freedom to all. He asked the Karnataka CM to take concrete steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents in the state. He said suppression of the religious freedom of Sikhs could not be tolerated, adding an SGPC delegation would soon visit the state to meet the CM on the issue. A letter in this regard had been sent to the CM’s office.Meanwhile, the SGPC president objected to the directive issued to students in Delhi not to come to school in religious attire.He said it was unfortunate that the South Delhi Municipal Corporation had issued such instructions to officials of its education department, adding religious concerns and rights were being violated in the name of differences and inequality among students. #harjinder singh dhami #SGPC #Sikhs #turban row||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/turban-row-sgpc-team-to-meet-karnataka-cm-373374
27-02-2022||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: Drop in liquor seizure this year||Bathinda, February 26Following an intensive vigil to check movement of liquor during the elections, the Excise and Police Departments have jointly seized a huge quantity of illegal liquor in Bathinda district after the model code of conduct came into effect on January 8. However, the data procured from the Excise Department revealed that the liquor seizure this year (2021-22) had declined as compared to the previous year (2020-21).The data revealed that during the 43-day period before elections, officials of these two departments carried out joint search operations and seized 8,340 litres of lahan, 430 litres of illicit liquor (illegally produced) and 513 litres of licit liquor (smuggled). A total of 56 FIRs were lodged and 44 persons were arrested.No let-up in vigilElection Commission officials ensured that there was no let-up in maintaining vigil and nabbing those involved in the illegal practices. —Excise officialA senior excise official said, “Although these seizures were made from different locations across the district, a large quantity of illicit liquor was recovered from the Bir Talab, Rampura, Bhagta and Bhucho areas.”He said, “When it comes to licit (smuggled) liquor that often makes its way into the district from nearby Haryana border, seizures were made from the Talwandi Sabo, Sangat and Raman areas.”The data further revealed that during the last financial year (April 2020 to March 2021), 58,515 litres of lahan was seized. Apart from this, 8,676 litres of illicit liquor and 423 litres of IMFL was seized. Around 59 liquor manufacturing units were found to be operating illegally.Similarly, during this financial year, till now 26,733 litres of lahan, 1,363 litres of illicit liquor and 6,079 litres of licit (smuggled) liquor have been seized. Twentyfour illegal liquor manufacturing units have also been unearthed.Excise Officer Kulwinder Verma said, “Owing to intensive vigil before the elections, seizures were higher than routine months. However, overall liquor seizures were less. It can be attributed to the Majha hooch tragedy that claimed many lives. Following it the state had launched an operation to rein in illicit liquor trade.” #liquor seizure||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drop-in-liquor-seizure-this-year-373375
27-02-2022||Abohar||Trace minor: Panel to cops||The Indian National Organisation for Human Rights Protection has expressed concern over police “apathy” in tracing a 15-year-old girl who was allegedly kidnapped by a relative while she was on her way home on December 2 last year.Pramila Lathwal, district president of the organisation, today visited the City-2 police station here along with the victim’s mother and produced a copy of the FIR registered on January 14.The probe was assigned to ASI Krishan Lal, but no effort was allegedly made to trace the girl. The victim’s mother, who belongs to an economically weak family, had informed the police that her daughter failed to return from school on December 2. She alleged the girl was kidnapped by a relative, Ugandev Chaudhary from Mumbai, who had visited them for a few days. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trace-minor-panel-to-cops-373377
27-02-2022||Nangal||Nangal scandal: Principal's friend leaked video, held||A day after arresting school principal Amritpal Dhiman for alleged sexual assault on students, the local police have claimed a friend of the accused had leaked his obscene video clips and pictures. Suspect Shiv Kumar, a quack in Nangran village, has been arrested.The police came to know about the sex scandal after objectionable pictures, purportedly several years old, surfaced on the social media last week. Following this, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Daghor village.Ashwani alleged Dhiman, also a former sarpanch of Nangran village and former block president of the Congress, used to run a school at Passiwal village till a few years ago. Due to his suspicious activities, locals had forced him to shut the school.DSP Satish Kumar said during questioning, it was revealed Dhiman had stored pictures and video clips in his laptop. Dhiman told the police in 2015, his laptop was with his childhood friend, Shiv Kumar, and he had copied the pictures and started blackmailing him, said the DSP.Meanwhile, AAP leader Harjot S Bains has demanded an inquiry by a sitting HC judge, saying an impartial probe was not possible due to the suspect’s political links. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-scandal-principals-friend-leaked-video-held-373380
27-02-2022||---||26-yr-old addict dies of 'overdose'||Moga, February 26A 26-year-old youth, who was addicted to drugs, has died under mysterious circumstances at Charik village in Moga district, police officials said today.Arshdeep Singh’s body was found on a link road between Chupkiti and Mallianwala villages. The police have sent the body to the district hospital for a post-mortem examination.Prima facie, no injury marks were present on the body, however foaming at the mouth was witnessed, pointing towards drug overdose, said a police official. After the post-mortem examination, the doctors took viscera samples for chemical examination to ascertain the exact cause of death.In a statement to the police, Balwinder Singh claimed his son had left the house two days ago. “He was depressed as he was without a job. He had started taking drugs,” he claimed. Inquest proceedings have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/26-yr-old-addict-dies-of-overdose-373382
27-02-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda biker killed in mishap||A motorcycle-borne man was killed after being hit by a speeding truck at Lakhi Jungle village in Goniana block of Bathinda on Saturday. After the incident, residents staged a protest at the village, demanding the arrest of the truck driver. As per information, 35-year-old Gagandeep Singh, a Dyalpura resident, died after being hit by the truck. The driver fled the scene. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-biker-killed-in-mishap-373384
27-02-2022||Madan Gopal Singh||Waris Shah at 300:  Unremembered, uncelebrated||I FIRST heard the name literally in my infancy. In the semi-refugee colony where I grew up in Delhi, I recall faint invocations of this name, Waris Shah. It must have been in the late 1950s.The streets of Naiwalan were now full of people who had been displaced from the multiple regions of Punjab during the Partition of 1947. They spoke different dialects and were not always comfortable conversing with people from other regions.There were a few culturally uniting features though. For the young, the great unifier was the Indian film music and All India Radio. For the rest, there were the gurdwaras and the unbroken chain of Gurbani recitation, and singing on the one hand and the rare but energising jagrata gatherings on the other. The Muslim presence had nearly been wiped out from the cultural imagination of the Punjabis, who had been thrown into alien lands full of unfriendly sounds. However, the feminine work culture had retained an inherent link to a past. Early morning, my mother and foster grandmother would recite verses from Guru Granth Sahib under their breath even as they went about setting up the house for the day ahead. Most prominently, we would overhear Baba Farid being mentioned — from whom the Sufis had drawn much of their local identity. That was one side of the story. The other was Farid’s formidable presence within the field of language from where all Punjabis drew their ethical core. The very grain of their existence would wake up to his ‘dar derveshi’.Outside of this religio-cultural space, there were two Muslim poets that, as children, we heard on almost a daily basis: Baba Bulleh Shah and Waris Shah, who could well have been near contemporaries, separated as they were by nearly 40 years of age difference. I wonder if the two ever met, especially as both shared a fiercely transgressive spirit.Waris Shah’s 300th birth anniversary, which fell on January 23, went unnoticed on both sides of Punjab. That the State is past caring is a no-brainer, but how could the community of litterateurs forget the day?Waris Shah was born in Jandiala Sher Khan of Sheikhupura (now in Pakistan Punjab) at a time when the Mughal empire was showing early signs of disintegration. There was, hence, an abounding atmosphere of increased repression and latent rebellion all around. Waris grew up as an orphan. He is said to have been a keen observer of the ordinary life — a fact to which his magnum opus bears testimony. He remains, by far, the most important qissakaar of our language and among the finest across the globe.There were a few editions of Waris Shah in Gurmukhi and Shahmukhi in our library, which I was unfortunately not able to read as I went to a Hindi medium school. However, there was one particular passage from ‘Heer’ — “Doli charhdeyaan maariyaan Heer cheekan” (Ascending the palanquin, Heer cried out bitterly, complaining) — which was repeatedly played on the radio and which initially seemed to catch everyone’s attention. The singer happened to be the iconic Asa Singh Mastana, who was more than an acquaintance of my father and had visited us a few times in the 1960s. His arrival was always greeted with excitement. Those were the days when I heard Waris Shah being mentioned in almost axiomatic two-liners that the wise and elderly would often use to clinch an argument…It was much later in life that I heard Mastana singing a passage from ‘Heer’, where this newly married rebel of a girl named Heer pours her heart’s pain out to her father before being put into the palanquin and ceremoniously sent away to her husband’s home. This singing seemed as much about forced exclusion as the pain and suffering the refugees had experienced as part of the exodus from their homeland from which they had not quite recovered.Kehi Heer di tareef kare shayar:Matthe chamakda husn maahtab da ji...How does the poet praise Heer:Her crown shimmers like the beauteous moon...A Couplet from HeerBegin by remembering the Cosmic SelfWho created the world in the image of loveHe began first by Himself falling in loveThe Prophet Nabi Rasool is His belovedOpening Couplet from HeerAashiq, bhaur, faqeer te naag kaale/bhaajh mantron mool na keeliye niLovers, bumblebees, faqirs and king cobras cannot be tamed without special spellsA Couplet from HeerThe song was unlike any other I had heard as a child. The melody unfolded in a slow, languorous narration. It had a feel of haunting simplicity that encouraged many of us to try it out in the seclusion of our houses. However, things became a little complex when within the same slow rendition, there arose a sudden burst of fast, quivering, high notes around a single word, or even a lone vowel sound. It was like an unexpected gush of turbulence in the otherwise gently flowing waters. This melodic surge returned equally suddenly to its sedate narrative core, but by now the maelstrom of emotions that had been stirred moved the young and old to look deeply into what had hit them.What was most perplexing was that this musical narration was never accompanied by a percussion instrument. There was no dhol, no dholak, no tumbi and no tabla in sight. Most unusual for a popular Punjabi song. Our lives had been so used to being consumed by the pulsating rhythms that to go solely by the gliding lilt of just the melody could have seemed a bit out of sync. But, then, such was the saga of separation that one felt at home in the pain and transgressions of ‘Heer Waris’, and its musical narrations without a visible beat structure. It was more than obvious that there was an ethic of fullness of life, loss and separation at work here. There was no other way to make sense of this forced homelessness.Women often cried as the poetic narration took off in musical notes. Men, too, were visibly moved even if they soon recovered their wits to make parodies of these verses to restore their somewhat damaged masculine ego back to health. Many years down the line, when I became a little known as a singer, the impassioned audiences would still persist with requests to sing Heer’s heartbreaking send-off, even if that passage had by then been declared as an unacceptable interpolation.‘Heer Waris’ stood out as an emotive link to our erased folk memory. The poetic thread ran through an incredibly detailed landscape of a people’s life — their mornings, evenings and nights; their work cultures; their rites of passage; their undying bonds, desires and envies; their transgressions of the social, religious and gender codes; their masquerades. No other poet had been able to embark upon such a vast cultural map with a comparable poetic intensity and masterly conviction. Through his qissa, one could enter the playful piety of playful hamds (Odes to the Almighty) and manqabats (Odes to the Dervishes) of the Punjabi Sufis; the spaces of longing through the lived carnivals and heartbreaks of the ordinary lives; thus, the Punjabi qissakari tradition would come alive spontaneously and with unmistakable signs deep of yearning, despite the unexpunged ghosts of Partition. Thanks to Waris Shah, we were still the people that we once were… Heer-Ranjha’s tale of almost willed displacement in languorous pursuit of love, as against the forced exodus of the people, had its lasting lure. There was still hope for a creative resurgence of a community of people who had walked through the inferno of 1947 and lost the rhythmic beat of celebration and had fallen into a litany of pain…I walked across the other part of Punjab primarily through how ‘Heer’ was rendered by a range of iconic singers and how it had been received by both the ordinary folks and the cognoscenti. The sheer experience of being exposed to such an incredible range of styles and diverse grain of voices was a heady experience. To begin with, I was introduced to Tufail Niazi Saab’s rendition by a non-Punjabi and my dearest friend, the late Safdar Hashmi. Tufail Saab is, in fact, the reason why I took to singing beyond the anonymity of my house. Listening to his singing, I understood why ‘Heer’ demanded a melodic narration without the support of percussions. Both he and Inayat Bhatti Saab would interrupt their singing with ready dialogic wit and commentary. I heard the distinct flavours of their dialects from Doab and Gujarat interacting with the poetic registers of Waris Shah’s Majhaili. This was quite unlike the ‘Heer’ I had heard in our part of Punjab. This also became a way of recovering a lost cultural selfhood that the unfortunate Partition had buried so insensitively. Through ‘Heer Waris’, I was able to significantly break down the uneasy gap that had created a tangible ‘other’.Much later, when I was gifted an audio tape of ‘Heer Waris’ rendered by the matchless Sharif Ghaznavi by Ajoka Theatre’s Shahid Nadeem, I felt nearly ready to take the narration of ‘Heer Waris’ on to public platforms. It was the time in the late ’70s and the entire following decade when nothing was making sense anymore. The State and the ideologues of a particular persuasion were engaged in a fiery exchange. For me, the singing of ‘Heer’ by Waris and the Kaafis of Baba Bulleh Shah sublimated into cri de coeur and eventually an act of faith. The melody, its projection and its interpretations on stage were beginning to change, especially as the real stakes of existence were getting increasingly intractable and no longer easily resolvable. Waris’ text was coming out of a limited cultural interiority to now address larger anxieties all across. This was approximately the time when I heard Rabbi Shergill’s angry outpouring to the so-called neutral letter writer about his grievously wounded love. As Bob Dylan would have put it, ‘The times they are a-changin’…— The writer is a composer, musician #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/waris-shah-at-300-unremembered-uncelebrated-373368
