28-02-2022||Chandigarh||Families of over 500 Punjab students stuck in Ukraine seek their safe evacuation||Families of over 500 people, including students stranded in war-torn Ukraine have shared their details with the authorities in Punjab for their evacuation, officials said on Monday.These details, shared with the respective district administrations, were sent to the central government to ensure their evacuation, they said.“We have received data of 508 persons so far,” Additional Director General of Police M F Farooqui said.Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also sought the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the evacuation of 500 students belonging to Punjab, stranded in different places in war-torn Ukraine.He also asked the Punjab government to appoint a nodal officer who can coordinate with the central government and the Ministry of External Affairs for the speedy return of students.Although the Punjab government has set up a dedicated phone number, it is yet to appoint any nodal officer for the purpose, Amarinder Singh said in a statement.Sharing parents’ anxiety and concern with the Prime Minister, the former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh said they were feeling worried, as reports from Ukraine were coming in, showing the desperate plight of students stranded in bunkers and metro-stations in harsh weather conditions and without any food.He appreciated the government of India’s efforts in bringing back people and hoped that the efforts will be further jacked up.“I understand the extremely difficult situation prevailing in Ukraine but I am confident that our government will bring back every single student and person safely,” he said.Congress MP Manish Tewari too wrote to PM Modi to use his good offices to bring back Indians stuck in the war-torn country.“Heart-wrenching videos of young students’ plight circulating on social media show that our boys and girls were being brutalised on the Ukrainian-Polish border,” Tewari wrote.“I know it is a difficult situation but I am given to understand that 20,000-30,000 of our young boys and girls are still stuck in various parts of Ukraine and a substantial number of them are stuck in eastern Ukraine that is close to the Russian border,” he said.He urged the PM to use his good offices with all the neighbours of Ukraine, including Russia, to ensure that “our children are brought home safely”.The Congress leader further urged PM Modi to advise the ministers concerned who are overseeing the evacuation to redouble both the effort and resources to bring every Indian back from Ukraine safely.The Punjab government had set up dedicated 24x7 control room numbers to assist the people from Punjab, stuck in Ukraine.Meanwhile, distressed families of stranded students urged the government to speed up the evacuation process.Punjab’s Mansa district resident Balwinder Sharma, whose daughter Anshika Sharma is stranded in Ukraine, demanded from the government to safely evacuate students from the war-torn country.He said his daughter, a first-year MBBS student, was staying in a bunker of the medical college hostel at Kharkiv.“Students who are stuck there have limited supply of ration and no help has so far reached them,” said Sharma whose daughter went to Ukraine in November.Vijay Nandgarhia, another Mansa resident, also pleaded with the government to ensure the safe return of his son Mukesh Singla pursuing MBBS in Ukraine.  #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/families-of-over-500-punjab-students-stuck-in-ukraine-seek-their-safe-evacuation-373898
28-02-2022||New Delhi||Mayank Agarwal named captain of Punjab Kings||Opener Mayank Agarwal was on Monday named the captain of Punjab Kings for the upcoming Indian Premier League.A member of the Indian Test team, the 31-year-old from Bengaluru was one of the two players retained by Punjab Kings alongside young pacer Arshdeep Singh ahead of the mega auction earlier this month."I have been at Punjab Kings since 2018 and I take a lot of pride in representing this fantastic unit. I am delighted to be given the opportunity to lead the team," Agarwal said in a press release issued by the franchise."I take over this responsibility with utmost sincerity, but at the same time, I believe my job would be made easier with the talent we have at the Punjab Kings squad this season."Agarwal has been an integral part of Punjab Kings since 2018, has served as the squad's vice-captain and has also briefly led the team last season."We have some vastly experienced players in our ranks, along with many talented youngsters who are keen to grab the opportunity and run with it."We have always taken to the field hoping to win the title and as a team we will once again work towards this goal of lifting our maiden IPL trophy. I thank the team management for entrusting me with this new role of leading the side."I look forward to the new season and the new challenges it brings with it."Agarwal, who made his IPL debut in 2011, aggregated more than 400 runs in the last two seasons. He has also played 19 Tests scoring 1,429 runs, including four hundreds, and five ODIs, for India.Punjab Kings head coach Anil Kumble said, "Mayank has been an integral part of the side since 2018 and of the leadership group for the last two years. The new squad we selected at the recently concluded auction has exciting young talent and outstanding experienced players."We want to create a strong foundation for the future with Mayank at the helm. He is hardworking, enthusiastic, a team player with all the attributes required of a leader."I look forward to working with him as captain and believe that he will lead this team to a successful campaign."Punjab Kings have been perennial underachievers in the league, reaching the IPL finals only once in 2014. They finished sixth out of eight teams in last three editions.The franchise went into the recent IPL mega auction with the maximum purse and picked up some quality players and are hoping to claim their maiden title in the cash-rich tournament this time. #Cricket #punjab kings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/mayank-agarwal-named-captain-of-punjab-kings-373828
28-02-2022||Sangrur||3 booked for Rs 30L fraud||Man beaten to deathFazilka: A man was allegedly beaten to death death by his in-laws in Fazilka. The complainant, Gurmeet Singh, said his brother Malkeet Singh (32) and his wife Sunita Rani had strained relations. OCWoman ‘strangled’, case lodgedFazilka: A man, Shivjit Singh, in connivance with his son and brother allegedly strangled his wife to death apparently over her insistence on giving up alcohol in Jalalabad. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-booked-for-rs-30l-fraud-373704
28-02-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Varying claims by parties on Dera Sacha Sauda vote||Sangrur, February 27Amid claims by leaders of various political parties of having received votes of Dera Sacha Sauda followers, suspense over the real beneficiaries continues to prevail. Members of the dera’s political wing confirmed they had taken the decision to vote for various candidates after taking feedback from followers.The dera has a large following and can influence the outcome in a majority of the constituencies of the Malwa belt. A day before polling, there were reports that the dera had extended support to SAD and BJP. Still at many places, confusion prevailed on the day of polling.“Dera followers have supported Congress candidates at many places as in this election, followers applied their own minds and did not go by the political wing’s diktat,” claimed Satish Kansal, a senior Congress leader from Sangrur.However, Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema said the dera factor had failed to impact voting this time. “The AAP got a large number of dera vote,” said Cheema.Ram Singh, a member of the dera’s political wing, said they did not impose diktat on followers. #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/varying-claims-by-parties-on-dera-vote-373701
28-02-2022||---||Another Bathinda village vows action against peddlers||Bathinda, February 27Days after residents of Kaljharani village vowed to take action against those selling drugs in their village, the panchayat of Harraipur village in Goniana block here has passed a similar resolution.After a series of meetings conducted by panchayat members and residents at the village level, sarpanches and other active members of the village have warned peddlers of “dire consequences” if sale of drugs continued unabated.Also read: War against 'chitta': Bathinda villagers vow to 'punish' drug peddlers themselvesA few days ago, residents of Kaljharani village of Bathinda district had warned drug peddlers of “breaking their legs” if they continued peddling drugs there. Taking note of the move, SSP Amneet Kondal had sought a detailed report from a DSP-rank official on the matter. A number of deaths have been reported from the district due to drug overdose in past one year.Harraipur sarpanch Jagjit Singh said: “To eradicate the drug menace in our village, we have constituted a 20-member committee. Ten members will ensure vigil during daytime, while the rest will be on guard during night to prevent drug peddler from entering our village. We have also invited residents, including those suspected to have been involved in peddling, and message has been conveyed to them that drugs can no longer be sold in the village. A pledge has also been taken at the village gurdwara to wipe out the drug menace.”Meanwhile, the panchayat has decided to bear the cost of treatment or de-addiction of addicts. It is learnt after the resolution was passed against the drug menace at the village, police personnel had been deployed to keep a watch. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-village-vows-action-against-peddlers-373698
28-02-2022||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Politicians counting on priests||Medico back to workMuktsar: AAP candidate from Malout Dr Baljit Kaur, a state-awardee eye surgeon, who hogged the limelight for examining people during her election campaign, has returned to her duty at a charitable hospital in Muktsar. As the election results are yet to be declared, she has resumed her normal duties. The doctor-politician says she will continue with her job even after the election results. Notably, Baljit, daughter of former Faridkot MP Prof Sadhu Singh, has served at the local civil hospital for a long time.Candidates kept guessingSangrur: Amid a five-cornered contest between the Congress, AAP, SAD, BJP, and SSM, voters are not ready to reveal their cards even a week after polling. Leaders approaching people in their segments these days are promptly given an assurance of unflinching support. This has upset the calculations of many candidates, who have been trying to assess a rough number of village-wise votes that they have received from their constituency. To outsmart politicians, many voters have stopped discussing their choice over the phone, fearing their calls may be recorded. It’s giving sleepless nights to candidates.Turnout fails to impressAbohar: Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal campaigned in Abohar and Balluana constituencies in the last two days of campaigning, a post-poll analysis indicates the turnout on February 20 was still not satisfactory. Of 95,323 male voters in Abohar, 70,821 cast their votes, while 24,502 missed it. Attractive pink booths were erected for women. For the first time, 33 per cent of the polling agents deployed by the Congress were women. Of 83,088 women voters only 60,770 exercised their franchise. In the Balluana reserved constituency, the Congress and BJP had fielded women candidates, both post-graduates. This too could not give the turnout a boost.In public serviceFatehgarh Sahib: The district police have taken a unique initiative to redress public complaints and grievances by organising a “Public Darbar” every Saturday at each police station of the district. A gazetted officer will preside over the forum and try to arrive at a quick settlement of disputes through negotiations with the parties concerned. The initiative is the brainchild of SSP Sartaj Singh Chahal, he said there was a huge backlog of complaints pending for the last six months. He said public would benefit from the move and pressure on civil courts would reduce to a large extent.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Archit Watts, Parvesh Sharma, Raj Sadosh & Surinder Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/counting-on-priests-373697
28-02-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Asia's biggest wetland Keshopur chamb on ventilator||Gurdaspur, February 27On January 29, 2018, then tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu strode into Keshopur chamb, one of the Asia’s biggest wetland, with half-a-dozen bureaucrats and proclaimed that an international photography competition will be organised annually in which lensmen from international TV channels—Discovery, National Geographic and Animal Planet— will be invited.Sidhu had stated that a “wetland tourism circuit” was also on a drawing board.Projects fail to take offFour years down the line, neither photography competition nor has wetland circuit, materialised. Right now, things have come to such a pass that if the wetland does not get a benefactor, it would soon lose its soul.“Keshopur is on a ventilator,” said a wildlife officer.Rajesh Mahajan, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife), said, “Despite all the impediments the marshy land faces, thousands of migratory birds have visited the wetland this year. The area is a paradise for winged visitors which fly in all the way from Siberia and Central Asia to escape harsh winters.” Officials do tell you that birds come, but conveniently hide the fact that bird watchers were nowehere to be seen.A leading ornithologist said,“All three of Sidhu’s mega-projects have evaporated into thin air. He had one full year to ensure he kept his word before he was shunted out of the Cabinet.”The roads leading to the wetland remained in poor shape. Sidhu gave Rs 3 crore to develop all the four thoroughfares which lead to the area. He had personally ensured that these were reconstructed and recarpeted, but once he was shorn of his governmental position, the roads started falling victim to encroachments and government apathy.The Tourism Interpretation Centre (TIC), which was built at a cost of Rs 5 crore with the sole aim of guiding eco-tourists, has died a natural death. Negative publicity, broken roads, a dysfunctional TIC and lack of transport facilities have stripped Keshopur of its sheen.The ornithologists claim that if the state government does not give a massive dose of oxygen in the form of funds, the birds may well start skipping the area in future. #Environment #Tourism #wetland||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asias-biggest-wetland-on-ventilator-373694
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||Errors in textbook: Complete probe by March 5, says Pargat Singh||Education Minister Pargat Singh has directed to complete an inquiry related to alleged errors and discrepancies in history books of Classes XI and XII of the Punjab School Education Board by March 5.A six-member oversight committee constituted in 2018 had said that the facts were “distorted in the books, particularly with use of wrong language”. — #pargat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/errors-in-textbook-complete-probe-by-mar-5-says-pargat-373688
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||SKM calls for stir over BBMB row from March 7||Calling the BBMB issue a direct attack on the rights of Punjab over its riverwaters, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called for a “long-haul agitation”, beginning with statewide protests on March 7.In a press release, SKM leaders said it was a shame that an attack on the state’s rights had been made by the Centre just as the elections to the Assembly ended. — #bbmb #farmers #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-calls-for-stir-over-bbmb-row-from-march-7-373685
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||New rules won't impact member states, says BBMB||After new rules notified by the Centre for the appointment of two top functionaries of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) kicked up a row, the board today said the representation of all four BBMB member states is secured and they will continue to have equal representation on the board as well as get existing benefits.Also read: SKM calls for stir over BBMB row from March 7Criteria specifiedThe BBMB is a statutory body constituted under the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, that manages the water resources of the Sutlej and Beas and controls hydropower stations located on these rivers. It consists of a whole-time chairman and two whole-time members designated as Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power), appointed by the Centre. A representative of each member state — Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh — is nominated by the respective state government.As per convention, Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power) were appointed from senior engineers serving in Punjab and Haryana. New rules allowed appointment of engineers serving in any state across the country.A section of stakeholders had contended the new rules drastically reduced the chances of aspirants from Punjab and Haryana to be appointed to these two posts, which may affect the interests of these states. Political leaders across various parties, too, had voiced similar concerns.Pointing out that the structure of the BBMB remained unchanged and no previously existing member had been dropped and no new member had been added, an official statement issued today said: “The recently notified rules only specify the technical qualifications required for the functional members — Power and Irrigation — in the BBMB. The notified rules comply with the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Jagmohan Singh vs Union of India and others.”“Earlier, neither the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, nor BBMB Rules, 1974, specified the eligibility criteria, necessary qualification or relevant experience for appointment to the post of whole-time members in BBMB. The new rules will help ascertain the suitability of the candidate for appointment of members,” the statement added. The Power and Irrigation benefits accruing to the member states on pre-determined percentages also remain unchanged. #bbmb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-rules-wont-impact-member-states-says-bbmb-373683
28-02-2022||Mahesh Sharma||Punjab elections over, leaders missing now, rue parents of students stranded in Ukraine||Mandi Ahmedgarh, February 27Worried about the safety of their wards, parents of students stranded in Ukraine are upset that politicians who were visiting their homes till the polling day are now unavailable to boost their morale in tough times.They, however, are content that the administration is concerned about their anxiety and coordinating with the Indian Embassy in Ukraine and the universities for necessary action at their end.Of little help in hour of needI approached a senior leader of a political party in Ludhiana. But he showed his inability to do anything in the matter. — Balwinder Singh, Bulara village residentBalwinder Singh of Bulara village, the father of MBBS fifth-year student stranded in Kharkiv city of Ukraine, said it had been a nightmare for his family after the reports of the Russian attack started arriving on Thursday. “As we wanted Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to impress upon the Centre to expedite diplomatic measures to rescue thousands of Indian students stranded in Ukraine, I approached a senior leader of a political party in Ludhiana. But he showed his inability to do anything in the matter,” he added. Balwinder further said his son, Simran Preet Singh, like many others had to take shelter in a Metro tunnel.Dr Sanjiv Garg, organiser, Garg Nursing Home, Machhiwara, said his son, Ayush Garg, along with around 400 other students had been staying at a school near the Indian Embassy in Ukraine for days. Ayush, a fourth-year MBBS student of Kharkiv National Medical University, was scheduled to board a flight for India on Thursday morning, but was not allowed to enter the airport.Acknowledging that the Centre and the local administration had been doing a lot, Dr Garg said the Ministry of External Affairs should expedite the diplomatic measures to get the stranded nationals evacuated. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elections-over-leaders-missing-now-rue-parents-373680
28-02-2022||Archit Watts||Muktsar lad back from Ukraine; 20 from district yet to come||Muktsar, February 27A 24-year-old man from neighbouring Udekaran village here today returned from Ukraine. Gurkirat Singh is the first from the district to reach home safely. He is a fourth-year MBBS student at Uzhhorod National University in Zakarpattia Oblast, which is located close to the Hungary border.Gurkirat’s father Alamjeet Singh said, “The situation is so far peaceful at Zakarpattia Oblast. The university had arranged four buses for stranded students, which crossed over to Hungary yesterday. The Government of India also acted timely and brought back the students from there by sending special flights. My son boarded the flight at about 2 am (IST) today. He sent us a message at 9.24 am that he reached Delhi safely. Now, he will reach the village late night.”Eagerly waiting to returnFortunately, there was no fighting in our area... I am thankful to the Government of India which acted timely, and brought me and many others back... there are many others stranded at the borders, waiting to return. —Gurkirat Singh, Returnee from UkraineMeanwhile, parents of other students, too, have intensified efforts for evacuation from Kharkiv and Kyiv, which are witnessing military action. They held a meeting here today, prepared a list of nearly 20 students from the district along with the details of their passports, present locations, etc., and sent it to the Ministry of External Affairs. They have requested the Centre to evacuate at the earliest. Worried over the present situation, a man whose daughter is stuck in Kyiv even broke into tears in the meeting, which melted the hearts of everyone present there.Meanwhile, BJP leader Rajesh Pathela Gora spoke to a senior leader of the saffron party in Delhi and Congress leader Karan Kaur Brar too spoke to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, seeking help for those stuck in Ukraine. Ranjeet Singh and Avtar Singh, two worried parents, said those who had taken shelter at the Metro stations are surviving on biscuits and water. Those stuck in their apartments, too, are running short on groceries and other eatables. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-lad-back-20-from-dist-yet-to-come-373672
28-02-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Situation grim, says Moga youth on return from Ukraine||Moga, February 27Jashanpreet Singh, a resident of Moga, who was studying at Uzhhorod National University, Ukraine, returned home on Sunday. An MBBS student, he said the Indian students were taken to Hungary from where the Indian Embassy facilitated their return on special flights.Kulwinder Singh, father of Jashanpreet Singh, said he was worried even though the government had assured safe return of his son. He thanked local MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, who according to him contacted senior BJP leaders in Delhi, for safe return of local youths.Jashanpreet said that the situation in Ukraine was grim. No one could predict when it would normalise. — TNS #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/situation-grim-says-moga-youth-on-return-373667
28-02-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Making do with biscuits, chips amid shelling in Ukrain||Amritsar, February 27After Russian forces entered Ukrainian city Kharkiv, several families across the state are waiting anxiously for their wards, who are pursuing MBBS at Kharkiv National Medical University, to return. Students stuck in Ukraine are sharing horrible stories of war as Russian bombers are pummelling parts of the country.Local resident Rekha Mahajan says that her daughter Kayinaat is in second year of her MBBS degree in Kharkiv, which is Ukraine’s second largest city.“I talked with my daughter yesterday morning. She, along with hundreds of other students, are putting up in the basement of a hostel. They are barred to go out as Russian troops have entered the city. They received meals last night. Since the fight is raging, their telephones were turned off this morning,” says Mahajan.Saloni Soni, mother of Ambuj Soni, who is in fifth year of MBBS, says she talked to her son in the afternoon. “He, along with hundreds of students, has taken refuge in the basement of a Metro station. They are facing problems in getting meals. They are managing on biscuits, chips and packaged food items. He said thunderous sound of explosions could be heard nearby.”Meanwhile, the district administration has launched a 24x7 helpline for distressed parents. So far, 88 calls, including 45 from Amritsar, have been received. Helpline incharge, District Revenue Officer Arvinder Pal Singh, said officials were recording the details of students stuck in Ukraine and forwarding the data to the head office daily. #indians in ukraine #ukrain crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/making-do-with-biscuits-chips-amid-shelling-373665
28-02-2022||Aparna Banerji||No end to ordeal, Indians turned away from border||Jalandhar, February 27In the past two days, Akarsh Dingra, a 21-year-old business management student at Poltava, has walked 80 km, famished, sleepless and sick, in a desperate bid to find a border crossing. Having faced disappointment at Shehyni along the Polish territory, he’s now heading to the Slovakia border.Sikh body Khalsa Aid ready with teams in 4 nationsNew Delhi: A Sikh philanthropic organisation has said it will have relief teams on the ground in four European countries to assist those fleeing the war in Ukraine. Teams will be in place at Poland, Moldova, Slovakia and Romania, said the founder CEO of Khalsa Aid. TNSShivam Baweja (23), along with 200 Indian students, has been holed up in a bunker at a school near the Indian Embassy in Kyiv since February 24. These students made an attempt to head to the Romanian border last night, but couldn’t find a way out despite frantic calls to the nearby embassy.Varun Kumar Harjai (31), a hotel management student at Poltava, is also trying to head to the Romanian border to find a way out of Ukraine — he got out on a drive this afternoon, after which his parents haven’t heard from him.Blistered, hungry and thirsty, students are walking long distances and hitching rides in a bid to make it to a border crossing, but in vain.Their parents say repeated attempts to contact the embassy have yielded no results as they haven’t heard from officials. With most students being denied passage at the borders, even as Ukrainians are allowed to cross over, disappointed students are running out of options as they have no money or food. At the Shehyni border checkpoint, thousands of Indian students braved a chilly night.Rajesh Baweja, father of Shivam, claimed: “My son is stuck at a school near the embassy in Kyiv. Students are not getting any cooperation from the embassy. Indian students bound for flight from Kyiv on February 24 were dropped at the embassy after the invasion. They then took shelter at a nearby school. The embassy asked them to board a train for the Romanian border last evening. They went to the station, but the train left without them, as they had no tickets. Disappointed, they returned to the school.”Baweja said while contact was established with a Sikh foundation to make food available, they needed transportation, which couldn’t be provided despite seeking help from the embassy. For now, some food had been provided by the embassy.Akarsh, who hails from Kapurthala, didn’t sleep last night after getting blisters on his feet from walking 40 km from Lviv to Shehyni border checkpoint on the Polish border yesterday. His brother Saksham says: “At the border, Indians aren’t being allowed to cross over. Akarsh spent the night walking back to Lviv. The snow and sludge keep their boots and feet wet. Walking all night, they reached Lviv this morning. Now they want to go to Slovakia. How will they survive in this cold? The Slovakian border is their only hope.”Congress MPs flag calls for help Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa, in his tweet to PM Narendra Modi and the EAM, flagged desperate calls for help by Indians stranded in Ukraine. The Indian Embassy was yet to reach out to them, he said. MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla lamented his mails to the Ukraine situation room had been put on auto reply. TNS #indians in ukraine #khalsa aid #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-end-to-ordeal-indians-turned-away-from-border-373663
28-02-2022||Raj Sadosh||No help coming, Indian students in Ukraine pack bags||Abohar/Sriganganagar, Feb 27Many Indian students who have been taking refuge in rented accommodations and hostels in Ukraine for the past several days have finally decided to leave the country.Rakesh Vij of Nanak Nagari said his daughter Diksha was trapped in the Kharkiv National Medical University, Kharkiv. The students had been asked to arrange transport to reach Hungarian or Polish borders, some 1,700 km away.“We have approached the Centre through local BJP MLA Arun Narang also. We have called up several helpline numbers but so far no arrangements have been made to evacuate the students,” he claimed. “The students have been trying to contact the Indian Embassy through video calling, but help is awaited,” Diksha said in her message.Ajay Sharma, father of Rijul, an MBBS student from Sriganganagar trapped at Rubizhne in Luhansk Oblast region, said his daughter had decided to leave for Poland along with some students. “They contacted a cab three hours ago but it was yet to arrive. They are carrying food and water. They will have to travel for 24 hours to reach the border,” he claimed.Another student Lakhan Gaur from Sriganganagar said some of his friends had left the hostel on Saturday. “The embassy was neither sending out any message nor extending help. Some of my friends who left yesterday were stuck at the railway station, while others were stranded at the border. We have packed our bags and are carrying some food and water for the journey,” he told the family. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-coming-students-pack-bags-373660
28-02-2022||Surinder Bhardwaj||Ukraine crisis: 4 from Fatehgarh Sahib stuck at Kharkiv Metro station||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 27Four students from the district are stuck in war-torn Ukraine. Three of them Jashanpreet Singh, Harjit Singh and Gurminder Singh belong to Bhambhri village of the district, whereas Sharuti Lotava is from Amloh town. Mona Lutave, mother of Sharuti, who is pursuing MBBS from National Medical University, Kharkiv, said her daughter was supposed to come back on February 26, but due to the war she was stuck there. “She has told us that many students from India have taken shelter in a Metro station. The situation is tense and proper food is not available. She said the intense cold has further added to their woes as the students don’t have woolens,” said Mona.Meanwhile, DC Punamdeep Kaur has set up helpline numbers 90414-68737 and 01763-232217 to collect information of students and other persons belonging to the district. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-from-fatehgarh-stuck-at-kharkiv-metro-station-373659
28-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Ukraine: Many holed up in bunkers sans food, water||Bathinda, February 27Punjab students who have taken refuge in bunkers of college hostels and underground Metro stations in Ukraine are running out of food and essential supplies.Khushal of Mansa, stranded at Kharkiv in northeastern Ukraine, said: “It is 3 pm here, but we haven’t had our breakfast yet as we don’t have food. The biting cold is also taking its toll on us. Situation is worsening by the day as we regularly hear sounds of bomb strikes and gunshots. For our safety, we are staying in dingy bunkers. We are out of food and water,” he said.Situation worsening by the daySituation is getting worse by the day. For our safety, we are staying in dingy bunkers. We are out of food and water. —Khushal, Stranded in KharkivPalakpreet Kaur of Talwandi Sabo has been stuck near the Armenian border after being denied entry into the country. Putting up at an underground Metro station, uncertainty looms as to when she will be able to cross the border and reach India.While talking to The Tribune over the phone, Drishti, who is stranded in Ukraine, said: “I am in Uzhhorod city on the western border, around 1,500 km from Russia. So conditions are relatively peaceful here so far. But in Kyiv, students are in trouble as they are stuck in bunkers. There is little hope of rescuing them.”With the efforts of university and the Indian Embassy, two batches had already left for India via Hungary. “I may get a chance to cross over tomorrow and hope to reach India in a day or two,” she adds.As many as 34 students from Bathinda and Mansa have been identified so far. Deputy Commissioner Vineet Kumar said 19 students from Bathinda district were currently stranded in Ukraine. They include Palakpreet Kaur, Harshdeep Singh, Hansil, Karambir Singh, Hitesh, Lisika Sharma, Tanish Garg, Drishti, Lovkesh Kumar, Mohit Verma, Ripanjeet Kaur, Jabarjung Singh, Jatin, Rohil Sharma, Saurav Kumar Yadav, Tamana, Ritika and Bharat Kumar. “We have talked to their parents here and are making efforts to make arrangements for their safe return,” he said. Also, 15 students from Mansa district are stranded there. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-many-holed-up-in-bunkers-sans-food-water-373657
28-02-2022||Arun Sharma||In Ropar, mining takes toll on bridges, groundwater||Ropar, February 27The whirring of a poclain machine digging a common grazing ground (charand in local parlance) in the Swan riverbed on Monday night alerted members of the Ilaqa Sangharsh Committee. They rushed to the spot (near Bhalan village) and tried to catch hold of the machine operator. He, however, managed to flee but the machine was seized by officials.Swan riverbed has been weakened due to illegal mining. File photoThat was one of the 10 machines seized by the authorities in the past one month.Locals had formed the committee last year after the mining mafia “grew big”, and increased the extraction of sand and stone from the rivers in the district, damaging bridges, roads and ecology.ECONOMICS behind itWeb of ‘goonda’ taxBridges in the Algran and Agampur areas face the threat of collapse because of rampant illegal mining.The Swan and Sutlej riverbeds have been dug up till the piers of the bridges. Sand has been extracted through submersible pumps up to the depth of 80 ft, much beyond the permissible limit of 10 ft.Scale of illegal excavation5.33 lakh metric tonne Extraction allowed by govt every month27 lakh metric tonne Material extracted illegally every month100 stone crushers in Ropar district90,000 tonnes Sand and gravel extracted every dayAs a result, the level of underground water has dipped drastically in villages situated along the Sutlej and Swan — Harsa Bela, Mehandpur, Bhangal, Khera Kalmot, Majari lower, Haripur, Palata, Bhalan, Taraf Mazari, Nangran and Algran. Famers say they have to spend lakhs of rupees on new tubewells.Experts point out that deep digging of the riverbed will pollute the underground water. According to geologist Jaspal Singh, the digging of riverbed to such level punctures the aquifer (underground layer of water-bearing permeable rock). That is the reason that the underground water emerges at mining sites, he says.The unchecked mining and tippers overloaded with sand and gravel have also taken a toll on the infrastructure.In 2020, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited had submitted an estimate that required Rs 1.2 crore to repair its 220 KV power supply line tower situated in the Sutlej riverbed near Anandpur Sahib.Roads are lined with scores of tippers loaded with sand and gravel, day and night. Almost every link road in the district is in dilapidated condition as overloaded tippers ply on these roads to avoid toll plazas on highways.To dig out more sand, the mafia has now started digging up fields and hills. A big part of the hilly area in the Shivalik range at Khera Kalmot and Kiratpur Sahib has already been dug up. Farmers are offered a hefty amount to let the mafia lift sand from their land.Tikka Yashvir Chand, one of the founder members of the Ilaqa Sangharsh Committee, says: “In the past one year, the committee has helped officials seize dozens of machines and vehicles linked to illegal mining.” He further says illegal mining has been restricted to Bhalan area since the agitation by the committee in March last year. “Still, it could not be stopped completely.”A former crusher owner facing allegations of illegal mining says, “Faulty policies of the state government are to blame. The state government fails to auction off sufficient number of quarries, creating shortage of construction material required by stone crushers and washing plant units. Not even a single quarry has been operational in Anandpur Sahib for years. Hundreds of crushers need material and this leads to illegal mining and corruption.”Sartaj Singh, Ropar Executive Engineer (XEN), mining, says, “Whenever a case of illegal mining comes to the notice of my department, action is taken. Police complaints have been filed in more than 30 cases and the machinery seized. Investigation into nearly 50 complaints submitted last year is in progress.” #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ropar-mining-takes-toll-on-bridges-groundwater-373654
28-02-2022||Vijay Mohan||New rules do not alter representation or benefits of member states, says BBMB||Chandigarh, February 27After new rules notified by the central government for the appointment of two top functionaries of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) kicked up a controversy, the board on Sunday said the representation of all the four BBMB member states is secured and they continue having equal representation on the board as well as getting the existing benefits.BBMB is a statutory body constituted under The Punjab Re-Organisation Act, 1966, that manages the water resources of the Sutlej and Beas and controls hydro power stations located on these rivers. It consists of a whole-time Chairman and two whole-time members designated as Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power), appointed by the Central government.A representative each member state—Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh – is nominated by the respective state government.As per convention, Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power) were appointed from senior engineers serving in the state of Punjab and Haryana. New rules allowed appointment of engineers serving in any state across the country.A section of stakeholders had contended that the new rules drastically reduce the chances of aspirants from Punjab and Haryana to be appointed to these two posts, which may adversely affect the interests of these states. Political leaders across various parties too had voiced similar concerns.Pointing out that the structure of BBMB remains unchanged and no previously existing member has been dropped and no new member has been added, an official statement issued today said, “The recently notified rules only specify the technical qualifications required for the functional members -- Power and Irrigation -- in BBMB. The notified rules comply with the directions of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Jagmohan Singh Vs Union of India and others.”“Earlier, neither The Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, nor BBMB Rules, 1974, specified the eligibility criteria, necessary qualification or relevant experience for appointment to the post of whole-time members in BBMB. The new rules will help ascertain the suitability of the candidate for appointment of members,” the statement added.The power and Irrigation benefits accruing to the member states on pre-determined percentages also remain unchanged.Rules notified by the Ministry of Power on February 23 state that the posts of the Chairman and whole-time members shall be filled on deputation or direct recruitment basis with the approval of the Appointment Committee of Cabinet.The Member (Irrigation) is required to be a civil engineering with minimum 20 years of regular experience of which at least three years should be as head of a project involved in construction and operation of a large dam having minimum 50m height and 300m length, or a barrage of minimum 15m height and 350m length or a canal network with water carrying capacity of minimum 1,000 cusecs.The Member (Power) should be an electrical or mechanical engineer with minimum 20 years experience and at least three years as head of a project involved in construction and operation of large hydro electric projects above 200 MW capacity or minimum 500 circuit kilometres transmission line of 132kV and above. #bbmb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-rules-do-not-alter-representation-or-benefits-of-member-states-says-bbmb-373628
28-02-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Video: Amid Ukraine war, 'langar on train' warms hearts||Bathinda, February 26Amid the chaos, a heartwarming video has emerged of a ‘langar on train' for students travelling to the Ukraine's border with Poland.The viral video, shared by a global Sikh NGO on Twitter, shows students eating food served in the langar on a moving train. The tweet says a volunteer of the organisation has been providing langar and assistance to students of different countries.#Ukraine: Guru Ka Langar on a train These guys were fortunate to get on this train which is travelling east of Ukraine to the west (to Polish border ) Hardeep Singh has been providing Langar and assistance to many students from different countries.What a guy#UkraineRussia pic.twitter.com/CyWZnWVePz  Meanwhile, many Punjabi students stuck in Ukraine are forced to sleep on the floor of an underground Metro station in freezing conditions. Their parents have urged PM Narendra Modi to bring back their children safely.The parents of stranded students have submitted a letter to Mansa ADC Ajay Arora, urging the Centre to make efforts for their immediate evacuation.Lovekesh of Maur Mandi, who is stranded in Ukraine, says: “We are having food once a day and are facing problems in breathing due to shelling. The Polish and Hungarian borders are 1,500 km from here, while the Russian border is merely 60 km away. But leaving from here is not easy.”Sanjeev Sharma of Maur Mandi, says: “My daughter Drishti is in the second year of MBBS in Ukraine. We urge the government to bring back our children safely. We are worried about her safety.”Another parent, Sanjeev Kumar Garg of Bathinda district, says: “My son Tanish Garg went to Ukraine three months ago to pursue MBBS. The Centre must act fast.”Shivanginia, a third-year MBBS student stuck in Ukraine, posted on Twitter: “We’re stuck in the northeastern part of Ukraine. Sirens are going off time and again. There’s shortage of supplies and transportation facilities.”In his message to the Ministry of External Affairs on the Twitter, local resident Ronak Seth wrote: “Your guys at the border and in the embassy are not responding to calls. How would you expect students to be calm? My daughter is stuck on the Poland border in extreme cold.”#Ukraine: Guru Ka Langar on a train These guys were fortunate to get on this train which is travelling east of Ukraine to the west (to Polish border ) Hardeep Singh has been providing Langar and assistance to many students from different countries.What a guy#UkraineRussia pic.twitter.com/CyWZnWVePz   #indians in ukraine #khalsa aid #langar #ravi singh khalsa aid #Sikhs #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-biting-cold-langar-on-train-warms-hearts-373367
