01-10-2021||India||India-China clash: Naravane carries out security review in Ladakh||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh to carry out a security review in a sensitive sector where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said on Friday. Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh where he was briefed on the prevailing security situation and the army’s operational preparedness, the army said in a statement. The army chief interacted with the troops and complimented them “for their resoluteness and high morale”, it added. The two-day visit came barely two months after the rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August when both sides pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the LAC. The breakthrough came after the 12th round of military talks held on August 2. Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years. (The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead). Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. Even after the disengagement from Pangong Tso and Gogra, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. The dates for the 13th round of talks to discuss the other friction points along the LAC are yet to be announce The visit also came a day after the army chief said at an event in Delhi that developments along the LAC in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said while addressing the annual session of the PHD Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on Thursday. Naravane’s Ladakh visit also came barely a month after multiple PLA patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed the LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand and damaged a foot bridge before they went back to the other side. The army chief also visited the Rezang La War Memorial in eastern Ladakh and paid homage to the bravehearts killed in action during the 1962 India-China war. The historic Battle of Rezang La, fought at heights of more than 18,000 feet, saw 124 Indian soldiers repel attack after attack by a numerically superior and better-equipped enemy in November 1962.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||India recorded over 350 crimes against children each day in 2020: Report||A total of 1,28,531 crimes against children were recorded in India last year, implying that an average of 350 such cases were reported each day during the pandemic, according to an NGO's analysis of the NCRB data.  However, when compared with figures from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in 2019, there has been a drop of 13.3 per cent in the total number of such cases, Child Rights and You (CRY) said in its analysis.  There were 1,48,185 cases of crime against children recorded in 2019 which meant that each day over 400 such crimes are committed in the country.  Though there is a drop in total number of crimes against children, child marriage has increased 50 per cent and online abuse has increased 400 per cent in one year, the child rights organisation said.  Further analysis of the decadal trend suggests that crimes against children in India has increased steeply by 381 per cent in the last one decade (2010-2020) and over the same time, the number of overall crimes decreased by 2.2 per cent in the country.  A state-wise analysis shows that Madhya Pradesh (13.2 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (11.8 per cent), Maharashtra (11.1 per cent), West Bengal (7.9 per cent) and Bihar (5.1 per cent) account for nearly half of total crimes against children (49.3 per cent) in India, the organisation said.  Compared to NCRB data 2019, in the list of top five states, West Bengal has replaced Delhi while seeing a sharp increase in cases by more than 63 per cent.  Priti Mahara, Director, Policy Research and Advocacy, CRY, said: Experiences during humanitarian crises have revealed that issues of child protection tend to get exacerbated. School closures during Covid, mobility restrictions to contain the spread of the pandemic coupled with the economic slowdown disproportionately impacted livelihoods and household economic and food security of marginalised families.  "Therefore, it was highly likely that it contributed to increasing children's vulnerabilities to child labour, child marriage, child trafficking as well as cases of gender-based violence," she said.  According to CRY's analysis of NCRB data, cases under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 saw an increase of nearly 50 per cent from 525 in 2019 to 785 in 2020.  However, the number of cases recorded under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 saw a decline of around 38 per cent from 770 cases in 2019 to 476 cases in 2020.  This is in contrast to the recently released ILO global estimates on child labour 2020 report, which states that there were 16.8 million more children within the age-group of five to 11 years in child labour in 2020 than in 2016, CRY said.  The COVID-19 crisis threatens to further erode global progress against child labour unless urgent mitigation measures are taken and new analysis suggests a further 8.9 million children will be in child labour by the end of 2022 as a result of rising poverty driven by the pandemic, it said.  Therefore, this decline needs to be seen in the light of reporting and recording of cases before drawing conclusions regarding progress related to addressing child labour in India, it said.  Another important aspect related to child protection during COVID-19 has been the lack of avenues for recreation and socialisation, according to the organisation.  Since there were restrictions on socialising in-person, and teaching shifted online, there was a corresponding rise in time spent by children online, making them vulnerable to online abuse and exploitation, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Congress in pathetic state in Punjab: Amarinder hits back at Harish Rawat||Hours after Congress leader Harish Rawat questioned his secular credentials in no-holds-barred attack, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Friday it was prompted by the "pathetic situation" the party has now found itself.  "Three weeks before stepping down as CM, I had offered my resignation to Sonia Gandhi but she had asked me to continue," said Singh in a statement here, ridiculing Rawat's remarks that he seemed to be under pressure.  The former chief minister said the only pressure he had been under for the past few months was that of his own loyalty to the Congress, because of which he continued to tolerate insult after insult.  Punjab Congress in-charge Rawat had on Friday, in a press conference in Dehradun, countered Singh, who has said he would leave the party as he had been "utterly humiliated", saying that the Punjab leader must reject any attempt by the BJP if they try to make him their mask in the state.  He also said Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials.  Reacting to Rawat's remarks, Singh said even his worst critics and enemies could not doubt his integrity in this regard.  "But I am no longer surprised that a senior and seasoned Congress leader like Rawat is questioning my secular credentials. It is quite evident that I am no longer trusted and respected in the party that I have served loyally all these years," he said, adding that "such remarks are prompted by the pathetic situation the party has now found itself in Punjab after being on a winning spree for four-and-a-half years".  Singh added that the humiliating manner in which he was pushed into resigning just hours before the CLP meeting that was clearly convened to oust him, was a matter of public record.  "The world saw the humiliation and the insult heaped on me, and yet Mr Rawat is making claims to the contrary," he remarked, asking "if this was not humiliation then what was it?"  Rawat, he said, should put himself in his shoes, and then, perhaps, "he would realise how insulting the entire affair was".  Singh, who has scotched speculation of his joining the BJP but said he will quit the Congress, recalled that Rawat himself had publicly stated after meeting him that he was satisfied by his (Amarinder Singh) government's track record on the 2017 poll promises.  In fact, Rawat had categorically stated, as recently as September 1, that the 2022 elections would be fought under his (Singh's) leadership and the high command had no intention of replacing him, he pointed out.  "So, how can he now claim that the party leadership was dissatisfied with me, and if they were, then why did he deliberately keep me in the dark all this time?" Singh asked.  "If the party did not intend to humiliate him then why was Navjot Singh Sidhu allowed to openly criticise and attack on social media and other public platforms for months? Why did the party give the rebels, led by Sidhu, a free hand in undermining my authority?"  He said, "Why was no cognizance given to the uninterrupted spree of electoral wins I handed over to the party through the four-and-a-half years I was in the saddle?"  Singh asked why the Congress was allowing Sidhu even now to hold the party to "ransom and continue to dictate terms".  "What is the pressure he exerts on the party leadership that they are so defenseless against him and are allowing him to have his way even to the cost of the Congress' future in Punjab?" he asked.  Singh also denied allegations that he had refused to meet Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter's swearing-in as Punjab chief minister.  He said Channi had called him up on the day of his swearing-in and was supposed to come over but failed to turn up.  As for not taking Rawat's calls, Singh said it was all humbug.  "We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works and even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this," the former chief minister added.  Singh said as the chief minister twice and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief on three occasions, he had worked with stalwarts like Pranab Mukherjee, Moti Lal Vohra, Mohsina Kidwai, Meira Kumar and Shakeel Ahmed as Congress in-charge for Punjab.  "I never had a single problem with any of them. I fail to understand Mr.Rawat's behaviour and actions," he added.  Singh dismissed as total nonsense Rawat's remarks that he was 'circulating the theory of humiliation after meeting Amit Shah', and pointed out that he had clearly said on the day of his resignation (long before his meeting with the Union home minister) that he had been humiliated by thrice by the Congress party, which had sidelined him to convene CLP meetings twice in Delhi and the last time in Chandigarh even though he was the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader then.  As for implementation of poll promises, the former chief minister said contrary to the lies being touted by Rawat, he had fulfilled nearly 90 per cent of the promises made in the 2017 election manifesto, which was a matter of record and could not be negated with frivolous and baseless statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||Business||Facebook 'actioned' about 31.7 million content pieces in August 2021: Compliance report||Facebook "actioned" about 31.7 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during August in the country, the social media giant said in its compliance report on Friday. Facebook's photo sharing platform, Instagram took action against about 2.2 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. Facebook had "actioned" over 33.3 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during June 16-July 31 in the country. Instagram took action against about 2.8 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. On Friday, Facebook said it had received 904 user reports for Facebook through its Indian grievance mechanism between August 1-31. "Of these incoming reports, Facebook provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 754 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc," it added. Between August 1-31, Instagram received 106 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism. Over the years, we have consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further our agenda of keeping our users safe and secure online and enable them to express themselves freely on our platform. "We use a combination of Artificial Intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said. In accordance with the IT Rules, the company has published its third monthly compliance report for the period for 31 days (1 August - 31 August), the spokesperson added. "This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools and details of user complaints received and action taken, the spokesperson said. In its report, Facebook said it had actioned about 31.7 million pieces of content across 10 categories during August 2021. This includes content related to spam (25.9 million), violent and graphic content (2.6 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (2 million), and hate speech (242,000). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (90,400), suicide and self-injury (677,300), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (274,200) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (31,600). "Actioned" content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 80.6-100 per cent. The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 50.9 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. For Instagram, about 2.2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during August 2021. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (577,000), violent and graphic content (885,700), adult nudity and sexual activity (462,400), and bullying and harassment (270,300). Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (37,200), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (6,300), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (2,300).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Dependents of deceased won't need death certificate, surviving member proof for Covid aid: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said dependents of people who died of Covid-19 no longer need a death certificate and a surviving member certificate to avail financial aid under a state-run scheme. At a high-level review meeting, he expressed strong displeasure over the pendency of cases, and directed officers to disburse financial aid at the earliest. "Laid-back attitude will not be tolerated. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to families as they mourn the loss of their loved ones. All these people are victims and do not deserve to be troubled because of paperwork," a statement quoted the CM as saying. "There should no longer be a need for submitting death certificates and surviving member certificates for the processing of the applications," he told officers. Officials should verify applications using the MHA list or the official records instead and immediately disburse the money, Kejriwal said, adding that applicants should not be asked to come to the office. "If we have their names on our lists, the officials must go to the homes of these families and hand them over their rightful amount by next week," he said. The chief minister also brought a citizen to the meeting who had reached out to him with grievances related to the scheme. On hearing the grievance of the person, the CM instructed the officials to be more sensitive in dealing with the applicants. He said there should be no delay in disbursal of the amount over frivolous reasons and if the spouse is alive, they be given the entire amount. If multiple children are surviving, members divide the amount among them equally. Don't pile up paperwork, Kejriwal said. In June, the city government had notified the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna to provide immediate financial relief to families who have lost their dear ones to the coronavirus. Under the scheme, the Delhi government has promised to provide a one-time financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to each Covid-19 victim's family, and Rs 2,500 monthly assistance to households that lost their sole breadwinner and for orphaned children. Officials said 25,709 applications have been received for the one-time ex-gratia amount of Rs 50,000 under the scheme. Out of this, 24,475 applications have been tallied against the list of the MHA. Verification of around 19,000 applicants has been completed. During this process, 1,250 people opted out of the scheme. The health department has approved 9,043 applications, and the ex gratia payment has been transferred to the accounts of 7,163 beneficiaries so far. As many as 1,425 applications have been rejected due to various reasons. The officials said 6,700 applications have been received for monthly financial assistance under the scheme. Out of this, 3,648 have been approved and 3,131 beneficiaries have started receiving the benefit. So far, Rs 1,56,57,500 have been transferred to their accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Kerala Health Minister launches pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for infants||Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Friday launched the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for infants as part of the state's Universal Immunisation Programme at the Government Women And Children's Hospital at Thycaud near here. During the state-wide launch, the Minister said the vaccine protects children from pneumonia and meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria. "The vaccine is effective against pneumococcal diseases in children. That is why this has been included as part of the Universal Immunisation Programme as per the direction of the Union Health ministry. This vaccine will be available in the districts from the next immunisation day," the minister said. She said pneumococcal pneumonia is one of the leading causes of mortality among children and urged people to administer the vaccine to protect the children. George said the vaccine will be given in three doses to infants. "After the first dose at one-and-a-half months, the two next doses will be given at three-and-a-half months and at nine months respectively. The vaccine can be administered till the child attains one years of age," she said. George said the state may require 40,000 doses of vaccine per month and currently, the health department has stocked 55,000 doses. She said necessary training has been given to the health workers for the administration of the vaccine and appreciated the efforts taken by the staff of the health department. As the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has been introduced under the Universal Immunisation Programme, all children aged below one in the State will receive it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||In India's comeback to UK, British nationals must undergo 10-day quarantine upon arrival in Delhi||British nationals arriving in India, irrespective of their vaccination status, will have to undergo 10 days of mandatory quarantine from October 4 as part of the reciprocal actions initiated by the government following the vaccine certification row between the two countries. India has decided to impose reciprocal actions on British nationals arriving in India, official sources said as the issue relating to the UK not recognising Indian vaccine certificates could not be resolved. They said India's new regulations will come into effect from October 4 and they will be applicable to all British nationals arriving in India from the UK. Under the norms, all British nationals arriving in India from the UK, irrespective of their vaccination status, will also have to undertake the pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PRC test within 72 hours before travel, the sources said. They will also have to undertake a Covid-19 RT-PCR test on arrival. The British nationals, irrespective of their vaccination status, will again have to undertake RT-PCR test on Day 8 of their arrival in India, the sources said. The British nationals will also have to undergo mandatory quarantine at home or in destination address for 10 days after arrival, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Amarinder's relations with BJP leaders put question mark on his secularism, says Harish Rawat||Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Friday said Amarinder Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials and warned the Centre not to attempt toppling a majority government in the state. Alleging that the former Punjab chief minister was playing into the hands of people with whom he had no ideological ties, Rawat said Singh should have stood with the Congress leadership to save democracy. "His proximity with (Union home minister) Amit Shah and some other BJP leaders puts his secular credentials in doubt," he said at a press conference here. Rebutting allegations that the party had humiliated Singh, Rawat said it always gave him respect. "Amarinder Singh was Punjab Congress president thrice and chief minister twice. Is it humiliation? He should compare himself with senior party leaders who had got much less than him in terms of opportunities," the former Uttarakhand chief minister said. "At a time when the country faces the challenge of saving democracy, Amarinder Singh should have stood with (Congress chief) Sonia Gandhi and strengthened her fight to save democratic values instead of playing into the hands of people who are using his so-called humiliation for political reasons," Rawat said. Rawat also warned the BJP-led Centre not to attempt to topple a majority government in Punjab. His warning comes just a day after Singh met Shah in New Delhi on Thursday. The Punjab Congress in-charge also said there is positive progress in the negotiations between Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Channi is from the Dalit community and every political party should support him, Rawat said. "But I warn the BJP government at the Centre not to try to topple a majority government in Punjab," he said and advised Singh not to walk into the BJP's trap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Delhi University's JMC & Hansraj, other colleges set 100 per cent cut-offs||Delhi University on Friday announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admissions with at least six colleges, including SRCC and Hindu, pegging the cut-offs at 100 per cent. Among the colleges that have declared 100 per cent cut-offs are Sri Ram College for Commerce for Economics Honours and B.Com Honors, Hindu College and Ramjas College for Political Science Honours, Hindu College and SGTB Khalsa College for BCom, Hansraj College and Deen Dayal Upadhyay College for Computer Science Honours and Jesus and Mary College for Psychology Honours. College principals had predicted the cut-offs to soar high this year with over 70,000 students scoring above 95 per cent in the CBSE class 12 board exams. In 2020, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College released a cut-off requirement of 100 per cent for three courses -- BA (Hons) Economics, Political Science and Psychology. It was in 2015 that two colleges -- College of Vocational Studies (CVS) and IP College for Women -- required the perfect score for admission to BSc (Hons) Computer Science. Students will start applying to colleges from October 4. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University's undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum aspirants from the CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Bengal bypolls: 57 per cent voting in Bhowanipore||The Bhowanipore Assembly constituency, where Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting, registered over 57 per cent polling during Thursday's by-election, a senior Election Commission official said. A high voting rate at 79.92 per cent and 77.63 per cent was recorded in Murshidabad's Samserganj and Jangipur seats respectively, where polls had to be countermanded during the April-May Assembly elections following the death of two candidates. "In Bhowanipore, there was a turnout of 57.09 per cent. Samserganj registered maximum voting turnout during yesterday's polling," the official told PTI. The voting, which was held from 7 am to 6 pm, was by and large peaceful, he added. A total of 6,97,164 voters were eligible to exercise their franchise in the three constituencies. Mamata, who is also the Trinamul Congress supremo, is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas in Bhowanipore. The chief minister, who lost from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections held earlier this year, has to win this by-poll to retain the post. Votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Greater efforts needed to vaccinate the old, says WHO||On International Day of Older Persons, the World Health Organisation on Friday called for greater efforts in the South-East Asian region to expand COVID-19 vaccination coverage among the older population, saying they remain vulnerable to the virus and at highest risk of severe diseases. "The older population continues to be highly vulnerable in the ongoing pandemic. Protecting them against the deadly COVID-19 virus should be our priority. "By vaccinating the elderly population as part of high-risk groups, countries can effectively reduce deaths and hospitalization," Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region said in a statement. Noting that a few countries are progressing towards a reasonably good coverage of their elderly population, she stressed that concerted and focused efforts to improve coverage of the elderly will be required in all countries of the region to protect these vulnerable populations. As countries further accelerate COVID-19 vaccination, they must closely look into all issues impacting access to these lifesaving vaccines for this highest risk population and address them, she said. The COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective in preventing severe disease and death. Protecting the most at risk population would not only help in reducing the disease burden, but also limit the impact on the health systems, she added. "Throughout the COVID-19 response, we must continue to protect and enhance the health and well-being of older people, including by ensuring that they have access to essential health services," she said. On the UN International Day of Older Persons, the WHO called on countries and partners to intensify action to foster healthy ageing. "Digital equity for all ages" is the theme of this year's UN International Day of Older Persons, which is especially relevant to policy makers in health and health systems. Key innovations in telemedicine, m-health and e-health initiatives many catalyzed or expanded by the pandemic - must be accessible to all older people. Such innovations should outlast the pandemic, accelerating region-wide efforts to achieve universal health coverage, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Haryana Police use water cannons on protesting farmers||The Haryana Police on Friday used a water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who tried to force their way in Jhajjar where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was to attend a programme. A group of protesters jumped barricades and tried to force their way to the venue, police said. The venue of the event was a government college in Jhajjar. Police said the protesters gathered near the venue with some of them jumping over the barricades to force their way inside. Jhajjar's senior police officials and the deputy commissioner reached the spot to oversee law and order. Later in the day, Chautala is also scheduled to attend another event in Jhajjar. A group of farmers on Thursday jumped over police barricades in a bid to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting in Karnal's Indri, police said earlier. Among those present at the meeting were Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and senior state BJP leader Pawan Saini. Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||India not taken into confidence on all aspects of Doha deal: Jaishankar||India was not taken into confidence on various aspects of the Doha deal inked between the US and the Taliban last year and the latest developments in Afghanistan will have "very, very significant consequences" for the region and beyond, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said. He also said that the key concerns for India at this juncture included whether Afghanistan will have an inclusive government and that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world. Speaking virtually at the annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, Jaishankar also suggested that India was in no hurry to deliberate on giving any recognition to the new dispensation in Kabul. In an interactive session with former American ambassador Frank Wisner, the external affairs minister also said that the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan is not against any country and it should not be seen as some kind of "ganging up" and a negatively driven initiative. India and the US are on the same page on many issues relating to the recent developments in Afghanistan including apprehensions about the possible use of Afghan soil for terrorism. "I think, to some degree, we would all be justified in having levels of concern and to some degree, I think the jury's still out. When I say levels of concern, you know, there were commitments which were made by the Taliban, at Doha, I mean, the US knows that best I mean, we were not taken into confidence on various aspects of that," he said. "So whatever, whether deal which was struck in Doha, I mean, one has a broad sense. But beyond that, you know, are we going to see an inclusive government? Are we going to see respect for the rights of women, children, minorities?" he asked. "Most important are we going to see an Afghanistan whose soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world, I think, these are our concerns," Jaishankar added. He said what had happened in Afghanistan, is going to "have very, very significant consequences for all of us, and we are so close to the region." The minister said that the key concerns were captured by a UN Security Council resolution in August and that how those questions are addressed today is still an open question, which is why "I said the jury is still out". "If you ask me is this the time to draw sharp conclusions, I would sort of take my time and study this with a certain degree of deliberation, because as I said, a lot of this, whatever understandings, there have been, many of these are not known to the entire international community," he added. To another question on how India and the US looked at the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said both sides are on a similar page, at a principle level on many of the issues, particularly on the possible usage of Afghan soil for terrorism. He said the issue figured in discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden in Washington last week. "Again, look, there would be issues on which we would agree more, there would be issues on which we would agree less. Our experiences in some respects are different than yours (the US). You know, we have been victims of cross border terrorism ourselves from that region," Jaishankar said. "And let us say that has shaped in many ways, our view of some of the neighbours of Afghanistan. So now, how much, the US shares that view, and where is it that the US sort of makes its tactical compromises I think that is for the Americans to figure out," he said. Asked whether it included a joint signal to Pakistan, he only said: "There are aspects that we share, and there are aspects where maybe our positions are not exactly the same." To a query on Quad and ways to manage the rise of Chinese power, Jaishankar said the four-nation partnership is not against somebody. "I think it's very important not to be sort of railroaded into some kind of negative discourse, which actually is not from our script, it is somebody else's script. And I don't think we should fall for that. I think we need to be positive," he said. On the question of how to deal with the rise of China, Jaishankar said: "I would say, in many ways, those are bilateral choices that all of us have to make, we each have a very substantial relationship with China." "And, in many ways, China being today is such a big player and so salient in the international economy, I think it's natural that these relationships are quite unique. So what are my problems, or my opportunities would not be the same as that for the US, or Australia, or Japan, or Indonesia or France," he added. Jaishankar said it would be different for each country and added that the rise of China has had a very fundamental impact on the international order. "So as participants in the international order, we need to assess that and respond to that, in the light of our own interest. So I think it's sort of essential to look normalise this conversation," he said. "You know, this should not end up as though it's some kind of ganging up and a negatively driven event, I don't think that's the fair description of what is a completely natural evolution of the international order to my mind," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Australia's medical regulator approves Covishield for incoming travellers||Australia's top medical regulator on Friday approved the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India for incoming international travellers, a step that is expected to facilitate the return of thousands of Indian students to that country. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's office said the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has advised that Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield should be considered as "recognised vaccines" for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated. It said Australia is ready to take its next steps to safely reopen to the world, with changes coming to the international border. "Our government is setting out the framework for how international travel will look in coming months," it said. It is not immediately clear whether the TGA's approval for Covishield will facilitate immediate travel to Australia by Indian students waiting to return to that country or whether certain changes will have to be made to the existing protocols for the entry of foreign nationals into the country. The TGA is Australia's medicines and medical devices regulator. "Today, the TGA has published its initial assessment of the data on the protection offered by the Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield (AstraZeneca/Serum Institute of India) vaccines and has advised that these vaccines should be considered as 'recognised vaccines' for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated," the Australian Prime Minister's Office (PMO)said in a statement. It said declaring certain COVID-19 vaccines as 'recognised vaccines' is separate to a regulatory decision on whether they are approved for use for vaccination in Australia, which has not been made by the TGA. "The recognition of these two additional vaccines is a major milestone towards more Australians vaccinated overseas getting home sooner," the statement said. "In coming weeks, the Minister for Health will consider updates to the Biosecurity Act Emergency determinations to facilitate some of these changes for fully vaccinated Australian travellers as we move forward on the National Plan to get Australia back to normal and reopen our country safely," it said. The Australian PMO said that the government will finalise in the coming weeks the processes for people to be able to show their vaccination status if they have had a TGA recognised vaccine. "People who have received vaccines not recognised by the TGA, or who are unvaccinated, will be required to undertake 14 days of managed quarantine on arrival," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Deep depression intensifies into cyclone Shaheen, moves away from Indian coast||The deep depression in the Arabian Sea intensified into Cyclone Shaheen on Friday morning and it is further likely to intensify into a 'severe cyclonic storm' by evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The system is moving away from the Indian coast, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "The cyclonic storm Shaheen over northeast Arabian Sea and neighbourhood moved west-northwestwards with a speed of about 20 kmph today over central parts of north Arabian Sea," it said. "It is very likely to further intensify into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and move west-northwestwards skirting Makran coast (Pakistan) during next 36 hours. Thereafter it is likely to re-curve west-southwestwards, move towards Oman coast across the Gulf of Oman and weaken gradually," it added. Cyclone Shaheen was formed from the remnants of Cyclone Gulab, which had hit the east coast on September 26. Cyclone Gulab's intensity had reduced further as it traversed central India, pounding parts of Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. As its remnants entered the Arabian Sea, they intensified further into a cyclonic storm on Friday morning. It is a rare instance that one cyclone that formed over the Bay of Bengal has traversed the breadth of the country to reach the west coast and again intensify into a cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. In line with the vision of the prime minister, SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 have been designed to realise the aspiration to make all cities garbage free and water secure, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). At an event at the Ambedkar International Centre here, the prime minister launched the flagship missions. "These missions signify a step forward in the march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanising India and will also help contribute towards achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030," the PMO said. "SBM-U 2.0 envisions to make all cities 'garbage free' and ensure grey and black water management in all cities other than those covered under AMRUT, make all urban local bodies open defecation free+ and those with a population of less than one lakh as open defecation free++, thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas. "The mission will focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management," the PMO said. The outlay of SBM-U 2.0 is around Rs 1.41 lakh crore, it said. "AMRUT 2.0 aims at providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas," the PMO said. "AMRUT 2.0 will adopt the principles of a circular economy and promote conservation and rejuvenation of surface and groundwater bodies," it said. "The mission will promote data-led governance in water management and technology sub-mission to leverage the latest global technologies and skills. "The outlay of AMRUT 2.0 is around Rs 2.87 lakh crore," the PMO statement said. "SBM-U and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improve the urban landscape during the last seven years," PMO has said. "The two flagship missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic services of water supply and sanitation to the citizens," it said. "Swachhta has become a jan andolan today, all urban local bodies have been declared open defecation free and 70 per cent solid waste is being scientifically processed now," the PMO said. "AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than four crore people," it said. Union Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing & Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore as well as ministers of urban development of several states and union territories were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Punjab CM meets Narendra Modi ||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence here and urged him to repeal the three farm laws. Channi also said that he has called for early resolution of the farmers' agitation. The prime minister has said he also wanted it to end and is working towards it, the chief minister said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws since November last year and have been demanding the legislations be repealed. During his meeting with Modi, Channi called for immediately starting the procurement of paddy in Punjab, which has been delayed this time to October 10. "I have urged the prime minister to end this agitation over the three farm laws. He listened to me intently and said he also wants a solution to this problem and is working in this direction," Channi told reporters after the meeting. He also urged the prime minister to resume talks with the protesting farmers, "because I feel the matter can only be resolved through dialogue". "I have urged him (prime minister) that the three laws should be scrapped," Channi said. "I have told him that Punjab's economy is agriculture driven and Punjab can only progress if our farmers and farm labourers are happy," the chief minister said. Channi said that he has also told the prime minister that Punjab is suffering because of the farmers' agitation and the state has always fought for the country and our people have sacrificed their lives in the freedom struggle and for the unity of the country . Modi also shared pictures of his meeting with Channi on Twitter and said, "The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shri @CHARANJITCHANNI called on PM". This is Channi's first meeting with Modi after becoming chief minister. Asked on Navjot Singh Sidhu's issues with him and whether they have been resolved, Channi evaded the question. "I met the prime minister for the first time after becoming the chief minister. It was also a courtesy call. This was the first meeting and hence, there was no agenda as such. But still I have raised three issues with him" Channi told reporters after the meeting that last over half an hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||SC raps farmers for strangulating 'entire city', damaging citizens' property||You have strangulated the entire city and now you want to come inside and start protest here again, an irked Supreme Court Friday told a farmers' body protesting against the three new farm laws and seeking directions to authorities to allow it to stage 'satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here. "What was the point in continuing with the protest once it has moved the court challenging the farm laws," the apex court asked the farmers' body, and said the citizens have equal rights to move freely and without fear and there has to be some balanced approach . A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar asked the petitioners whether they take permission from the residents of the area if they are happy with their protest. The top court was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat', a body of farmers and agriculturists, and its president seeking directions to the concerned authorities to provide space to at least 200 farmers or protestors of the body at the Jantar Mantar for organising peaceful and non-violent Satyagrah'. "You have strangulated the entire city and now you want to come within the city and start protest again here," the bench said, adding, "There has to be some balanced approach." At the outset, the counsel appearing for the petitioners told the bench that the plea is seeking direction to the concerned authorities to permit them to stage Satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here. "Tell us one thing, you want Satyagrah' here, no difficulty. But you have approached the court. Once you have approached the court, have trust in the court and the judicial system that it will decide your case appropriately," the bench said. It said the petitioner has already moved the high court against the farm laws and they can approach the court for expeditious hearing. "What is the point of doing Satyagrah," the bench observed. The counsel argued that the courts will examine the validity of the farm laws. "Your issue is only that repeal those three laws. You have filed a writ petition before the high court. Once you have made up your mind and have approached the court and having done that, thereafter you cannot say that you will continue with the protest. What is the purpose of this," the bench asked. When the bench asked, "Are you protesting against the judicial system," the petitioner's counsel said, no . "Once you have approached the judicial system, have faith in the court. You pursue that matter for urgent hearing instead of protesting again," the bench said. It said the right to protest is there but the citizens also have equal rights to move freely and without fear. "Their properties are being damaged. Do you take permission from the residents around that whether they are happy with your protest," the apex court said, adding, "This coaxing business should stop." Even the security personnel were obstructed during the protest and it has come in media reports that when defence personnel were travelling, they were stopped and heckled, it added. The petitioner's counsel said the farmers are holding peaceful protest. "What is this peaceful protest? You block trains, you block highways and then you say your protest is peaceful and without causing any harm to the public," the bench said. The counsel said the highways have not been blocked by the farmers, but by the police. The bench said the farmers' body has come to the court and they also stage protest and block highways due to which public transport system is affected. When the counsel argued that the petitioner body has not blocked any highways, the bench said, "You are not part of that protest, declare that position on affidavit. We will take notice of that." The petitioner's counsel said he would file an affidavit. It asked the petitioner to serve advance copy of the plea to the central agency and also to the office of the Attorney General. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread mainly to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. The plea, filed through advocate Ajay Choudhary, has arrayed the Centre, the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, and the Police Commissioner of Delhi as respondents. The petition has said that representation made by the petitioners to the concerned authority to permit them to hold a peaceful protest at Jantar Mantar has been rejected. The action of the respondents is also discriminatory and arbitrary as permission to protest has been granted to another farmer body while denying the petitioner to organise staggered Satyagrah', which is the most non-violent, peaceful, and truthful form of protest perfected and practised by father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, the plea has alleged. It claimed that the action of concerned authorities in permitting similar protests at the same site is unfair and violative of the Right to Equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Covid cases on the rise, India logs 26,727 new infection||India logged 26,727 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,37,66,707, while the active cases declined to 2,75,224, the lowest in 196 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,339 with 277 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.82 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,796 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,20,899 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,04,77,338. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.76 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 32 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.70 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 98 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,43,144, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 277 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala and 56 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,339 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,067 from Maharashtra,37,794 from Karnataka, 35,578 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 each from Delhi and Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,793 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||TN Speaker opposes location for Kudankulam nuclear waste storage||Tamil Nadu Speaker M. Appavu on Thursday set aside convention to publicly oppose the proposed location of the nuclear waste repository for the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project’s units 3 and 4 within the plant premises, saying it would be a hazard to the local population. “Nuclear wastes must be deposited at a place not inhabited by people,” Appavu told reporters at his constituency of Radhapuram, within which the nuclear plant falls, backing a stand taken by several environmentalists. “If nuclear wastes are to be stored in the Kudankulam complex itself, it will pose a great danger to the health and safety of the people.” Appavu urged the Centre to direct the AERB to reconsider its decision. It’s rare for an Assembly Speaker to publicly oppose a policy decision. Some 35,000 people live in the fishing villages within 5km from the Kudankulam plant, and many more just beyond, said anti-nuclear activist S.P. Udhayakumar. Appavu did not say how far he wanted the waste storage facility to be located from human habitation, but cited how India had conducted its nuclear tests in the Rajasthan desert. The Atomic Energy Regulatory Board has decided “to co-locate the ‘Away From Reactor (AFR) Spent Fuel Storage Facility’ within the main plant boundary of KKNPP”, an AERB notification says. The Kudankulam plant, located in Tirunelveli district, has from its beginning lived under the shadow of local concerns about public health. The then under-construction plant had in 2011-12 contend with a court battle and huge protests from local fishermen and environmental groups, before safety assurances from a high-level expert committee settled the issue. The AERB notification said the consent for the nuclear waste repository had been given after receiving confirmation that all AERB and International Atomic Energy Agency norms had been followed. It said the radiological impact from the spent fuel facility on the plant’s workers would not be beyond the AERB-prescribed limits. Appavu told reporters he had taken the matter to chief minister M.K. Stalin, who had recently directed the withdrawal of most of the cases against those who had peacefully agitated against the construction of the plant in 2011. He said the Indian Space Research Organisation had a research and development facility just 25km away at Mahendragiri, and this was another reason the nuclear waste storage facility should not be allowed at Kudankulam. The Supreme Court had said the AERB had to eventually find a “deep geological repository (DGR)” as a permanent and safe solution to the problem of disposing radioactive nuclear waste. The Kudankulam plant authorities had first thought of using the defunct Kolar Gold Mines as a DGR for storing all radioactive waste, but the Karnataka government did not agree. Currently, there is no DGR site anywhere in India, Udhayakumar said. Udhayakumar, who spearheaded the protests against the Kudankukam project under the umbrella organisation, People’s Movement Against Nuclear Energy, too, has urged the AERB to revoke its latest decision. He said the AERB was silent on where exactly it was storing nuclear waste from its Units I and II. He urged the Tamil Nadu government to withhold environmental clearance for the proposed intra-complex waste storage facility for Units III and IV. While Units I and II are already operating at the plant, Units III and IV are under construction and work on Units V and VI has just begun. The units are being set up by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India “in technical cooperation with the Russian Federation”. In Kudankulam, the “exclusion zone” is the area within 1.5km around the plant where no habitation is allowed, followed by a “sterilised zone” up to 5km from the plant, and an “emergency planning zone” up to 16km from the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Fake RT-PCR test report racket busted in Patna, four detained ||Patna authorities on Thursday claimed to have busted a racket that provided fake RT-PCR test reports to airline passengers showing they were Covid-negative for Rs 2,000 each. Four suspects were detained during a raid on Wednesday night on a so-called lab, Plasma Diagnostics, which operated 800 metres from Patna airport. It was sealed on Thursday. Passengers travelling from Patna to cities in several states — including Maharashtra, Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Rajasthan — need to carry a negative RT-PCR report. Depending on the destination, the reports cannot be older than 48, 72 or 96 hours. Airport sources said the racketeers stationed touts at the terminal who kept an eye out for passengers who came without realising they would need a negative RT-PCR test report, and arranged fake reports in a few minutes. Airlines — which have a QR code-based system of checking the authenticity of RT-PCR reports that is, however, not foolproof — caught several passengers trying to board flights with fake reports and informed airport director Bhupesh Negi. “The airlines stopped these passengers from boarding and reported the cases to me. I informed the district magistrate,” Negi told The Telegraph. Investigations revealed that several of the eventually offloaded passengers had earlier visited Plasma Diagnostics with the touts. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh asked civil surgeon Vibha Kumari to form a team of health officials to raid Plasma. “We sent a team led by our additional chief medical officer. Other officials from the district administration and the police assisted it,” Vibha said on Thursday. Vibha said: “Plasma Diagnostics turned out to be a shop selling spectacles. It had no laboratory or machines to conduct Covid tests. Neither had we given it permission to conduct RT-PCR tests or collect samples for such tests. We sealed it today.” City superintendent of police (central) Ambarish Rahul said an FIR would be registered. Negi could not put an approximate figure on the number of passengers detected carrying fake RT-PCR reports. Sources suggested many others with fake reports would have beaten the system. Some states such as Kerala have reported catching air passengers who arrived with fake RT-PCR certificates. Negi could not explain why those detected with fake certificates were allowed to go without any legal action against them. “Taking such action is the responsibility of the airlines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Assam atrocity triggers backlash in some Gulf countries||A widely circulated video of a photographer repeatedly stamping on a presumably dead man during an eviction drive in Assam has triggered a backlash in some Gulf countries. The Indian embassy in Qatar has said “there is malicious attempt on social media to spread hatred and disharmony through false propaganda about India”. The Grand Mufti of Oman has urged “all peace-loving countries to intervene to stop this aggression”, some lawmakers in Kuwait condemned atrocities against Muslims in India, and a call has surfaced on social media to boycott Indian products. A photographer hired by Assam’s Darrang district administration to record an eviction drive in a minority-dominated settlement last week — during which two people died in police firing — had stamped on one of the victims as he lay motionless after being hit by a bullet. In Qatar, the Indian embassy posted a tweet on Tuesday, saying: “There is malicious attempt on social media to spread hatred and disharmony through false propaganda about India. We urge everyone to exercise caution and not become victim of fake handle, propaganda, doctored videos. All Indian nationals are advised to maintain unity and harmony.” The same day the Grand Mufti of Oman, Sheikh Ahmed Bin Hamad Al-Khalili, tweeted a post in Arabic from his official handle, seeking international intervention. “What is going on in India? From a blatant aggression against Muslim citizens at the hands of extremist groups — supported by official bodies — it stops everyone with a human conscience,” goes the Google translation provided by Twitter. “Therefore, I appeal — in the name of humanity — to all peace-loving countries to intervene to stop this aggression, and I also appeal to the Islamic Ummah as a whole to stand united in this matter.” The Grand Mufti belongs to the moderate Ibadi movement. Oman is the only country in West Asia to have an indigenous Hindu community, and is home to one of the oldest temples in the region. The subject also came up in Kuwait’s National Assembly where some members issued a joint statement on Thursday condemning the attacks on Muslims in India. According to the Middle East Monitor, “they called on international, humanitarian, human rights and Islamic organisations to immediately work to stop the Indian authorities’ actions and restore security to Indian Muslims”. The website SabrNews quoted Kuwaiti MP Shuaib Al-Muwaizri as saying that boycotting India and its products was a legal duty. There was no official response from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Boundary agreement alone will end incidents with China: Army chief||Indian Army chief M.M. Naravane on Thursday said that border incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached between the two countries. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel and at least four Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in the Galwan Valley in June last year. Last week, China had reasserted that the Galwan Valley incident was the result of Indian forces illegally trespassing on the Line of Actual Control to “encroach on Chinese territory”. India rejected Beijing’s contention and blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter the status quo on the LAC for the disruption of bilateral ties. Speaking at the annual session of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the army chief on Thursday said: “We have an outstanding border issue with China. We are well-prepared to meet any misadventure that may occur as we have demonstrated in the past. “Such kind of incidents will continue to occur till such time a long-term solution is reached, and that is to have a boundary agreement. That should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along our northern (China) border.” On Wednesday, China had accused India of continuing to pursue the “forward policy”, seen as the trigger for the 1962 Sino-India War in the still classified Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report, and setting off an “arms race” in the disputed border areas. “The Indian side has long pursued the ‘forward policy’ and illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory, which is the root cause of tension in the China-India border situation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said in response to a question on India deploying sophisticated weaponry in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. “China opposes any arms race in the disputed border areas for the purpose of competition over control. We have always been firm in safeguarding national territorial sovereignty and security, and committed to peace and stability in the China-India border areas,” Hua added. Late on Thursday night, India rejected the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson’s remarks and described them as baseless. “It was the amassing of large number of troops by the Chinese side, their provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. China continues to deploy large number of troops and armaments in the border areas. “It was in response to Chinese actions that our armed forces had to make appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected. As emphasised by the external affairs minister in his meeting with Chinese foreign minister earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols,” external affairs ministry  spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. On June 19 last year, four days after the Galwan Valley clash had killed 20 Indian soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts, prompting Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held. The Indian and Chinese armies often face off along the non-demarcated and disputed common boundaries. The “Lines of Perception” are the notional boundaries till which the troops of either side patrol. Referring to the ongoing border standoff with the Chinese army in eastern Ladakh, Naravane said: “The unprecedented developments necessitated large-scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response.” Both sides have amassed men and machinery at altitudes of 14,000ft and above and have deployed 50,000 troops each along the LAC in Ladakh backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. A recent intelligence report has suggested that the Chinese army has been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. Besides, China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh and ramped up infrastructure at its existing airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources said. India too has stepped up its border infrastructure development programme, including the building of roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions into Indian areas. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such areas within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. The border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Multi-storey building collapses due to landslide in Shimla||A multi-storey building collapsed due to a landslide triggered by heavy rain in Shimla on Thursday evening. No casualties have been reported so far, state disaster management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The incident took place at Ghoda Chowki near Hali Palace in Shimla at 5.45pm. A video doing the rounds on social media showed the house in a congested area collapsing into a heap of rubble as some people watched from a rooftop nearby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Wife of Yogi fan says police misled and intimidated her||The wife of a property dealer and Yogi Adityanath “admirer” who died after being allegedly assaulted by police in a Gorakhpur hotel has said police had tried to mislead and intimidate her, and a video has emerged of senior officers purportedly trying to dissuade her from registering a case. Meenakshi Gupta, the wife of 36-year-old Manish Gupta who died after six drunken cops allegedly beat him up and also hit him on the head with a rifle butt early on Tuesday when he took time to furnish an identity proof during an “inquiry”, told reporters at her Kanpur home on Thursday: “I have evidences to prove that even though I had tweeted to the chief minister on Tuesday about the incident in detail. The district magistrate and superintendent of police of Gorakhpur kept asking me not to register a case against the killers. Some policemen tried to intimidate and mislead me.” Manish and two friends were apparently visiting Gorakhpur, to which Adityanath is closely linked, to witness the “development” of the area. They were allegedly assaulted by policemen who were making enquiries at the hotel over a suspicion that three persons had put up there under a false ID. Later on Thursday, Meenakshi, who has a five-year-old son, got an audience with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister who was visiting Kanpur city to attend government programmes. She said after the meeting: “I am satisfied as the chief minister has agreed to give me the job of an officer on special duty in the Kanpur Development Authority and a compensation of more than Rs 10 lakh for the education of my son. He has also agreed to transfer the case from Gorakhpur to Kanpur. I requested him for a CBI inquiry and he asked me to send him an application. He assured me that he would recommend a CBI probe.” Meenakshi demanded that the six policemen booked for murder be arrested soon. Adityanath said at a public meeting in Kanpur just before meeting Meenakshi: “An incident took place in Gorakhpur two days ago. I immediately asked the police to register a case. The guilty wouldn’t be spared.” The post-mortem report mentions four injuries to Manish’s head, face and body. Meenakshi said she had gone to the hotel room on Wednesday at the same time when some policemen reached there. “The room initially looked clean and there was no trace of violence or blood. But then I spotted a white towel that had been used to wipe blood from the floor. It was kept under the bed. I handed it over to the police. The owner and staff of the hotel are involved in the crime,” she said. Subhash Shukla, the owner of Hotel Krishna Palace, said: “The police took the room key from us early on Tuesday. We don’t know what they did in the room after that.  The cops went through the register and said the SP had sent them to check hotels and make videos as there were security concerns before Diwali. They took hotel manager Adarsh Pandey with them and went to Room No. 512. After 15 minutes, I saw four policemen carrying Manish and putting him in a jeep. He was unconscious.” He said the police took away all 16 CCTV cameras at the hotel, including the three on the fifth floor where Manish’s room was located. A relative of Meenakshi, who refused to be identified, on Thursday shared a video with journalists in Kanpur in which two men resembling Gorakhpur DM Vijay Kiran Anand and police chief Vipin Tada can be seen trying to convince Meenakshi not to register a case. The relative said the video had been recorded on Tuesday evening when the two officers had allegedly called Meenakshi to a room at BRD Medical College where Manish had been declared dead on arrival. “They tried to prevent her from registering an FIR against the killer policemen and told her that since they had suspended the cops and started a case, there was no need for her to do anything,” the relative said. The man resembling DM Anand is seen saying: “Main aur kaptan sahab swayam nigrani karenge…. Mera anurodh tha maan lijiye, aapko ek bade bhai ki haisiyat se.… Mukadma hone ke baad, aapko andaza hai ki nahi, salon tak court mein… (The SP and I will personally monitor the investigation. Please accept my request. I am saying this to you as an elder brother. I don’t know whether you understand that the case would drag on for years in court).” The man resembling SP Tada is heard saying, probably referring to the six accused policemen: “Unka pehle se koi jhagra tha nahin, wo gaye thhe wardi pehen ke. Isi liye aapki baat sun rahe hain. Madam ne kaha nilambit kar dijiye, maine kar diya. Tab tak bahal nahin honge jab tak clean chit nahin milega (They didn’t have any dispute in the past, they had gone there in uniform. That is why I am listening to you. Madam wanted me to suspend them, which I did. They will not be reinstated unless they get a clean chit).” Tada and Anand didn’t reply to questions from the media on the video. “An inquiry is in progress and we should wait for the results,” the DM said. The SP said: “I don’t know anything about this video. We are doing our job.” The complaint on the basis of which the six cops have been booked for murder was filed by Meenakshi on Wednesday. Police sources said it was “routine” for a section of cops in Gorakhpur to raid hotels to extort money from guests. “They are mostly hand-in-glove with the hotels’ management. Hotel staff inform the police whenever someone checks in. The police will suddenly enter your room late at night and ask for identity card and then point out some ‘mistake’ in it,” an officer in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity. “In case, there is liquor in the room, the police threaten to book the guests for breach of peace. The motive is to extort money. This has been going on openly for many years,” the officer added. Manish’s friends Pradeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Chauhan had said the policemen had barged into their room around 12.30am on Tuesday and demanded to see their IDs. They assaulted Manish when he took time to fish out his ID card, his friends had said on Wednesday. The police had initially said Manish wads drunk and he fell and hurt himself during questioning. Pushp Dant Jain, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Vyapari Kalyan Board, has demanded a judicial probe.  In a letter to the chief minister, the traders’ body leader said: “Kindly issue an order that the police wouldn’t harass tourists and travellers in the name of an inquiry. Video recording must be done in case a raid is conducted at a hotel or restaurant.” In her handwritten police complaint, Meenakshi had named the station house officer of Ramgarh Tal in Gorakhpur city, Jagat Narayan Singh, inspector Akshay Mishra, sub-inspectors Vijay Yadav and Rahul Dubey, head constable Kamlesh Yadav and constable Prashant Kumar. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav met Meenakshi at her home on Thursday morning and later told reporters: “I know that the truth will never come out under the current dispensation. The government uses officers for misdeeds….” The former chief minister demanded the suspension of the DM and SP of Gorakhpur. BSP leader and former chief minister Mayawati tweeted: “Not arresting the guilty raises serious questions on the policy and intention of the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC concerned over blockade of roads in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the continuing blockade of roads in and around Delhi due to the farmers’ protests and told the Centre: “Redress can be through a judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates but how can highways be blocked perpetually? Where is the end?” A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh made the oral observation while asking solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to implead the various associations of agitating farmers in a PIL filed by a Noida resident seeking removal of the roadblocks. The petitioner, Monicca Agarwal, has alleged that the daily commute between Noida and Delhi was taking two hours longer on account of the protests on the borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, inconveniencing those requiring travel for office work. The farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders for over 10 months demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws that they fear will take away their land and livelihood and facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. Justice Kaul, heading the bench, reminded Mehta that the apex court had last year in the Shaheen Bagh protest case passed a detailed judgment prohibiting encroachment of public places to avoid inconveniencing people. The bench pointed out that the court could only pass orders and it was for the government to implement them. “Yes, I fully agree that the executive has to implement the law,” the SG said. The bench replied: “On the lighter side, then you will say that the judiciary is encroaching upon the executive…. If we encroach, then you may say that we have trespassed into your domain. This has ramifications but there are grievances which are to be redressed. But this cannot be a perpetual problem.” “When it (directions) is invited, then it is not encroachment,” Mehta remarked. The SG informed the court that a high-level committee had been constituted by the government and the farm leaders invited for negotiations, but they did not turn up. “We invited them to attend a meeting. However, they did not join the meeting. My request is to join them as parties,” Mehta said, urging the court to permit the Centre to implead the farmers’ associations as respondents in the matter. The court asked the government to file a formal application and posted the matter for further hearing to October 4. On earlier occasions too, the court had directed the Centre and the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the general public travelling between the two states and Delhi on account of the farmers’ sit-in. “You have to find a solution. They (farmers) have a right to protest but there can’t be a hindrance to the inflow and outflow of traffic. The roads can’t be blocked like this,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy had told Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Home ministry asks ITBP to intensify patrolling along LAC||The Union home ministry has asked the top brass of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to increase deployment and intensify patrolling in sensitive zones along the Line of Actual Control following the latest “incursion” by the Chinese army in the Uttarakhand sector last month. The fresh transgression was reported amid the ongoing border standoff between the two armies in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Neither the Indian Army nor the defence ministry has so far made any official statement on the latest transgression by the Chinese army. Sources, however, said that intrusions occurred because of differing perceptions about the LAC. Both sides often accuse each other of transgressions because of this. “The ITBP top brass has been asked to intensify patrolling in sensitive zones and also increase border posts to maintain close vigil along the LAC in the Uttarakhand sector following the reported transgression. It is also very important to keep a close eye on the Chinese soldiers with surveillance cameras,” said a Union home ministry official. The ITBP reports to the home ministry. The sources said close to 100 soldiers of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) entered 5km into Indian territory in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30. The PLA troops returned to their side of the LAC after spending a few hours inside the India-claimed territory, which is guarded by the ITBP. The latest transgression has sent security agencies into a tizzy as nearly 100 PLA soldiers had crossed over on horses and retreated only after damaging infrastructure, including a bridge, much before they could be confronted by Indian patrol teams. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier and guards the 3,488km LAC, most of which is disputed. The army remains behind it. The frontier passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the defence ministry told The Telegraph that security agencies had identified nearly 25 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the LAC that were prone to transgression by the PLA. The latest report from the ground has also suggested that the Chinese PLA have made frontline formations near most of these 25 sensitive spots and were also building infrastructure, including military camps. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The border standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues despite “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within Indiaclaimed lines. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside Indiaclaimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||NEET: SC nod for general category status to Overseas Citizens of India||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre to permit Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) to participate in the 2021-22 NEET counselling for undergraduate medical courses in the general category instead of the NRI quota as had been notified by the government in March. The apex court passed the interim order while rejecting the argument of additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Centre that bracketing the OCI students with NRIs was justified as the State was within its power to make such classifications of citizens and non-citizens. The bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said: “We direct the NTA (National Testing Agency) to declare the result of the examination undergone by the petitioners in the NEET-UG 2021 and the eligible petitioners are permitted to appear for counselling in the general category.” However, the bench made it clear that the interim order was being passed only for this academic year. The court was hearing a petition filed by Dr Radhika Thapetta and other OCI candidates challenging Clause 4(ii) of a notification issued by the NTA on March 4 under which OCI and NRI students were categorised as a separate category for the purpose of admission and counselling. Though the ASG sought to argue that the constitutionality of Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, dealing with the NRIs and OCIs, had been upheld by the apex court in a number of earlier judgments, the bench felt that prima facie the impugned notification could not have been issued by the authorities without examining whether it would arbitrary or not. During the hearing, Justice Nazeer said the OCIs were people of Indian origin who were contributing huge foreign exchange reserves to the country in the form of several millions of dollars. Bhati argued that a large number of Indian citizens did not have sufficient access to the resources in their own country, while the OCIs, although not Indian citizens, were granted special privileges. Therefore, she said, the government had the right and power to determine what type of classification could be carved out between the Indian citizens and the OCIs. “Our country is known for inclusiveness. You can bring noncitizens and give them citizenship. These are people (OCIs) who are very much Indians. Maybe, they must have gone abroad. Section 9 must have been upheld a number of times… you conferred upon them these privileges and rights and subsequently to say suddenly you are withdrawing that. There is a prima facie case because such a notification can be declared as arbitrary under Article 14 (right to equality),” the bench said while rejecting the ASG’s arguments. The court posted the matter for further hearing on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Insurance claim can be denied for invalid vehicle registration: SC||An insurance claim can be denied if a vehicle does not have valid registration, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while rejecting a claim on a stolen car that had a temporary registration. A bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit said the claim of insurance could be dismissed if there was a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy. “What is important is this court’s opinion of the law, that when an insurable incident that potentially results in liability occurs, there should be no fundamental breach of the conditions contained in the contract of insurance,” said the bench that also had Justice S. Ravindra Bhat and Justice Bela M Trivedi. The observations were made during the hearing of an appeal filed by United India Insurance Co Ltd challenging an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, which dismissed the company’s revision petition that challenged the order of the Rajasthan State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Circuit Bench at Bikaner. The case involves Sushil Kumar Godara, a private contractor, who had obtained an insurance policy from the insurer for his Bolero car in Punjab though he was a resident of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. The vehicle, whose insured sum was 6.17 lakh, had a temporary registration, which expired on July 19, 2011. On July 28, 2011, Godara went to Jodhpur on business and stayed in a guesthouse at night where his vehicle was parked outside the premises. In the morning, he found that the car had been stolen. He lodged an FIR at Jodhpur alleging offences under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. However, on November 30, 2011, the police lodged a final report stating that the vehicle was untraceable. The top court noted that on the date of theft, the vehicle had been driven/used without a valid registration, amounting to a clear violation of Sections 39 and 192 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. “This results in a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy, as held by this court in Narinder Singh (supra), entitling the insurer to repudiate the policy… This court is of the opinion that the NCDRC’s order cannot be sustained,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Sidhu agress to coordination committee plan for Punjab||Navjot Singh Sidhu seems to have relented, after his muscle-flexing flopped, by agreeing to the lollypop of a coordination committee that is to ensure there is no communication gap between the Congress and its government in Punjab, sources said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has for long been relying on such committees to curb dissidence and manage differences, so the offer to Sidhu is doubtless far less than what he had asked for. Some more consolation could be on offer in the next few days but the compromise was purportedly struck only after a huge climbdown by Sidhu, who resigned as Punjab Congress chief after taking an inflexible moral high ground and triggered an ugly political spectacle that badly dented the Congress’s image. He is also learnt to have decided to withdraw his resignation. Sources said Sidhu’s aides had managed to convince him that politics could not be based on emotions and rigid personal terms. The high command remained aloof to his tantrums, not sending even general secretary Harish Rawat to Punjab to resolve the crisis. Only Rajasthan minister Harish Chowdhary was part of the negotiations. Even chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi didn’t show panic and refused to go to Patiala to meet Sidhu, who was sulking at his residence along with his aides. Channi asked Sidhu to talk and waited for his response. The first signs of Sidhu relenting came on Thursday morning when he tweeted his decision to visit the party headquarters in Chandigarh in the afternoon. Channi, along with some ministers, held discussions for over two hours and left without talking to the media probably because issues hadn’t been satisfactorily resolved despite Sidhu’s decision to withdraw the resignation. The party doesn’t want to send out an impression that Sidhu was dictating terms to the chief minister. Sidhu had objected to the appointment of advocate-general and director-general of police and any announcement at the party office to change the decisions would have established the party’s interference in governance. Amarinder Singh, who declared his intent to leave the Congress, stressed the point, arguing that he never saw any party chief interfering in official matters like this. Sources said Sidhu asserted at the meeting that he would not tolerate any tainted officer. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar highlighted the point by tweeting on Thursday: “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the Chief Minister time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of the Chief Minister and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air.” Jakhar’s blunt articulation betrays the deep sense of disquiet in the party over Sidhu’s tactics. Many leaders, including party MPs Manish Tewari and Ravneet Bittu, criticised his attitude. There is a feeling among party leaders and workers that Priyanka Gandhi’s handling of Sidhu was responsible for the embarrassment the party suffered just before the election. There were murmurs that Priyanka again played a role in persuading Sidhu to withdraw his resignation. While the majority of leaders feel Sidhu’s popularity had been dented, there is no doubt that he won’t be able to regain his political swagger and clout after resuming office. Many leaders wondered what if he threw more tantrums during the candidate selection after a few weeks. Channi, on the other hand, has enhanced his stature by demonstrating maturity and poise during this crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Will quit Congress, but won’t join BJP, says Amarinder Singh ||Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he would quit the Congress but would not join the BJP, hinting in the process that he was exploring the possibility of floating his own political outfit to hit back at his detractors. “I have not resigned from the Congress, but I will resign. I am not a person who makes split-second decisions. But I am not joining the BJP,” Amarinder told NDTV on Thursday. The former Punjab chief minister met Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday evening and national security adviser Ajit Doval on Thursday. The prolonged farmers’ protest spearheaded by Punjab farmers appears to have come in the way of Amarinder joining the BJP. The fear of incurring voter anger seemed to have constrained the veteran leader from directly joining the BJP and led him to explore other options. Amarinder stressed that the way he had been treated by the Congress, there was no way he could continue. He said “another force” could emerge in the poll-bound state. “This election will be very different with the Congress, AAP, Akaki Dal, factions of the Akali Dal, and there may be another force coming up too.… So it will be a very different election,” Amarinder said, refusing to disclose anything more. The 79-year-old leader gave out hints that he could have discussed his future political options with Shah and was still in the process of making up his mind. “Look, I don’t have much to gain. I will be turning 80 next year. But I want my state to be secure. I don’t want Pakistan’s influence due to misgovernance or non governance...,” he said, stressing that his meetings with Shah and Doval were focussed on the security of Punjab and the farmers’ agitation. Amarinder said Pakistan was using drones to push arms and drugs into Punjab and that he discussed the issue with Doval. The BJP has an unofficial retirement policy of 75 years and therefore could be eyeing to use Amarinder indirectly. Traditionally, the BJP in Punjab had appealed to the Hindus while its estranged ally Akali Dal represented the majority Sikhs. The BJP had depended on the Akalis and now with the parting of ways it could look for help from Amarinder. The former chief minister said he discussed the farmers’ agitation with Shah, stressing that it should be resolved, again claiming that the prolonged protest could endanger the security of Punjab and in turn the country. “Some solution has to be found. This (farmers’ protest) cannot continue indefinitely. I am worried that the prolonged protests could lead to internal disturbances in Punjab,” he said. BJP insiders said Amarinder was trying to take the lead in resolving the farmers’ issue so that he can gain the sympathy of the Sikh voters and in turn aid the BJP. Dwelling in detail on his “humiliation” in the Congress, he said: “At 10.30am the Congress president says you resign. I didn’t ask any questions. I said I would do it just now. I went to the governor’s house at 4pm and resigned.” “I have made my stand very clear to the Congress that I will not be treated in this manner.… When there is no trust one cannot continue,” Amarinder added. He slammed Navjot Singh Sidhu, saying he was “incapable”, and also took digs at Rahul Gandhi. “He (Rahul) wants to bring young blood in the party but refuses to listen to the advice of the older party leaders,” Amarinder said, predicting doom for the party in upcoming polls. He claimed a survey done by the Congress between July and September this year had shown that the AAP was going up and the Congress down with a decline of 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
01-10-2021||India||‘Helpless’ Chidambaram lends a hand to ‘Group of 23’||Former Union minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday made a grave allegation against the Congress leadership, suggesting that those who ask questions would be heckled and contending that “silence” was the only safe harbour. Chidambaram is the first senior leader outside the “Group of 23” dissidents who on Thursday condemned the attack on the house of Kapil Sibal who had on Wednesday raised questions about the functioning of the party. The G-23 members such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Vivek Tankha criticised the vandalism at Sibal’s house. There was no official reaction from the party. Chidambaram’s statement is significant as it vindicates Sibal’s claim that the G-23 group is much bigger. Chidambaram tweeted: “I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence.” This charge will give the BJP a legitimate excuse to question Rahul Gandhi’s pet theme that the Congress did politics with love and believed in democratic values. A veteran such as Chidambaram went so far as to express fear about raising issues. A general secretary countered him on the condition of anonymity, saying: “The problem is that questions are being raised through the media, not at party forums. There is a design to undermine the leadership of Rahul Gandhi.” Asked who attacked Sibal’s house, an office-bearer said: “They were all local sympathisers and workers of the Congress from Chandni Chowk. It must have been an emotional outburst as the media’s message was that Sibal had attacked the Gandhi family.” The anger, however, wasn’t restricted to ordinary workers. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas on Thursday tweeted: “Those who stab in the back are talking of cultured response.” Taking to Twitter, spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “For us, brave fighters of Congress, who fight in studios, on line and on streets across India, it upsets us to see senior leaders going public with their utterances. We won’t get disheartened.” One G-23 leader laughed at this lament, reminding him that he was attacking the leaders who were fighting for the Congress since Indira Gandhi’s time. The G-23 leaders strongly condemned the hooliganism and asked Sonia Gandhi to discipline the wrongdoers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
