02-10-2021||India||13th round of India-China military talks likely to be held in second week of October||The next round of high-level military talks between India and China to take forward the disengagement process in remaining friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is expected to take place next week, officials said on Saturday.  Officials said both sides have exchanged notes as part of preparations for the 13th round of military talks to push for disengagement in the remaining friction points.  Military sources said disengagement in Hot Springs and some other areas are expected to be discussed at the next round of Corps Commander-level talks.  "A clarity on the date and venue for the talks is expected in the next three-four days," said a source.  The talks are expected to take place in the second week of October, officials said.  Meanwhile, after a comprehensive review of the ground situation in the mountainous region, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, who began his two-day visit to eastern Ladakh on Friday, said Indian soldiers are fully ready in "every possible way" to deal with any eventuality in eastern Ladakh.  "I always try to go to the forward areas so that I can see for myself the situation. I am very happy that our soldiers are fully ready in every possible way," said Gen Naravane said at the end of the visit to eastern Ladakh.  In a separate development, the Army has deployed its K9-Vajra 155mm howitzer in eastern Ladakh as part of series of measures to further boost its combat capabilities.  The army chief visited several forward areas in eastern Ladakh and carried out a comprehensive review of India's operational preparedness during his visit, according to officials.  Delivering a lecture at an industry chamber on Thursday, Gen Naravane had said the "unprecedented" military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was faced with the coronavirus pandemic.  "The unprecedented developments necessitated large scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response, all this in a Covid-infested environment," he said.  The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area.  Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.  As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month.  In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement.  Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Sharad Pawar lauds Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday lauded Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development.  The two leaders from rival parties shared the dais at a function at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra.  "I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari was going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar which would solve long-pending issues of the city, and he wants me to be present," Pawar said.  Very often nothing happens once the stone-laying ceremony takes place for a project, the NCP leader said, adding, "But when it comes to Gadkari's projects, within a few days of the function one sees the work starting.  "Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country," Pawar added.  "I remember that before Gadkari took over this responsibility (of the ministry of road transport and highways), about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km," the NCP chief said.  The former Union agriculture minister advised farmers in the region that the use of sugarcane will not remain limited only to sugar production and they should think of it as the raw material for ethanol too.  In his speech, Gadkari said while executing road projects in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also de-silted local rivers and streams.  "I suggest (Maharashtra Rural Development Minister) Hasan Mushrif to think of focusing on water conservation in Ahmednagar district," he said.  Mushrif, an NCP leader who is also the guardian minister of this parched district, was present at the function.  Increasing the depth of streams and ponds helps increase the groundwater level, Gadkari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line, a game-changer for J&K||The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line in Jammu and Kashmir will be a game-changer for the Union Territory and 80 per cent of the work on the project has been completed while the rest will be completed by 2023, Union Minister Darshana Jardosh said on Saturday. The minister of state for railways is on a visit to Kashmir as part of the Centre's public outreach programme. "The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail project is very important for us as well as for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the railways. It will be a game-changer for entire Jammu and Kashmir. We will complete the work on it soon. Our endeavour is to complete it by 2023," Jardosh told reporters at the Srinagar Railway Station. Jardosh said the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail link project is the most ambitious railway project in India post-Independence and the railways is working at full capacity to meet all deadlines. She said besides providing relief to the people, the railways network is also of strategic importance from the security point of view especially in a place like Kashmir. The engineers of the railways are doing a commendable job in meeting the expectations that the people in general and security forces in particular have from it, Jardosh added. The minister said that Kashmir is a challenging terrain owing to its topography but the railways is fully equipped to meet all challenges with the latest technology and a dedicated workforce. The project is challenging as the route is mountainous. Several bridges and tunnels had to be made to complete the project, she said. The minister said she reviewed the progress of work at the ground and the work has been going at a faster pace. About 80 per cent of the work has been completed and the rest will be completed soon, she added. Jardosh said jobs have been provided to those who have a land loss of 75 per cent and above and most of the compensation cases have already been completed. She appealed to the people to keep the surroundings clean, saying there was too much plastic waste here. Jardosh said the railways is committed to take development to every corner of the country and Kashmir ranks high on the agenda of the central government. She added that the railways has an important role to play when we talk of Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). Earlier, the minister visited the Banihal Railway Station by train and took stock of operations there. She inspected the Tunnel T-80 control room and also Tunnel 144. Jardosh also inspectedthe Navyug Road Tunnel during her visit to Banihal and had a detailed interaction with officers of the National Highways Authority of India. On her return from Banihal, the minister stopped at the Qazigund Railway Station for a brief inspection. She also took part in a Swachchhta Awareness Programme at the Srinagar Railway upon her return from her visit to Banihal and Qazigund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt to make Bapu's ‘Gram Swaraj’ dream come true ||After the successfully launching the project of purchasing cow dung at Rs 2 per kg, Chhattisgarh looks all set to produce electricity from ‘dung’ collected. State Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel launched the historic power generation project today, thereby, taking a step forward towards realising Gandhiji's dream of ‘Gram Swaraj’. Speaking on the launch of the ambitious and historic project of power generation from cow dung at the farmers' conference organized at Bemetara district headquarters in Chhattisgarh, Baghel maintained that the project of producing green energy will be realised with the participation of villagers, women and youth in. He said, “The world is worried about global warming. Everyone is talking about green energy, so the government has decided to produce electricity from cow dung.” According to this project in every village of Chhattisgarh, a unit for the green-energy project will be installed in Gothan, the place where cattle are kept. Baghel said, “Cow dung procured from the farmers under the Godhan Nyay Yojana would be used to generate electricity. This will not only benefit the environment but will also benefit the women of self-help groups doing dung procurement work.” What is Godhan Nyay Yoja? Under the Suraji Gaon Yojana, Gauthans have been developed in the form of Rural Industrial Park in about 6 thousand villages of the state of Chhattisgarh and other income-oriented activities are being conducted by the women of the group. Electricity generation from cow dung is also being started from October 2 in Gauthans. For this, in the first phase, units of power generation from cow dung have been installed at Rakhi in Bemetara district, Sikola in Durg and Bancharoda in Raipur district. What technique is being use? Bio gas plants, scrubbers and gensets have been set up in Gauthans to generate electricity from cow dung. Biogas will be prepared by adding cow dung and water in the biogas tank, due to which methane gas will be available in 50 percent quantity, from which electricity will be generated by running the genset. Benefits from the project Industries will be set up in Chhattisgarh. It will directly provide employment to the youth and farmers will also get a fair price for the crop. So far more than 12 lakh quintals of vermicompost, super compost manure has been produced and sold from cow dung to Gauthan. Organic farming is being promoted. According to scientists the cost per unit of electricity generated from cow dung would range between Rs 2.50 to Rs 3. It is worth mentioning here that, the construction of 10112 Gauthans has been approved, for the purpose of conservation and promotion of livestock in the villages. As of now 6112 Gauthan are complete and operational. These Gauthans will produce electricity from cow dung, besides manufacturing organic manure, thereby doubling income of Gauthan Samitis and women self-help groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Finding solutions to India’s waste problem||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the government on Saturday launched a web portal to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to find solutions to India's waste problems. Principal Scientific Advisor Vijay Raghavan said the 'Waste to Wealth' portal aims to enable collaborations for sustainable development. “On #GandhiJayanti 2021, taking forward Swachh Bharat, Unnat Bharat mission; Office of @PrinSciAdvOff launches a @wasteto_wealth portal to enable collaborations for sustainable development through a circular economy & community participation,” Raghavan tweeted. “The @wasteto_wealth mission of #PMSTIAC aims to enable collaborations to validate decentralized scientific solutions: feasible, pragmatic, and implementable in resource/land constrained settings. Treat waste at source; a zero-waste & zero-landfill approach,” he said. In another tweet, the Ministry of Science and Technology said the portal aims to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to seek solutions to India's waste problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chief Justice appeals to govt to clear remaining names of judges' for higher judiciary ||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday pressed for early clearance of the names recommended by the collegium for appointment as judges in the higher judiciary, saying he is seeking the government's cooperation and support to facilitate equal access to justice and strengthen democracy. Justice Ramana, who has been actively recommending names for appointment of judges in the higher judiciary after assuming charge as the CJI on April 24, said the collegium has recommended 106 names for high court judges since May and clearing them would take care of pendency of cases to some extent . Speaking at an event here, the CJI referred to the assurance given by Union law minister Kiren Rijiju and said, "The government has cleared some of them (names for judgeship) and the Hon'ble Law Minister has assured that the rest of the things will come in one or two days. I thank the government for clearing these vacancies and giving quick access to justice to the people." The CJI also noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has "exposed some deep-rooted problems" in the judiciary and underscored the need to ensure equal access to justice, especially to vulnerable sections. "My companion judges and I have attempted to enable litigants to get faster justice. I want to state that, since May onwards, my team so far has recommended the appointment of 106 Judges and nine new Chief Justices to various High Courts. "The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine for chief justices, so far. I expect that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon. These appointments will take care of pendency to some extent. I seek the cooperation and support of the Government to enable access to justice and to strengthen democracy," he said. The CJI, who is also the Patron-in-chief of the National Legal Services Authority, was speaking at the launch of the six-week-long 'The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' by NALSA at Vigyan Bhavan that was inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary. "For a healthy democracy, a vibrant judiciary is essential. COVID-19 has created many problems for many institutions including the judiciary. Thousands of cases have accumulated in different fora. "Apart from large vacancies, the non-working of courts and lack of virtual conferencing facilities in rural areas, the pandemic has exposed some deep-rooted problems," the CJI said. "The constitutional guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights," the CJI said, adding that sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved without providing inclusive access to justice especially to the poor. "The framers of our Constitution were well aware of socio-economic reality and therefore, they envisaged a welfare state where no one is denied basic needs of life," he said. "In order to protect the aforesaid rights, the framers accorded us all, the equal protection and equality before law. But this guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if the vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights," he said. "Equality and access to justice complement each other and in countries with major socio-economic gaps, unequal access to justice leads to widening of these divides," he said. Speaking at the occasion, Justice UU Lalit, the senior-most judge and executive chairman of NALSA, urged senior lawyers to offer legal aid pro-bono in at least three cases per year as it would instil faith in the legal aid seekers. Referring to the concept of internship in medical colleges, he said on that line, law students can be asked to offer legal services to the poor in remote parts of the country. "I am already in touch with the Bar Council of India people and they have assured us that perhaps, I think all law colleges would be extending this kind of support," Justice Lalit said, adding that apart from helping in legal awareness programme, law colleges and students will help NALSA in reaching the goal and realising our expeditions . Justice A M Khanwilkar, who heads the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee, also spoke at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh can never be like Punjab, says CM amid change of leadership buzz||Amid speculation about a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday asserted that his state can never become Punjab, and said the two states bear only one similarity - that of having numbers in their names. The Congress has been in turmoil in Punjab after Amarinder Singh quit as the chief minister and the party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the crucial assembly elections in the state early next year. "Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two states have only one similarity that both have numbers in their names," Baghel told reporters at the helipad here when asked that the BJP has equated Chhattisgarh and Punjab over turmoil in the ruling Congress. "Punjab is land of punj (five) aab (water). It is made up of five rivers. Similarly Chhattisgarh has derived its name from 'chhattis' (thirty six) 'garh' (fort). No other states have numbers in their names. There is no other similarity between the two states," he added. The political corridor in Chhattisgarh has been rife with speculation of possible leadership change in the Congress government soon as around two dozen party MLAs, considered close to Baghel, flew to Delhi in the last three days. While the purpose of their trip is yet to become clear, some party sources said the MLAs were visiting the national capital to express solidarity with Baghel. The CM had said on Thursday that the visit by Congress MLAs to Delhi should not be seen through the prism of politics. When asked on Saturday about the MLAs' trip to Delhi, Baghel said, there is no ban on the legislators from going somewhere and they are independent. "It is not a political movement. You ask if it is a political movement. They will visit and return," he added. Health Minister T S Singh Deo, who is apparently seeking to replace Baghel, too, played down the visit by MLAs to Delhi as he had said it should not be made an issue. About the possible leadership change, Singh Deo had reiterated that the decision is reserved with the party high command. Brihaspat Singh, who is among the legislators who were in Delhi, had said on Wednesday that 15 to 16 party legislators were in Delhi to meet P L Punia ahead of Rahul Gandhi's proposed tour of the state. Singh is considered to be close to Baghel. The buzz about possible leadership change began after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed the top Congress leadership in 2018 had agreed to hand over the CM's post to him after the government completed half its term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chirag-Pashupati chaos compells EC to bar LJP symbol till matter is settled||The Election Commission on Saturday barred the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the rival groups is settled by the poll panel. The commission also said that the two factions can use free symbols available to field their candidates for the bypolls to two assembly seats in the coming days. "Both the groups shall be known by such names by as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party," the order read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Post or no post, will stand by Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi: Sidhu||Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had abruptly resigned as the Punjab Congress chief, said on Saturday he would stand with Gandhi siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whether he holds any post or not. Upset with some appointments after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took charge, Sidhu had put in his papers and, though efforts were made to placate him, it remains unclear if his resignation has been accepted. "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but Post or no post, will stand by Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi: Sidhu, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win !!," Sidhu wrote on his Twitter handle on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. The cricketer-turned-politician in his tweet also posted photos of Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri. After a bitter fight between the then chief minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu, the Congress took a call to replace Amarinder with Channi. However, Amarinder Singh vowed to defeat Sidhu if he contests the Assembly elections, dubbed Gandhi siblings as "inexperienced" and later announced that he will leave the party. After Sidhu's resignation plunged the party in a turmoil, Channi met him and it was agreed to set up a coordination panel of the party to take key decisions. Sidhu has been made part of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development, says Kovind||As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday while stressing on the need to increase the number of women in legal services institutions. Speaking at the launch of six-week-long 'The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Kovind said the legal services authority should make special efforts to help the marginalised section of society. "As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development. Therefore, increasing the number of women in legal services institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries," Kovind said. Talking about Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said that he did a lot of pro bono work to help the poor and indentured labourers looked up to him to help them in courts. He said that senior advocates should earmark a certain part of their time for pro bono services to people from weaker sections. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said NALSA has been performing an exemplary role in bringing justice delivery to the doorsteps of people. "NALSA and state legal authorities have developed a robust system of legal aid delivery and empowerment right at grassroots level that each individual can be proud of. NALSA has been playing an exemplary role in justice delivery of the system by creating legal awareness," he said. He said the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focussed on access to justice and also ease of living which is access to business. Chief Justice N V Ramana said since May this year, the Collegium has recommended more than 106 judges to High courts and 9 chief justices to various High Courts. "The government has cleared some and the Law Minister has informed me that the rest of it is going to come in one or two days' time. I thank the central government for clearing these vacancies and quick access to justice," the CJI said. The CJI said that for a healthy democracy a vibrant judiciary is essential. Speaking about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the CJI said COVID-19 has created many problems in many institutions including the judiciary where thousands of cases have accumulated in different forums, apart from large vacancies and non-working of courts and lack of virtual conferencing facilities in rural areas. Supreme Court judges Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud also spoke on the occasion. Besides them, several apex court judges, Attorney General K K Venugopal was also present among others on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Under Jal Jeevan Mission, 5 crore houses got water connection, says PM Modi||Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households have got water connection and now tap water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, asserting that today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in seven decades. Speaking after interacting with gram panchayats and pani samitis/village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Modi said the mission is not just about bringing water to people but it is also a decentralisation movement that is village and women-driven. "From the time of Independence till 2019, only three crore households in our country had access to tap water. Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households were provided with water connections," he said. "Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. That is, today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in the last seven decades," he said. In aspirational districts, piped water connections have risen from 31 lakh to over 1.16 crore, the prime minister said. Modi said it has to be ensured that the situation of bringing water to any part of the country through tankers or trains never arises. In an apparent dig at previous Congress dispensations, he said for a long time those who were responsible for policy-making lived in abundance of water. They had water at their homes and in their swimming pools, Modi said. "They had not seen poverty and it was just an attraction for them. It was just a means for them to show off knowledge. They should have strived for an ideal village but they kept liking the shortcomings in the villages," he said. The prime minister also launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the mission. He also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, where any individual, institution, corporate or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, anganwadi centre, ashramshala and other public institutions. 'Pani samitis' play a key role in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of village water supply systems, thereby providing clean tap water to every household on a regular and long-term basis. Out of over six lakh villages, pani samitis/VWSCs have been constituted in around 3.5 lakh villages. More than 7.1 lakh women have been trained to test the quality of water by using field test kits. On August 15, 2019, Modi announced the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide clean tap water to every household. To realise the prime minister's vision of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas', and following the 'bottom up' approach, the Jal Jeevan Mission is implemented in partnership with states with a budget of R 3.60 lakh crore, according to the PMO. Further, Rs 1.42 lakh crore has been allocated to panchayati raj institutions as a tied grant under 15th Finance Commission for water and sanitation in villages for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Opposition being intellectually dishonest on farm laws, says Modi||Accusing the Opposition of "intellectual dishonesty" and "political deceit" over its criticism of his government's three farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi says tough and big decisions need to be taken to bring benefits to citizens who should have received them decades ago. Stoutly defending the agri laws, Modi said it is one thing if a political party makes a promise and is unable to deliver on it but what is a "particularly undesirable" and "detestable" trait is some of these parties made promises on the lines of the reforms enacted by his government and have now done a U-turn and spread "the most malicious kind of misinformation on the promises they themselves had made". In an interview to Open magazine, he said, "The things that people of India are entitled to, those benefits that they should have received decades ago, have still not reached them. India shouldn't be put in a situation where it has to wait any longer for the things that this country and its citizens are entitled to, we should give it to them. And, for this, big decisions should be taken and if need be, tough decisions should also be taken." He was replying to a question about the labour and farm laws enacted by the government and its refusal to roll-back the three contentious agriculture laws, as demanded by the protesting farmer unions. The ruling BJP has said that several Opposition parties, including the Congress, had promised similar farm reforms that the Modi government has enacted but are now backing protests against the new laws for selfish political reasons. A section of farmers, especially in Punjab and part of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the laws, whose implementation have been put on hold. The prime minister noted that his government has been saying right from the beginning that it is ready to sit together with the protesting farm bodies and discuss on those issues on which there is a disagreement. "Many meetings have also been held in this regard but no one till now has come up with a specific point of disagreement that we want this to be changed," he said. Modi said politics in India had seen only one model, which governments were run to build the next government too, while his fundamental thinking is different as he believes in running the government to build the nation. "The tradition has been to run the government to make your party win but my purpose is to run the government in a way to make our country win," he said. Referring to his government's measures like cooking gas cylinder distribution and building toilets for the poor or push to digital payments, he said many sections of India's political class view people through the lens of "Raj Shakti" (government's power) while he sees them as "Jan Shakti" (people's power). The prime minister also asserted that India has done better than many developed countries. In an apparent attack on those who have criticised his government's handling of the Covid pandemic, he said, "However, we have in our midst vested interests whose only aim is to tarnish India's name. Covid was a global scourge with all countries equally affected. In this scenario, India has done better than its peers and many developed countries, notwithstanding such negative campaigns." The biggest lesson from the Covid fight has been that India has an unparalleled ability to unite, find a common purpose, come together, and a tremendous capacity to deliver when a need arises, he said. From being a net importer of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, India has now become one of the biggest manufacturers across the globe, he said. "Imagine if our country had not come up with a vaccine. What would be the situation? We know that a large population of the world doesn't have access to Covid vaccines. Today, our success in vaccination is thanks to India being Atmanirbhar (self-reliant)," he said. On the farm laws, he said his government is committed to empowering the small farmers in every way. Slamming rivals, he said, "If you look at those who are Opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, you will see the real meaning of intellectual dishonesty and 'rajneetik dhokhadhadi' (political deceit). These were the same people who wrote letters to chief ministers asking them to do the exact same thing that our government has done. These were the same people who wrote in their manifesto that they would enact the same reforms that we have brought." "Yet, just because some other political party, blessed by the will of the people, is enacting the same reforms, they have made a complete U-turn and in a brazen display of intellectual dishonesty, completely disregard what will benefit the farmers and only seek what they think will benefit them politically." Modi also said that he attaches a big importance to criticism as it is his conviction that this helps in his own healthy development. "I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations, the people who play games about perception are more in number. And, the reason for this is that, for criticism, one has to do a lot of hardwork, research and, in today's fast-paced world, maybe people don't have time. So sometimes, I miss critics," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Pakistan in talk with banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan for reconciliation, says Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said his government is in talks with some groups of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) for "reconciliation" with the help of the Taliban in Afghanistan. The TTP, commonly known as Pakistani Taliban, is a banned militant group based along the Afghan-Pakistan border. It has carried out a number of major terror attacks across Pakistan and reportedly been using Afghan soil to plot terrorist attacks in this country. There were reports that the Afghan Taliban had set free some dreaded TTP militants, including its leading commander Maulvi Faqir Mohammad, after taking over the war-torn country in August. In an interview to Turkish government-owned TRT World news channel, Khan said there are different groups which form the TTP and some of them want to talk to the Pakistan government for peace, the Dawn News reported on Friday. "So, we are in talks with them. It's a reconciliation process," the prime minister said. When asked if the government was asking the militants to lay down arms, Khan said, "Yes, we forgive them and they become normal citizens." To a question on why the TTP was conducting attacks on Pakistan's security forces when they were in talks with the government, he said it was just a "spate of attacks". "We might not reach some sort of conclusion or settlement in the end but we are talking," Khan added. Responding to another query on whether the Afghan Taliban were acting as mediators between the TTP and Pakistan, the premier said: "Since the talks were taking place in Afghanistan, so in that sense, yes." The Taliban swept across Afghanistan in August, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul. The Taliban have put in place a hardline interim 33-member Cabinet that has no women and includes UN-designated terrorists. The Taliban last ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. Earlier in September, President Arif Alvi had suggested that the Pakistani government could consider giving an amnesty to those members of the TTP who had not remained involved in "criminal activities" and who laid down their weapons and agreed to adhere to the Pakistani Constitution. Such an amnesty could be one of the ways to "establish peace", the president had said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Rahul relates farmers' protest to Satyagrah on Gandhi Jayanti||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Mahatma Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and posted the quote, "Vijay ke liye kewal ek satyagrahi hi kaafi hai (Only one 'satyagrahi' is enough for victory)", in a swipe at the government over the farmers' protest. He also used the hashtag farmers protest and posted a video collage with glimpses from the farmers' protest and Mahatma Gandhi's satyagraha for independence. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi with a reference to the farm laws. "The flag of Bapu's ideas of truth, non-violence and justice is still flying high in the farmers' 'satyagraha' against the black farm laws, in the fight for justice for the tribals of Sonbhadra and for the Dalit girl of Hathras, and in the rising voices for the ideology of love against the ideology of hatred," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri and recalled his 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan. "Farmers and soldiers are the pride of India and hailing them reflects the sentiments of crores of Indians. This sentiment of crores of Indians was conveyed in the 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan of former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri given at a rally in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri in a tweet and said, "Jai Jawaan Jai Kisaan tha, hai aur rahega." "Shastri ji's simplicity and determination are a source of inspiration even today. Salute to this son of Congress!" he tweeted. In a tweet, the Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said, "We pay tribute to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. As a guiding light, his ideals guide us to work for the nation and its people, following the path of peace and non-violence." In its tribute to Shastri, the Congress said he was an active participant in the freedom struggle against the British and contributed to nation-building until his last breath. Several senior Congress leaders, including Congress' chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||UIDAI seeks to open 166 centres for Aadhar-related activities||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has plans to open 166 standalone Aadhaar enrolment and update centres across the country, an official statement said on Saturday. At present, 55 Aadhaar Seva Kendras (ASKs) out of the 166 planned centres are operational in addition to about 52,000 Aadhaar enrolment centres run by banks, post offices and state governments. "UIDAI plans to open 166 stand-alone Aadhaar Enrolment and Update Centres in 122 cities across the country," the statement said. The ASKs are open on all days of the week and have so far catered to over 70 lakh residents including Divyang persons. The operational centres have a capacity to handle up to 1,000 enrolments and update requests per day for Model-A ASKs, upto 500 enrolments and update requests per day for Model B ASKs and up to 250 enrolments and update requests per day for Model C ASKs. As on date, over 130.9 crore Aadhaar numbers have been generated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||India records 24,354 new Covid-19 cases, 234 deaths||India logged 24,354 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,37,91,061, while the active cases declined to 2,73,889, lowest in 197 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,573 with 234 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.81 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. India's total number of active cases at 2,73,889, which is the lowest in 197 days. A decrease of 1,335 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.70 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 99 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,68,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89.74 crore. The 234 new fatalities include 95 from Kerala and 50 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,117 from Maharashtra, 37,807 from Karnataka, 35,603 from Tamil Nadu, 25,182 from Kerala, 25,087 from Delhi, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,806 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri on birth anniversaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, saying his life and ideas will inspire every generation to walk the path of their duties. "I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions," he added. The prime minister visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. He paid homage to Shastri on his 117th birth anniversary. His life based on values and principles will always be a source of inspiration for all citizens, Modi tweeted.  An interfaith prayer meeting was held at Raj Ghat, where Mahtma Gandhi's favourite devotional songs were rendered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||How Hindu Hriday Samrat stacks up against Vaishnava Jana To ideals||Tweets will be posted, tributes paid and visits to Raj Ghat made today (October 2) to celebrate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. One of the favourite bhajans of the Mahatma was Vaishnava Jana To..,. which defines an ideal follower of Mahavishnu. How does the Prime Minister, the so-called Hindu Hriday Samrat of modern times, stack up against the ideals the timeless Gujarati poem lists? A translation of the bhajan and some real-life instances follow Call those people Vaishnav who feel the pain of others Help those who are in misery But never let self-conceit enter their mind They respect the entire world Do not disparage anyone Keep their words, actions and thoughts pure The mother of such a soul is blessed They see all equally, renounce craving Respect other women as their own mother Their tongue never utters false words Their hands never touch the wealth of others They do not succumb to worldly attachments They are firmly detached from the mundane They are enticed by the name of Ram All places of pilgrimage are embodied in them They have forsaken greed and deceit They stay afar from desire and anger Narsi says: I’d be grateful to meet such a soul/ Whose virtue liberates their entire lineage||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||UK flyers to undergo three RT-PCR tests and 10-day quarantine||UK nationals arriving in India will now need to take three RT-PCR tests, two of them on entering the country, and undergo 10 days’ home quarantine in a tit-for-tat measure. The new regulations for incoming UK nationals are almost identical to Britain’s new quarantine and testing requirements for fully vaccinated travellers from India and, sources said, will come into effect from October 4. The sources said this was being done only because the British regulations discriminated against the Indian vaccination certificate. There was no official announcement of the decision till Friday evening, and it was not clear whether it had been communicated through diplomatic channels to London. The absence of an official announcement indicates that efforts are on to resolve the issue before Monday. The British high commission, in a late night statement, seemed to confirm this. “The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” a high commission spokesperson said. “The UK is open to travel and we’re already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students. Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30 per cent as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible.” Under the new regulations, all arriving UK nationals will, irrespective of their vaccination status, have to take a pre-departure RT-PCR test within 72 hours before travel, the same test on arrival at the airport, and a third test on the eighth day after arrival. They must also undergo mandatory home quarantine for 10 days. Currently, all passengers arriving from the UK have to undergo one RT-PCR test in Britain and one on arrival in India. The states now have their own home quarantine requirements of varying durations, but mostly up to 14 days. Under the new regulations, the UK nationals must undergo at least 10 days’ quarantine — and longer if the state concerned so requires. On September 22, Britain had updated its travel policy (effective from October 4) to include AstraZeneca Covishield — the most used vaccine in India — among the approved vaccines for entering the country. But the British high commission here said travellers from India would have to home-quarantine and undertake the prescribed tests as vaccine certification in India remained an unresolved issue. The UK is insisting on a Covid test three days before travel, and book-and-pay for Day 2 and Day 8 Covid tests after arrival in England, along with 10 days’ home quarantine. This is regardless of the incoming Indian national’s vaccination status. It is not mandatory to be vaccinated to travel to the UK, and the British authorities have included a “test to release” option under which the home quarantine requirement can be shortened to around five days. Although the UK mission did not spell it out, the main concern about India’s vaccination certificates is the possibility of forgeries, particularly given the volume of traffic into the UK from India. On the face of it, the Indian vaccination certificate issued through the health ministry-run Co-WIN website meets all the requirements spelt out by Britain’s department for transport and department of health and social care. India is yet to open fully for travel from overseas, with all regularly scheduled international flights remaining suspended. Under a bilateral agreement between the UK and Indian governments, a limited number of flights between India and the UK operate. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday announced that the Therapeutic Goods Administration — the medicine and therapeutic regulatory agency of the Australian government — had advised that Covishield produced by AstraZeneca/ Serum Institute of India should be considered “recognised vaccine” for incoming international travellers. It’s not clear, however, when this decision will begin to benefit Indian nationals travelling to Australia as the country is still closed for incoming overseas traffic. Australia’s current plans are to open the country for Australian nationals and permanent residents in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||SC: 10-month-old farmers' protest 'strangulated' Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday said the 10-month-old farmer protests on Delhi’s borders had “strangulated” the city, a day after another bench had expressed concern at the continuing blockade of highways leading to the capital. Friday’s remark came on a joint petition from the Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ organisation, and its president Ram Pal Jat challenging Delhi police’s refusal to allow them to agitate peacefully on the designated protest site of Jantar Mantar Road. “On one hand you’ve strangulated the entire city and now you want to come inside and protest?” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, who headed the two-judge bench that included Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar, asked the petitioners’ counsel Ajay Chaudhary. When Chaudhary said his client was not part of the protests on Delhi’s borders, the bench directed the Kisan Mahapanchayat to state this in an affidavit. The protests on Delhi’s borders, which began on November 26 last year, are being spearheaded by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of over 40 farmer bodies. Many farmers’ organisations are against any judicial settlement and want the Centre to repeal the three new farm laws, which they say would leave them to be exploited by big companies. On Thursday, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh had told the Centre: “Redress can be through a judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates, but how can highways be blocked perpetually? Where is the end?” The bench made the oral observation on a Noida resident’s plea seeking removal of the roadblocks, and asked the Centre to implead the various associations of the agitating farmers. On Friday, the bench of Justices Khanwilkar and Ravi Kumar wondered why farmers should continue agitating after having approached the apex court challenging the three laws’ constitutionality. “There is no purpose of protest once you approach the court. There is no purpose to approach the court when you want to protest,” the bench said. The bench said: “If you approach the court, you will have to trust the court. Why don’t you approach the (Delhi) high court?” It added: “You have a right to protest, but you cannot destroy property. This business should stop. You are also heckling the security and defence personnel. This business has to stop.” Chaudhary said the highways had been blocked by the police, who had detained farmers. The petitioners have argued that the police’s refusal to let them hold “peaceful, unarmed and non-violent satyagrah” at Jantar Mantar violates “Article 14 (equality), 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty)”. The court directed Chaudhary to serve copies of the joint petition to the attorney-general and the Centre, and posted the next hearing to Monday. Earlier, a bench of Justices Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy had directed the Centre and the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to ensure the farmers’ highway sit-ins did not inconvenience ordinary travellers. In January, a bench headed by then Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had stayed the three controversial farm laws and set up a four-member committee, ostensibly to broker peace between the Centre and the agitating farmers. That order came on a clutch of petitions filed by farmers, other individuals and NGOs challenging the three laws’ constitutionality. But the farmers refused to interact with the committee, saying some of its members were part of the pro-legislation lobby. The panel members were Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist; Pramod Kumar Joshi, former South Asia director of the International Food Policy Research Institute; Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana; and Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairperson of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||The language back-lash: Kannada ridicule on PM's 'Tika Utsav'||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in April the launch of the “Tika Utsav”, chances are that the wicked in Karnataka must have chortled, the prim-and-proper souls cringed, and some others looked away poker-faced to hide their embarrassment. For Modi and Hindi-speaking citizens, “tika” has come to mean vaccination, especially the Covid doses. In Kannada, the word means “posterior”. The BJP government in Karnataka sat on its haunches all these months, grinning and bearing the titters and worse. But last month, the resolve dissolved and the Covid vaccination drive was named Lasika Utsava. “Lasika” in Kannada means inoculation. No reason was ascribed to the name change. But sources have now confirmed that the state government had received ample feedback that “Tika Utsav” was fast becoming the butt of ridicule in Karnataka. For many, the episode is no laughing matter but a telling pointer to the insensitivity with which the Centre has been pursuing its language policy. There is nothing wrong in using “tika” in Hindi-speaking regions and in Hindi correspondence but the word is replicated in the English message to the nation that still features on the official website, PMIndia. Neither does the language disconnect end with the Covid vaccination campaign. Tithi Bhojan, the name of a sub-scheme of the school midday meal programme, now renamed PM Poshan, has enraged writers and activists in Karnataka who see it as a mark of insensitivity and another attempt to impose Hindi. “Tithi” in Kannada mostly signifies the oblations offered to the dead, with its literal meaning being “date”. “Tithi Bhojan” would signify a shradh meal in Kannada. “Just think how schoolchildren in Karnataka would henceforth be having tithi oota (‘oota’ meaning ‘meal’ in Kannada) at school. Nothing can be more insensitive than coining these names without crosschecking with states,” Kannada writer and filmmaker T.K. Dayanand told The Telegraph on Friday. The central scheme Tithi Bhojan, which encourages community participation in providing meals to children on any specific day, seems to have relied on the Hindi connotation of “tithi”, which often signifies a happy or auspicious occasion such as an anniversary or the celebration of success. Dayanand feels that the names are part of the NDA government’s “drive to impose Hindi” and to give “undue credit” to the Prime Minister for every social scheme in the country. “In their overzealousness to brazenly impose Hindi, the Union government is not even bothered to double-check what these words mean in the different states,” said Dayanand, who had in 2016 rejected the Karnataka Sahitya Academy award to protest the rising intolerance in the country. Author and Dalit activist Mahesh Chandra Guru slammed the Centre for “insulting the sentiments of Kannadigas”. “By imposing these Hindi words on projects rolled out across the country, the NDA government has insulted the sentiments of Kannadigas. Visualise the scene when a parent asks a child whether she or he had ‘tithi oota’ in school knowing full well what it means,” he told this newspaper. “India is a pluralistic country which demands communication campaigns in all state languages. But this government is working against the spirit of federalism and pluralism and thus violating the constitutional provisions.” Dinesh Kumar of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, an organisation that has been fighting against the imposition of Hindi, said this was an example of how the NDA government treated non-Hindi-speaking states. “This is the ‘Hindi-only’ agenda of Nagpur (the RSS headquarters). While the Congress also did this to a certain extent, the BJP has been aggressively pursuing the imposition of Hindi without a thought for the linguistic and cultural interests of the states,” Kumar said. “This deserves condemnation from all right-thinking people since the BJP is using taxpayers’ money to further homogenisation at the cost of diversity and pluralism.” Some social media users have commented on the issue. “Thanks to Hindi imposition… Karnataka students will have tithi oota from now on… First it was Tika Utsav and now it’s tithi oota,” tweeted Abhishek C. Raveendra. “From Tika Utsav to Tithi Bhojan. How the eagerness to label or relabel programmes can have hilarious consequences in local terms! In Kannada language Tithi Bhojan is (the) same as shradh meal,” Ananda Gundurao weighed in. “I don’t understand the intention of renaming existing schemes. I’m sure the people of Karnataka will be embarrassed if their children are welcomed with tithi bhojan on festival days,” Subbu Iyer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Durga Puja night curb in Odisha||The Odisha government has decided to enforce night curfew in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack from 8pm to 5am from October 11 to 20 during Durga Puja in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19. In other areas, it will remain in force from 10pm to 5am. Durga Puja is one of the biggest festivals in Cuttack and around 145 pandals are built every year. The state government had earlier communicated to the organisers to celebrate Durga Puja in a low-key manner and restricted the height of idols to a maximum of four feet. Durga Puja begins on October 11 and will end on October 15. It will be followed by Lakshmi Puja. “Though the number of Covid cases has come down, we have to be cautious in our approach. Our prime objective is to ensure the safety of the public and it can be achieved through preventing large gatherings during festivals. We have also prohibited the sale and use of fire crackers during the festival this month with an aim to curb the spread of the pandemic,” said special relief commissioner P.K. Jena. According to the special relief commissioner’s order, all social, religious, political and cultural gatherings are prohibited. Till the midnight of September 29, 1,99,68,786 samples were tested in the state and the number of positive Covid-19 cases stands at 10,27,476. A total of 10,12,583 patients have recovered and have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 5,642 while the number of deaths so far is 8,198.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||SC issues notice to Centre on vaccine denial over Aadhaar||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Centre and the UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India) on a plea alleging that Covid-19 vaccination is being denied to several citizens for non-production of Aadhaar cards. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna initially refused to entertain the petition saying that the official vaccination portal CoWIN does carry more than half a dozen alternative identity proofs like driving licence and passport, among others. However, petitioner Siddharthshankar Sharma through advocate Mayan Kshirsagar brought to the court’s notice his own experience of being denied vaccine at the Shashwat Hospital in Kothrud, Pune, in May this year for non-production of an Aadhaar card. The counsel for the petitioner argued that although on paper the CoWIN application says that besides Aadhaar several other ID proofs would be valid for vaccination, when it comes to actual vaccination beneficiaries are being forced to produce only Aadhaar cards. “Such actions are a blatant violation of right to life under Article 21 read with right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution,” the petitioner said. According to the petition, the CoWIN portal also says that the following identity proofs — Aadhaar card, passport, PAN card, driving licence, voter ID, NPR smart card and pension document with photograph — will be valid for verification and registration. It says that even according to government rules  only the photo ID, which was used for the registration, is required to be produced at the time of vaccination. Once registered and upon booking the slot on the app, a receipt/document is generated capturing all the details of the individual and the vaccination centre with the unique code being sent to the phone number of the individual through SMS as well as the said application which can be downloaded too, the petition said. According to the petitioner, he had submitted his passport details on the CoWIN portal, but when he went for vaccination, he was denied the jab on the ground of non-production of Aadhaar card. “Without the Aadhaar details, the vaccination centre authorities were rendered incapacitated by the CoWIN portal to verify the registered individuals for administering vaccine upon him. In view of the same the petitioner was denied his scheduled 1st dose of vaccination. “The police authorities were approached for appropriate action, however, to no avail. In fact one of the lady police officers further informed that even her mother-in-law was denied the vaccination for non-production of her Aadhaar details,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India|| CAs will now be able to pursue PhD and apply for teaching jobs||All those who have done courses in chartered accountancy, company secretaryship and cost and works accountancy will now be able to pursue PhD degrees and apply for teaching jobs in colleges. The University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, has approved a proposal in this regard, fulfilling a demand from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) that functions under the ministry of corporate affairs. The UGC took the decision in February and ratified it in July. The minutes of a commission meeting on July 26 says CAs, CSs and ICWAs can appear in the National Eligibility Test (NET) or the State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) through which assistant professors, the entry-level post, are recruited in colleges. However, such students will need to have an undergraduate degree too. Now, many students get admitted to the four-year CA, CS and ICWA courses directly after clearing Class XII while many others come after completing under-graduation. ICAI president Nihar Jambusaria said the decision would help the thousands of students who undertake CA, CS or ICWA courses every year to pursue higher studies. “Earlier, those with CA, CS or ICWA qualifications were not able to register for PhD (in most cases) since they did not have a master’s degree. Now these qualifications will be treated as equivalent to a postgraduate degree. They will be able to pursue PhD and also take up teaching jobs in colleges,” Jambusaria said. He, however, pointed out that the requirement of 55 per cent marks in post-graduation to appear for NET or SLET would still be a hurdle for CAs, CSs and ICWAs as these were low-scoring courses. “The pass mark in these courses is 50 per cent. Insisting on 55 per cent marks in PG courses for appearing in NET or SLET will be a hurdle. We will propose to the UGC to allow all those clearing CA, CS or ICWA courses to take NET and SLET,” he said. Former ICAI president Atul Gupta said nearly 30,000 students complete these three courses every year and many of them face problems while trying to pursue higher education abroad. “When they try to pursue any course abroad, they face difficulties in convincing the institutions about their CA, CS or ICWA qualifications. It was not clear whether those who undertake these courses would be considered degree or diploma holders. Now there is clarity,” he said. Students with Class XII certificates are eligible to pursue these courses. Academics pointed out that it was only fair that the four-year duration of these courses would make them the equivalent of postgraduate courses. The Association of Indian Universities (AIU), which grants equivalence to certificates obtained from foreign institutions to their corresponding Indian degrees, has in the past granted equivalence to the CA course with MCom in individual cases. Also, 106 universities recognise CA, CS and ICWA qualifications as the equivalent of MCom, thus allowing certificate holders of these three courses to pursue PhD and then apply for teaching jobs in colleges. Now, all 1,000 universities of the country will recognise and accept these certificate holders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||LAC: Army chief reviews security & operational readiness in Ladakh ||Army chief General M.M. Naravane arrived in Ladakh on Friday on a two-day visit to review security and operational readiness along the Line of Actual Control amid the border standoff with China since May last year. An army statement said Gen. Naravane would review operational preparedness and interact with the troops deployed in harsh terrain along the China frontier. “The army chief will be given a detailed briefing about the ground situation at the multiple friction points in Ladakh,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. General Naravane had on Thursday said the incidents with China along the unmarked border would continue until the two countries found a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement. China’s army is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory since May last year. So far, there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. But the border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. An army official said a Chinese pullback from the LAC would be the first step towards restoring peace, but added that Beijing was showing no inclination to do that. Since last winter, the Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC. Never before have such huge numbers of additional soldiers been posted in the forward areas of the LAC, at altitudes of 12,000-14,000ft where temperatures can dip to minus 40°C when the winter peaks. The Indian deployment — backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the air force’s combat aircrafts — is an effort to match the massive Chinese build-up along the LAC. Asked about the situation along the LAC in Ladakh, a defence ministry official said: “It’s the same as last year. There is no change in the status quo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Delhi University cut-off at 100%||Principals of colleges here have kept the cut-offs at 100 per cent on Friday said the perfect score was a precautionary measure to avoid over-admissions. Delhi University on Friday announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admissions with prominent colleges pegging the cut-offs at 100 per cent for various courses. Apart from Shri Ram College for Commerce, which had pegged the cut-off for BCom (Hons) at 100 per cent in 2011, probably no college  had ever kept a perfect score for admissions. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said one had to take precautions to avoid over-admissions. “There are 10,000 applicants who have 100 per cent scores. Assuming that 2,000 of them apply to our college, we have sought 100 per cent for admission to political science (Hons),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Strife-torn Congress anxiously waits for significant desertions ||The strife-torn Congress is anxiously waiting for significant desertions in the coming months, as the loyalists don’t accept that the dissidents have the potential to split the party. While there are few in the party among the younger lot who advocate reconciliation and compromise, even the veterans who wanted unity appear to have given up. “We have always seen factionalism in the Congress but this permanent grouping called G-23 is a bad omen. Looks like we have reached a point of no return,” a former AICC general secretary told The Telegraph. The dissidents, known as the group of 23 or G-23, admit there has been no effort at reconciliation and allege absence of democracy in the party. “Does Modi tolerate questions? Those who are in control don’t like being questioned, no matter how valid the questions are,” one of them said, appearing to equate their party leadership with Narendra Modi. The majority opinion in the Congress is that the central leadership should deal firmly with the dissidents. This is driven primarily by two reasons, the belief that those who raise questions publicly are directly or indirectly helping the BJP and that the exit of the entrenched forces will create space for new leaders to rise. The silence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is an indication that the G-23 muscle-flexing is not being appreciated. Some key functionaries, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, demolished the G-23 allegation of lack of democracy in the Congress. One of them said: “Amarinder Singh calls Rahul Gandhi immature and accuses Sonia Gandhi of humiliating him because he was not allowed to be the chief minister forever. Let him now question Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and comment on the RSS ideological positions, which he had attacked all his life. Then he will understand the meaning of democracy. These leaders have attacked the leadership for one year now. How many days can a G-23 or G-25 can survive in any other party of the country?” Party general secretary Tariq Anwar told this newspaper: “When did they realise the party should have only elected bodies? Some of them have been in key positions in the Congress much before Sonia Gandhi entered politics. Why were Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal silent when they were nominated or appointed? And if the party is weak today, is Rahul Gandhi responsible? Who was running the show for the last 40 years?” Anwar put out two harsh tweets too, saying: “When the party is in power, they will hail you in the morning, hail you in the night. Pure Jee Huzuri (sycophancy). And when the party is in Opposition, start questioning the leadership. What kind of politics is this?” This was in response to Sibal’s barb that we are “G-23, not G-Huzur 23”. In another tweet, Anwar said: “Some people’s character is surprising. Can a man change so dramatically because of vested interest? Those who enjoyed power most because of the blessings of the leadership are today challenging the leaders. It seems they are accustomed to being in power, they can’t enjoy struggle.” One more important functionary remarked: “Time to purge, not debate.” Another general secretary Harish Rawat, who is in-charge of Punjab, countered Amarinder’s charge that he was humiliated, arguing that he was given the highest respect and authority for decades. Rawat alleged that Amarinder was under some pressure, a charge denied by the former chief minister whose meeting with Shah and national security adviser Ajit Doval has triggered much speculation. Ordinary Congress workers, who are far away from the power orbit, also want dissidents to be crushed with an iron hand. Naresh Kumar, an AICC member from Delhi, said: “Everybody accepts the party needs a full-fledged president. But right now it is about saving the country and the party. Not about individuals. We see the sad spectacle of Amarinder Singh hobnobbing with the BJP and our senior leaders are attacking the party. Are they pouring oil into the fire? We know these seasoned leaders understand politics and that’s why they carefully chose the timing.” Another leader said: “No worker anywhere in the country is supportive of the G-23 even as they have raised some valid questions. Because they are all motivated by personal ambitions. Somebody wanted another Rajya Sabha term, somebody wanted greater role… and they are hurting the party at this critical juncture. You can imagine their concern for the Congress — their partner Jitin Prasada is a BJP minister under Yogi Adityanath!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||J&K: PCI sets up committee to address journalist complaints ||The Press Council of India has set up a three-member committee to look into the rising complaints of intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir at the hands of the establishment. The decision came after former chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti wrote to the PCI and the Editors Guild of India asking them to take note of the alleged harassment of journalists in Kashmir. “The Hon’ble Chairman, Press Council of India while taking suo motu cognisance on the communication of Ms Mehbooba Mufti, President, PDP, concerning intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir, has constituted a three-member fact-finding committee,” reads the PCI order. “The authorities in Jammu and Kashmir are requested to extend full cooperation and assistance to this fact-finding committee for the discharge of its function,” it added. The members of the committee are Prakash Dubey, convener and group editor of Dainik Bhaskar, Gurbir Singh, journalist at New Indian Express, and Suman Gupta, editor of Jan Morcha. The committee has been asked to conduct a thorough probe and hold discussions with the authorities concerned and the affected journalists. On Monday, Mehbooba wrote to the two bodies about the police raids at the homes of four journalists on September 8 and alleged that their mobile phones, laptops, ATM cards and the passports of their spouses were illegally seized. The police said the four journalists — Hilal Mir, Showkat Motta, Mohammad Shah Abbass and Azhar Qadri — who had worked for local, national and international media organisations were being questioned about a blog called Kashmir Fight. The police claim the blog is run from Pakistan. The journalists have denied any wrongdoing. Along with her letter, Mehbooba had attached a copy of a questionnaire served to the journalists, complaining that the questions were not only irrelevant but also based on the assumption that the loyalty of journalists concerned lies with “anti-national networks”. The questions on the list seek information about the journalists’ political allegiance as well as their relatives in Pakistan. The list also contains questions on whether the journalists are affiliated with any non-governmental organisations and socio-religious bodies and seek details about the properties they own. “Unfortunately, this is a diabolical method to perpetuate the communal mindset throughout the country in order to gain political mileage and relevance by demeaning and marginalising an entire community,” Mehbooba wrote. A journalist working for a local newspaper said the PCI decision was welcome, particularly the presence of “credible journalists in the committee, but said it needed to look at the situation dispassionately and not through the narrow prism of nationalism”. “The fact of the matter is that the state does not trust local journalists. The government has withheld accreditation cards for this year, which is otherwise a routine affair and makes our movement easy. We are told these cards would be issued to only pliant journalists,” a journalist said. Another journalist said the PCI did not have a great reputation in Kashmir, pointing to the clean chit it gave to the army in 1991 mass rapes in Kunan Poshpora. The council was invited by the army to investigate the incident but it had backed the army’s version.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
