03-10-2021||India||Cruise ship raid: NCB arrests Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, two others ||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in connection with the seizure of banned drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and booked them under the NDPS Act. Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were produced before a metropolitan magistrate's court for remand later in the day. Aryan Khan has been booked under sections 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance), 8C (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs) and other relevant provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). Advocate Satish Maneshinde would be representing Aryan Khan in court. He and seven others were detained late Saturday night by NCB sleuths after they raided the cruise ship on its way from Mumbai to Goa. As per the arrest memo of the NCB, 13 grams of cocaine, five gram of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh was seized after the raid. Based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening and recovered drugs from some of the passengers, an NCB official said. "During the operation, the suspects were searched and different drugs were recovered from them, which they had hidden in their clothes, undergarments and purses (by women)," the NCB official said. Early this morning, the NCB questioned the detainees at its office here, he said. Apart from Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha, and Arbaz Merchant, others are identified as Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, and Gomit Chopra, the NCB had said. Meanwhile, the cruise company in a statement on Sunday said it had nothing to do with this incident. "Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company, Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement. It said Cordelia Cruises is extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
03-10-2021||India||Violence during protest against UP’s Deputy CM||Violence broke out after two SUVs allegedly ran over over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road here on Sunday. Unconfirmed reports said that a number of farmers were seriously injured in the incident. Angry protesters allegedly forced the two vehicles to stop and set them on fire. They also allegedly thrashed some passengers. The farmers had assembled there to oppose Maurya's visit to Banbirpur, the native village of Union minister of state for Home Khiri MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. Several journalists were also reported to have sustained injuries in the incident. Meanwhile, in view of the violence, Deputy Chief Minister Maurya's visit to Banbirpur village has been cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
03-10-2021||India||Paddy procurement starts in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday launched the paddy procurement across the state from a grain market here. The development came a day after the Centre allowed the paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana from October 3. The Centre's earlier decision to postpone the procurement till October 11 due to heavy rains recently had sparked protests by farmers in the two states. While interacting with farmers, commission agents and labourers at the grain market here, the Punjab chief minister said all the necessary arrangements for a smooth, prompt and seamless procurement and the lifting and storage of paddy have been made, an official statement said. Reiterating his government's commitment, Channi said every single grain of the farmers' produce would be lifted from the market and strict adherence to the prescribed norms of timely payment to the farmers would be ensured. He also urged farmers to bring their produce within specifications of moisture content laid by the government of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Battle for UP: BJP adopts multi-pronged strategy to woo OBCs & SCs||Gearing up for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year, the BJP has adopted a multi-pronged strategy of wooing OBCs and SCs by holding caste-specific rallies and forming teams of party workers to reach out to voters on all minority-dominated booths, party leaders said on Sunday. Keeping in mind the caste dynamics of the politically crucial state as it is the largest in terms of Lok Sabha seats, the BJP's central leadership has already announced a team of poll-incharges comprising leaders from all castes led by experienced poll manager Dharmendra Pradhan, who himself hails from the OBC category. The BJP plans to hold a three-phase outreach programme among various castes of OBCs, the party's state OBC unit head Narendra Kumar Kashyap told PTI. "In the first phase, the party will hold 20 'Samajik Samelans' (social seminars) of various sub-categories within OBCs which will be addressed by several leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union ministers Pradhan and Bhupender Yadav," Kashyap said. These programmes will be of different castes such as Kashyap, Rajbhar, Pal, Prajapati, Jogi, Teli, Yadav, Gujjar, Saini, Chaurasia and Kurmi, he said, adding that a 'sammelan' of Jaats will also be organised. Jaats, who are mainly farmers do not come under the OBC category in UP. The BJP is trying to win back this crucial votebank which has a significant presence in western Uttar Pradesh, the epicentre of farmers' protest in the state. It will be followed by an outreach programme under which BJP workers will meet prominent OBC personalities and caste leaders and will update them about the developmental work done by the party, Kashyap said. "In the last phase, the party will organise 202 OBC rallies, a rally each in two assembly constituencies. These rallies again will be of one sub-caste and they will be addressed mainly by the party leader from that caste," Kashyap said. Similarly, the party's SC morcha is also exploring the idea of holding 'Ansuchit Jati Sammelans' (seminars of Schedule Castes) in 75 districts across the state, sources in the party said. The party's state unit will also hold a special facilitation ceremony for newly appointed BJP vice-president Baby Rani Maurya across several places in the state. Rani Maurya, who hails from Agra, recently resigned as Uttarakhand governor. She belongs to the Jatav community and is expected to contest upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Similarly, in its bid to secure minority votes, the BJP's Minority Morcha unit of UP has plans to build a team of workers on Muslim booths across the state. "The minority morcha is in the process of building 21-member teams of its booth workers on all minority-dominated booths and is aiming for 20 per cent of the Muslim votes," BJP's minority cell UP unit head Kunwar Basit Ali told PTI. Ali said even if each booth worker is able to manage 10 votes, the party will be able to reach its target of 20 per cent minority votes. He said the party's workers will be stationed in all localities with Muslim-dominated booths at designated places on the day of polling. When contacted, BJP's state vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said the party is in election mode and all its frontal organisations have been instructed to reach out to people and spread word about the developmental work done by both governments at the Centre and in the state. The BJP has outdone its rivals in three consecutive polls -- the 2014 general elections, 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Politically observers are of the opinion that the party has carved a place for itself and it holds sway over non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits. These two sub-castes are traditionally the supporters of SP and BSP, respectively. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Centre in talks with Zydus Cadila over pricing of ZyCov-D jab||With talks underway between the central government and Zydus Cadila over the pricing of the COVID-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the pharma company is learnt to have proposed a price of Rs 1,900 for its three-dose jab that can be given to those above 12 years of age. However, the government is negotiating for a reduction in price and a final decision on it is likely to be taken this week, sources in the know of the developments told PTI. The government had on Thursday said that the indigenously-developed, world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive shortly. "The company has proposed a price of Rs 1,900 inclusive of taxes for its three-dose jab. "Negotiations are on. The company has been asked to reconsider all the aspects regarding the cost of the vaccine. A final decision on the price of the vaccine is likely to be taken this week," a source said. Another source said the ZyCoV-D has to be differently priced than Covaxin and Covishield as, apart from being a three-dose vaccine, there is a needle-free jet injector used for administering the vaccine that costs Rs 30,000. That jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses. The vaccine is to be given on days zero, 28 and 56. According to sources, around three rounds of meetings have taken place so far between the Centre and the company, the last one on Thursday. Meanwhile, the ministry is also waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI ) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. The NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive, an official source said. As far as the price of the vaccine at which it will be procured is concerned, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, at a press conference on Thursday, said the government is in conversation with the manufacturers. "Since this is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines which are being used in the COVID vaccination programme," he said. The vaccine ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age-group of 12 to 18 besides adults. Vaccines Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, these are two-dose vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||TMC, AAP backed by BJP in Goa, alleges Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Admi Party (AAP) were backed by the BJP in Goa, where these two parties want to contest the upcoming Assembly elections to divide secular votes. All India Congress Committee's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao also said that his party was open for alliance with the "like-minded parties and people who are secular and have local connect". Addressing a press conference in Panaji along with the party's state unit chief Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, he said, "The parties like TMC and AAP are in the state to divide the votes. They are backed by the BJP." Rao accused these parties of indulging in corrupt practices before the elections, scheduled to be held in February next year. The TMC has recently announced that it plans to contest the Goa Assembly polls on all 40 seats, while AAP, which had contested the election in the state in 2017, is also in the power game. Rao said the phenomenon of dividing the Congress's votes was not limited to Goa alone, but is found across India. Responding to a question, the Congress leader said, "The party is open to alliance with like-minded, secular parties and people with local connect." The Congress looked forward to having a "proper and stable alliance", he said. The Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the last Assembly election held in 2017. However, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, acted swiftly and came to power with the support of a few regional parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||SC: Plea seeks high-level inquiry into medical oxygen shortage during Covid-19 second wave ||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a high-level inquiry by a commission into the alleged non-supply and non-availability of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic from March to May this year. The petition, which is scheduled to be taken up for hearing on Monday by a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna, has alleged that non-availability of medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic had resulted in the death of several patients in various parts of the country. The plea, filed by a Delhi resident, has also urged the apex court to direct a court-monitored inquiry by the CBI or any other investigating agency in the matter relating to non-availability of medical oxygen in the months of March to May this year. It has sought a high-level inquiry by a commission headed by a retired judge of the apex court or retired chief justice of any high court in the matter. It said that the inquiry would identify negligence on the part of officials, if any, that had led to the shortage of medical oxygen supply. The plea has arrayed the Centre and others, including the National Disaster Management Authority and health departments of several states, as respondents. "This court through its various judgements has logically extended the interpretation of the right to life to include the right to health. "Therefore, it is the fundamental duty of the State to care for the health of the public at large, the petitioner has said in his plea filed through advocate Rajeev Kumar Dubey. It has also referred to media reports about the death of COVID-19 patients allegedly due to the shortage of medical oxygen. The plea said medical oxygen is an essential and critical life-saving drug and its shortage had resulted in several untimely deaths in the country during the second wave of the pandemic. In May this year, the apex court, which hearing a separate matter, had constituted a 12-member National Task Force of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of COVID-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||NCB cruise raid meant to divert attention from Adani port drug haul, says Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and subsequent action against some persons was an attempt to deflect attention from the "real issue" of the drugs seizure at Mundra port in Gujarat. The party also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the drugs haul at the port. Last month, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized 2,988.21 kg heroin, likely worth Rs 21,000 crore in the global market, from two containers at the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat's Kutch district. On Sunday, the NCB detained Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and seven others after raiding a Goa-bound cruise ship in Mumbai and recovering drugs from them. "There is a news that a Bollywood actor's son has been arrested. Where did this drug come from? The NCB has come out and all of sudden saying that it has caught drugs from a cruise ship," Congress' spokesperson Shama Mohamed told reporters. "They are deflecting attention from the real issue. The real issue is Mundra port, the drug cartels in the country and drugs that is smuggled from Afghanisthan, she alleged. "They (NCB) catch some people here and there so that media will show that case, (that will) divert the attention. But I want you all to write about Mundra port, why it is not investigated? Why it is not investigated? What is happening there? Why is it ignored?" she asked. Had the drugs not come from there (port), there would not have been any party happening (on the cruise ship), she claimed. Seeking an SC-monitored investigation into the drug seizure at Mundra port, the Congress spokesperson said that drugs are smuggled into India from Afghanisthan, which will fund terrorist organisations, separatist groups and eventually create political instability in the country. She also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the drug seizure at Mundra port, which has happened in their home state. "Gujarat is becoming a hub of drugs smuggling," Mohamed said, and expressed apprehensions that privatisation of ports would lead to such activities. The Maharashtra Congress welcomed the raid on the rave party on board the cruise ship, but expressed doubt if it was done to suppress the Mundra port drugs seizure. "It is good if the government stops peddling of drugs and their consumption in the state. We welcome it. But at the same time, it has to be noted that there has been no action or discussion on the seizure of drugs worth Rs 21,000 crore at the Mundra port in Gujarat. There is room for doubt if such raids are being conducted to shift focus fro the last month's seizure," state Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said. He sought to know what action was being taken in the Mundra port seizure case. "What are the agencies doing to stop drug trafficking from the international borders?" Londhe asked. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said he has learnt from the media about the NCB action in the sea and he would comment on it as further information about the raid is awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Sidhu reiterates demand to sack Punjab DGP, advocate general||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday again strongly demanded replacement of Punjab's police chief and advocate general from his own party's government, saying otherwise we will have no face. His tweet pressing the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government to change the director general of police and state's advocate general appears to indicate that he continues to remain unhappy over certain key appointments. The development comes three days after Sidhu and Chief Minister Channi held a meeting, following which it was decided to set up a coordination panel for prior consultation on all major decisions of the state government. Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face !!, said Sidhu in a tweet on Sunday. A miffed Sidhu, who had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief a few days back, had raised a question over the appointments of director general of police, state's advocate general and tainted leaders. Sidhu has been seeking removal of senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota who has been given the additional charge of Director General of Police of Punjab. Sahota had remained the head of a special investigation team (SIT) formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe sacrilege incidents. The cricketer-turned-politician is also raising questions over the appointment of A S Deol as the state's new Advocate General. Deol was the counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in 2015 post the sacrilege police firing incidents. On Saturday, Sidhu had said that he would stand with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whether he holds any post or not. "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win !!," Sidhu Sidhu had tweeted on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on Saturday. The abrupt resignation of Sidhu has triggered a fresh turmoil in the Punjab Congress. The Congress had replaced Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister with Charanjit Singh Channi following a bitter power tussle between Sidhu and Amarinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Covid: India's active cases lowest in 199 days||India added 22,842 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,13,903, while the active cases declined to 2,70,557, the lowest in 199 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,817 with 244 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.80 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.87 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,332 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.80 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 100 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,94,529, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 90.51 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 244 new fatalities include 121 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,817 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,166 from Maharashtra, 37,811 from Karnataka, 35,627 from Tamil Nadu, 25,303 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,815 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||NCB detains Shah Rukh Khan's son, others after raiding rave party onboard Mumbai-Goa cruise ship||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aaryan Khan and seven others after it raided a cruise ship named Cordelia here and busted a drugs party, an official said on Sunday. The detainees include two women, he said. Apart from Aaryan Khan, the others were identified as Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant, the NCB official said, adding that different drugs like MDMA, ecstasy, cocaine, MD (mephedrone) and charas were recovered from them during the raid conducted on Saturday evening. According to a report by anandabazar.com, Aaryan has admitted that he had taken drugs during the party. The information came up from the superstar's son while he was being questioned by NDB officials at its Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. According to NCB sources, after about six hours of interrogation, Aryan admitted that he had taken drugs at the cruise rave party. The report by anandabazar.com also suggests that Aaryan's WhatsApp chats are also being investigated for further information. Officials are scrutinising everything including whom he talked to or kept in touch with. They are also trying to ascertain whether he was part of any drug racket. So far, however, the central bureau has not issued a statement on the matter. Nothing was reported on behalf of Shah Rukh's family either. According to the NCB, Aaryan entered the party without any entry fee as his name was on the 'VVIP' list. He himself has admitted this in the interrogation, its sources were quoted as saying by anadabazar.com. The anti-drug agency has registered an FIR in connection with the drugs party, he said. Based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, had raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening and recovered drugs from some of the passengers, the official said. "During the operation, the suspects were searched and different drugs were recovered from them, which they had hidden in their clothes, undergarments and purses (by women). The detained persons will be produced in a court later in the day after the legal formalities get over, the NCB official said. Early this morning, the NCB questioned the detainees at its office here, he said. If any information is found against Aaryan, a case may be filed against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. For now, NCB officials are trying to get various information about the party from the Bollywood superstar's son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Punjab: Centre rolls back decision to postpone paddy procurement||Following protests, the Centre has rolled back its decision announced on Thursday to postpone paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana till October 11. Procurement will now begin on Sunday. The two states where farmers have been protesting against the Modi government’s three farm laws account for 15 per cent of the country’s paddy output. On Saturday, farmers protesting against the postponement of paddy procurement near the Haryana chief minister's office faced water cannons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||China build-up but we are ready for any eventuality: Army chief||India Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane on Saturday said China had built a lot of infrastructure along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, adding that the Indian soldiers were ready for any eventuality. “China has built a lot of infrastructure on its side of the LAC and has deployed more troops. We have inducted advanced weaponry and are ready for any eventuality,” Naravane said. He said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had stationed troops in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh, including forward areas, which was a matter of concern. “We are closely monitoring all the developments and are well prepared to meet any eventuality,” the army chief said. Naravane, who had earlier asserted that incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached between the two countries, on Saturday said India was hopeful that the border standoff would be resolved through dialogue. He is in Ladakh on a two-day visit to review the security situation and operational readiness along the China frontier. Sources said the army chief visited several forward areas and was briefed by army commanders on the ground situation at the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese army had been occupying Indian territories since last year. So far 12 rounds of military talks have taken place between the two armies to resolve the border standoff. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. Sources in the Indian Army said the disengagement process between the two armies had hit a wall as a result of the Chinese PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. Naravane on Saturday said the 13th round of military talks between the two sides was expected soon in which disengagement from other friction points would be taken up with the Chinese army. Sources in the security establishment said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points. Since May last year, the PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. On Thursday India had hit out at China for attempting to blame it for the ongoing border standoff and asserted that the “provocative” behaviour and “unilateral” attempts by the PLA to alter the status quo along the LAC in the region had seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Jab reach need not lower new Covid cases: Study||A new analysis has detected no discernible relationship between the proportions of populations fully vaccinated and new Covid-19 cases, although jabs do reduce hospitalisation and deaths from the infection. The study led by a population health researcher at Harvard University has found no meaningful association between new Covid-19 cases that emerged over a recent seven-day period and fractions of populations fully vaccinated in 68 countries. In other words, having more fully vaccinated people do not necessarily mean fewer Covid infections. The results actually point to a marginal positive association: countries with a higher percentage of fully vaccinated population had higher Covid-19 cases per million. Israel, which had 60 per cent of its population fully vaccinated, had the highest Covid-19 cases per million — 6,224 — over the seven days prior to September 3. India had fully vaccinated about 11 per cent of its population by September 3. India had around 182 new Covid-19 cases per million over the prior seven days. The US had fully vaccinated 51 per cent of its population but had 3,039 new cases per million. Iceland and Portugal had over 75 per cent of their populations fully vaccinated, but both had more Covid-19 cases per million than Vietnam or South Africa, which had less than 10 per cent of their populations fully vaccinated. “We can’t rely solely on the current set of vaccines to mitigate Covid-19 infections,” S.V. Subramanian, professor of population health and geography at Harvard University, told The Telegraph. The study, just published in the European Journal of Epidemiology, reinforces the need to continue with non-pharmaceutical precautionary measures such as wearing masks, maintaining safe distance and washing hands to reduce the risk of the infection. Experts in India have argued that the decline in Covid-19 cases since mid-May had been largely a consequence of the massive spread of the infection during the March-May surge, which reduced the pool of the susceptible population. “Vaccines would certainly help in reducing the burden on hospital needs and mortality, but it is abundantly clear now the impact of vaccination on transmission is likely to be considerably less, especially for India,” Subramanian said. The findings come amid narratives that attribute surges in Covid-19 cases in the US, Germany or the UK to areas with low vaccination coverage and the initial focus on vaccines as a strategy to gain immunity and protect people from infections. Medical experts said the findings weren’t surprising. “Vaccines protect against severe disease, not against the infection itself — I’ve said this consistently for over a year,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. Jacob John, professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said observations from several countries, including India, had already suggested that the vaccines did not offer significant protection from Covid. “But vaccines have been an unalloyed success in protecting people from severe disease, hospitalisation and death from Covid-19,” John told this newspaper. “Someone who is vaccinated has a more than 80 per cent reduced risk of severe disease and death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Nathuram Godse becomes top Twitter trend on Gandhi Jayanti||No amount of collective kowtowing before Gandhi statues by some of the most powerful figures in the country could hide the arrow-tipped tail that wiggled and stuck out on social media on the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. #NathuramGodseZindabad was one of the top trends on Twitter for several hours on Saturday, with some of the tweets lauding the assassin of the Mahatma as “hero” and “patriot”. According to trends24, which tracks top trends on Twitter, #NathuramGodseZindabad in Hindi was trending at No. 4 “with 160K tweets” around 5pm. It had started trending about nine hours earlier, and at one point was second only to #GandhiJayanti. Some clung to a straw of hope, pointing out that the Godse devotees did not manage to break past #GandhiJayanti. Similar hope was aired in Europe when Neo-Nazis had begun rearing their heads, setting the stage for the eventual emergence of the Far Right as a force to reckon with. In a country where a candidate who called Godse a patriot was elected to the Lok Sabha, the assassin trending on Gandhi Jayanti need not raise too many eyebrows. But some did speak out. Congress spokesperson and former journalist Supriya Shrinate found it shocking enough to upload a video message in which she said: “Today the whole world is worshipping Gandhi; powerful countries are paying tribute to him…. And what a great irony it is that in Gandhi’s own country, Godse’s worshippers are engaged in worshipping Godse on social media.” Shrinate did not pull any punches. “This is the result of the hate that is being irrigated with great care. Who was Nathuram Godse? Nathuram Godse was the first terrorist of Independent India who did not just kill the flesh and bones that made up Gandhi's body, he wanted to kill Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals….” She also had little doubt on who should be held accountable. “I will say it again, in today’s time, the seeds of hatred that an elected government and its representatives are sowing, and which are irrigated with great care, and the crop reaped, it is the result of this that in Gandhi’s country, on Gandhi Jayanti, when the whole world is standing with head bowed before Gandhi, in Hindustan Nathuram Godse is being celebrated.” The Congress’s minder for Telangana and Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore tweeted: “If ‘Nathuram #Godse Zindabad’ is trending in India, will the pertinent question be asked. Who is responsible? Dear Mr @narendramodi, will you act or with your silence you will support those Sanghis who are doing this?” Hardik Patel, working president of the Gujarat Congress, tweeted: “On #GandhiJayanti today, I urge @TwitterIndia and HM @AmitShah ji to take strict action against all those posting in favour of the killers of Gandhi. Any such heinous trends must immediately be banned, accounts blocked & FIR be filed against those tweeting in favour of Godse.” There was no condemnation of the pro-Godse tweets from the authorities although Prime Minister Modi has extolled the Mahatma at various forums in India and abroad, and led the country in officially observing Gandhi’s birth anniversary on Saturday. BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi stood out as an exception. “India has always been a spiritual superpower, but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation’s spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today. Those tweeting ‘Godse zindabad’ are irresponsibly shaming the nation,” he commented. Elsewhere, the project to airbrush history was soldiering on apace. A former president of the BJP in Kerala said on Saturday that Gandhi would have been part of the RSS had he been alive. “There’s no doubt that Gandhiji would have become a swayamsevak had he been alive today,” P.K. Krishnadas, now a BJP national executive committee member from Kerala, told a small gathering at a Gandhi Jayanti event in Kottayam. He claimed that Narendra Modi had given “a new life to the Gandhian ideals that Jawaharlal Nehru buried”. Krishnadas had earlier in the day posted a Facebook message where too he claimed that Gandhi would have worked with the RSS had he been alive. “Gandhi was proud of being a Hindu. Gandhi had declared the Bhagavad Gita as his mother,” he wrote. “From a philosophical perspective, Gandhi was a swayamsevak.” At the Kottayam event, Krishnadas targeted the Congress and the Nehru-Gandhis. “There’s no doubt he would have used his walking stick against today’s ‘duplicate’ (fake) Gandhis,” he said. Krishnadas accused Jawaharlal Nehru and the Congress of “destroying” the country before Prime Minister Modi purportedly revived it using Gandhian principles. “Trusting Nehru was a mistake by Gandhiji because their principles did not match. It was Nehru and the Congress that buried the great Gandhian ideals along with Gandhiji’s mortal remains. That was the reason for India’s destruction,” he said. “But Narendra Modi gave a new life to the Gandhian ideals that Nehru buried, and that is the foundation for the country’s growth now.” The Congress urged the police to book Krishnadas for insulting Gandhi. “This is tantamount to killing Gandhi again,” party lawmaker and state Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil told The Telegraph. “These people have always celebrated Godse. They are now trying to appropriate Gandhi the same way they have claimed ownership of Vallabhbhai Patel and Lal Bahadur Shastri.” Shafi recalled how Hindu Mahasabha national secretary Puja Shakun Pandey had on January 30, 2019, re-enacted Gandhi’s assassination in Aligarh by firing at his effigy and garlanding a statue of Godse. The same year, BJP leader Pragya Thakur hailed Godse as a “deshbhakt” (patriot). “Godse worshippers have never been so active. They were a restrained lot even during the government of (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee,” Shafi said. “History is the biggest enemy of the RSS and its allies. They are trying to cover up their lack of role in the freedom struggle by trying to appropriate great figures like Gandhi, Patel and Shastri.” Shrinate, the Congress spokesperson, ended her message on an optimistic note: “But Nathuram could not kill Gandhi’s soul then, nor will his followers be able to kill him now. Gandhi is in India’s soul, he is the biggest identity of each one of us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Odisha: Biju Janata Dal pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha on Saturday launched a month-long social service programme to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi. However, unlike in the past the party would not organise the Jana Samparka Padayatra (public connect march) on Gandhi Jayanti this time due to the Covid-related restrictions. The social service programme will focus on mass blood donation, shramdan (voluntary labour) and cleaning of roads, hospital premises and school premises starting from the panchayat level to the district headquarters. The BJD leadership thinks that the programme will help the party connect with people and win their support ahead of the panchayat and municipal elections to be held next year. “The party workers will be able to connect with the masses and make them aware of important issues,” said BJD general secretary Vijay Nayak. Earlier, chief minister and BJD chief Naveen Patnaik garlanded the statue of Gandhi. The BJP, too, organised various programmes on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanati with Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan attending most of the events and also taking part in a padayatra. He also interacted with the state’s handloom weavers. The BJP, which is the main Opposition party in the state, is keen to extract as much political mileage as possible through these programmes, observers said. The Congress leadership also paid rich tributes to Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Bihar govt Covid-19 aid pace ‘tardy’||The Bihar government has been quite slow in providing compensation to family members of Covid-19 victims raising questions about systemic flaws in the process. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced Rs 4 lakh ex gratia in May for the next of the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19. According to government data, it has paid the amount to the kin of just 42 per cent or around 4,100 of the 9,661 Covid-19 victims (official figures) so far. This has led to serious problems being faced by the families of the victims that are yet to receive the compensation. A majority of these deaths had happened by June this year, when the state government revised the pandemic toll by a whopping 73 per cent from 3,951 to 9,429 after an audit conducted under directions of Patna High Court which had noticed inconsistencies in death figures reported by different government agencies. According to the government, funds are not a problem for this purpose and the district administrations have been provided ample money to deal with the situation and more money could be transferred, if needed. Jehanabad, Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Begusarai and West Champaran are on the lowest rung in compensation distribution among all 38 districts in the state. They have managed to disburse just 21 to 35 per cent of the money allotted to them to distribute to the kin of Covid-19 victims through RTGS (real-time gross settlement). Asked about the slow pace, Begusarai district magistrate Arvind Kumar Verma said the delay happened partly due to a mismatch or errors in the names and bank account details of the kin of the victims. “However, we have approved 80 per cent of the claims of the kin of 387 victims in our district. We are going to provide the ex gratia to all the eligible persons in the next 10-15 days,” Verma said. Madhubani district magistrate Amit Kumar said: “Camps are being organised at the level of circle officers to expedite the process of providing compensation.” Additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and disaster management secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal did not respond to calls or messages from this newspaper. However, a senior IAS officer said on the condition of anonymity that the delay has been “an outcome of the way the bureaucracy complicates everything. The state government has the data of all the deceased and their next of kin. It could have proactively reached out to them on its own, provided compensation quickly, and won accolades from the people. However, it chose to ensure that those in grief and need come to it, and flaws could be detected in their applications, names and bank accounts”. According to data obtained by RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai from the state planning and development department, it seems that the Covid-19 death toll could be much more than the official figures. Altogether 3.59 lakh deaths were registered in Bihar in 2019. The pandemic broke out in the state in March 2020 and 4.15 lakh deaths were recorded during the year. The toll in the first five months of this year from January to May has been 2.24 lakh. Estimates suggest that the final death figures at the end of the year could be anywhere between 5 and 6 lakh. “The Covid years have shown a sharp jump in the number of deaths in comparison to 2019 without any clear reason apart from the pandemic. It is a pity that the state government is not paying attention towards this. The indications are that lakhs of people could have died in Bihar due to Covid-19,” Rai said. “We must also bear in mind that all deaths, especially those in the rural areas or in less educated and poor families, are not registered with the government,” Rai added. The CPI-ML has been continuously asserting that at least 2.5 lakh people have died of Covid-19 in Bihar. The party has conducted a village-to-village survey in several districts in the state and has submitted its findings to the Assembly and Patna High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Ad for Jawaharlal Nehru University VC reissued, teachers  cry foul||The education ministry has reissued an advertisement for the post of vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, drawing the ire of its teachers’ association, which called it an effort to allow the continuation of Jagadesh Kumar in the post. On Friday, the education ministry issued the advertisement for the post again “for a wider choice of selection”. In October last year, the ministry had issued an advertisement seeking applications and a search panel was set up. The panel is yet to hold an interview. Kumar’s tenure ended in January this year. He has been serving as acting VC since then. While the government has specially asked acting VCs not to push any policy decision, Kumar has pushed several policy issues in the last eight months, including the move to set up a medical college and start four-year under-graduate courses in the university. “The call for re-advertisement for the post of JNU vice-chancellor brought out by the ministry of education, after nearly a year, speaks volume of not just its inefficiency but its active connivance in systematically destroying the university,” said a statement issued by the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association. The statement alleged that Kumar’s tenure as VC had been regressive and marked by several volatile moments. “The re-advertisement offers a pretext for the continuation of Prof M. Jagadesh Kumar for an indefinite period, allowing him the opportunity to further erode the university’s autonomy,” the JNUTA said. Last month, the education ministry had reissued the advertisement for the VC’s post at the Banaras Hindu University nine months of the first ad. At present, half a dozen central universities do not have regular VCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||UP government recommends CBI probe into Yogi fan's death||The Uttar Pradesh government has recommended a CBI probe into the alleged police killing of Yogi Adityanath’s “admirer” and businessman Manish Gupta but also formed a special investigation team, apparently keen on keeping options open while looking to pacify the victim’s wife. “The chief minister has sent a recommendation for a CBI probe. The SIT will probe it till the CBI takes over,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary in the state home department, said. Manish’s wife Meenakshi told reporters the police had been trying to protect the accused and she therefore didn’t trust a police SIT to unearth the truth. She said only a CBI probe would do and dropped her previous demand for a high court-monitored inquiry. But a state home department source said the Union home ministry rarely accepted recommendations for CBI investigation unless there was “sustained pressure” from a state or the case involved multiple states, huge sums of money, intractable mystery or national implications. Manish, a Kanpur-based property dealer, was apparently visiting Gorakhpur with friends to see how the city had developed under Adityanath’s rule. He died after six policemen allegedly beat him with rifle butts at a hotel room on Monday night for failing to promptly produce ID proof. The police, who say they were checking hotel rooms as part of a pre-festive-season security routine, claim Manish slipped and fell, fatally injuring himself. Even on Saturday, additional director-general of police (Gorakhpur zone) Akhil Kumar seemed to dilute the case for a CBI probe, saying: “When the police asked for identity proof, Manish tried to run away, fell and died.” Meenakshi, whom the state government has given Rs 40 lakh as compensation and a job as officer on special duty with the Kanpur Development Authority, welcomed the recommendation for a CBI probe. “The SIT is part of the police. How can I trust the police, who killed my husband? The entire force is trying to save the killers,” she said. “Senior administrative and police officers had pressured me on Tuesday not to file an FIR.” The SIT on Saturday visited Hotel Krishna Palace in Gorakhpur where Manish was allegedly beaten by the police. Mohit Kumar, a relative, claimed Manish had “joined the BJP four months ago at a function in Kanpur” but this could not be verified. A police officer cited past instances to express doubt whether a CBI inquiry would indeed be ordered. “More than a year has passed but the Centre is yet to accept the recommendation for a CBI probe into the June 2020 kidnapping and murder of Kanpur lab technician Sanjeet Yadav. He was killed even after his family paid a Rs 30-lakh ransom in the presence of the police,” he said. Nor has the Centre yet accepted a November 2019 recommendation for an investigation by the central agency into a Rs 2,600-crore financial scam in the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited. While Adityanath’s April 1, 2017, recommendation for a CBI probe into alleged financial embezzlement in the Gomti Riverfront Project – a Samajwadi government initiative --- was accepted, the agency did little for four years apart from making an arrest. Then, in July this year, it conducted raids in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan before things fell quiet again. The Gomti project was the brainchild of then PWD minister Shivpal Yadav, uncle of then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Shivpal now runs his own Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and is considered close to Adityanath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel made Cong poll observer for UP Assembly elections||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday appointed Bhupesh Baghel as the AICC observer for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, possibly bringing the speculation over change of guard in Chhattisgarh to an end. The Congress was in ferment in Chhattisgarh for the last few months despite a massive mandate because cabinet minister T.S. Singhdeo wanted to become the chief minister, saying there was an understanding of mid-way rotation with Baghel. The high command never formally denied the rotation formula but looked reluctant to change the chief minister. While the MLAs supporting Singhdeo have been campaigning for a change for some time, supporters of Baghel reached Delhi over the last few days to lobby for their leader. Over 35 MLAs are said to be in Delhi to convey to the high command that Baghel should not be changed. Saturday’s decision to give him the charge of Uttar Pradesh indicates he is going to continue. His services might have been used because of the resources he can deploy as the chief minister. Baghel promptly thanked Sonia for giving him the “big responsibility” and promised to rise to the party’s expectations. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s services were also used in Kerala elections earlier this year but there is a perception that his relations with the high command are strained now. Baghel was given the task of overseeing the Assam Assembly election earlier this year and he created a robust support system there, running a strong campaign along with the state unit despite starting very late. The same set of people is being used in Uttar Pradesh to assist Priyanka Gandhi who is the general secretary in-charge. Former minister Jitendra Singh, a Rahul Gandhi loyalist, who was in charge of Assam, is now looking after the candidate selection exercise in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir doctors protest against medical quota plan||Doctors and students in Jammu and Kashmir are protesting the Centre’s plan to introduce the all-India quota in medical courses, fearing that locals will lose out to outsiders. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. Till now, MBBS and postgraduate seats in medical colleges in Jammu and Kashmir used to be reserved only for locals. The protests follow a notification by the Centre’s Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) last week stating that the Jammu and Kashmir government is likely to participate in the all-India quota (AIQ) from this year, adding that the matter had been referred to the administration of the Union Territory for its approval. Doctors have staged protests at multiple places across Jammu and Kashmir against the plan and threatened to intensify the agitation. If such a move is implemented, it would be a continuation of the Centre’s 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by diluting Article 370. The government has already allowed non-locals to buy property or take up jobs in the Union Territory. Dr Nisar-ul-Hassan, president of a doctors’ body, said the introduction of the AIQ would jeopardise the careers of local aspirants. “Jammu and Kashmir was previously exempted by virtue of being a state. Now that it is a Union Territory, things have automatically changed. If they (the Centre) want, they can do it. Health is a state subject and states have the discretion to accept or reject a decision. But now we are a Union Territory,” Dr Hassan told The Telegraph. “There are some advantages too. Our candidates will also get seats in the central pool elsewhere in the country. Those who refuse to implement the AIQ cannot get seats under the quota in other states and Union Territories. We will obviously lose because our children might not be able to compete at the central level,” he added. The doctor, however, concluded that overall such a move would be detrimental for Jammu and Kashmir as the AIQ would open the floodgates for outsiders and gravely impact local aspirants. “Pooling will block job avenues for locals and increase unemployment among doctors in Jammu and Kashmir,” Dr Hassan added. An official in the health department said Jammu and Kashmir was yet to give its approval to the MCC notification. An academic at Srinagar’s National Institute of Technology said its seats were distributed equally among locals and outsiders. “In our case it happened when our college was upgraded to an NIT some years ago. Other engineering colleges are still exempt as admissions are made by the Union Territory’s own body,” he said. A doctor at Srinagar’s Medical College said the region had poor infrastructure and on top of that was a conflict zone. “All our educational colleges are shut for one or other reason for the past two years. How can there be a fair competition?” she asked. Political parties have expressed concern over the plan. In a joint statement, Lok Sabha MPs Farooq Abdullah, Muhammad Akbar Lone and Hassnain Masoodi said this would “further choke the already scant avenues for JK youth”. “It will prove detrimental to the interests of our youth. The decision will also have a cascading effect in terms of depleting employment avenues of our educated and skilled youth in JK and furthermore lead to brain drain,” they said in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||EC freeze on Lok Janshakti Party’s name and symbol||The Election Commission of India on Saturday disallowed the use of Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) name and its symbol “bungalow” ahead of the bypolls in Bihar owing to a dispute between the two factions led by MP Chirag Paswan and his uncle and Union minister Pashupati Paras. The EC cited Para 15 of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, which says: “When the Commission is satisfied on information in its possession that there are rival sections or groups of a recognised political party each of whom claims to be that party the Commission may, after taking into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and hearing such representatives of the sections or groups and other persons as desire to be heard decide that one such rival section or group or none of such rival sections or groups is that recognised political party and the decision of the Commission shall be binding on all such rival sections or groups.” Bypolls in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seats are scheduled to be held on October 30. “The time frame needed to ensure the above due process for the Commission to reach a finding under Para 15 is incongruous to the time line being invoked by the 2 groups in view of the announcement of September 28, 2021 of the ECI to conduct bye-polls…,” the EC added. Both the factions have claimed exclusive use of the party name and symbol. In the recent past, a dispute over the symbol of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam took four years to resolve with lakhs of affidavits being submitted to the EC by the office-bearers of all the factions. The matter went to the Supreme Court and was resolved only in May this year. “Both the groups shall be known by such names as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire,  linkage with their parent party ‘Lok Janshakti Party’,” the EC said in its order. The factions have to submit their new names and choice of symbols from the list of free symbols by October 4. They will also have to submit documents to back their claim on the party by November 5. The LJP had split in June after five of the party’s six MPs elbowed out Chirag. The BJP recognised the faction led by Paras and made him a minister. Despite being in the NDA, the LJP under Chirag had contested against candidates of ruling ally Janata Dal (United) in the 2020 Bihar polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||‘(Himanta) Sarma is the most divisive CM in Assam’s history’||For his fans — mostly marginalised peasants spread across the state — Akhil Gogoi is a one-man army and the maverick “always in the opposition” to fight for their cause. Gogoi, 45, has worn several hats over the last two decades. First, he shot to limelight as a Right to Information activist. He has also been a forest rights crusader and an anti-corruption fighter. In 2019, he took to the streets against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA. Currently, his calling card is leader of the newly formed party, Raijor Dal. In the 2021 Assam Assembly elections, he contested from Sivasagar and defeated the BJP candidate by a huge margin. “I am perhaps the only candidate who built a political party from jail, couldn’t even campaign for a single day, yet won and was sworn into the Assembly from prison,” says Gogoi. He was jailed for 18 months on charges of instigating violence with the help of Maoists during the anti-CAA protests. On July 1, he was cleared of these and released. “Had I been out of jail and campaigned freely we’d have made the BJP government in Assam fall,” he says. It has not been easy to get hold of Gogoi since he was released from jail. He has been travelling across the state and meeting political leaders across India to “fight against the fascist BJP”. When I finally get through to him, he is having an early dinner at New Delhi’s Assam Bhavan. It seems he arrived a couple of days ago at the invitation of poll strategist Prashant Kishor (PK) to learn “how elections are fought”. He met PK and the representatives of some regional parties that wish to form a kind of a “federal front against the fascist BJP government”. He says he has plans to meet some top Congress leaders too. I ask him about his equation with the Trinamul. He says, “They proposed I lead the Trinamul in Assam. That’s not possible, but I have not rejected their proposal to form an alliance with Raijor Dal. The discussion is on and we shall arrive at a decision before the by-elections [for six Assembly seats] in October.” Gogoi explains that although the main objective of both parties is to oust the BJP, there are differences in perspectives. Gogoi’s party supports the plan to properly implement the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam only; the Trinamul is dead against the NRC. Gogoi says that the illegal migration of people from Bangladesh has different connotations for Assam and West Bengal. He and his party follow the Assam Accord of 1985 and, accordingly, believe that those who illegally entered Assam after March 25, 1975, should not be given citizenship. “Assam doesn’t have the capacity to accept more immigrants, yet the BJP government is trying to legalise many of them through CAA,” he says. “There’s a difference between Assamese nationalism and Bengali nationalism,” he adds. However, he has no qualms over backing the Trinamul supremo, Mamata Banerjee, as the next Prime Minister of India. He says, “I don’t see Mamata as the chief minister of a state, but a much larger leader who can lead the federal front to oust the BJP. All regional parties must unite and rally with her in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.” He believes his party, which he defines as a “Leftist nationalist party”, will also spearhead a Leftist revival in Assam walking hand-in-hand with all “official” Left parties, such as the CPI, the CPI(M) and the CPI-ML. These parties have had minimal presence in Assam since the 1970s. The Raijor Dal would have tied up with them before the 2021 Assam elections had the Left parties not formed a coalition with the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front — which according to Gogoi is a fundamentalist/communal party and an alter ego of the BJP. “This was a historical blunder by the Congress and the Left that led to their defeat,” he says. Gogoi had Left leanings even when he was a student. This was one of the reasons he was accused of being a Maoist. He says, “They tried to frame me as a Maoist because I have been fighting on behalf of the marginalised against state atrocities and communal forces for decades. But they couldn’t build a single case against me and were forced to release me.” His anger erupts when I mention the Cow Protection Bill passed in the Assembly recently at the behest of the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. He regrets he could not stop it despite being an MLA. He says, “Sarma is the most communal and divisive CM in the history of Assam. His only aim is to implement the BJP’s hidden political agenda in the state.” According to Gogoi, the bill was meant to harm farmers of a particular community, but it is actually harming thousands of poor farmers in the state who can’t afford to buy tractors to plough their fields and use oxen. Besides, he thinks, the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Assam is the strictest in the country and may soon lead to starvation deaths in the state. Gogoi talks about the “encounter spree” unleashed by the Assam Police ever since Sarma took charge as CM. “At least 56 such encounters happened in which the accused happen to be the poorest among the minority community,” he says. And what is he going to do about all this? Gogoi vows to don his activist’s hat again and unite all opposition forces in the state and the country. He says, “We shall take the fight to every street and lane of India.” 1976: Gogoi is born in Selenghat in Jorhat, Assam 1993: Joins Cotton College, Guwahati; is elected general secretary of the students’ union and becomes associated with the United Revolutionary Movement Council of Assam; leaves in five years 1999: Becomes editor of Natun Padatik, an Assamese Marxist journal 2005: Founds Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, a peasant organisation 2011: Joins the anti-graft campaign India Against Corruption movement 2019: Is accused of sedition, thrown into jail and from there forms his own political party, Raijor Dal 2021: Wins the Sivasagar Assembly seat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
03-10-2021||India||Art historian Jerry Losty passes away in London||Jeremiah P. Losty, better known as Jerry Losty, noted historian of the art of the book and curator par excellence, died in London on Wednesday. He was 76 years old. Losty was for 35 years curator of Indian visual materials at the British Library, London. He had published extensively on Indian manuscripts and paintings. His publications include a book on Delhi’s topography, Delhi 360: Mazhar Ali Khan’s View From Lahore Gate, and on the visual arts: Indian Book Painting, Paintings from the Royal Courts of India, The Art of the Book in India, Krishna: A Hindu Vision of God, The Ramayana: Love and Valour in India’s Great Epic, Picturesque Views of India: Sita Ram, and Calcutta, City of Palaces, published in 1990 on this city’s tercentenary. He co-authored Mughal India: Art, Culture and Empire, and was working on English painter William Daniell’s diaries for almost 25 years. Losty had also written about valuable art works originating from India that were in private collections all over the world. Art historian B.N. Goswami said: “Jerry Losty will be greatly missed. He wrote extensively on the arts of India, his finest work perhaps being The Art of the Book in India, published as long ago as 1982 — a small jewel which stood out even among the slew of books which were published during the Festival of India in England. “But neither he nor the body of work he published will be forgotten. His writings on the Udaipur Ramayana, the nearly forgotten but immensely talented painter Sita Ram, and — lately — the catalogues he kept writing for major auction houses will continue to serve as reminders of a scholar of gentle disposition and great dedication,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
