04-10-2021||India||WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook face global outage||Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram faced a major global outage on Monday evening with thousands of users, including from India, not being able to use these digital platforms.  Facebook owns photosharing platform Instagram and messaging platform WhatsApp.  The outage is estimated to have started around 9 PM IST. Users complained of not being able to use any of the three services.  "We are aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We are working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologise for any inconvenience," a Facebook spokesperson said.  The company did not specify the reason for the global outage.  A tweet shared by Instagram said: "Instagram and friends are having a little bit of a hard time right now, and you may be having issues using them. Bear with us, we're on it! #instagramdown".  Microblogging platform Twitter was abuzz with tweets about the outage as netizens shared posts and memes about the outage.  India has one of the highest number of users of Facebook as well as its other platforms.  As per government data shared earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook users and 21 crore Instagram users. The company said it was aware that some people are having trouble accessing Facebook app and it was working on restoring access. The company did not say what might be causing the outage, which began around 11:45 ET. It is normal for websites and apps to suffer outages, though one on a global scale is rare. Users reported being unable to access Facebook in California, New York and Europe. Facebook is going through a major crisis after the whistleblower who was the source of The Wall Street Journal's series of stories exposing the company's awareness of internal research into the negative effects of its products and decisions went public on 60 Minutes" on Sunday. Frances Haugen was identified in a 60 Minutes interview Sunday as the woman who anonymously filed complaints with federal law enforcement that the company's own research shows how it magnifies hate and misinformation, leads to increased polarization and that Instagram, specifically, can harm teenage girls' mental health. The Journal's stories, called The Facebook Files, painted a picture of a company focused on growth and its own interests instead of the public good. Facebook has tried to play down the research. Nick Clegg, Clegg, the company's vice president of policy and public affairs, wrote to Facebook employees in a memo Friday that social media has had a big impact on society in recent years, and Facebook is often a place where much of this debate plays out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Ajay Mishra telling farmers to discipline' them in purported video angered them||A purported video of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra in which he is heard telling farmers that he would discipline them in "two minutes" appears to have angered them even before Sunday's violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri. "Face me, it will take just two minutes to discipline you fellows," the two-time BJP MP from Kheri is heard purportedly saying in the video, which had gone viral on social media before Sunday. "I am not only a minister or an MP and MLA... People who know me even before I became a parliamentarian know that I never run away from taking on challenges. The day I accept a challenge you all will have to leave not only Palia (a local place in the district) but Lakhimpur itself," Mishra is heard saying further in the video. BSP president Mayawati on Monday took strong exception to Misra's purported statement and she alleged that it only reflects the dictatorial tendency of the ruling party. In a tweet in Hindi, the BSP president said, After the Union Minister of State for Home threatened farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district to see them in two minutes, eight people died in a widespread violence there and in the meantime, such a disgusting statement of the CM of Haryana is a blatant anti-people statement and proves the dictatorial tendencies of the BJP government. Mayawati also referred to the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's "tit for tat" remark during a meeting of the BJP's Kisan Morcha in Chandigarh on Sunday. The video of Haryana CM Khattar giving provocative instructions to BJP workers to go to jail and become leaders by giving a tit for tat reply to agitating farmers with sticks has gone viral. Any amount of condemnation of this statement of the CM instigating violence will be less, the BSP president further said in her tweet. According to sources, Ajay Kumar Mishra's speech came after some farmers showed him black flags in Palia locality in his Kheri Parliamentary constituency where he had gone to address a public meeting there late last month. Farmers have been up in arms against him since then and the violence, resulting in eight deaths, erupted during the farmers' protest against the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Mishra's native village Banbirpur on Sunday, they said. Local farmer leader Gurmit Singh told a TV channel that on September 25, members of Krantikari Kisan Union and Bhartiya Kisan Union had shown black flags to Mishra following which the minister had threatened to deal with them. He said upon coming to know about Maurya's programme, the farmers sat on a peaceful dharna near the helipad where he was scheduled to arrive. When the farmers came to know that Maurya was coming by road, the farmers stood in protest at a three km stretch on his travel route in the course of which the dastardly incident happened the previous day, he added. Singh alleged that Mishra's son and his supporters "trampled farmers to death under the wheels of their SUVs". Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars which allegedly knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has the photographs and video clips to prove it. Ajay Mishra has also claimed that extremist organisations like the Babbar Khalsa have infiltrated the farmers' protest. An FIR has been registered against Ashish Mishra and others in connection with the incident. Some criminal cases including that of murder were lodged against 61-year-old Ajay Mishra in the past but he was cleared by the court from the murder allegation. Starting his political innings as a panchayat member, Ajay Kumar Mishra was elected as a BJP MLA from the Vidhasan assembly seat in Lakhimpur Kheri district in 2012. The party nominated him for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from the Kheri seat which he won then and also in the last parliamentary election in 2019. He was inducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi into his Cabinet last July and given a key berth as the Minister of state for Home. The saffron party projected him as a prominent Brahmin leader and organised several public meetings for him to drum up Brahmins' support in the upcoming state assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||BJP picks Yeddiyurappa's son Vijayendra in bypolls team after dropping him initially||Hours after former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa's son and Karnataka BJP Vice President B.Y. Vijayendra appealed to his followers to refrain from expressing anger against his non-inclusion in the list of in-charges for the October 30 bypolls, the party on Monday picked him in the team for the Hangal assembly segment. The bypolls for Sindgi and Hangal assembly segments will be held on October 30 and counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. "Some of our Karyakarthas have expressed their anger and anguish about my non-inclusion in the list of in-charge for Sindgi & Hanagal by-elections. My appeal to them: please refrain from making comments that embarrass our party, leaders, or me," Vijayendra tweeted. He said, "As the Karnataka BJP Vice President, I will actively campaign for the party candidates in both constituencies. Let us focus all our energies on ensuring victory in both the seats and further strengthen the party." Vijayendra's name did not figure in the group of in-charges announced by the party on October 1. He is in the revised list released on Monday as in-charge for Hangal. Vijayendra is among the 13 in-charges for Hangal seat that include Ministers Murugesh Nirani, J C Madhuswamy, B C Patil, Shivaram Hebbar, and Member of Parliament Shivakumar Udasi. The In-charges for Sindgi seat include Ministers Govind Karjol, V Somanna, C C Patil and Shashikala Jolle. The by-elections have been necessitated as they fell vacant following the death of JD(S) legislator M C Manguli in Sindgi and BJP's C M Udasi in Hangal. According to sources, the list of probable candidates for Hangal assembly segment include Revati Udasi, daughter-in-law of late former MLA C M Udasi and wife of Haveri-Gadag MP Shivakumar Udasi, Kalyan Kumar Shettar, and Shivaraj Sajjanar. Names doing the rounds for Sindgi seat include Ramesh Bhusanur, who had contested from BJP in 2018, Ashok Allapura, Shambulinga Kakkalameli, Siddu Biradar and Sanganagouda Patil. Vijayendra, who played a key role for BJP's victory in earlier bypolls to K R Pet and Sira assembly segments, was earlier speculated in some quarters as a probable candidate from Hangal. The JD(S) has already named Shakeel Ahmed Angadi and Niyaz Shaikh as its candidates for the Sindgi and Hangal assembly seats. The Congress has finalised M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, and according to sources, former MLC Srinivas Mane is likely to be its candidate from Hangal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Cruise ship raid: Mumbai court extends NCB custody of Aryan Khan, 2 others till Oct 7||A local court on Monday extended till October 7 the NCB remand of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, although his lawyer pointed out that no drugs had been found on the 23-year-old. The NCB had on Monday sought further custody of Aryan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant till October 11. Opposing the extension of custody, Aryan’s advocate Satish Maneshinde argued that his client had no criminal antecedents. Maneshinde claimed no drugs were recovered from Aryan’s possession. “Nothing incriminating was recovered from Aryan Khan except his mobile phone. His friend (Arbaaz) was arrested because he had six grams of charas, but that has nothing to do with my client (Aryan),” Maneshinde argued. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate R.M. Nerlikar on Monday sought to know from the NCB how much drug seizure was made from each of the accused. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, replied that six grams of charas was seized from Arbaaz, while five grams of cannabis was recovered from Munmun. All these are considered as “small quantity” under the NDPS Act. Singh told the court that incriminating material was found through WhatsApp chats of the arrested accused, including Aryan, with drug peddlers and suppliers. “One cannot say that just because he or she is found with a small quantity, they are entitled to bail,” Singh argued. The court on Monday extended the custody of the trio and six others arrested in the case till October 7. The court, in its order, noted that the investigation in the case was of prime importance and considering this aspect, the further presence of the accused before the NCB was necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Centre extends credit guarantee scheme for stressed MSMEs till March 31||The government has extended the Credit Guarantee Scheme for Subordinate Debt (CGSSD) for stressed MSMEs till March 31, 2022. The scheme was approved by the government on June 1, 2020. It was launched on June 24 the same year to provide credit facility through lending institutions to the promoters of stressed MSMEs. "On the basis of the requests received from the stakeholders of the scheme, the Government has decided to further extend it by a period of another six months beyond 30.09.2021. The scheme will now remain operational till 31.03.2022," the MSME ministry said on Monday. In a separate statement, the ministry said Khadi product sales on Gandhi Jayanti crossed Rs 1 crore at Delhi's flagship Khadi India outlet in Connaught Place. "On 2nd October, the overall sale of Khadi products was recorded at Rs 1.02 crore," it said. It added that in the Covid era, there has been a manifold rise in the demand of eco-friendly and herbal products and Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) is constantly adding new products to cater to the larger consumer base.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks replies of 43 farmers' organisations on plea of Haryana govt||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from 43 farmers' bodies and their leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh who are leading protests at Delhi borders against the farm laws, on Haryana government's plea alleging that they have not been participating in talks with its panel to resolve the impasse over road blockade here. Haryana has moved the application in the PIL filed by a Noida-resident Monicca Agrawaal who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. Issue notice, Dasti (through messenger) as well, a bench comprising Justices S.K. Kaul and M.M. Sundresh said while taking note of the plea. Mr Mehta (Solicitor General Tushar Mehta), you have made around 43 persons as parties. How will you serve them, the bench asked. Mehta said the farm leaders are necessary parties in the matter and he will ensure serving of notice on them and sought hearing of the plea on Friday, that is October 8. Mehta, representing the state, said that Haryana has set up a panel for holding talks with the protesting farm leaders who have refused to take part in talks intended to resolve the issue. Let notice be issued so that they do not say that they had no reason to come," he submitted. The bench has now posted the matter for further hearing on October 20. Haryana, in its plea, said that the state level panel was set up by it on September 15, 2021 to hold discussions with the farmers' bodies but they refused to come forward for talks on September 19. "The Dharna on Sindu Border and Tikri Border is being organized by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha which is a body of number of Kisan Unions and the name of the parties for impleadment mentioned herein above are the office bearer/workers of various Kisan Unions therefore, are the necessary party to resolve the issue", the plea said. The bench had in an earlier hearing wondered by saying that how can highways be blocked perpetually. "The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end, it had asked. It had also asked the Centre what was the government was doing in the matter. The Centre had said that it had convened a meeting with the protesting farmers and details have been mentioned in the affidavit. Mehta had the said the court should allow the petitioner to make the farmers union party to the petition, so that later they don't say that they were not made parties in the matter. The bench had told Mehta that it is he who will have to move an application for making farmers representative party as the petitioner, a private individual may not know who their leaders are. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest. It had told the Centre why the government can't find a solution to this problem as though farmers have the right to protest but at the designated places and due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted. The top court had said that this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. It had then ordered, Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people . On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 langars' around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging 'dharna' at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country. The three new farm laws have already been stayed, the Supreme Court said on Monday and asked a farmers' body what is it protesting against when these legislations are not in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka Gandhi on 'hunger strike' following detention||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sat on a hunger strike on Monday after being detained in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur while she was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri, her party said. Gandhi and other Congress leaders accompanying her, including Deepender Hooda, had reached the Lakhimpur border in the morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest a day earlier, the party alleged. "Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has been arrested. She is on hunger strike. Congressmen are protesting. The government will have to bow to our demands. Voice for justice will be raised with more strength," the UP Congress said in a tweet. In a video released by the party, Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of a room where she was apparently kept. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. On their way to the violence-hit district, Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as "unfortunate" and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. "ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Farmers end agitation in UP after state govt promises to compensate||The farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, who have been protesting over yesterday's deaths, have reached an understanding with the government and called off the protest, reported NDTV.com. The announcement came after  the Uttar Pradesh government announced that a retired High Court judge will probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and that it will give Rs 45 lakh compensation to the families of the four farmers killed in the incident. The government will also give Rs 10 lakh to those injured in the violence, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi. "An agreement has been reached with the farmers. The government will give Rs 45 lakh to the family members of the four farmers who were killed in the violence on Sunday. Besides, one member from their families will be given a government job at the local level," he said. "The government will give Rs 10 lakh to the injured and get the incident probed by a retired High Court judge," he said. Eight people were killed on Sunday in the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri ahead of a visit by Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Farmers and BJP workers were among those killed. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur. Two FIRs have been registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||No state should deny Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of those who lost lives to Covid, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday said no state should deny the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50,000, as recommended by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), to the kin of persons who died of COVID-19 on the sole ground that the death certificate does not mention it as the cause of death. The bench said that the compensation would be disbursed from state disaster relief funds within 30 days of submitting the application and cause of death is certified as of COVID-19. It also ordered the states and the Centre to give wide publicity to the scheme in print media and electronic media. Approving the NDMA guidelines, a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that in cases of death certificates already issued and a family member being aggrieved it would be open for them to approach appropriate authority. On production of essential documents like RTPCR test, the concerned authorities can modify death certificates, the apex court said, adding that if still aggrieved, the members can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee. "No states shall deny ex gratia on ground that in death certificate cause of death is not mentioned that 'died due to COVID'," the bench said. The top court also ordered that the Grievance Redressal Committee can examine medical records of deceased patients and take a call within 30 days and order the compensation. The NDMA had earlier recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of COVID-19. It had said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in COVID-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The government had said that NDMA had issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions of the apex court given on June 30 wherein it had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance. In its affidavit filed on a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of COVID-19 victims, the Centre had said the NDMA has already started discussions/consultations on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission regarding insurance intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Seventy per cent of India's adult population administered first dose Covid vaccine, says Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that 70 per cent of India's adult population has been administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. "Strong Nation, Rapid Vaccination: India has administered the first dose of #COVID19 vaccine on 70% of the population. Under PM @NarendraModiji, India is achieving new landmarks in the fight against the pandemic. Keep it up India, let us fight Corona," the minister said in a tweet. With the administration of 23,46,176 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered has exceeded 90.79 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am. This has been achieved through 88,05,668 sessions held across the country, the ministry said. According to officials, 25 per cent of the population has been administered both doses. More than 5.67 crore (5,67,37,905) balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. According to government data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in September has been 79.08 lakh per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 200 days||Daily cases of coronavirus in the country remained below 30,000 for the 10th straight day with 20,799 fresh infections recorded in a single day, while the active cases declined to 2,64,458, the lowest in 200 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,34,702, while the death toll climbed to 4,48,997 with 180 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.78 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.89 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,099 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 9,91,676 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,42,52,400. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 35 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.63 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 101 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 21,247, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 90.79 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 180 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 41 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,997 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,207 from Maharashtra, 37,819 from Karnataka, 35,650 from Tamil Nadu, 25,377 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,825 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: FIR against Union minister Mishra's son, several other persons||Union minister Ajay Mishra's son is among those booked in connection with the violence during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, officials said on Monday as multiple opposition leaders tried to make their way to the Uttar Pradesh district through the night but were prevented from doing so. Two FIRs were registered a day after clashes claimed the lives of eight people, including four farmers allegedly run over and four people in a convoy of BJP workers who were lynched, the incident propelling Lakhimpur Kheri as a new flashpoint in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh government will give Rs 45 lakh each and a government job at the local level to the family members of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. As tempers ran high and the opposition trained its guns on the BJP-led state government, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, SP president Akhilesh Yadav, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, BSP's S C Mishra and AAP's Sanjay Singh were among those prevented by police from going to the trouble spot, about 80 km from the district headquarters and 225 km from Lucknow. "FIR has been lodged against several persons, including Minister of State for Home, Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra," Awasthi told PTI in Lucknow. Additional Director General, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar, who was in Lakhimpur Kheri, added that two FIRs from both sides had been registered in the incident, the bloodiest yet in the prolonged farmers' protest against the Centre's new agri laws that began last year. The details were not known immediately. Detailed information is not available as yet as the internet is not working here, he told PTI in the morning. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions, wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding that the minister be sacked and a murder case filed against his son. It also demanded an investigation by an SIT under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Sources in Lakhimpur Kheri said the FIR against Ashish Mishra and a few others was registered by a man called Jagjit Singh, probably a farmer. The farmers were protesting the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. They also set on fire two SUVs. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who managed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri in the early hours of Monday, submitted a memorandum to the district administration to demand Mishra's sacking and compensation of Rs 1 crore as well as a government job for the family members of farmers who were killed. "After our demands are met... only then we will cremate the (farmers)," he said as tension spiralled in the area. During a press conference, some farmers alleged that Ashish Mishra also opened fire on farmers. Ajay Mishra has said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. Sources in Lakhimpur said nobody, including journalists, is allowed to visit Tikonia where the violence took place. Policemen were deployed at all entry points of the district to stop the entry of outsiders. As Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath went into a huddle with senior officials to view the law and order situation, police stopped prominent leaders from entering the district. With the incident coming ahead of elections in the politically vital state, opposition parties sharpened their attack on the BJP government. Priyanka Gandhi had arrived in Lucknow on Sunday but was detained in Sitapur around 5 am, Congress state President Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. As videos did the rounds of a furious Priyanka Gandhi lashing out at police personnel for misbehaving with her and her colleagues, Lallu alleged that policemen pushed Congress leaders. "The BJP government is doing the politics of crushing the farmers and finishing them," she said on Twitter. Saying that farmers will win this fight for justice, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi added in a tweet in Hindi, "Priyanka, I know that you will not retreat. They fear your courage. We will ensure that the country's 'annadatas' win this non-violent fight for justice." Congress also staged protests in the national capital. Priyanka Gandhi put out a video message alleging that this country belongs to the farmers and not to the BJP. She said she was going to Lakhimpur to share the pain of the farmers injured in the violent clashes and it was no crime. In Lucknow, Akhilesh Yadav took up the theme. He was stopped outside his Lucknow home in the morning after which he sat on dharna' with his party leaders. "To suppress voices, vehicles are being run over by those who raise voices. We want the arrest of the Minister and his son in the Lakhimpur incident, he told reporters. A police jeep parked in front of the Gautam Palli police station near his dharna was also set on fire allegedly by SP workers. BSP general secretary S C Mishra was also detained at his home in Lucknow on Sunday night on the plea of maintenance of law and order. BSP supremo Mayawati demanded a judicial probe into the Lakhimpur incident. AAP's Sanjay Singh and Shivpal Yadav were also barred from going to Lakhimpur Kheri and so were Congress leaders Salman Kurshid and Pramod Tiwari. Besides, the Uttar Pradesh government requested airport authorities in Lucknow to not allow Baghel and his Punjab counterpart Chandrajit Singh Channi, who had announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. A furious Baghel, who has been made senior observer by the Congress for the UP Assembly elections, told reporters in Raipur, my plane is ready, but the UP government has denied landing permission (at Lucknow airport)." When Section 144 (of CrPC) is in force in Lakhimpur, why should landing at Lucknow not be allowed, he asked. BJP's Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi also took up the issue in a big way. He wrote to the chief minister to demand a CBI probe under the supervision of the High Court. Varun Gandhi, whose Lok Sabha constituency is close to Lakhimpur Kheri, sought Rs 1 crore as compensation to the families of each of the farmers and said those involved in their death should be booked for murder. Underlining that the "agitating farmer brothers are our own citizens", the three-time BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh said, "We should deal with them with great restraint and patience. In any case, we should treat our farmers with sensitivity and only in Gandhian and democratic way within the ambit of law." Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh termed the opposition move to go to Lakhimpur a political stunt aimed at vitiating the peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||UP govt asks Lucknow airport not to allow arrival of Chhattisgarh CM, Punjab deputy CM||The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Chhattisgarh chief minister and the Punjab deputy CM, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government, asking if civil rights had been suspended in the state. When Section 144 (of CrPC) is in force in Lakhimpur, then why landing at Lucknow is not being allowed? he asked. Have the civil rights been abolished in Uttar Pradesh? Is a separate visa is required for going to UP? Why are people being stopped? It is very unfortunate as it is a question of civil rights. Can't people go to express their condolences and to take stock of the incident. If they (BJP government) are stopping, then what is their mindset?" he further asked. The way farmers were mowed down (in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday), it shows their (UP BJP government's) mentality that those who will raise voice against them will be crushed and trampled, he claimed. "This mentality is very dangerous and the whole country is agitated and everyone wants to go to Lakhimpur," he said adding that the incident has "exposed the real face of the BJP". When reporters pointed out that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has assured to take stern action into the incident, Baghel said, He used to say like this always after every incident they were elected to power over the issue of law and order and now the entire country is watching how the law and order was violated there. There is nothing left in control of Yogi Adityanath, and his own people are doing such things. Baghel further said he will leave for Delhi at 11.30 am and further strategy (about going to UP) will be decided after discussion with senior leaders there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Schools reopen across Maharashtra after 18 months||Schools across Maharashtra resumed physical sessions for classes 5 to 12 on Monday after being shut for over 18 months in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Until now, schools were conducting physical classes only in those areas which were reporting relatively fewer COVID-19 cases. Last month, Maharashtra's School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that physical classes will resume in schools across the state and the government also issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for it. On Monday morning, the minister in a tweet said, "Wishing all parents and students the very best as schools reopen across the state today. We hope you enjoy your first day back in a safe atmosphere." According to the Maharashtra government, physical sessions have started for classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and for classes 8 to 12 in urban areas of the state. But, the physical classes have not yet been resumed for classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and for classes 1 to 7 in urban areas. The Maharashtra education department conducted a meeting on Sunday to take stock of the situation before resuming physical classes in schools. "For a smooth transition to physical classes, effective coordination with the health department, local administration will have to be maintained. We are committed to providing a conducive atmosphere to students, many among whom will be returning to class after a year and a half," Gaikwad had tweeted after the meeting. As per SOPs issued by the state government for the reopening of schools, it is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes. If they want to attend, they will have to submit consent letters from their parents. Gaikwad last month said that as per a survey conducted by the school education department, more than 70 per cent parents favoured reopening of schools. In Maharashtra, physical classes in schools were stopped in March 2020, after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The state government in July this year allowed schools to restart physical classes in the rural areas where COVID-19 prevalence was negligible. The decision mainly benefited the state's Vidarbha region, but schools in major cities like Mumbai and Pune remained closed. The latest decision was taken after consulting health officials as well as the state government's COVID-19 task force, Gaikwad earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka, Deepender Hooda detained||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained in Sitapur on Monday, with the party alleging they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state President Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "Priyanka Gandhi, Deepender Singh Hooda and other leaders were detained in Sitapur around 5 am," Lallu said. The Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads amid tension in the violence-hit region of Lakhimpur. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Demanding a judicial probe in the violence, BSP supremo Mayawati said her party's national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra was stopped in Lucknow to prevent him from reaching Lakhimpur. "BSP's national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP S C Mishra was placed under house arrest late last night at his residence in Lucknow. It is continuing so that the party delegation under his leadership cannot reach Lakhimpur Kheri to get the correct report of the violence. This is very sad and deplorable," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Due to the involvement of two BJP ministers in the Kheri case, a proper government investigation of this incident, justice to the victims and strict punishment to the guilty does not seem possible. Therefore, this incident in which eight people have been confirmed dead so far requires a judicial inquiry. This is the demand of the BSP," she said. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up outside the residence of Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, who had announced that he would visit Lakhimpur. A large police force has been deployed on Vikramaditya Marg, and police trucks have been placed to block the entire road and restrict any possible movement. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of the violence-hit Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as "unfortunate" and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. "ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav tears into NDA govt over Bihar health infrastructure||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tore into Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government on Sunday over the state’s pit-bottom position in the country in Niti Aayog’s population to hospital bed ratio ratings, and asserted that it was not serious about public welfare. “Where is Bihar in the Niti Aayog ranking? It is at number one position from the bottom. When chief minister Nitish Kumar is asked about it, he expresses his ignorance. This shows that the government is not serious about meeting the basic needs of the people,” the leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly said. Speaking at a doctor’s conclave organised by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) medical cell, Tejashwi added that the state government could have improved the health infrastructure, number of doctors and nurses among other things after the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, but did not show any urgency. “Ventilators were purchased, but there were no operators to run them in the hospitals. It was just a waste. Bihar is a failure in terms of governance,” the RJD leader said. The Niti Aayog, on Thursday, released a report titled ‘Best practices in the performance of district hospitals’ in the country. It revealed that Bihar had just six hospital beds per one lakh population against the Indian Public Health Standards 2012 guidelines to have at least 22 beds per lakh of population. This ensured that Bihar was at the bottom among all the states and Union territories in this regard. Puducherry was at the top with 222 beds per lakh people. The national average in terms of hospital beds was 24 per lakh population. As per the Niti Aayog report, almost all the 36 district hospitals in Bihar were afflicted with a scarcity of doctors, specialists and nurses. Reacting to the abysmal performance of the hospitals, Tejashwi pointed out that health minister Mangal Pandey was not responding to questions on the issue. “He is running around to avoid answering questions on the worst performance of Bihar in health facilities. How will a person who flees from questions lead our state to development. These people have no vision,” Tejashwi said. In fact, when reporters asked Nitish about the low hospital bed to population ratio on Saturday, he said, “I don’t know.” Health minister Pandey also refused to answer questions by media persons and was seen walking briskly to avoid them. Nitish and Pandey have often talked about the sterling work done in improving health facilities in the state before the Niti Aayog report hit them. Meanwhile, Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) retaliated to Tejashwi’s attack. Its state vice-president and MLC Sanjay Singh asked the present day doctors to ask their predecessors how they had to face kidnapping for ransom, extortion and murder during the rule of Tejashwi’s parents — Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. “Many doctors migrated from Bihar to other states during the regime of Lalu and Rabri. Tejashwi is trying to provoke doctors and health workers against the government, which has provided world-class medical facilities. A Class IX pass out is teaching doctors,” Sanjay added. At present there are around 12,000 government hospitals, health centres in the state, including 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 public health centres (PHCs), 9,949 sub-centres and 1393 additional PHCs. Despite such impressive statistics, Bihar has gained infamy for inadequate number of doctors, their absence from duty, lack of ambulances and hearse, dogs resting on hospital beds, water logging inside hospital buildings, wards and operation theatres, misbehaviour between doctors, hospital staff and the kind of patients and vice-versa, bungling in tests, especially those pertaining to Covid-19, lack of test facilities at government hospitals, poor nursing, and scarcity of medicines in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||‘Blood, sweat & tears’ cap on retirement day of IPS officer||When decorated IPS officer Prateep V. Philip retired on September 30, he wore not just the President’s Medal and other badges of honour he had won in his distinguished 34-year career. Pride of place in his regalia belonged to a bloodstained police cap that looked all of its 30 years, contrasting with his otherwise gleaming uniform, and a “name badge” that gave his rank as assistant superintendent of police (ASP) rather than the director-general of police (DGP) he was retiring as. Philip had moved court to have the old cap and name tag returned to him from CBI custody as his “last professional wish”. To the officer, these two held “immense sentimental value”, being “a reminder of the call of duty” and symbolising his “blood, sweat and tears” from a day that had traumatised the nation and nearly cost him his life. It was these two that Philip had worn on May 21, 1991, on assignment to protect former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at an election meeting in Sriperumbudur, which fell in Kancheepuram district where he was ASP. The bloodstain on the top surface of the cap was caused by the blast carried out by an LTTE suicide bomber who assassinated Rajiv and caused grievous injuries to Philip, whose memory he still carries in the form of steel plates in his body. The explosion wrenched the name badge from his uniform. The CBI special investigation team (SIT) that probed the assassination recovered the badge and the cap from the blast scene and marked them as exhibits for the trial. They stayed in possession of the CBI-SIT since then. A few weeks before his retirement on September 30, Philip, then DGP (training), Police Training College, Chennai, filed a petition with the court of the additional sessions judge, Chennai, under Section 452 of the CrPC which deals with “disposal of property at conclusion of trial”. He requested an “order for the delivery of the petitioner’s cap and name badge marked as M.O. (material object) 38 and M.O. 39 in C.C. (criminal case) No. 3/1992 to the petitioner”. His counsel — TV journalist turned lawyer Sanjay Pinto and Vidya Pinto — told the court that Philip wanted the old cap and name badge back because to him, they symbolised the call of duty. Philip’s petition underlined that the trial court had delivered its judgment in the assassination case on January 28, 1998, and the convicts and respondents had subsequently exhausted all their appeals in the Supreme Court. The CBI-SIT therefore no longer needed to hold on to the cap and the name tag, he argued. “The petitioner, who faced a near-death experience in the line of duty, wishes to take back his bloodstained cap and name badge which are his personal belongings and are of immense sentimental value, a reminder of the call of duty during his formative years in the service of the nation and quite literally symbolise his blood, sweat and tears over 34 years of his professional career,” the petition said. “It is the petitioner’s wish to wear his cap and name badge on his last day of service. The respondent can have no objection to the petitioner’s legitimate and emotional plea which is in the nature of a dedicated patriotic police officer’s last professional wish.” Philip’s legal team cited Supreme Court judgments that had said that property connected with an offence and seized by the police “ought not to be retained in the custody of the court nor the police for any time longer than what is absolutely necessary”. On September 28, the first additional sessions judge, Chennai, T.C. Chandrasekaran, allowed Philip’s plea, declining “to deny a dedicated and patriotic police officer’s last professional wish”. “It quite literally symbolises his blood, sweat and tears over 34 years of his professional career,” the judge said. Philip could take the cap and badge back after depositing a bond for Rs 1 lakh, the court said, but must hand them back to the CBI-SIT by October 28. The court’s 10-page order recorded the reply of the respondent (DSP, CBI-SIT, Chennai) that it had no objection to Philip’s plea provided he was directed to return the cap and name badge “after the date of his retirement”. The court also referred to the investigations still being conducted abroad by the CBI’s multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) since the Jain Commission’s final report two decades ago alleged a larger international conspiracy behind Rajiv’s assassination. The order said that with these investigations “poised at a crucial stage” and “letters rogatory sent to Sri Lanka, UK and Thailand by this court”, there was “every likelihood that the material objects would be required for further proceedings” after the MDMA’s final supplementary report. Saluting Philip’s “commendable and impeccable services”, the court wished him a “long, peaceful retirement life with all enthusiasm to serve society as earlier”. Philip’s counsel Sanjay Pinto said: “The case has given me immense professional satisfaction.” Philip held several sensitive positions and pioneered the concept of “friends of police” — a community policing initiative — in India. He won the Prime Minister’s Medal for Meritorious Service in 2003 and the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service in 2012. Based on his life experiences, research and understanding, he has come out with a book of 3,333 maxims, titled Fillipisms. On Thursday evening, he was given a warm farewell by senior police officers and others led by the Tamil Nadu DGP, C. Sylendra Babu. Philip has been reticent about how close to death he had come on that fateful day 30 years ago, but veteran journalist Walter Scott, who had been a UNI correspondent covering that Sriperumbudur meeting, described the events to The Telegraph on Sunday. “Rajiv first garlanded the statue of Mrs Indira Gandhi on the Sriperumbudur bypass road amid the noise of bursting crackers. He then drove down in a white Ambassador, seated next to the driver, from the main road to the dais on a kutcha road, waving to the crowd and smiling,” Scott said. “The car stopped some 30ft from the dais. He (Rajiv) was wearing kurta-pyjamas with a long shawl draped over him. He got off the car to acknowledge the crowd. A girl started reading out a poem to him. And then there was a blast, sounding like a huge electric transformer explosion, and a ball of fire went up. Immediately, the entire place plunged into darkness and people started running helter-skelter.” Scott had provided the first news flash, booking a trunk call from the Sriperumbudur post office to the UNI office in Chennai. Twenty-six people were accused, convicted and handed the death sentence by the trial court. On appeal, the Supreme Court on May 11, 1999, acquitted one and confirmed the guilt of 25, upholding the death sentences of four and awarding life terms to three and lesser terms to the rest. The four awarded the death sentence — Nalini, Santhan, Murugan and Perarivalan — went on further appeal and filed mercy petitions before the President. After long-drawn legal proceedings, their sentences were commuted to life. Thirty years after the assassination, the four are still seeking their release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Farmers killed as car in minister’s convoy runs amok in Uttar Pradesh||Four farmers protesting with black flags on Sunday were mowed down by a car linked to a Union minister at his village in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, days after he had warned that the protesters would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. Four more people had died by the end of the day, additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said. The Union minister of state for home, Ajay Misra “Teni”, said his driver and three BJP workers had been killed but did not give their names. Superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said: “Total eight people have died. Four of them died under the wheels of a car. Everything will be clear after the post-mortem.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farmers have been protesting against three farm laws since November last year, said the minister’s son Ashis was driving the car that ploughed through the protesters around 3.30pm. It identified the four dead farmers as Daljeet Singh; Gurvindar Singh of Nanpara in Bahraich; Lav Preet of Paliakalan in Lakhimpur Kheri; and Nachchttar Singh of Dhaurahra, Shahjahanpur. A senior farm leader, Tajinder Singh Virk, was grievously injured and is in hospital. The Morcha said at a news conference that a shot fired from the convoy Ashis was leading had killed a farmer. Jagjit Singh, a farmer, has submitted a complaint with the police stating that Ashis Misra had fired and killed a farmer in full public view. The deaths occurred on a day the BJP chief minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, purportedly egged on party workers to raise volunteers in every district in the state’s north-west who would attack farmers. “Pick up lathis. Okay? We will see. And when you pick up lathis, then don’t worry about bail. When you spend some time there, six months, two months… you will become a big leader within months,” the chief minister is purportedly heard saying in a video. The farmers had arrived at Teni’s home village of Banvirpur in the Tikunia area to protest against the minister’s threatening remarks a week ago. They had gathered at a helipad built for deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was expected to attend an annual wrestling contest in the village. On September 27, addressing supporters in Lakhimpur Kheri, Teni had purportedly said the farm protests were organised by “those who are not able to face Modiji”. “So, I want to say, mend your ways or you will face consequences. I will have you mend your ways in two minutes,” the minister purportedly said. The Morcha, which shared the video, said the farmers were mowed down while “dispersing from their protest at the helipad” and that BKU leader Tajinder Virk was deliberately targeted. It also counted another victim. It said one of the cars in the convoy turned turtle after knocking down and injuring Virk, and one of its occupants died. Teni, the local MP, told CNN-News 18 his son was not present at the spot and that there was video evidence of this. “My driver was driving. He and three BJP karyakartas (workers) were killed. The entire incident is a conspiracy,” he said. Earlier, he had told News1 India Channel: “Someone threw a stone at the driver, he lost consciousness and died. He lost control of the car, which caused an accident.... Some people were injured in the incident and some lost their lives.” The farmers have denied throwing stones and insist they had ensured the protesters moved either before or after the event so the two sides did not confront each other on the way. Ashis told reporters that he was 4km away at the wrestling venue. His version of events differed somewhat from his father’s. “A Mahindra and a Fortuner SUV and a small car carrying my workers were going to receive the deputy chief minister. The farmers stopped the cars, pelted them with stones, and later beat to death my driver Hari Om. Then they killed four more of my workers.” Maurya said: “There was a wrestling programme in Banvirpur, the ancestral village of Ajay Misra, and I was invited. The farmers turned violent and somehow got under the wheels of someone’s vehicle. The guilty will soon be identified.” Additional director-general of police (Lucknow zone) S.N. Sabat had earlier in the afternoon said two farmers had died and three were injured after being run over in an “accident”. He had said that only an investigation could identify the vehicle and driver. Eyewitness Guramneet Mangat said: “Monu Misra and the minister’s brother came with three cars — a Fortuner, a Thar and a Scorpio — and headed for the farmers standing on the roadside. They fired a shot and then ran the cars into the crowd. The car that hit Virk turned turtle and one of those inside the car also died in the process.” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had also told reporters in Ghazipur before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri that Monu, the elder son of Ajay Misra, was driving an SUV and that he had mowed down “(kuchal diya)” the farmers. Opposition parties have condemned the incident, with the Congress describing it as an attempt to crush democracy. The party has demanded that the minister step down, a sitting Supreme Court judge investigate the deaths and that Khattar be sacked. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra set out for Lakhimpur Kheri on foot from Lucknow on Sunday with party workers. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said a five-member team of her party would visit the families on Monday. The NCP and the Samajwadi Party have condemned the incident. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said in a Hindi tweet: “It is most inhuman and cruel that the son of the Union minister of state for home crushed to death the farmers who were peacefully protesting there.” Internet services have been suspended in Lakhimpur Kheri and prohibitory orders imposed. Late in the night, the police said a large number of farmers had gathered on Gurdwara Road and Saharanpur Road in Lakhimpur Kheri and damaged half-a-dozen cars. Ajay Rai, the Tikunia station house officer, said: “I was deployed to prevent the farmers going to the Union minister’s village. But the farmers left the main road and reached the village through agricultural fields. We are trying to find out whose SUV killed the farmers.” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a Morcha constituent, said Sunday’s incident was another attempt to provoke the farmers to give up their peaceful resistance and turn to violence. He said the incident was “shocking” not just for the farmers’ movement but for all manner of people’s struggles. Yadav and farmer leader Darshan Pal said the movement would stay on course and remain peaceful. “The biggest strength of our movement is that it is peaceful. If we remain peaceful, we will win,” Yadav said. The Morcha has given a call for a half-day protest outside the offices of all district collectors/magistrates across the country on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||NCB arrests Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in drugs case||Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday after being detained and questioned in connection with a raid on a rave party on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday night. The others who have been arrested have been identified as Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. The NCB sources said the three were booked under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27 and 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The sections invite a maximum punishment of 20 years in jail and a minimum of six months, depending on the quantity of drugs found in possession of a person. “We recorded Aryan’s statement in which he denied the purchase of drugs,” an NCB official said. Aryan was remanded in NCB custody till October 4. The memo of arrest says Aryan has been arrested for involvement in “consumption, sell and purchase of contraband”. The memo says 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of MD (mephedrone), 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstacy) had been seized, along with Rs 1.33 lakh. The Congress alleged that the NCB raid was an attempt to deflect attention from the “real issue” of the drug seizure at Mundra port in Gujarat. On September 16, nearly 3,000kg of heroin originating from Afghanistan was seized from the Adani-operated port — the single largest such consignment netted anywhere in the world in recent memory. “The real issue is (the seizure at) Mundra port, the drug cartels in the country and drugs that are smuggled in from Afghanistan,” the Congress said, and asked what action had been taken in connection with that seizure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Implementation of national minimum wage gets longer||The implementation of a national minimum wage under a new labour law, hanging fire for two years, is set to get further delayed with the Centre recently reconstituting the expert committee that is to recommend the formula for determining the amount. The enforcement of a minimum wage, as mandated by the Code on Wages that was passed in Parliament in August 2019, is expected to benefit over 40 crore of the country’s 50 crore workers. The expert committee, originally set up on June 2, was reconstituted after its chairperson Ajit Mishra of the Institute of Economic growth (IEG), Delhi, and member Tarika Chakraborty from IIM Calcutta resigned from the panel. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar said the reasons for the resignations remained unclear, with neither the two academics nor the government providing an explanation, and that this had created a feeling of “ambiguity” about the Centre’s intentions. “The very appointment of new members and reshuffling of the committee reflects ambiguity with respect to implementation of the (wage) law,” Sundar said. Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of CPI labour arm Aituc, said the reconstitution of the panel would further delay the implementation of the Code on Wages, “which has been delayed by two years already”. She questioned the government’s sincerity, underlining that a labour ministry-appointed expert committee under economist Anoop Satpathy had three years ago recommended a national minimum wage not less than Rs 375 at the level of July 2018 prices. “The government has had an expert committee report since 2018 on what the minimum wage should be, but it set up another committee in June and has now reconstituted it. I fail to understand the intention, but the process will be further delayed.” The Code on Wages empowers the Centre to notify a “floor wage” based on the minimum living standards. No state would be allowed to keep its minimum wage below this. But the rules cannot be framed until the expert committee works out a formula to determine the floor wage. Kaur accused the government of “delay tactics” to help the corporate world, which she said was against any increase in wage rates. Several leading economies have recently raised their wage rates. For example, the US has increased the minimum wage per hour from $9 to $15. The Satpathy panel had worked out its wage formula on the basis of a balanced diet of 2,400 calories, 50 grams of protein and 30 grams of fat per day per person. It had added expenditures towards clothing, education and housing, and multiplied the total by 3.6 to include a spouse, two children and elderly parents. But the government dumped its report after employers raised objections, a labour ministry official said. Currently, the minimum wage notified by most states is around Rs 200 a day. The Centre is supposed to notify every second year a “national minimum floor-level wage”, but it is not binding on the states. The Centre last notified a floor-level wage, of Rs 176, in July 2017. A revision has been due since July 2019. A labour economist who didn’t want to be quoted said the term “floor wage” in the Code on Wages --- as opposed to the internationally accepted “minimum wage” – suggested a wage meant to ensure only the “basic living standards”. With such a wage, the worker would be able to afford “just the cost of living” while “struggling to get average education or healthcare”, he said. The government has not published the consumer expenditure survey report of 2017-18, prepared by the National Statistical Organisation. “The Satpathy committee had to use the consumer expenditure data of 2011-12. Since no new data has come, what will be the basis for any scientific analysis?” the economist said. He added that any move to lower the wage would also keep demand low, hurting the economy. The reconstituted panel is headed by S.P. Mukherjee, professor emeritus, Calcutta University. The other members are Arup Mitra of the IEG; Anushree Sinha, a Senior Fellow at the National Council of Applied Economic Research, Delhi; Rupa Chanda from IIM Bangalore; H. Srinivas, director-general of the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute, Noida; a representative from the ministry of skill development; and three labour ministry officials. Sinha, Srinivas and two of the labour ministry officials were on the original panel too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Mystery disorder among children named Zaki syndrome||Nearly five years ago, a three-month-old baby girl with facial abnormalities, a short stature, and other developmental defects had left paediatric geneticist Ratna Puri puzzled. Puri and her colleagues at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, had through a series of sophisticated tests ruled out any of the known genetic disorders involving some 4,000-odd human genes. The girl’s illness remained undiagnosed even as doctors provided her supportive therapy, hoping to address her developmental delay. Now, doctors from five countries, including Puri in India, have identified her illness as a previously unknown genetic disorder that impacts the brain and other organs. A 22-member medical team announced on Wednesday that the mysterious disorder known among children in several countries for nearly a decade is a previously unrecognised syndrome that can also affect the eyes, hands, kidneys, heart and leave children disabled for life. “For these children, the diagnostic odyssey is over — we know what’s going on,” said Puri at the Institute of Medical Genetics at SGRH. “But there are others across India who still remain undiagnosed.” The findings by the team from Egypt, India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and the US will be published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Thursday. The disorder is rare — only 10 children from five families, including the one girl in India, have thus far been diagnosed. Doctors at the University of California, San Diego, and the National Research Centre in Cairo, Egypt, spent nearly 10 years comparing notes with Puri and others to determine that the children they had tracked shared a mutation in a so-called Wnt-less gene. They have called the disorder Zaki syndrome after team member Maha Zaki who had first spotted the disorder in Egypt more than 10 years ago in a family in which three siblings and a first cousin had the syndrome apparent at birth. The children had profound mental retardation, poor growth, unusual facial features. They had no speech and could sit only with support and were unable to grasp objects or feed themselves. “We’d been perplexed by the children with this condition for many years,” said Joseph Gleeson, professor of neuroscience at the University of California, San Diego. “We’d observed children around the world with mutations in the wnt-less gene but did not recognise they had same disease until doctors compared clinical notes.” Team member Bruno Reversade in Singapore identified more families with members suffering from Zaki syndrome and has explored potential therapies. The researchers have created mice models for Zaki syndrome and treated them with a drug code named CHIR99021 that appeared to counteract the effects of mutations in the wnt-less gene. “The results were surprising because it was assumed that structural birth defects like Zaki syndrome could not be prevented with a drug,” said Guoliang Chai, formerly at San Diego and now at the Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. Puri cautioned that the candidate drug had shown encouraging results only in experimental mice and it could take time before it can be tested in humans. “But what is clear through this effort is how large collaborations help — and are needed — to identify unknown genetic disorders,” she said. The Indian Council of Medical Research earlier this year approved a national collaboration called the India Undiagnosed Diseases Programme with SGRH in Delhi and hospitals in Lucknow and Hyderabad for coordinated clinical evaluation and documentation of patients with undiagnosed disorders. Puri said: “The goal is to shorten diagnostic odysseys — knowing what genes are involved helps us understand the disorder and could lead to clues toward potential treatments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||BJD proves Naveen Patnaik’s hold with Pipili victory  ||The ruling Biju Janata Dal has retained the Pipili Assembly seat, defeating its main rival BJP in a bypoll by a margin of 20,916 votes. The seat, where a bypoll was necessitated following the death of former minister Pradeep Maharathy, has been a BJD bastion for the past several decades. The regional party has been winning the seat since its formation in 1997. The victory also proved the political invincibility of chief minister Naveen Patnaik. The BJP, despite a high voltage campaign that saw the likes of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and former Union minister Pratap Sarangi slogging it out in the constituency, failed to make a dent in the BJD fortress. The victory has further boosted BJD prospects in the upcoming panchayat and municipal elections to be held next year. The BJD has not lost a single byelection after the last general elections of 2019. It had ensured that the BJP, which is now the main Opposition party in the state, makes no inroads into its areas of influence. Aware that Pipili bypoll will be followed by two grassroots level elections (panchayat and municipal) the BJP had marshalled all its resources with top leaders like Pradhan, Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra and a host of state level leaders hitting the campaign trail. Patra campaigned for the BJP candidate for Pipili, as the Assembly constituency is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha seat which he had contested and lost in 2019. Patra is likely to contest the seat again in 2024. On the other hand, BJD’s supremo and chief minister Patnaik was so confident about the result that he did not even visit Pipili, about 25km from Bhubaneswar, to campaign this time. He addressed the people of the constituency on April 12 through virtual mode and promised to take its care in the absence of their late leader Pradeep Maharathy. The bypoll was deferred twice because of the death of Congress candidate Ajit Managaraj and later because of the pandemic related lockdown. The BJD fielded late Moharathy’s son Rudra Pratap Maharathy as its candidate and the BJP fielded Ashrit Pattanayak and Congress put Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra in the fray. Citing the reasons for the BJD winning the elections, minister Samir Ranjan Dash, who in charge of the Pipili block for the bypoll, told The Telegraph, “The chief minister’s image, the state government’s different socio-welfare works for women, farmers and others, good poll management and Patnaik’s confidence in his team played a crucial role in ensuring BJD’s victory.” Winning candidate Rudra Pratap told the media, “I would work for the constituency. I am indebted to the chief minister. People have showered their love on me the same as they used to for my father.” Voting for the bypoll was held on September 30. Counting began early Sunday morning at Penthakata in Puri. Victory of the BJD candidate sparked off celebrations in Puri and Pipili. The Congress failed once again to put up a good show with the party polling less than 5,000 votes. While the BJD polled 96,972 votes, the BJP managed to get 76056 votes. The Congress got only  4,261.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
