05-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit families of farmers in UP on Wednesday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi plans to visit Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday, his party has announced, amid the state government's efforts at blocking many opposition leaders, including his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who have made a beeline for the district where eight people were killed in Sunday’s violence. In a letter written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Congress said a five-member delegation led by Rahul Gandhi planned to visit the district. It also called the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “without any reason or justification”. Gandhi Vadra, a Congress general secretary, on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at a police compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. “Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP,” she said. “I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning,” the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes. She said she has seen a portion of a paper on social media in which the authorities have named 11 people, including eight who were not even present at the time she was arrested. They have even named the two persons “who brought my clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4”, she said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister and were attacked after allegedly running over the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
05-10-2021||India||Final decision on Covaxin clearance next week, says WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that it'll announce the final decision on granting the much-awaited Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to Covaxin next week. “WHO & an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin,” the global health body said in a tweet on Tuesday. Covaxin manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has been submitting data to the WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO’s request on September 27. “WHO experts are currently reviewing this info & if it addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalised next week,” said the WHO. The Emergency Use Listing process - done by WHO and the Technical Advisory Group of independent experts - is centred on determining if a manufactured product (e.g. a vaccine) is “quality-assured”, “safe” and “effective”. The Hyderabad-based pharma company last month had responded to all clarifications sought by the WHO on their EUL Application for the Made in India Covid-19 vaccine -- Covaxin. The pharma firm, popularly known for vaccine manufacturing, said it has provided the global health watchdog with all the details and was awaiting EUL approval. Data of clinical trials was fully compiled and available in June this year. The final data for the EUL application was submitted in early July. The EUL application provides advice before the submission of the final dossier. Before that, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also met WHO Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan to discuss the approval of Covaxin, reported news agency ANI. Meanwhile, the WHO has already approved Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Moderna, Sinopharm and Johnson and Johnson Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
05-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi releases statement, says she is illegally detained||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at the PAC compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. "Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP," she said. "I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning," the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes. She said she has seen a portion of a paper on social media in which the authorities have named 11 people, including eight who were not even present at the time she was arrested. In fact they have even named the two persons "who brought my clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4", she said. Vadra said she has been placed under arrest as verbally informed to her by the arresting officer DSP Piyush Kumar Singh, CO City, Sitapur, under Section 151 at 4.30 am on October 4. "At the time I was arrested I was travelling within the district of Sitapur, approximately 20 km from the border of district Lakhimpur Kheri which was under section 144. However to my knowledge section 144 was not imposed in Sitapur," she said. She said she was travelling in a single vehicle with four other persons, two local Congress workers, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda and Sandeep Singh and no security car or Congress workers other than the four persons were accompanying her. "I was then driven to the PAC compound, Sitapur accompanied by two female and two male constables. Having been brought to the PAC compound, no further communication regarding the circumstances or the reasons, or the sections under which I have been charged have been communicated to me by the UP Police or administration until now-38 hours later at 6.30 pm on October 5, 2021," she said. A number of Congress workers have come out in support of her and have demanded her immediate release so that she can visit the families of the violence victims and share their grief. Congress workers also staged a candle march outside the guest house in Sitapur where she has been kept. They took out the march in solidarity with her and the farmers protesting in Lakhimpur this evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Mortal remains of three farmers cremated||The Uttar Pradesh authorities on Tuesday agreed to the demand for a second post-mortem of a farmer killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident after his family refused to cremate him, while mortal remains of the three others were consigned to flames at their native places during the day. Family members of Gurvinder Singh (22) of Moharia village of Bahraich had refused to cremate him till a second autopsy is done, claiming that he was shot dead. They received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi singer Sonia Maan, who arrived in the village this evening. Senior district administration officials confirmed that the second post-mortem of Gurvinder will be conducted at the district hospital. They said a vehicle has been sent to bring the body to the hospital post-mortem house. A team of experts has arrived at Bahraich district police line from capital Lucknow by helicopter for the autopsy, they said. Additional Director General of Police (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and other senior civil and police officials had come to Moharia village to persuade the family to perform the last rites but when his kin and farmer leaders did not relent, a decision for a second autopsy was taken. "We don't want to conduct his last rites after a false post-mortem report," a relative said. Sonia Mann, who has been actively supporting protests against the three central agri laws, also reached Gurvinder Singh's village and supported his family's demand. Gurvinder's family said that Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is under detention in Sitapur, talked to his father over the phone. Maan accused the UP government of creating "pressure" through the district administration on the family. "The body will not be sent for last rites till a second post mortem is performed in Delhi," she said earlier. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers, who were mowed down by a vehicle during a protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, were cremated at their native places. Among the farmers killed in the Sunday incident, two each were from Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich and the bodies were handed over to their families after a post mortem on Monday. The families of Lavpreet Singh (19), Nachattar Singh (65)and Daljeet Singh (42) agreed to the cremation after hours of negotiations involving police officials and farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. Tikait was present when Satnam Singh performed the last rites of his son Lavpreet Singh in the family's agricultural field in Palia tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri late in the afternoon. The mortal remains of Nachattar Singh of Dhaurahra tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri were consigned to flames by his son Mandeep Singh, who is posted in Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). In Bahraich, the family members of Daljeet Singh performed his last rites. The UP government is facing massive flak after eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur Four of the dead were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The four others included two BJP workers, one driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place Sunday. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made. Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar announced on Monday that the government will order a probe headed by a retired high court judge and give compensation of Rs 45 lakh each to the families of the dead farmers. Their kin will also get a government job. The injured will get Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's NCB custody extended till October 11 by Mumbai court||A court here on Tuesday remanded four persons to the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 11 in a case pertaining to the seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast in which Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, is also an accused. The anti-drugs agency has so far arrested twelve people, including Aryan Khan, after raiding the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. On Tuesday, additional chief metropolitan magistrate R M Nerlikar remanded Abdul Qadir Sheikh (30), Shreyas Nair (23), Manish Rajgariya (26) and Avin Sahu (30) to the NCB custody till October 11. These four accused were booked under sections 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs) and 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotics or drugs) and 27 A ( punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The court on Monday remanded Aryan Khan (23) and seven others to the NCB custody till Thursday. The NCB had told the court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking. The NCB had also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats, Aryan Khan is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer had claimed drugs were not recovered from the possession of his client.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Gujarat civic polls: BJP bags three seats, Congress gets one||The ruling BJP on Tuesday retained the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) and won in two other civic bodies in Gujarat, while the Congress took away Bhanvad municipality in Devbhumi-Dwarka district from the saffron party. In the GMC, the BJP established its lead since the beginning of counting at 9 am, and eventually trumped its rivals Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by a huge margin. The GMC poll was being seen as a litmus test for the BJP in the backdrop of its sudden and surprising decision to change the state's chief minister and the entire cabinet recently, ahead of the state Assembly polls due next year. The party had registered a thumping win in the local bodies polls held in February this year. As per the final tally released by the State Election Commission (SEC), out of total 44 seats in the GMC, the BJP won 41 seats, the Congress-two and the AAP bagged one seat. Counting of votes was also held for three other municipalities - Okha and Bhanvad in Devbhumi-Dwarka district, and Thara municipality of Banaskantha district. As per the final figures released by the SEC after counting of votes, the BJP won 20 out of 24 seats in Thara, while the Congress got only four seats. The BJP retained Okha municipality by winning 34 out of 36 seats, while two seats went to the Congress. However, in a setback to the BJP, the Congress emerged victorious in Bhanvad by winning 16 out of 24 seats. The BJP, which managed to win only eight seats this time, was in power in Bhanvad since 1995. Voting for elections to the GMC and the three other municipalities took place on Sunday. Besides, bypolls to elect representatives on 104 vacant seats of various other local bodies were also held the same day. Of the total 2.8 lakh registered voters in Gandhinagar, 56.24 per cent had exercised their franchise. The voter turnout in Okha and Bhanvad was 55.07 and 62.27 per cent, respectively, while Thara had recorded an impressive 73.55 per cent turnout. In Gandhinagar, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had put in a concerted effort apart from traditional rivals BJP and Congress. A total of 161 candidates contested the GMC poll, with the BJP and Congress fighting in all 44 seats and the AAP in 40 seats. In the 2016 GMC elections, both the Congress and BJP won 16 seats each out of the total 32 seats existing at that time. Both the parties then had equal chances of forming the board through a draw of lots. However, at the last moment, Congress corporator Pravin Patel switched sides and helped the BJP come to power in the civic body. The latest election was originally supposed to be held in April this year, but it was postponed in view of the high number of COVID-19 cases emerging every day at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Cadila Healthcare gets DCGI nod to conduct phase III trials for its Covid vaccine||Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Tuesday said it has received permission from the Indian drug regulator for conducting phase III trials for its two-dose COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The company has already received the emergency use authorization (EUA) from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for ZyCoV-D to be administered in three doses on August 20. The company has "... got the permission for conduct of phase III trials for two-dose Covid vaccine," Cadila Healthcare said in a regulatory filing. Earlier in August, in a filing to BSE, Cadila Healthcare had said that it plans to seek approval for the two dose regimen of the vaccine. It had also mentioned that the company plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually. Shares of Cadila Healthcare Ltd were trading at Rs 563.95 per scrip on BSE, up 0.29 per cent from their previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Case lodged against Priyanka, Sidhu threatens march||With the Congress questioning the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, officials said Tuesday a case has been registered in Sitapur against her and 10 others under sections related to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace. The case under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) sections 151, 107, 116 (all related to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace) has also been registered against Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and party leader Deependra Hooda, the officials said. "These are preventive sections. Once we get assurance that there would not be violation of peace by them these sections will be removed," Sitapur Sub-divisional Magistrate Pyare Lal Maurya said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained on Monday when they were going to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier. Eight people were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Several Congress leaders including P Chidambaram have questioned Gandhi's detention, describing it as "totally illegal" and "unconstitutional". In a statement, Chidambaram said Tuesday the facts and circumstances concerning Gandhi's detention in Sitapur "conclusively establish that there is no rule of law in UP". Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the state party will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Union minister Ajay Mishra's son is not arrested and Priyanka Gandhi is not released by Wednesday. "If, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader  @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri," he tweeted. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the evening and will raise with him the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Channi, who along with some ministers and Congress legislators held a silent protest at Gandhi Smarak Bhawan in Chandigarh, said the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri reminds him of the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh tragedy. Channi alleged that the killing of the farmers was intentional . He said he will be meeting the Union home minister at 6.30 pm and will raise the issue of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with him. Slamming the BJP government at the Centre, he said it should not force the country's youth to look at martyrs like Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Shahid Udham Singh for again restoring democracy in the country. Channi said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was painful and demanded that the three controversial farm laws should be repealed immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||No two-finger test conducted, says IAF Chief on Coimbatore rape case||No two-finger test was conducted on a woman who has alleged sexual assault at an IAF training academy in Coimbatore, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary said on Tuesday. At a press conference, the IAF chief countered the woman's claim of being subjected to the two-finger test, and said disciplinary action will be taken against those found guilty in the alleged rape case. "No two-finger test was conducted," Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said replying to a question on the matter. A local court has allowed the IAF to conduct a thorough probe into the case, days after initial investigation was carried out by the Tamil Nadu Police. "We will take disciplinary action in the case based on the inquiry report," the IAF chief said. An Indian Air Force official in Coimbatore has been charged with sexual assault of a woman colleague on September 10. The 28-year-old female Air Force officer has levelled serious charges against IAF authorities, including subjecting her to the banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Journalists stage protest in Delhi, seek release of Siddique Kappan||Members of various journalist unions staged a demonstration outside the Press Club of India (PCI) here on Tuesday demanding immediate release of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan who has been charged by the Uttar Pradesh Police with terror offences. "Today, we have organised this programme to mark completion of one year of Kappan being in jail. He was arrested even before going to the spot. Till date he is behind bars. We are fighting for free media. There should be no curb on media if someone is going on a spot to report," said PCI president Umakant Lakhera. "Spot and investigative reporting is dying day by day. We are appealing to the highest judiciary of the country to release Kappan and to quash the charges against him," he added. Members of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), PCI and the Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) joined the protest. Kappan and three others were arrested by the Mathura police in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year when they were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of a Dalit girl who had died after being gang-raped. The four were arrested on the apprehension of causing a breach of peace, but were later slapped with stringent charges of sedition and being involved in various terror offences. DUJ general secretary Sujata Madhok said, "We have gathered here today because it has been one year since the jailing of Kappan and others who were accompanying him and were not journalists.... The judiciary must take action. You cannot indefinitely jail people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel stopped at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was prevented from coming out of Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport Tuesday when he arrived to visit the state Congress office and meet party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Baghel sat on a dharna at the airport after being disallowed to go to the Uttar Pradesh Congress office amid widespread protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "I am being stopped from going out of Lucknow airport without any orders," he wrote in a tweet with a photo of him sitting on the floor at the airport. The Chhattisgarh chief minister reasoned with the police on duty as to why he was being stopped but to no avail, a Congress spokesman said. "Why am I being stopped? I am not going to Lakhimpur where there are prohibitory orders in place. I am only going to PCC (Congress office)," he asked the police personnel. Talking to mediapersons at the airport, Baghel said he does not plan to go to Lakhimpur Kheri but to the Congress office where he was scheduled to address a press conference later in the day. Baghel also said he has come to meet party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is currently in custody at Sitapur. The Uttar Pradesh government had Monday asked the Lucknow airport authority not to allow Chhattisgarh chief minister and the Punjab deputy chief minister who had to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in view of the violence that erupted there. Eight people were killed Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow,' Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi had said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Leaders share video showing farmers being mowed down, BJP MP demands justice||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video clip purportedly showing an SUV mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, and demanded that police immediately identify and arrest those involved in the incident. The authenticity of the video has not yet been verified. "This video of vehicles deliberately crushing farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri will shake anyone's soul. Police should take cognisance of the video, identify the owners of these vehicles and their occupants, identify others involved in the incident and immediately arrest them," Gandhi said. Eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri laws began last year. While the BJP has officially maintained a guarded silence over the matter, with the Uttar Pradesh government assuring a thorough probe, Varun Gandhi has been vocal in empathising with the farmers. Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi had also shared the same video. While Rahul Gandhi shared the purported footage on Facebook, Priyanka Gandhi as well as AAP leader Sanjay Singh posted the video on Twitter. "Modi ji, you are coming to Lucknow to celebrate the Amrit Mahotsav of independence, but have you seen this video. This video shows how the son of a minister in your government has mowed down farmers. Please see this video and tell the country why this minister has not yet been dismissed and this boy not yet arrested," Priyanka Gandhi asked two days after eight people were killed during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. The Congress general secretary asked the prime minister, in Lucknow on Tuesday to inaugurate a programme of the 'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations, to visit Lakhimpur Kheri and give justice to the farmers. While four of the dead in Sunday's incident were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the others were BJP workers and their driver who were allegedly lynched. On Monday, police registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, and several others over the death of the farmers. Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish have demanded a judicial probe into the violence. The minister has denied his son's presence at the crime scene and cited an alibi that he was at a local school where a wrestling match was underway on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Modi attacks previous SP govt in UP, says it created hindrances in implementation of housing scheme||Targeting the previous Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday alleged that it did not want to construct houses for the poor and created hindrances in the implementation of the central housing scheme. He said before 2017, Rs 18,000 crore was approved for Uttar Pradesh for constructing houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but not even 18 houses were built by the previous government. On the other hand, the Yogi Adityanath government has completed nine lakh houses under the scheme and 14 lakh are under construction, Modi said. The remarks came after the prime minister digitally handed over keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries. Modi said his government has made three crore poor families "lakhpati". He also inaugurated 'Azadi@75 -New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape' conference-cum-expo here. After arriving at Indira Gandhi Pratisthan, Modi, along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Governor Anandiben Patel, walked through the three exhibitions being set up in the expo. He also inquired about the Ayodhya development master plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Incenza a game changer in the traditional incense market||The traditional and most important constituent of every Indian pooja is the Aggarbati which has taken over globally but in a modified and redefined manner known as an incense stick. Incense sticks are thin, fine sticks coated with earthy and herbal particles which emit fragrance when lit. The pandemic situation has helped a lot, in terms of the incense industry become more self-reliant and start to innovate the basic agarbatti which saw some people reducing their purchase. This was happening due to several reasons like chemical substances, unpleasant smell, too much smoke affecting our respiratory and overall health. The incense industry in India is getting a total makeover, it’s showing tremendous growth in numbers by growing at a rate of 20 percent per annum. As this industry realized over a period that it was the hour to get the products modified with more competitive strategies and product mix, they came up with newer forms of incense sticks. Incenza is one of the big players in the incense industry which has come up with better products. They have launched next-generation sticks which come with nice fragrances and smooth incense sticks for all spheres of life. Incenza has for the first time introduced bamboo-less incense infused with essential oils. Even the other products are hundred percent charcoal free which is safe for the lungs. At the point when we take a gander at the product offering, they have planned and made it dependent on various states of mind, seasons, times, colors, and more. A very well-informed bouquet of items we should note. They have additionally utilized various shadings over their sticks which are likewise all-normal and sourced from regular vegetable-based stains. As we test and check they have guaranteed the wellbeing of their clients in all ways. While you consume these sticks it's absolutely lungs friendly and non-hypersensitive; the catching fire and streaming are pretty much as smooth as the air. We saw all the advancements and advertising pages of these sticks. They have on boarded a portion of the known and natural countenances from the business, who are attempting to change the customary method of seeing these sticks or something similar called Agarbatti. KK Gautam, Abhimanyu Nayyar, and Sachin Rana are the essence of the new age incense brand prepared to set new courses in the business. We know how interested and attracted you are to these thin fragrance sticks. To know more log on to this link now:  www.Incenza.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||LJP dispute: Chirag, Paras factions allotted separate names, poll symbols by EC||The Election Commission allocated names and poll symbols to the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions as an interim measure on Tuesday, days after barring them from using the name of the Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow'. In separate letters to Paswan and Paras, the poll panel said it has allotted the name 'Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas)' and the election symbol 'Helicopter' to the Chirag Paswan group. "Having considered your request, the commission has allotted the name 'Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party' for your group and has allotted the symbol 'Sewing Machine' as the symbol to be allotted to the candidate set up, if any, by your group in the current by-election," the EC told Paras. In an interim order on October 2, the EC had barred both the factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the two is settled by the poll panel. The interim order, signed by Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and fellow Election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, covers the October 30 by-polls to 30 assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats across India, including two assembly constituencies in Bihar. The order would "continue till the final determination of the dispute in the matter" according to provisions of the Election Symbol (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. The EC had said both the groups were free to choose the names of their liking, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party. "Both the groups shall also be allotted such different symbols as they may choose from the list of free symbols notified by the Election Commission for the purposes of the current by-elections, including Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies in Bihar," the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||How Super Select is Revolutionising the Way to Buy Luxury Pre-owned Cars||Super Select, is a pre-owned exotic and luxury car dealership by UAE'S Kings Group Venture. Led by Imran Shaikh and Kunal Jain, Super Select is aimed at bringing the finest pre-owned luxury cars to India. They opened their first showroom in India, in 2020 in Baner, Pune and are planning on setting up three more showrooms in the country by the end of 2022. This year, their second location at Hyderabad will become functional. Since opening its doors last year, Super Select has delivered over a 100 cars to a long list of A-listers. What sets Super Select apart from other pre-owned luxury car dealerships is their customer centric focus. Till now the trend in the pre-owned exotic and luxury car market has placed the seller above the customer. But Super Select's model creates a personalized buying experience for every client. Super Select onboards pre-owned vehicles after extensive physical examination and document authentication. It has over 150 criteria to judge the fitness of the vehicle and only the cream of the crop are picked by them. They have delivered the most premium car brands in the world like Rolls Royce, Buggati, Bentley, Lamborghini to Indian consumers.They also have a buy back agreement and offer easy exchange deals which makes the consumer's experience even better. Since the pandemic more and more people are preferring to buy their own vehicles to practice social distancing and to feel safer. With the option to buy pre-owned exotic and luxury cars, they are bringing home their dream cars and Super Select has caught the pulse of it by offering the best selection of pre-owned exotic and luxury cars. Further, Super Select's parent company plans on bringing another one of their ventures to the country - Autowerks. Autowerks is a detailing and body shop studio for supercars, located in Dubai. Autowerks offers a variety of services to luxury car owners such as wraps, custom peelable paints, custom detailings. Very soon, the Indian Customers will have Super Select and Autowerks offering the best in class services for pre owned exotic and luxury cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Rohini Court Shootout: Delhi Police gives suggestions on court security||Delhi Police told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that it has filed suggestions on maintaining security at courts in view of the recent shootout that killed three people in a Rohini courtroom here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked other stakeholders, including the Centre, Delhi government and various bar associations to also their give suggestions so that they could be incorporated in the order. All other respondents shall file a report or affidavit on suggestions which shall be incorporated in our order for the safety of advocates and all others appearing in courts in Delhi, the bench said while listing the matter for further hearing on October 12. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre and Delhi Police, said the police has filed its suggestions on the issue. The court also issued fresh notices to various bar associations here and asked them to file their reports. The high court had on September 30 initiated on its own a petition concerning security at courts in the national capital following the September 24 shootout at Rohini Court. The court had said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. Delhi Police, in its status report filed through Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi, made several suggestions including that use of technology should be maximised and physical presence of parties ought to be resorted to in extreme and compelling circumstances. It also said identity cards of lawyers who enter the court premises should be checked and only authorized vehicles should be allowed inside the premises after proper checking with security equipments. The police also said that security gadgets, installed at court premises are outdated and they shall be replaced with high resolution CCTV and monitors, 360-degree vehicle scanning with RF Tag/ bar code reader facilities, scanners for luggage and bag checking, scanners for explosive and NDPS checking. The Centre was represented through central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul. The high court had earlier issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government, as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association, and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. The bench had said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, CCTV cameras at strategic points, and proper training of police personnel as well as a regular meeting of all stakeholders. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. On September 28, Justice Rekha Palli had issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi on a petition filed by a woman advocate and said that the issue of security in district courts in the national capital was urgent as lawyers may also become victims of incidents similar to Rohini court shootout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Western culture has a strong influence on our clothing, says Vishal Soni, founder of Soni Enterprise||Western culture can be synonymous with influence very reluctantly, can’t it? As we have come across years by years we can only reckon how drastic changes this culture brought to ours. We have been adapting to this civilization even before we could realize it. The Colonial rule marked the beginning of western culture in the country and ever since then, we have been altering our wants accordingly. Our entire lifestyle has a gist of western culture. Addressing clothing, we all know how western culture has made our lives casual and comfy and maybe that is the reason why we are so much incited by this culture. Amidst the clutter of multiple brands selling 1000 varieties of western outfits in exchange for remarkably decent value, there are fewer brands that sell some affordable clothes without cutting over the quality. Soni Enterprise is one of these that deals in clothing and garments. Vishal Soni, owner of Soni enterprise once opened his views on Western culture and said “Western culture has a strong influence on our clothing.” We all will agree to this, wouldn’t we? Our casual clothing is highly driven by outfits that weren’t a part of our culture. Denim, T-shirts, joggers and now chinos none of these had an Indian origin. Each one is taken from western culture. Yet we have accepted them as we find our comfort in those clothes. Mr. Soni also says,” However, we have always added essence of our own even to this western outfit by introducing Indo-western, therefore I see no loss in being driven by western culture and clothing.” Vishal's words make us realize how prominent a part does western culture plays in our life and the fashion industry. Attachments ar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Adityanath govt reacts to protests with violence, oppression, says Priyanka Gandhi||Lashing out at the Yogi Adityanath government, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident is not an isolated one and charged that the Uttar Pradesh government's reaction to people raising their voice has been consistently that of violence and suppression. The Congress leader also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a visit to Lucknow for an event, and asked why is he is not going to Lakhimpur Kheri, which is just a 15-minute helicopter ride from here, to wipe the tears of families whose sons have been "brutally murdered". Gandhi was detained on Monday in Sitapur while on her way to Lakhimpur where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. Four of the dead were farmers allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The others included BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by the protesters. The UP government on Monday lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son and promised a probe by a retired high court judge. When asked how she saw the Lakhimpur incident, Gandhi in a telephonic interview to PTI, said, "I see it as a part of a bigger picture of what is happening in the state and the nation because it is not an isolated incident in the sense that the government's reaction to protests, to people raising their voices has consistently been that of violence and oppression". She charged, "This is an extreme situation that has arisen due to the consistent oppression that has been going on. So when anybody in Uttar Pradesh tries to protest, whether it is the students or teachers, they are beaten, oppressed and sent to jail". "There are violent reactions towards people who raise their voices either in protest or simply to demand their rights," she charged. Gandhi also charged that the focus of the Uttar Pradesh government has been propaganda and public relations instead of welfare of people. On her future course of protest over the violence, Gandhi said, "The farmers are still demanding the resignation of the minister and arrest of the accused." "I would like to understand that when government can arrest opposition leaders without an FIR or an order for their arrest, for the crime of trying to visit the victim's families, then why can't they arrest the accused who ran over the farmers and committed murder in full public view? It is clear that something is very wrong. I want to meet the families of the victims," she insisted. "But it's really not a question of what's happening to me, the main issue here is that when a horrendous crime has taken place why has the government not take any action? Why is it that the BJP Government is pushed into action only due to political pressure? Why is there no due process of law?," she said. "Why are media channels reinforcing to me that a minister, the father of the accused has stated that this (incident) has not happened at all? Why are we told to listen to the father of the accused who is a history-sheeter himself and had threatened those very people just a few days back? Why are we not listening to journalists who were present there, to the families of the victims and the eyewitnesses present at the time?" she said. Condemning all kinds of violence, she said, "For that matter even if BJP workers were killed there, it is wrong...they should not have been...any kind of violence visited upon anyone is wrong. We should speak up for justice for everybody". Asked about PM's visit to Lucknow on Tuesday and if she wanted to say anything to him, she said, "I would like to remind the prime minister that the freedom he is here to celebrate was given to us by the very farmers whose descendants have been protesting for months on end." "It is these very farmer's sons who stand at the borders of our nation protecting our freedom even today. As he sits on stage with his retinue of ministers I want to ask him why one of them, the father of the accused has not been sacked yet?", she said. "Why is UP's entire police force focussing on putting opposition leaders under arrest, placing the families of the murdered farmers under watch, cutting of the internet and sealing the district of Lakhimpur Kheri?," she added. Police have registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home, and several others over the death of the farmers. The minister, who is from the area, has denied allegations by the farmers' unions that his son was in one of the cars. Lashing out at the state government over its handling of the pandemic, she charged, "You must have seen even during the pandemic, the government turned against the people." The Congress leader said, "It (government) became an aggressor rather than being a supporter, a facilitator and helping the public during the national crisis. Because the focus of the government is to do its PR and propaganda to enable itself to remain in power and it isn't actually to uphold democratic values and ensure the security and safety of people." On the law and order in the state, Gandhi said, "I am amazed when I see these massive posters all over bus stands and hoardings in Delhi stating that UP is number one in law and order. Working here I see a completely different picture. I actually see a complete collapse of law and order, a collapse of governance where horrendously violent incidents take place." On the BJP's allegation that she visits Uttar Pradesh for political tourism, Gandhi said, "I want to ask them when a prime minister travels all around the world getting photo-ops with presidents, why is he is not called a tourist?" "When I come here and I visit the family of a rape victim or visit families of those who were shot during NRC/CAA (protests) or families of farmers who have been run over by a minister's son then I become a tourist. So, this is purely their propaganda, it is an attempt to paint me as a non-serious politician. I am sorry to tell them that they are not going to succeed because I am extremely serious about my job and my duty."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||BJP leader Uma Bharti slams Priyanka, Congress||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Tuesday said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and others in her party do not have the right to speak about farmers and democracy, the comments coming in the backdrop of recent violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Sitapur (Uttar Pradesh) on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri-laws began last year. On Tuesday, the Congress general secretary took to Twitter to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the person behind the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has not been arrested yet while she has been under "detention for the past 28 hours" without any order or FIR. Later, Bharti in a series of tweets in Hindi said, Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Mrs Vadra and other Congress leaders do not have the right to speak on issues over which they are speaking, The senior BJP leader claimed that agriculture and farmers were "left behind" because immediately after independence, (Mahatma) Gandhiji's dream of considering agriculture as the country's main economic base was "destroyed" by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. The Congress, which imposed Emergency in the country, has lost the right to pronounce the word democracy Congress leaders and workers burnt 10,000 Sikhs alive. So, the word non-violence doesn't suit the Congress, she further claimed. Bharti said her suggestion to Congress leaders is to have a positive attitude and cooperate with the (central) government to solve the problems of farmers. Earlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi shared a video on Twitter, which showed a group of protesting farmers being mowed down by an SUV. "@narendramodi ji your government has detained me for the past 28 hours without any order or FIR. Why the person who ran over farmers has not been arrested yet?" she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 209 days||India logged 18,346 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 209 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,53,048, while the active cases declined to 2,52,902, the lowest in 201 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,260 with 263 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections have remained below 30,000 for 11 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.75 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.93 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 11,556 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,41,642 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,53,94,042. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 36 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 102 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 50,886, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 91.54 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 263 new fatalities include 149 from Kerala and 26 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,49,260 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,233 from Maharashtra, 37,832 from Karnataka, 35,666 from Tamil Nadu, 25,526 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,837 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Kept in detention for more than 24 hours without order or FIR, alleges Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday why the person behind the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has not been arrested yet while she has been under "detention for the past 28 hours" without any order or FIR. She was detained in Sitapur on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri laws began last year. Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video on Twitter, which showed a group of protesting farmers being mowed down by an SUV. "@narendramodi ji your government has detained me for the past 28 hours without any order or FIR. Why the person who ran over farmers has not been arrested yet?" she said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress media and communication vice chairman Pankaj Srivastava said the party general secretary, who was detained at 4.30 am on Monday, has been in detention for the past 28 hours. "She is not being allowed to meet her lawyers and the administration is not telling her reasons for her detention," he said. Besides Priyanka Gandhi, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar, Youth Congress national president BV Srinivas, party MLC Deepak Singh are also under detention, Srivastava said. He said there is anger among Congress workers due to the illegal detention of party leaders. "The prime minister is coming for a celebration in Lucknow while the farmers of Lakhimpur are waiting for justice," he added. Four of the dead were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others were BJP workers and their driver, allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by the protesters. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||NCB arrests 2 more persons in cruise ship drug case||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested two more persons in connection with the case of seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB official said on Tuesday. The anti-drugs agency had earlier arrested nine people, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, after raiding the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. After the raid, the NCB's Mumbai zonal unit started a crackdown on drug peddlers connected with the arrested persons. The agency sleuths also brought some suspects, including from the cruise ship, to the NCB's office here for an enquiry, the official said. During the questioning of suspects, the role of two more persons came to light, following which they were placed under arrest, the official said without disclosing their identity. So far, 11 people have been arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs from the cruise ship. The NCB on Monday claimed before a city court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking. The Narcotics Control Bureau, which got the remand of Aryan Khan (23) and the other eight accused from the court till Thursday, also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats he is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer claimed no drugs were recovered from his client's possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Barbarism seen in Lakhimpur Kheri outraged nation: Baghel||The Congress on Monday argued that heinous crimes such as mowing down innocent farmers occur when governments start believing in their false propaganda that the protests are organised by criminals and terrorists who need to be ruthlessly crushed. The Congress recalled the RSS-BJP narrative over the past few months, which ranged from character assassination to threats of retribution, and the Narendra Modi government’s attempt to brand the critics and opponents of farm laws as anti-nationals. The call by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to form 500-700 volunteers in every district and start giving tit-for-tat lessons to farmers with “lathi” was cited, as was the threat issued by central minister Ajay Misra Teni, whose son is accused of mowing down the farmers. Both Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala dwelt on Khattar’s instigation. They also recalled how the Uttar Pradesh BJP put out a cartoon warning farmer leader Rakesh Tikait of Yogi Adityanath’s propensity for peeling off the skin of troublemakers. Several BJP leaders have described the protesting farmers as terrorists, criminals and mawali (hooligan). Baghel, who was on Monday denied permission to land in Lucknow as he wanted to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “The barbarism seen in Lakhimpur has outraged the nation. The BJP line was to crush the farmers; they are inspired by the British. We were yesterday reminded of Jallianwala Bagh massacre. What is the mindset of the central government? So many states have passed resolutions against farm laws, agitations are going on for nine months, is this the way to treat farmers in a democracy?” Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s chopper was not given permission to land in Lucknow. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was stopped at Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border as he was trying to go to Lakhimpur. Baghel said: “Have the normal civic rights been suspended in Uttar Pradesh? It is normal for politicians and social workers to visit people who have suffered tragedy, to console the affected families, to demand justice. This autocratic behaviour will not be tolerated.” Channi also wondered how the government could disallow the people’s movement. The Congress central leadership is convinced this was a planned conspiracy, not an accident that occurred in Lakhimpur and hence the main target remained the Prime Minister. Most Congress leaders wondered why the Prime Minister had not sacked the Union minister of state for home after his involvement in the crime became obvious. They also questioned his silence. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “He who is silent on this inhuman massacre is dead already. But we will not allow this sacrifice to go waste.” New recruit Kanhaiya Kumar tweeted: “Prachar-mantri who speaks nonsense on every issue is silent on farmers’ death. Is the secret of his silence is that he eats commission from the dishonest, not the food produced by the farmers?” In another tweet, he said: “Dhongiji (reference to Adityanath) should have used his energies to stop the car of the errant son of central minister instead of stopping the 2 opposition leaders from meeting the victim’s families. Look at the highhandedness — will passport be required to move around in our country now?” Former Union minister and Congress veteran Salman Khurshid, who wanted to reach Sitapur to provide legal assistance to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who was detained there, was not allowed to step out of his home by the police. Khurshid later tweeted: “Cry beloved country because tears too have been arrested. It is a crime to stand by hurt humanity. Dark days are here. But we will light a million lamps to counter evil unleashed upon our land.” Party general secretary in charge of the organisation K.C. Venugopal issued instructions to state units to hold protests at every district headquarters across the country against the illegal detention of Priyanka Gandhi. Protests will continue on Tuesday while massive demonstrations happened over a dozen places on Monday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Opposition leaders shut out of Lakhimpur Kheri||Several Opposition leaders headed to Lakhimpur Kheri in the aftermath of the violence that left nine people dead were stopped midway or detained on Monday, barring Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait who managed to reach Tikunia early in the morning along with his supporters. “The police realised they wouldn’t be able to stop me and didn’t confront me,” Tikait said in Lakhimpur Kheri. However, Akhilesh Yadav, former chief minister and Samajwadi Party president, Shivpal Singh Yadav, leader of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and some other leaders who had decided to start for Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning, couldn’t leave Lucknow. They were detained in the state capital and released in the evening. Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary, who started from his home in Baghpat on Monday morning, outfoxed the government machinery at many places and his aides claimed he was close to the spot. He was yet to reach there till the time of filing this report. Videos shared on social media by Jayant’s supporters showed him running on the road and escaping the clutches of the policemen at a tollbooth in Shahjahanpur. He was also seen running on the highway. In one video, he was seen walking with his face covered with a cloth. Akhilesh was detained minutes after he came out of his home where his convoy was waiting for him. The police took him to Eco Garden in the city along with his over 50 supporters. “This kind of Hitlershahi was never seen before in the Indian democracy. The government is still protecting the Union minister of state for home (Ajay Misra Teni) and his son (Ashish Misra). They should have been arrested by now on the charge of provoking the people to attack the farmers and crushing them under their SUV. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya went to Banbirpur, the Union minister’s village, and attended a government-organised function even after the minister’s son and organiser of one of the programmes had killed the farmers sometime ago,” the SP chief said. Teni had addressed a meeting of his supporters in Lakhimpur’s Palia area where he said: “I will teach them (the farmers) in two minutes if they don’t mend their ways…. They will not be able to live in Lakimpur Kheri, let alone Palia.” Shivpal was detained for a few hours and then allowed to go home in Lucknow. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad were stopped in Sitapur district and forced to return to Saharanpur and Lucknow, respectively. Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat was detained in Dehradun while trying to proceed towards Lakhimpur Kheri. He was released in the evening. Earlier, some unidentified people torched a police jeep in front of Akhilesh’s residence on Vikramaditya Marg. The farmers attacked the police in Lucknow, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar but there was no report of any injury. Prashant Kumar, additional director-general of police (law and order), said in Lakhimpur Kheri: “We cannot allow any political leader to reach here as the situation is still not normal. We cannot allow anybody to further vitiate law and order in the area. The leaders of farmer unions can come here alone.” Tikait said the “cruel incident” of Lakhimpur Kheri had once again exposed the undemocratic face of the BJP government. “We will defeat the BJP in the next elections. We will support any party that defeats the BJP candidates in Assembly and Lok Sabha (polls). You keep crushing and killing us till then,” Tikait added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi demands CBI probe into Lakhimpur Kheri incident||BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh Varun Gandhi on Monday said a murder case should be lodged against those involved in the death of the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe into the incident while central BJP leaders maintained silence and the Hindutva ecosystem sought to defame the protesting farmers. Varun, who represents the Pilibhit Lok Sabha constituency, wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, stressing that the death of the agitating farmers had “caused anger and anguish among the people of the country”. “I urge you that all the suspects involved in this case be immediately identified and strictest action be taken by instituting a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC,” the BJP MP wrote in the letter, underlining that the protesting farmers were “our own citizens”. He urged Adityanath, known for his highhanded approach towards the protesters, to “deal with the farmers with sensitivity and only in the Gandhian and democratic way within the ambit of law”. In his letter, Varun said the CBI should investigate the incident in a time-bound manner under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Varun has been relentlessly raising the farmers’ issue and urging Adityanath to lend a sympathetic ear, annoying a section of the BJP. This strong stand by the ruling party MP comes amid silence of the top leadership and a concerted effort by a section of the wider Hindutva family to defame the protesting farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar have not said a word. The incident comes in the middle of a massive propaganda launched by the ruling party to refurbish Modi’s image as the “most lovable global leader”. The drive had started on Modi’s birthday on September 17 and is scheduled to continue till October 7. Modi’s tenure as Gujarat chief minister is being included to hail his electorally unbeaten stint of “20 years in public service as head of state”. BJP insiders said the top leadership had left it to Adityanath to handle the incident and given him a free hand. There is, however, concern in a section of the party about the impact of the farmer deaths on the upcoming polls. Led by Modi, the BJP has been terming the prolonged farmers’ protest as politically motivated, claiming that the masterminds of the agitation were political rivals who were deliberately spreading misinformation about the three farm laws. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws terming them as “anti-farmer”. BJP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Harish Chandra Srivastava tweeted: “Yesterday in Lakhimpur, Khalistanis killed BJP workers and today attacked a police station in Lucknow and set it on fire with the support of the goons of the Samajwadi party.” The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, the RSS-affiliated farmers’ association, said: “Those involved in the incident were not farmers, they belonged to different political parties. The incident was executed in a Leftist manner.” A purported video showing a protester beating up someone with a stick was circulated on social media by BJP members. BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh took to Twitter to target the Congress. “A dangerous precedent is being forced into our system by increasingly radicalised @INCIndia,” he said on Congress chief ministers wanting to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. “What if tomorrow other party CMs also decide to visit every violent incident in @INCIndia ruled states...?” he asked. Some netizens were quick to point him out that Modi as Gujarat chief minister had visited Mumbai during the 26/11 terror attack, while the security forces were battling Pakistani terrorists, and even held a news conference. On a section of the BJP calling the farmers extremists, Varun said it was not only “unfair but also dangerous”. “This (Sikh farmers) is a community that has laid down lives for the country.... Those who call them traitors should be ashamed of themselves,” Varun said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Youth killed in Belgaum district, seven Hindu group activists held||Seven people linked to a Right-wing Hindu organisation and a Hindu girl’s father have been detained after the dismembered body of a Muslim youth was found near a railway track in Belgaum last week, police sources said. Najeema Shaikh, mother of the murdered Arbaz Aftab Mulla, 24, said members of the little-known “Sree Ram Sena Hindustan” had earlier threatened harm if the young man did not break off his relationship with the Hindu girl. She added that the girl and the Sena had colluded in extorting money from her son. Sources said that on September 29, a day after Mulla’s body was found, the police had seized an abandoned ambulance, with “Sree Ram Sena Hindustan” emblazoned on its windshield, near the spot. Officially, the police said that eight people had been detained for questioning on Sunday but did not identify them or link them to any organisation. Nor did they mention the ambulance. Mulla was found with his head and a leg severed near a railway track at Khanapur in Belgaum district, some 500km from Bangalore, on September 28. The railway police found signs that the victim had been tortured with his hands tied, and transferred the case to Khanapur police station. The police have not revealed what the post-mortem says about the cause of death. Najeema, who identified her son’s body, lodged a police complaint of murder against the girl’s father and members of the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan. A larger group named Sree Ram Sene had over a decade ago gained notoriety in coastal Karnataka through acts of moral policing, such as harassing Valentine’s Day couples and thrashing women pub-goers. Sene founder Pramod Muthalik has denied any involvement with the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan. Najeema, a teacher at a government Urdu-medium school, told The Telegraph on Monday that she and her son had been repeatedly threatened by the girl’s father, Kumbar, and activists belonging to the group, Pundalik Maharaj and Birje. All three are named in the FIR, which doesn’t mention the first names of Kumbar and Birje. Najeema, who lost her husband two years ago, said she had told her son to end the relationship in the face of the persistent threats. “The girl used to be our neighbour when I first moved to Khanapur (a small town in Belgaum) after getting transferred two years ago,” she said. When she realised the two youngsters had fallen in love, she moved to a house in nearby Belgaum town, sensing the trouble the relationship could cause. “Yet they somehow managed to stay in touch,” she said. “Maharaj asked me to take my son to meet them in Khanapur on September 26. At the meeting, I promised that my son would stay away from the girl,” she added. “They deleted the entire contents, including messages, from my son’s phone. Maharaj threatened us, saying he had some 40 cases against him and one more wouldn’t matter.” She added: “At that point the girl called Maharaj and asked him to make us pay a sum as a settlement. Maharaj gave us a phone number to which we paid Rs 7,000 since that’s all we had.” Najeema said that Mulla later told her the girl had demanded Rs 90,000. “On September 27 he sold his car for Rs 70,000. But I have no idea where that money has gone,” she said. “And yet, after all that, they cut my son into pieces.” Najeema now lives alone. Her daughter lives in Britain.In June, Dalit youth Basavaraj Madivalappa Badiger, 19, and Muslim girl Davalbi Bandagisab Tambad, 18, were found bludgeoned to death in Bijapur, north Karnataka. They were apparently in a relationship. The police arrested the girl’s father, brother and two brothers-in-law based on an eyewitness account from Badiger’s mother, who said her son was tied to a tree and clubbed to death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||India inaugurates drone-based vaccine delivery service||India on Monday inaugurated a drone-based vaccine delivery service, using a robotic flying machine to ferry Covid-19 vaccines to a health centre in Manipur and adopting a technology already commercialised for medical supplies in other countries. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya launched the drone service’s first flight, an aerial distance of about 15km from Bishnupur district hospital to Karang island in Loktak lake, where 10 people received the first dose and eight received the second dose. “This is for the first time a make-in-India drone has been used in South Asia to transport Covid-19 vaccines,” Mandaviya said. “We can use drones to deliver life-saving medicines, collect blood samples. This technology may prove a game-changer in addressing challenges in healthcare delivery, particularly health supplies in difficult areas.” The drone service, intended to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to remote areas and hard-to-reach terrain, is currently approved for implementation in Manipur, Nagaland and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the health ministry said. The flight on Monday follows an initial study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, to test the capacity of drones to ferry and deliver vaccines to sites in Manipur, Nagaland and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the regulatory authority for aircraft, and other authorities granted permission to fly the vaccine delivery drones beyond the visual line of sight on the basis of the results of the ICMR-IIT studies, the health ministry said. The Union civil aviation ministry in August this year had notified a set of “liberalised drone rules” to facilitate growth of the drone industry that has potential applications in agriculture, infrastructure, surveillance, emergency response, transportation and law enforcement. Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles, initially adopted for the military or aerospace sectors, have expanded worldwide over the years into commercial domains. The global drone market in terms of revenue was worth $18.2 billion in 2020 and is projected to reach $40 billion by 2027. At least 18 countries have deployed drones for the delivery and transportation purposes during the Covid-19 pandemic, a Unicef report has said. Some of them have adopted regular drone deliveries. Rwanda, Ghana and Malawi have used drones for regular medical supplies since the start of the pandemic, the report said. “All three countries already had drone operations prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, therefore, drone operations were adapted in all three countries in order to respond to the increased demand of the medical commodities and Covid-19 supplies,” it said. Earlier this year, Ghana’s government used a US firm Zipline to deliver Covid-19 vaccines via drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Show me the order, show me the warrant: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra stole out of her Lucknow home at midnight, dodging the police, when most Opposition leaders would have been waiting for daybreak to start their journey to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least nine people, including four farmers, have been killed. By 2am on Monday, she had already travelled 600km from Delhi and reached Sitapur, 100km from the site of Sunday’s violence, before she was detained. A video showed her sweeping a room at what appeared the guesthouse of the Second Battalion, Provincial Armed Constabulary, in Sitapur city where the Congress general secretary was detained. Late on Monday evening, she was still there. Priyanka had arrived in Lucknow from Delhi around 10pm on Sunday. The police virtually barricaded her rented accommodation, Kaul House at Gokhle Marg, but Priyanka’s aides said she somehow sneaked out close to midnight. She walked half a kilometre to Balu Adda, where a Congress politician’s car was waiting. She travelled about 80km without being noticed before she was stopped in heavily barricaded Sitapur. With thousands of farmers having set off for Lakhimpur Kheri on foot from across Uttar Pradesh, the administration had blockaded every road to Tikunia, where Sunday’s violence took place. Stopped in Sitapur and asked by the police to accompany them to the guesthouse, Priyanka put up a fight, a video circulating on social media suggests. “Listen to me, show me the warrant, otherwise I’m not moving from here. And I shall file a case of kidnapping against you if you force me to sit in that vehicle,” Priyanka tells a police officer, presumably referring to a police SUV. “I shall make the charge against you in particular,” she adds. Local sources identified the officer as the circle officer. The officer then summons a group of policewomen. Priyanka takes a few steps towards the officer and says: “Why are you taking the help of women? Do you fear women? Show me the warrant, tell me on what ground you are removing me from here. I will not move from here.” Deepender Singh Hooda, a Congress Rajya Sabha member standing close to Priyanka, tells the police: “You hit Priyankaji (aapne haath uthaya) today.” A voice, presumably of a policeman, says: “Who hit her? None did.” Hooda says: “I saw you attack her, I’m the witness.” Policemen then push Hooda out of the frame. “See, you have started again. You have started again. Stop them. Stop him. You do not dare talk to a woman but you are beating him,” Priyanka says and appears to push away a policewoman who is trying to grab her arm. “Show me the order, show me the warrant. And if you don’t have this, then you don’t have any right to stop me. We are four people. Show us what your legal ground is. What do you think — you can beat people; you can crush the farmers?” A posse of policewomen then push Priyanka out of the frame. While journalists and Congress supporters were prevented from getting near the Provincial Armed Constabulary compound, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was allowed to meet Priyanka late in the morning. He brought her some fruits. Lallu told reporters in the afternoon: “Priyankaji has sent a message to supporters, saying they should maintain peace and that she has decided not to return without meeting the victims of the BJP leaders.” He added: “She says she prefers going to jail instead of returning. People in the government crushed the farmers under the wheels of their car and now they want to crush us. “She has told her supporters the government must bow before democracy and allow her to go on and meet the families of the victims. We were the first to start this battle against the killer government and we will take it to a conclusion.” From the guesthouse, Priyanka tweeted: “The Union minister and his son are responsible for political tension in Lakhimpur Kheri. Why is the BJP government protecting them? The government should take prompt action against the BJP leaders instead of taking me into custody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||SC to examine farmers’ right to protest on sub-judice issue||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine the constitutionality of the farmers’ right to protest on a sub-judice issue, particularly when the controversial farm laws had been stayed and were “not in force”. The court said the “central issue” was “whether the right to protest is an absolute right”. It also referred to the death of four protesting farmers under a car’s wheels — to which a Union minister’s son has been linked — in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday. “When such events happen, nobody takes responsibility. When damage to property and physical violence is caused, no one takes responsibility. Deaths also take place,” the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravi Kumar observed orally. The observation came following a request from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, who was representing the Centre along with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “Your Lordships may please make it clear they (farmers) can’t continue the protests. All of us have seen the unfortunate incidents that have happened,” Venugopal said, alluding to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. In January, the apex court had stayed the three farm laws while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by farmers, individuals and NGOs, challenging their constitutionality. “Why the protest when the law is not in force at all? We have stayed the laws, the government has said it is not implementing it. Then why the protests?” Justice Khanwilkar asked advocate Ajay Chaudhary, who was appearing for petitioner Kisan Mahapanchayat, a Rajasthan-based farmers’ organisation. “How can the executive allow these protests? What is the validity of these protests?” The court made the observation after Venugopal and Mehta contended that the farmers, protesting on Delhi’s borders since end-November, could not continue their agitation after having approached the apex court. Venugopal said the government had made it clear that it would not withdraw the three laws but leave their constitutionality to be decided by the apex court. The court was hearing the Kisan Mahapanchayat’s petition to be allowed to protest on Delhi’s Jantar Mantar Road, a designated protest site. The Mahapanchayat is not part of the Delhi border protests. “What’s the point of protesting at Jantar Mantar?… You can’t do both, challenge a law and then go and protest. Either come to court or go to Parliament or go to the road (protest),” the bench said. Justice Khanwilkar directed that a petition filed by the Kisan Mahapanchayat before Rajasthan High Court, challenging the three laws, be transferred to the apex court. The order passed by the bench said: “We deem it appropriate to examine the central issue as to whether the right to protest is an absolute right and, more so, the writ petitioner having already invoked the legal remedy before the constitutional court by filing writ petition, can be permitted to urge much less assert that they can still resort to protest in respect of the same subject matter which is already sub-judice before the court.” The matter will be heard again on October 21. Another Supreme Court bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, has issued notices to 43 farmers’ organisations participating in the protests on Delhi’s borders. The Haryana government had requested the bench to implead these organisations in relation to a petition filed by a Noida-based woman seeking removal of the highway blockades caused on Delhi’s borders by the farmers’ protests. Morcha’s stand The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, again clarified on Monday that it had never approached the Supreme Court or any other court for resolution of the core issues of the agitation: repeal of the three anti-farmer central laws and enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support price. The SKM said it had always believed that the three central laws have to be repealed by the government itself. Towards this end, the SKM has written to the President and the Prime Minister asking for the dialogue to be resumed and demands to be fulfilled. “The SKM did not approach the Court even on the constitutionality matter — while it is important that state government’s constitutional authority over agriculture has to be restored and strengthened, it is equally important to realise that the issues with the farm laws are not just about constitutionality, or lack thereof. It is about the implications of the farm laws on farmers and the death blow to their fragile livelihoods. While the laws might have been suspended from implementation for now, the SKM realises that the stay can be lifted any day. Therefore, the movement has insisted on a full repeal of the laws.’’ The SKM underscored that the petitioner in this case has got nothing to do with the Morcha. As for blocking the highways, the SKM said farmers have not put up any barricades or blockades on the roads. “It was the Haryana, UP and Delhi police which did so. Farmers have, in fact, kept the roads clear for traffic on both sides at the Morcha sites. Public inconvenience, if any, is being caused by the police which has barricaded the highways,” the Morcha said. Additional reporting by Our Special Correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Fingers point at Union minister’s son||Several people who said they were eyewitnesses to Sunday’s bloodshed in Lakhimpur Kheri painted a gory picture of a convoy of SUVs, which they linked to a Union minister, mowing down four farmers. One of them, local farmer leader Guramneet Singh Mangat, said an aide had saved his life by throwing him off the road as the SUVs sped past in a “zigzag manner”. On Monday night, a video emerged that showed a group of men, many of them carrying black flags and some of them wearing the green scarves of protesting farmers, walking down a road that cuts through green fields. The sound of sirens wailing can be heard as an SUV speeds up from behind, ploughs through the men and races away, raising a cloud of dust. A couple of young men jump out of its way just in time. An elderly man in a yellow turban and white shirt is seen turning his head but it is too late -– he gets flung on to the bonnet of the speeding vehicle. A man who has fallen on the side is seen trying to get up but he falls again as another vehicle speeds down the road, following the first. On social media, the video was shared as a “live” account of the mowing down of the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. However, this could not be independently confirmed. Most of witnesses alleged that Union minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel of one of the SUVs that crushed farmers under its wheels. Teni and Ashis have denied this, saying Ashis was 4km away at the time. One — a police constable who wouldn’t give his name — told reporters some farmers had stopped Ashis’s car after the alleged atrocity and pulled him out, following which he shot a farmer dead. But local farmer Kulwant Singh and a journalist said Ashis’s car had sped away after allegedly crushing people. Mangat said he had heard that Ashis had fired a shot but knew nothing more about it. Aman Deep Singh Sandhu, a local Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, said he saw Ashis step out of his car and fire while someone else too fired from one of the cars. Asked about this, Teni told a news conference in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday: “My son has a licensed revolver in his name but he was not at the spot.” Additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar told reporters in Tikunia, the place where the violence occurred, that an FIR for murder and criminal conspiracy had been filed on the basis of the farmers’ complaints. He didn’t name the suspects but Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who was at Kumar’s side, said: “The police have registered an FIR against the minister’s son and 13 supporters. Monu is absconding. A case of conspiracy against the minister will also be registered after the inquiry.” Kumar did not contradict Tikait but said it would take “eight days to fix the responsibility” and any arrests would be made only after an inquiry. He said seven local people had been detained but didn’t reveal who. The officer added that the government had agreed to have a judicial inquiry under a retired Allahabad High Court judge and give Rs 45 lakh and a job to the family of each of the five slain farmers, and Rs 10 lakh to each of the injured. Four more people had died on Sunday after four farmers were mowed down, the police had said. Umbrella farmer body Samyukta Kisan Morcha had said a shot fired from the convoy Ashis was leading had killed a fifth farmer. Teni had alleged that a stone thrown by the farmers had killed his driver, causing an accident that cost lives, and claimed three BJP workers had also been killed. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull on Monday identified the five dead farmers as Daljeet Singh, Luv Preet Singh, Gurvindar Singh, Jagjit Singh and Nachchattar Singh. Tikait said Jagjit was shot dead and rest crushed under wheels. Eight farmers are injured. Dhull said the other deceased were Hari Om – the driver of one of the SUVs – and Shyam Sundar and Shubham Singh, whose details he didn’t give. The eyewitness accounts largely agreed on the broad picture but differed on some details. Sandhu, the BKU leader, told The Telegraph: “I was standing on a tractor trolley near the helipad, about 20 metres from the road. I’m not sure how many vehicles were there but I remember three — a Thar, a Fortuner and a Scorpio. “All of them were travelling at high speed. While the Thar started crushing the farmers on the road, the other two followed it. We ran towards them but saw Monu Misra step out and fire. Someone else too was firing from the Thar. “A bus was coming from the opposite side, so the first two vehicles jumped off the road. The Scorpio driver managed to drive away. I don’t know how Monu escaped but we caught two criminals — one from Allahabad and the other from Lucknow — and handed them over to the police. Perhaps they were Teni’s sharpshooters.” Narrow escape Mangat told reporters in Tikunia on Sunday night the farmers had learnt that deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya would be attending a wrestling programme in Teni’s village, Banvirpur, in Tikunia and decided to “show him black flags peacefully”. “So the farmers arrived near the (makeshift) helipad and sat there. Then we learnt he was coming by road, so people stood on both sides of the road along a 3km stretch,” he said. “Many of their (Teni’s) guests and other people passed down the same road. We showed them black flags but no one was pelted with stones. We then came to know that Mauryaji had arrived (at the village) using another route. We then announced that all the farmers should return home. “I was talking to someone when Vishnu, my aide, suddenly pushed me and I fell on the side of the road. I asked what happened, who are these crazy people driving so fast? They were driving their vehicles in a zigzag manner. Then they fired a bullet. Someone said the man who fired was Monu Misra.” “Many farmers are critical. They intentionally ran over us. Even the officers saved themselves somehow. Then one of their vehicles turned upside down and one person died in the car. The Fortuner skidded off the road because it was speeding. It crushed someone and lost balance.” Mangat added: “They fled (drove away) while firing. We caught two of their people --- they were from Allahabad and Lucknow and were criminals. We don’t remember their names but handed them over to the police safely.” Mangat underlined that Teni had threatened to teach the protesting farmers “a lesson” at a meeting in Sampurna Nagar, Palia, a few days ago. “We had shown him black flags. When he (Teni) climbed onto the dais he said he was a big goonda... and would teach us a lesson. He said, ‘I will raze their houses and schools’.... It doesn’t become a minister.” Asked about a video that purportedly shows a man being beaten up by farmers, Mangat said: “It is possible. What will your friend do if someone runs you over or fires at you? People were agitated. But we handed their people to the police. We didn’t want to commit any crime.” He added: “There was a huge force here and the police would have lathi-charged us had we pelted them with stones.” Kulwant, the local farmer, told a TV channel: “We were standing near the Agrasen College on the Tikunia-Banvirpur Road, carrying black flags. Some policemen were there, asking us to maintain peace. Suddenly two jeeps came at full pelt and crushed those who were on the road. “Monu was driving the first jeep. Later, I saw two more SUVs coming behind them at high speed. Both these jumped off the road and turned turtle. I don’t know what happened thereafter. Soon, the farmers attacked those who were in the last two vehicles.” The constable who sought anonymity told reporters: “Monu was in the driver’s seat in a Thar with two supporters. There were at least four more SUVs and cars behind him, driving at full speed, running over farmers. “At least four farmers came under the wheels of Monu Misra and again under another SUV. Some farmers stopped Monu and pulled him out. Monu whipped out a revolver and fired, hitting one of the farmers in the head, and he fell there. Monu and some of his supporters then fled on a motorcycle.” A journalist who was at the spot said: “The farmers had been stopped at a distance from the Tikunia crossing through which Maurya’s motorcade was supposed to pass. Maurya somehow reached Banvirpur, where Monu Misra had organised a wrestling competition. “Maurya was also scheduled to lay the foundation stones for a few local development projects. As the farmers waited to show him black flags, Maurya seemed to have concluded his programme in a hurry and left along some other route.” Sources said Maurya had skipped the foundation stone ceremonies. “Maybe Monu Misra was angry because Maurya had left quickly. Monu was definitely in an open jeep and there were five more SUVs in his convoy. As the farmers saw the BJP flags on the vehicles, they started chanting: ‘BJP murdabad, Teni murdabad, Monu Misra murdabad’,” the journalist said. “Suddenly, Monu speeded up, running over the farmers. Another SUV did the same. Then they escaped. Someone opened fire there but I cannot say who.” At his news conference, Teni said Maurya had not yet reached the village when the incident took place. If so, Maurya attended the wrestling contest even after farmers had been mowed down in the area. “My son was at the event in Banvirpur, 4km from the violence site,” Teni said. “Our supporters were going to receive Maurya (at the helipad) when the farmers stopped them and started pelting them with stones and attacked them with lathis and swords. It was in this situation that some farmers came under the wheels of a car.” Teni claimed the violence was committed by members of the banned organisation Babbar Khalsa, which is in line with the government’s past attempts to malign the farmers agitating on Delhi’s borders as Khalistanis. Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, BJP Rajya Sabha member, claimed that the farmers protesting at Tikunia were supporters of militant leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was killed in 1984. ADG Kumar said: “The farmers have allowed us to take the bodies of the dead for post-mortem. Their last rites will be performed by their families thereafter.” Tikait, flagging the FIR, said: “This is just the beginning. I appeal to the farmers to wait and watch.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Fact-finding team paints a grim picture of Assam government||A delegation of rights defenders who visited Assam’s Darrang district, where a day labourer and a child were killed in a land reclamation drive in a minority-dominated settlement last month, has reconstructed a grim picture of the government and private groups creating a situation that culminated in the police firing. The fact-finding team has also reproduced an account that sheds more light on a related incident in which a photographer stomped on the day labourer, Maynal Hoque, moments after he was shot. Footage of the atrocity had sent shock waves across the world. The Association for the Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, recommended in its report rehabilitation measures for the eviction-affected and punishment for “guilty” police personnel. Hoque, 33, and Shakh Farid, 12, fell to police bullets on September 23 during the eviction drive in Gorukhuti village near Sipajhar. Several other villagers suffered gunshot wounds and 11 police personnel too were injured in the clash. The APCR report, titled “Eviction, State Violence and Hate”, says: “In July 2021, (Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa) Sarma announced that his government will create a ‘population army’ to ‘curb the birth rate in Muslim-dominated districts’…. Sarma said in July 2021 that shooting at criminals ‘should be the pattern’ if they attempt to escape from custody or try to snatch arms from the police to open fire. ‘If an accused tries to snatch the service gun and run away, or even simply flee, and on top of it he is, say, a rapist, law allows shooting at such a person on the leg, but not on the chest,’ he said.” The report added: “On September 20, Upamanyu Hazarika, convenor of the PVM (Prabajan Virodhi Manch, an anti-immigration NGO), said in a press statement it was the ‘local indigenous’ who were made to suffer as their lands were acquired for the agriculture project, and the encroachers remained ‘undisturbed’. However, those who are living on the land said they have been residing there since 1965, with their ancestors buying small plots of land from locals. The transaction took place without any paperwork. “At least 200 families from Dhalpur 3 moved Gauhati High Court against the eviction late last month. The government, in response, filed an affidavit, saying the ‘settlers’ were on government land. The evictions in question came before the petitioners could file a reply.” Offering a wider perspective, the report said: “It is clear that Muslim residents of the affected area are suffering under discriminatory labels of ‘illegality’ imposed by the government and Right-wing elements in the civil society. This narrative of being ‘infiltrators’, despite figuring in the NRC (National Register of Citizens), would make it difficult for them to settle anywhere in the state.” During the release of the report at the Press Club of India on Monday, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said: “The recent incidents show that the State is willing to use disproportionate force to quell protests, whether violent or peaceful. Rule of law is replaced by the rule of guns.” Author Farah Naqvi said: “The Assam incident should not be seen in isolation. This is the manifestation of a systemic injection of hate across the country. We have crossed the Rubicon where acts of violence are from the state government itself and not from any mob.” The APCR report quotes Aamir Hussain, the brother of Farid who was shot dead, as saying: “There is only one way to come home. He had no option but to go through the area. He was hit on his way back home.” His father Khaliq, who was not among the evictees, fell unconscious when he saw his son’s body being brought by villagers on a horse cart. Hoque, a father of three, was his household’s sole earner. The report said: “As Haque (the name is spelt Hoque in the Aadhaar card) and his family members were packing up, four-five policemen barged into his shade and started thrashing everyone, including women and children. Hasna Bano, the deceased’s niece, suffered a broken hand in the beating. She recounts that the police hit her from behind. This enraged Haque who took a bamboo and chased the cops, who surrounded and beat him up before shooting him dead. “No representatives of the district administration or the state government have visited the aggrieved family as yet to console them and share their grief, leave aside offering a compensation. “After Haque fell to the ground unconscious, Bijay Shankar Baniya, a photographer hired by the Darrang district administration to film the eviction, started stomping on his body in the presence of the heavy police force.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Supreme Court clears Covid aid,  lays down norms||The Supreme Court on Monday approved Rs 50,000 as ex gratia for relatives of the Covid dead over and above other compensation that they are entitled to or have already been given by respective state governments or authorities. The ex gratia should be disbursed by the states and Union Territories from their respective State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), the bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna said in a written order. The relatives of patients who succumb to Covid in the future will also be entitled to the Rs 50,000 ex gratia, according to the order. None of the claimants can be denied the ex gratia because of the lack of a death certificate listing the cause of death as Covid-19, provided they are able to furnish other evidence before the competent authorities or the grievance redress committees to be constituted in all district headquarters, the court said. The court also detailed what will count as “deaths due to Covid-19”. The bench issued the directives while dealing with a PIL filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal that sought Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to each family that had lost a member to the pandemic. Nearly 5 lakh people have so far died of Covid-19 in the country. The following directives were also issued by the Supreme Court bench. *The ex gratia shall be disbursed by the district disaster management authority/ district administration. * Full particulars and address of the district disaster management authority/ district administration who is required to disburse the ex gratia shall be widely published/ broadcast in the print and electronic media within one week. Such information shall also be published in the prominent offices of the village/ taluk/ district, such as gram panchayat office, taluk panchayat office, district collector’s office and corporation office. ⚫ The ex gratia shall be disbursed within 30 days of the submission of the application along with proof of death from Covid-19 and with the cause of death certified as “died due to Covid-19”. ⚫ If the cause of death mentioned in the death certificate is not conclusive and if other documents are provided, the next of kin will be entitled to the ex gratia. ⚫ No state shall deny the ex gratia solely on the ground that in the death certificate, the cause of death is not mentioned as Covid. ⚫ In case of any grievance about the certification of death, the aggrieved person can approach a committee at the district level, consisting of the additional district collector, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), the additional CMOH/principal or head of department, medicine, of a medical college (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert. The committee shall take remedial measures, including the issuance of amended official document, after verifying the facts on production of necessary documents showing that death was caused by Covid-19. ⚫ All the states shall constitute such committees within one week and the address location and full particulars of the committee at the district level shall be published in print media and electronic media having wide circulation, besides relevant offices of the government and its instrumentalities. ⚫ In case the decision of the committee is not in favour of the claimant, a clear reason shall be recorded by the committee, called a grievance redressal committee. ⚫ Ex gratia assistance to the families affected by Covid-19 deaths shall continue to be provided for deaths that may occur in future phases of Covid-19 as well. Covid death norms The apex court order said that Covid-19 cases, for the purpose of considering the deaths, are those diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR/ molecular test/ RAT (Rapid Antigen Test) or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital/ in-patient facility by a treating physician. The deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid-19 case shall be treated as “deaths due to Covid-19” even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility. A Covid-19 patient who continues to be admitted to a hospital/ in-patient facility beyond 30 days and dies subsequently shall be considered as having died of Covid-19. So also Covid-19 cases that are unresolved with the patient dying either in the hospital or at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Television reporter killed, versions differ||A television reporter was among nine people killed on Sunday in Lakhimpur Kheri but the death had not been confirmed by police till Monday evening. Conflicting versions emerged on the cause of the death of Raman Kashyap, who was reporting for Sadhna Prime News. The channel’s editor said some hooligans had beaten the reporter. Accounts on social media quoted Kashyap’s father and brother as saying he was shot at and hit by a car. Kashyap died of his injuries in hospital, said Siddharth Kalhans, national secretary of the Indian Federation of Working Journalists. Brij Mohan Singh, editor of Sadhna Prime News, told The Telegraph: “He (Kashyap) had suffered several injuries. Other reporters who were there told us that he was beaten up by some of the bystanders. They were not farmers; farmers do not kill. There were some hooligans from outside in that crowd and they beat him up when they saw him making a video. “He was our tehsil reporter/ stringer (non-permanent correspondent) and we were planning to make him the district correspondent later this year.” In its daily statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha mentioned the death of an independent journalist but did not name the person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Nitish Kumar takes on Niti Aayog for presenting Bihar in poor light ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday slammed the Niti Aayog for its surveys which presented the state in a poor light claiming that they did not factor in various aspects before arriving at conclusions and hence failed to give a true picture. Nitish also promised to raise the issue at the next meeting of the Niti Aayog, which deliberates and formulates sustainable development policies for the country. The state government is also going to write to the think tank to convey its objections. “If you (Niti Aayog) are considering the entire country to be equal then it is a surprising thing. You must know that Bihar is at the third position among the states in population after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, and at the 12th position in terms of area. The population density here is the highest in the country,” Nitish told mediapersons on the sidelines of his Janata Durbar. “How will you compare Bihar with Maharashtra? The poorest with the richest state? Is this the way to understand anything? Do you know how much Bihar has progressed in health services since 2006 when just 39 people visited the block hospital (primary health centre) in a month but now around 10,000 are treated there every month? We are introducing new technologies to treat people wherever they are,” Nitish added. The chief minister went on to claim that while Bihar has progressed a lot in the health sector, Niti Aayog was just a newcomer with people who were novices. One of the immediate reasons behind Nitish’s outburst was the Niti Aayog’s report on “Best practices in the performance of district hospitals” in the country released last week. It revealed that Bihar with just six hospital beds per one lakh population was at the bottom in the hospital bed to population ratio among the states. The report also highlighted a severe scarcity of doctors and nurses in the state. The national average is 24 hospital beds per lakh population, slightly more than the Indian Public Health Standards 2012 guidelines to have at least 22 beds per lakh people. Puducherry is at the top of the rankings with 222 beds per lakh people. The Niti Aayog report put the Bihar government in an awkward position as Nitish and health minister Mangal Pandey had been often highlighting the massive strides made in medical infrastructure and health services in the state. Both the leaders had to scurry for cover when mediapersons bombarded them with questions on the issue. It also provided heavy ammunition to the Opposition, which went hammer and tongs against the NDA government. “These people (Niti Aayog) do not know various aspects and tell similar things for the entire country. We are going to write to it that whatever has been published is not proper. We are treating people for free, giving medicines to so many of them. You cannot arrive at conclusions without paying attention to such work,” Nitish asserted. Nitish, who heads the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state, expressed doubts over the way Niti Aayog conducted its surveys. “I do not know through whom and how Niti Aayog gets its work done. If I get a chance to attend its next formal meeting, I will tell them that there should be a method of assessment and you should know the basics. You should club the backward states together to compare. Similarly, the rich states should be put in another group,” he argued. The chief minister also pointed out how the state had topped in Covid-19 vaccination by administering 33 lakh doses on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17 and followed it with over 30 lakh doses administered on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2. “Our aim was to administer 35 lakh doses on Bapu’s birth anniversary. Heavy rains lashed the state, yet 30 lakh people came to take the vaccine,” he said. Nitish also highlighted how Bihar has progressed at a fast pace and registered double-digit economic growth every year continuously for around a decade since 2009. “You should know these things to arrive at a correct assessment, but if you take anything just like that, pull out figures from somewhere, then its not an actual study. I will raise these things also at the Niti Aayog meetings,” Nitish added. Bihar has around 12,000 government hospitals and health centres in the state, including 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 primary health centres (PHCs), 9,949 sub-centres and 1,393 additional PHCs. However, several problems are plaguing the health facilities, including inadequate number of doctors, their absence from duty, lack of ambulances and hearses, dogs resting on hospital beds, waterlogging inside hospital buildings, wards and operation theatres, middlemen on the prowl in hospitals, misbehaviour with doctors, hospital staff, patients and their kin, poor nursing and scarcity of medicines and diagnostic facilities, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Subplots in Bihar Assembly bypolls||The byelections to two Assembly seats in Bihar on October 30 have turned into an eyeball-grabbing thriller with the potential for a Mexican standoff promising to keep the people hooked. The bypolls in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur will witness a contest between the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Opposition Grand Alliance with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) pitted against Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). However, several subplots have been added to the narrative with the Congress taking on the RJD, Nitish tackling RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar possibly locking horns with Tejashwi. While Kusheshwar Asthan, a seat reserved for Scheduled Castes, fell vacant after its representative Shashi Bhushan Hazari passed away recently, Tarapur MLA and former education minister Mewalal Choudhary died of Covid-19 earlier this year. The importance of the two seats in the 243-member Assembly cannot be lost on anybody as the present NDA government led by Nitish has a thin majority. It has 125 legislators and the support of an Independent MLA taking the tally to 126. On the other hand, the Grand Alliance has 110 seats. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five seats and could be expected to side with it in crunch situations. If the Opposition manages to win the two seats, it will need the support of just four or five more MLAs to destabilise the government. The bypoll results will also help gauge the mood of the voters one year into the rule of the new NDA government, and whether they are satisfied with Covid-19 management and developmental policies of the present dispensation. The JDU had won these two seats in the 2020 Assembly election and has already fielded its candidates for the bypolls. Shashi Bhushan’s son Aman Bhushan Hazari has been handpicked to contest from Kusheshwar Asthan while Rajiv Kumar Singh will contest from Tarapur. The ruling NDA partners have accepted the candidates. However, the Grand Alliance is witnessing turmoil after the RJD unilaterally announced candidates for the two seats on Saturday. The RJD state unit president, Jagadanand Singh, said Ganesh Bharti would contest from Kusheshwar Asthan and Arun Kumar Sah from Tarapur. The Congress, a grand Alliance constituent, had contested from Kusheshwar Asthan in the 2020 polls. The Congress took umbrage in the RJD’s decision to contest the bypolls this time and said it was not abiding by the coalition dharma. Stung by the developments, the Congress declared its own intention to contest both the seats. “We are now going to contest both the seats in the bypolls. If the RJD cannot follow the coalition rules then why should we do it in a one-sided manner? We have conveyed our decision to the high command and are waiting for its nod. We will announce our candidates either on Tuesday or Wednesday,” Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha told The Telegraph. Pointing out that Kusheshwar Asthan has been a traditional stronghold of the Congress and the RJD has not won it in the last couple of decades, Jha said the public sentiment indicated his party should contest both the seats now. “RJD has more seats in the Assembly, but we are a national party. It cannot just force whatever it wishes on us,” Jha said. On the other hand, the RJD also claimed that it had acted on public demand to contest both the seats. Its leaders retaliated after several Congress leaders made sharp reactions on the issue. “Our votes and your candidates are passé. The Congress should check the ground reality to understand that it has no base among the voters. The people from both the constituencies want our candidates and we honoured their wishes. We are going to win both the seats,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said. Tiwary also said that one of the factors behind the RJD’s decision to contest both the seats was the poor performance of the Congress in the 2020 Assembly election. It could win just 19 seats out of the 70 it contested. The RJD later held the Congress responsible for not being able to form a government in the state. There is also a Kanhaiya angle to the latest churning in the Grand Alliance with various sources claiming that he could be dispatched to campaign for the bypolls. Kanhaiya and Tejashwi are said to not see eye to eye as both are young and are gunning to establish themselves as the next generation leaders in the state. The former is considered to be an equally good orator. The acrimony between them increased after the RJD fielded its candidate against Kanhaiya during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He contested unsuccessfully on a CPI ticket from Begusarai. The CPI is currently an ally of the RJD. With Kanhaiya joining the Congress, the RJD saw it as a move that would ultimately pit him against Tejashwi. “Where will Kanhaiya campaign if the Congress is not contesting any of the seats? Our leader Tejashwi has the capability to handle entire Bihar. No other leader in the Grand Alliance has the stature to compete with him,” a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity while accepting that contesting both seats was a subtle way of keeping Kanhaiya out. The infighting in the Grand Alliance could help the JDU retain both the seats. The results will be declared on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Odisha: 54-year-old mother donates kidney to son||A 54-year-old woman in Odisha has donated a kidney to her 23-year-old son who has been suffering from end-stage renal disease. The kidney transplant operation was performed by doctors at the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Bhubaneswar Sanjukta Mohanty said: “I have seen my son suffering from nephrology problems since his childhood. His health has been a constant cause of concern for the family. When doctors told me about the need for a kidney transplant, I didn’t think twice before agreeing to donate one of my kidneys to save his life. For me his life is more precious than anything else. I have seen the ups and downs of life, but his is just taking off. I am indebted to the doctors of the KIMS.” Her son, who has completed his post-graduation from Utkal University, said: “My mother is great.” Father Suresh Kumar Mohanty, who works as a technician in the Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology (IMMT), said: “We had thought of arranging a kidney from outside. But there is no guarantee that it will work. Since in our case, my son and my wife have the same blood group (O-positive), we decided to go ahead with the kidney transplant. The doctors are very cooperative. My son has got a new lease of life.” Dr Ashwini Prasad Patnaik, who led the team of doctors who performed the kidney transplant, said he was happy that the procedure was successful. “Because of the efforts of the founder of KIMS, Dr Achyuta Samanta, the hospital is fully prepared to conduct such operations. Patients need not go outside the state for transplant. Here it can be done within Rs 8 lakh,” he said. About the treatment, Dr Patnaik said: “The patient was suffering from end-stage renal disease and underwent the transplant. His mother was the donor. The mother was discharged on Sunday while the patient was discharged on Wednesday. Both are doing well.” He said: “The operation was done by transplant team doctors of the KIMS, including Dr Nikunj Kishore Rout, Dr Rajesh Kumar Padhi, Dr Kumar Avijeet Dash and Dr Suresh Ch. Dash from the nephrology team; Dr Sumanta Kumar Mishra, Dr Amresh  Mishra, Dr J.B. Jagdev and Dr Sumit Panda from the surgical team; and Dr Sanjaya Behera, Dr Laba Kumar Nayak, and Dr G.C. Satpathy from the anaesthesia team. Dr D.S. Ray and his team, who came from Calcutta, extended support to the operating team.” Dr Rout said there is a psychological fear that if a person donates one’s kidney they will become weak and face problems in life. “We would like to dispel this misconceived notion by affirming that this is not a fact. A kidney donor can lead a healthy and unencumbered life with the remaining kidney,” he said. Dr Rout added: “Kidney transplant is the gold standard of treatment in end-stage kidney disease. Dialysis is not always the permanent solution. The quality of life is definitely better in comparison to dialysis when a suitable kidney is made available. Relatives are preferred as donors.” Wishing a speedy recovery to the patient, Samanta congratulated the team of doctors for their successful achievement. “The transplant team will continue the programme in the future for the benefit of the needy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
