06-10-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal retorts to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi’s 'suit-boot' comment||Arvind Kejriwal responded to a blatant comment by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi and then switched focus to the ruling Congress's track record ahead of next year's election. Charanjit Channi said his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, should be given ₹ 5,000 to get a "suit-boot". "Channi sahib, you don't like my clothes. No problem... (but) leave the clothes. When will you fulfill these promises," Kejriwal tweeted - a reference to promises made ahead of the 2017 election. "When will you give employment to every unemployed; When will you waive the loans of farmers; Why not send those guilty of sacrilege (a reference to the 2015 desecration case) to jail; When will action be taken against tainted ministers, MLAs and officers?" Earlier the Punjab CM was asked by news channel ABP about Kejriwal's comment that the Congress had made a "tamasha (mockery)" of Punjab. Channi responded by asking if Kejriwal did not have a "suit-boot" - a reference to one of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's go-to jibes at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ruling BJP. "Do you have Rs 5,000? Everyone has it. Give it to him (Kejriwal) too... at least he can get nice clothes... can't he get a suit-boot? His salary is Rs 2,50,000, can't he get nice clothes," he said. Kejriwal, while on a visit to Chandigarh last month, told reporters the Congress' leadership crisis in the state was "unfortunate" and that "Punjab has been reduced to tamasha". "People don't know where to go. Punjab Chief Minister should fulfill promises made by Captain Amarinder Singh and act against tainted ministers, MLAs, and officers. Mastermind behind the 2015 sacrilege incidents should be booked," he told reporters. Kejriwal has visited Punjab frequently and has promised major incentives for the people if they vote for the AAP, including free electricity (up to 300 units) and a waiver on previous bills. "This is Kejriwal's promise, not Captain's (Amarinder Singh) vows. We deliver our promises. Captain's promises haven't been fulfilled even after five years," he declared in Chandigarh in June. The Congress in Punjab is teetering on the edge after a prolonged and bitter feud between Amarinder Singh and the party's state chief, Navjot Sidhu, exploded last month. Singh declared himself "humiliated" by his rival's constant needling and the lack of support from the Congress' high command (who have backed Sidhu) and quit. Several of the barbs Navjot Sidhu flung at Amarinder Singh were linked to the questions Kejriwal raised in his tweet on Wednesday, including a delay in justice for those who died during police action that followed protests against desecration of Sikh religious texts in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||Sachin Pilot detained on way to meet grieving families in UP's Lakhimpur||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot, who was on his way to visit Lakhimpur to meet the grieving families, was detained on Wednesday evening. He landed in Delhi earlier in the day and set out for Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh by road straight from the airport. "The Uttar Pradesh government is certainly trying to hide something," he said on several political leaders being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri. The Congress leader said he hasn't been informed by when he will be released. "I have just been put here in the guest house. I have been told I can't go," he said. The Ghaziabad Police had launched a special checking drive upon getting information about Sachin Pilot's intended visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers killed in violence. Sources said Pilot's motorcade was moving slowly as it was stopped at multiple places on the way by police personnel who searched the cars and asked him questions before letting him proceed. The Congress leader was stopped by police briefly near Gaur City in Ghaziabad on NH 24 but then permitted to proceed towards Hapur. "They are letting others to meet the grieving families, why aren't they allowing us? I just want to meet the families without creating any law-and-order problem," said Sachin Pilot after being detained in Moradabad. Vehicles were being checked at the Ghazipur border, and City Superintendent of Police (second) Gyanendra Singh, who was on duty there, had said that Pilot will not be allowed to go to Lakhimpur as his presence might cause law and order problems there. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||SC takes suo motu cognizance, to hear Lakhimpur case today||The Supreme Court has decided to hear on Thursday the Lakhimpur Kheri case of Uttar Pradesh in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest. As per the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would hear the matter. Eight people were killed on October 3 as violence erupted during a farmers' protest claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The court has decided to take up the case amid a growing outcry over the Uttar Pradesh police's handling of the investigation, media reports and a letter written to the Chief Justice by two lawyers from the state. Farmers have vowed to intensify their months-long movement against laws aimed at liberalising agriculture as tension flared after the eight people were killed in clashes between protesters and ruling party supporters on Sunday. Four of the eight were killed when a car belonging to Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish crashed into protesters in Uttar Pradesh state, protest leaders said. And yet four days later, despite being named in a police complaint, he was yet to be arrested. The police have said they were investigating the crash and had registered a case against 13 people, including Ashish Mishra even as his father ruled out resigning and held a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Mr Mishra said his son was not present at the incident but a car driven by "our driver" lost control and hit the farmers after they threw stones at the car and attacked it with sticks and sword. Ashish Mishra has also denied being present and remains at large. An alliance of protest groups called in a petition to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday for a court-supervised investigation of the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||India in last stage of finalising details on global minimum tax says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said India is "very close" to arriving at the specifics of the two-pillar taxation proposition at the G20 and is in the last stage of finalising the details. A total of 130 countries had in July agreed to a overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. The Finance Ministry had then said that some significant issues including share of profit allocation and scope of subject to tax rules are yet to be addressed and a 'consensus agreement' is expected by October after working out the technical details of the proposal. The proposed two-pillar solution consists of two components - Pillar One which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax and subject to tax rules. Speaking at the ICRIER's Annual International G20 Conference, Sitharaman said the two-pillar solution of international taxation issue will reach an advanced implementation stage which India will have to pilot. "At this stage, we are very close to arriving at something in terms of the specifics of the two-pillar proposition. We already had a conversation and agreed to a framework... We are in the last stages of finalising the details. So I won't think it is time appropriate for me to spell the details of what we are agreeing on but these are the things on which the conversation is ongoing," Sitharaman said. The finance ministers of G-20 countries are scheduled to meet on October 13 in Washington.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Don't make allegations against court and raise pitch of your voice; SC to ex-Unitech promoter's lawyer||The Supreme Court on Wednesday witnessed heated exchanges during which it warned ex-Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra's lawyer not to raise the pitch of his voice and also asked him not to make allegations against the court after he said the top court will "repent" if he is acquitted of charges of diversion of home buyers money. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said it was not expected of senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is representing Chandra, to put forth arguments like this and submissions that the court will not be able to set the clock back. As tempers rose over the issue of sharing of a forensic audit report and status reports of investigating agencies, the top court said that natural justice is being followed as under the law documents which would become part of the charge sheet or case diary cannot be shared with the accused. Justice Chandrachud, who seldom loses his cool, said angrily, What kind of argument is this that this court will repent its mistake. What kind of language is this? You are making allegations against the court. Is there some sense of responsibility towards the court or not. "We are bound by law and cannot share the reports which will become part of the case diary. Maybe you are not briefed properly by your clients. We are very much aware of natural justice . Justice Shah intervened and asked Singh, Don't raise the pitch of your voice too high and don't raise the pitch of the case. Don't remind us of the law of land. "We know our law of land. Our law says, till the investigation is complete nothing can be given to you. It seems you are not aware of what transactions your wife was involved in. Don't say such things and make allegations against the court. We never expected this from you Mr Vikas Singh . The heated exchanges erupted as the court directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, registration of case against them and a full-fledged probe into their collusion with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana's report filed in a sealed cover. Vikas Singh said the forensic audit report has claimed that Sanjay Chandra has diverted home buyers money and the Enforcement Directorate(ED) is proceeding on that premise, but he is innocent until proven guilty. My 84-year-old father and wife have been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate without any charge being proven against him. Now they would arrest my children. This is unfair, without giving me a copy of the forensic audit done by M/s Grant Thornton to put my defence, this court has taken over my company . Out of the Rs 2,600 crore transaction, I have collected Rs 1,400 crore from home buyers and have put Rs 1,200 crore from my pocket. We are the second largest real estate company in the country and have delivered over one lakh flats to the home buyers. If tomorrow, I am acquitted of the charge of diversion of funds, will the court be able to set the clock back. This will not be possible and the court will have to repent this, Singh argued. Singh also went on to say that he assumed that the court does not have anything personal against Chandras and I don't want the court to repent later that no timely action was taken . At the outset, when the top court was perusing the reports filed by the ED, Singh said this kind of ex-parte hearing should not go on and he has a constitutional right to be heard. The bench said it cannot allow the status report to be shared with him as the investigation is still under way and the document may become part of the case diary. Singh also asked how many real estate companies the court will run as it is already running Amrapali and Unitech, where for every small thing permission is needed. They have arrested my father, my wife and now they will arrest my children also. At least let me defend the forensic audit report, Singh repeated again, adding that great injustice has been done to him and that his company has been taken over by the court on the basis of a report which was not given to him. Singh said that since the court has been asking the ED that it is not doing anything, now it has arrested my parents and my wife. The bench said that if it gives the report then it will be against the public interest and it may be used to dispose off the assets abroad. Singh said the forensic audit report was never given to him and the court is presuming that his client has diverted home buyers money. He also submitted that had the Unitech got the opportunities which are being given to Amrapali and other group home buyers it would have been revived. He said the ED has been investigating the case since 2018 but claimed the agency has not been able to complete the probe. "Please give me an opportunity, I will satisfy the court that there was no diversion." The top court then asked the ED to rapidly complete the investigation in the matter. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED and the SFIO, said the problem that is being faced by the probe agency is that the home buyers' money which has been diverted is blended with other funds and it is taking time to find the trail. The bench said it is at present not finding any fault with the agency but the ED should now proceed rapidly and in a comprehensive manner in the case. Divan said there are some developments in the case as some parties were not cooperating and they have been arrested. The investigation is very much in progress and the ED has found Rs 7,638 crore which have been diverted, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Mundra post drugs seizure: NIA takes over case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday took over the probe into the seizure of 2,988 kg narcotic at the Mundra port in Gujarat, an official said. "In pursuant to a Ministry of Home Affairs order issued on Wednesday, the NIA has taken up the investigation of the case under sections of the IPC, the NDPS Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Machavaram Sudhakaran, Durga PV Govindaraju, Rajkumar P and others", the agency official said. The case relates to the seizure of 2,988.21 kg of heroin, disguised as consignment of semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan, which had arrived at the Mundra port from Bandar Abbas Port in Iran, according to the NIA official. The official said that after registration of the case, requisite actions for its expeditious investigation have been initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait demands resignation of Ajay Mishra, warns of agitation||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra and the arrest of all accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, warning that a nationwide agitation will be launched if authorities failed to implement within a week the agreement made with the farmers here. Tikait, who is among the prominent leaders of the agitation against the Centre's agri laws, had brokered the agreement between the authorities and the farmers on October 4 here, after which they had ended their protest and the families of the four deceased farmers had agreed to their post-mortem. After reaching an understanding, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar, in the presence of Tikait, had informed of the government's decision to give Rs 45 lakh each to families of the victim farmers and set up a judicial probe under a retired High Court judge. "Our protest has not ended. We will wait till eight days since the agreement and if the demands are not fulfilled a nationwide agitation would be launched," Tikait told reporters at a Gurdwara in Lakhimpur city on Wednesday. The deadline coincides with the 10th-day Antim-Ardas ceremony (post-death ritual) in the Sikh community. An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has already been registered against the union minister's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station. Tikait said the pact with the government was reached after consulting the victims' families and farmers, and everybody had expressed "satisfaction" over it. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader had reached the incident site in the wee hours on Monday, after four farmers were mowed down by an SUV when they were agitating against the visit of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for a function in the union minister's native place on October 3. Besides the four farmers, two BJP workers, the minister's driver and a local journalist were also killed in the violence. On Tuesday, Tikait visited the family of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four dead farmers, in Bahraich and backed their demand for a second post mortem which the government agreed to, and his last rites were performed this morning. The mortal remains of the other three farmers were cremated on Tuesday. "How can he (minister Mishra) remain a Union minister of Home Affairs when his own son is facing such a serious charge? ''The minister himself has been named in the FIR for his alleged role. For an unbiased probe in the matter, the Centre must sack the minister, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a major participant in the protests against the three central agri laws, also demanded the arrest of the minister's son Ashish alias Monu Mishra. His son should be arrested immediately. We have asked that both these demands be met within seven days, otherwise, the BKU will stage a massive demonstration in Uttar Pradesh to seek justice, Malik added. A faction of BKU workers and supporters led by their national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait is currently staying put in Lakhimpur Kheri, which has now become the epicentre of the turf war among political parties in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Mishra's son Ashish is the only named accused in the FIR lodged at the Tikoniya police station in the district. Besides him, 15-20 other "unidentified persons" are mentioned as accused in the FIR. However, the minister has refuted the allegations of his son's involvement in the episode that took place near his native Banbirpur village. Meanwhile, Mishra on Wednesday attended the office in Delhi and met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the first time since a murder case was registered against his son on Sunday. Mishra is understood to have briefed Shah about the Sunday incident in his home district of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of trying to create unrest over Lakhimpur incident||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to fan unrest over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, alleging that the Gandhi family is using the tragedy as an opportunity to derive political mileage as it has been facing questions from Congress leaders. Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader alleged that dictatorship prevails in the country, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said "irresponsibility" has become his second name. The Congress has been trying everything to "provoke" people to cause violence, he said, asking Gandhi to desist from attempts aimed at getting votes from the crisis. With the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh earlier not allowing most opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Patra said maintaining peace has been the top priority. The Uttar Pradesh Police had detained Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who wanted to go to the site of Sunday's violence and meet families that lost their members. Now the state government has allowed them to travel to the place. Patra also took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his allegation that there is no democracy in the country and dictatorship prevails, noting that he had never faced protests from BJP workers for his press conferences, while Congress members threw tomatoes and agitated outside their leader Kapil Sibal's residence for his critical comments about the party's functioning. "There is democracy in the country and that is why you are holding the press conference," he said. Gandhi always tries to spread misinformation, and it has been our endeavour to highlight this, the BJP spokesperson said, adding that whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri was painful. Noting that farmer leaders and the local administration had coordinated to deal with the crisis after eight persons. including four farmers, died, he said an "impartial probe" is on into the violence and people should not give irresponsible statements that may obstruct justice. He alleged that the Gandhi family had nothing to do with either farmers or any other section of society. "They are not even concerned about the Congress. All they want is that their fortunes should not be scuttled," Patra said. Hitting back at the Rahul Gandhi over his allegation of corruption at the government, the BJP spokesperson took a dig at him, saying he and his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi are on bail in the alleged National Herald corruption case. With Gandhi claiming that farmers have been "systematically attacked" by the government, he said they have been "systematically uplifted", citing a number of pro-farmers schemes. The BJP leader referred to the recent baton charge on farmers by police in Rajasthan, where the Congress is in power, and asked if Gandhi ever spoke to the state chief minister regarding this. Earlier in the day, Gandhi alleged that "dictatorship" prevails in the country with farmers being "systematically attacked" and politicians not allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet families hit by the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. After initially denying permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh government has now allowed him and Priyanka Gandhi to visit the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||SC directs full-fledged probe into collusion of Tihar jail officials with ex-Unitech promoters||The Supreme Court Wednesday directed a full-fledged probe into the collusion of Tihar Jail officials with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana's report filed in a sealed cover. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah directed registration of criminal cases against Tihar Jail officials and other unknown persons under relevant provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against those involved in collusion on the basis of the report. It also directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, pending proceedings against whom cases will be lodged as per the report, following ED's disclosure that the Chandra brothers were conducting business from prison. The top court further directed the Home Ministry to comply with Asthana's suggestions in the report on enhancing prison management and allowed a copy to be shared with the ministry for for necessary compliance of directions. Besides, the court also took on record reports filed in sealed cover by Enforcement Directorate (ED), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and Delhi Police, and listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. On August 26, the apex court had directed that the Chandra brothers be shifted from Tihar Jail in the national capital to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja prison in Maharashtra after the ED had said that they were conducting business from the premises in connivance with the staff. The top court, which then perused two status reports of the ED, had said Tihar Jail Superintendent and other staff are absolutely shameless for conniving with the Chandra brothers to flout the court orders and undermine its jurisdiction. Pursuant to the direction of the top court, the Chandra brothers were shifted to jails in Mumbai. The two ED reports have raised some serious and disturbing issues for consideration and will be dealt with accordingly, the top court had said. It had directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to personally hold inquiry forthwith about the conduct of the Tihar Jail staff with regard to the Chandras and submit the report to the court within four weeks. The ED had made a startling revelation that it had unearthed a secret underground office here which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay and Ajay when on parole or bail. The ED, which has been investigating money laundering charges against the Chandras and realty firm Unitech Ltd, said in its report that both Sanjay and Ajay have rendered the entire judicial custody meaningless as they have been freely communicating, instructing their officials and disposing of properties from inside the jail in connivance with the prison staff there. Besides ED and SFIO, Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police is also conducting investigation into the affairs of the Unitech Group and business transactions of erstwhile promoters of the real estate company. Both Sanjay and Ajay who are in jail since August 2017 are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money. The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The brothers have claimed that they complied with the court's conditions and they have deposited an amount in excess of Rs 750 crore and, therefore, they are granted bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Vaccine hesitancy at lowest in India at the moment, finds study||Only 7 per cent Indian adults are currently hesitant to getting inoculated against COVID-19, the lowest vaccine hesitancy level in the country so far, according to a new survey. The study conducted by the online community platform LocalCircles received 12,810 responses from citizens -- 67 per cent men and 33 per cent women -- across 301 districts. It sought to understand from unvaccinated citizens their reasons for not taking the jab and their plan on getting inoculated. As much as 42 per cent respondents were from tier 1, 27 per cent from tier-2 and 31 per cent from tier 3, 4 and rural districts. India has an adult population of 94 crore, and approximately 68 crore have already taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. The responses suggest that overall 46 per cent of the unvaccinated citizens plan to take their first dose soon, said Sachin Taparia, the founder of LocalCircles said. There were, however, 27% of citizens who do not plan to take the vaccine yet as they are not convinced whether the currently available ones provide enough protection from the current and future variants of coronavirus, he said. These 27% are what can be classified as hesitant population, he said. They may take the vaccine if more data become available or if different vaccines become available, he said. "If the entire adult population of India is taken into consideration, the survey shows that only 7 per cent of them are currently hesitant. If these percentages are applied to the unvaccinated population of 26 crore adults, it amounts to 7 crore citizens still hesitant to take the vaccine," Taparia said. Safety concerns, quick clinical trials, rushed vaccine approvals, side-effects were among apprehensions expressed by some citizens for their hesitancy, according to the survey report. Some respondents with a medical condition also cited concerns of potential blood-clotting. Some also cited COVID going away as the reason for them to not get vaccinated, the survey found. According to the feedback received, there are also certain other myths and misinformation holding people from taking the vaccine. When the vaccination drive began in India in January, the vaccine hesitancy stood at 60% which drastically reduced during the brutal second Covid wave that hit India in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Rahul, Priyanka meet families of deceased farmers||Congress's Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have reached UP's Lakhimpur Kheri and are meeting the family of 19-year-old Lovepreet Singh who died on Sunday, allegedly run over by a car driven by Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son. Besides Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Channi, KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Deepender Hooda are part of the team. Priyanka, who had been lodged at a guest house in Sitapur since her arrest on Monday, joined the Congress team, which was cleared for a visit  to meet the families of farmers. Earlier Rahul Gandhi had a face-off with the UP police when he landed in Lucknow airport over transport arrangements. Mr Gandhi, who was accompanied by the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Chhattisgarh, refused to take the route or transport suggested by the police, saying,  "Who are you to arrange my transport? I want to leave in my car," Apart from the Congress team, AAP leaders Harpal Cheema, Raghav Chadha and others have met the relatives of the Nachhatar Singh, who was one of the farmers allegedly  mowed down by a vehicle driven by Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has spoken to the family on phone. The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the events in Lakhimpur Kheri and the matter will be heard on Thursday by a bench led by Chief Justice NV Ramana. Earlier today, junior home minister Ajay Mishra met his boss, Amit Shah, amid opposition demands for his dismissal over allegations that his son ran over the peacefully protesting farmers on Sunday. Top government sources have ruled out the possibility of his resignation, saying he has clarified twice that he and his son were not present. "Yes his car was there and let a full investigation take place,"a source said. Four people died on Sunday after a vehicle mowed down farmers who were protesting against the visit of the Union minister and the state's Deputy Chief Minister Kehsav Maurya. Another four were killed in the violence and arson that followed. Though Ajay Mishra has admitted the SUV belonged to him, he said he and his son were not present at the spot. Three of the farmers who died on Sunday were cremated yesterday. The fourth farmer, Gurvinder Sngh, who was allegedly shot by the minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Misra, was cremated today after a second postmortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Punjab Congress leaders to hold protest march to Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow||The Punjab Congress, led by state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, will take out a protest march on Thursday to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri over the issue of killing of farmers. The march will begin from Mohali at noon, party sources said here on Wednesday. Sidhu on Tuesday had said that the party's state unit would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son is not held in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur. Earlier in the day, Sidhu had slammed the Uttar Pradesh police for detaining party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accused it of violating the spirit of the constitution. 54 hours passed !! @priyankagandhi Ji has not been produced before any Court unlawful detention beyond 24 hours is a clear violation of the fundamental rights. BJP & UP Police :- You are violating the spirit of the Constitution, impinging on our basic human rights !!, he said in a tweet. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh, Punjab govts to give Rs 50 lakh to kin of dead farmers, scribe||Both Chhattisgarh and Punjab governments on Wednesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh each to families of four farmers and a journalist killed in the violence that broke out in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The chief ministers of both the Congress-ruled states, along with party leader Rahul Gandhi, have arrived in Lucknow, from where they intend to go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the victims. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Lakhimpur violence reminded him of the Jallianwallah Bagh massacre in 1919. He said the UP government has made a "mockery" of democracy. "Our government will provide Rs 50 lakh each to families of farmers and the journalist killed in Lakhimpur violence," he told reporters in Lucknow. Echoing the same sentiments, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said his government will also give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the farmers and the journalist. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||WorkHours has its own Mobile App, the only intention is to make things much simpler - HelloVeeru||A new step forward to put the individuals at ease, Workhours App! Workhours is launching a mobile application in both Android & iOS! Why are they launching it even though they have a good reputation? Didn’t hear about Workhours yet? Here's what you should know! Workhours, the new Ed-Tech platform that is solely focusing on Self-employment. This new step by HelloVeeru is going to hit the floor soon and will enable any aspiring individual to earn with freedom. The question was: Why is it now? When asked, Veerander says, “ Launching an app was never my idea. I went on teaching students in the best way possible. Giving access to the PCs, Laptops was only to make sure that they have a wider screen to learn and watch the practicals.” But with time and an increasing number of students, a request to have an app came from the students so that it can be more handy for them instead of going to the browser, logging in and learning the course. And he further adds, “I believe not only teaching and guidance are important but understanding their needs as a mentor is too. That’s how I came up with Workhours app that will be accessible and flexible to every student no matter wherever they are, travelling, in between breaks, etc in the comfort of their mobiles.” They believe in updating themselves in each and every aspect of their journey and in order to fulfill their most students' requests, they have updated themselves only to provide the quality of value in training their students. With no doubt, taking students’ request into consideration, Veerander Chowdary is all set to launch Workhours mobile app! For the past one year Veerander and his entire team is working hard on one intention, that is to provide a value to each and every student in their entire course and also to fulfill the dream of Veerander who initiated this mission to make India Self-employed. The team is all geared up to give the best guidance and support in each course. And striving to give the best experience so that no student or individual doubts their potential. Whether it is to sharpen your knowledge, make a career or to learn new subjects, it offers the opportunities to every learner. The idea and mission is always to make the individuals realize that anyone with zeal and dreams is capable of doing something of their own and be independent financially. The team is putting its best in creating the app more reliable and effective. The app will have the features that will enable you to learn with ease. The core intention of the Workhours is to extend themselves to any extent in order to provide the value which is required for their students. Different ideas popped up considering the needs of students, and various suggestions have been given a chance. The team is trying to understand what more a learner needs to avoid the disturbances and increase the interest. With this aim, Veerander Chowdary, our HelloVeeru has started a Mastery course that has led individuals across the country to pursue their dreams of being independent. The age, language, region, profession didn’t matter but the passion of learning and earning did! HelloVeeru has vast experience in teaching 2,00,000 individuals with 8+ experience in Digital Marketing. DBA Mastery course has completed a year and is still growing to continue in helping individuals to learn. It has reached milestones of students’ successes and reached many audiences. Workhours is an advanced platform of HelloVeeru where learning and earning becomes easy. Workhours is all about combining freedom with satisfaction and creativity of work in order to to brush their skills with more knowledge. The new insights that are brought by Workhours will not only give the knowledge of any subject but will stabilize the pressure from the fear of self-employment. Pick your course, learn, execute, and excel, this is what Workhours suggests. This Ed-tech platform will enable the individuals to learn with ease at their comfort. Initially, the Mastery course was only accessible to PCs, Laptops but with mobiles, it included technical glitches sometimes. And that was definitely a major concern. Veerander Chowdary didn’t take it easy but is now making it easy for the learners to avoid such disturbances. As said by Veerander Chowdary, the app will be helpful for the students to learn in a better version. Talking about courses, Workhours is going to offer a great amount that will help students to pick their choice of knowledge they want to get. This advanced platform will be offering opportunities and boost the confidence of the learners to earn better and bigger. This launch of the mobile application is not just to showcase their work or ability, the only intention is to provide valuable training in easy or simple possibilities. Workhours is an advanced platform that is enriched with more value and quality. Well, it does not seem like this will stop here or limit its boundaries to a certain level, there is more in mind and more ideas on the way for the benefit of knowledge-hungry individuals. Are you an aspiring individual who aims to become successful and believes knowledge is the key? If you are, then, prepare yourselves to bloom with this new app platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel at all-time high||Cooking gas LPG price on Wednesday was hiked by Rs 15 per cylinder while petrol and diesel rates saw their steepest increase in recent weeks, pushing prices to all-time high levels across the country. Rates of both subsidised and non-subsidised LPG were hiked, taking the total increase in rates since July to Rs 90 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Cooking gas now costs Rs 899.50 per cylinder in Delhi and Mumbai, and Rs 926 in Kolkata, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The government has through periodic increases eliminated subsidies on LPG in most cities. Domestic household kitchens, who are entitled to 12 cylinders of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year, and Ujjwala beneficiaries, who got free connections, now pay the market price. A 5-kg LPG cylinder now costs Rs 502. This is the fourth increase in LPG prices since July. Rates were increased by Rs 25.50 per cylinder in July, followed by Rs 25 hike each on August 17 and September 1. Alongside, petrol price was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre. This is the steepest daily increase in recent weeks and follows international oil prices touching a seven-year high. The petrol price in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.94 a litre and to Rs 108.96 in Mumbai, the notification showed. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.42 in Delhi and Rs 99.17 per litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. State-owned fuel retailers have in the past few days resorted to modest increases to align domestic rates with cost. But with international benchmark Brent crude soaring to USD 82.92 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. Sources said oil companies had kept increases to a modest level in anticipation of correction in crude oil and petroleum product prices in the international market. "Oil marketing companies have only made a moderate increase in retail prices of petrol and diesel so far," a source said. "However, in the event of such a correction not being there, the price increase could be substantial." The seventh increase in fuel rates since the ending of a nearly three-week hiatus has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 a litre in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the 10th increase in prices has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to their highest level since 2014, following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 82.92 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 79.25 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. The price of LPG sold by Saudi Arabia has gone up steeply, from USD 483 a tonne in May, to USD 797 in October. With international crude oil prices moving in both directions during July and August, no price increase was carried out by oil marketing companies (OMCs) from July 18 to September 23. Instead, petrol price was cut by Rs 0.65 a litre and diesel by Rs 1.25. However, with no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel with effect from September 28 and September 24, respectively. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 2.80 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 1.75. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The relentless increase in fuel prices has been criticised by opposition parties who have demanded that the government cut record excise duty on the two fuels to give relief to consumers. The government has so far not agreed to the demand. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday refused to even comment on the high fuel prices. Asked about the fuel prices at his ministry's event in the national capital on Saturday, Puri said, "chhodo (leave it)" before walking away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Ajay Kumar Mishra meets Amit Shah, attends office||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra on Wednesday met Home Minister Amit Shah, for the first time since a murder case was registered against his son for allegedly mowing down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, sources said. Mishra, union minister of state for home, came to his first-floor office in the North Block and stayed for about half an hour. After doing a few official works, Mishra left the North Block, the sources said. The minister then visited the residence of Shah where he closeted for about half an hour. Mishra is understood to have briefed the home minister about the Sunday's incident in his home district of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Police have registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Ajay Kumar Mishra, and several others over the death of the farmers in the Sunday's incident. The minister has denied the allegations by the farmers' unions that his son was in one of the cars. He said he has evidence to show that his son was at an event being held elsewhere. According to his version, a vehicle, carrying BJP workers, turned turtle after protesters pelted stones at it. The farmers came under the vehicle and died, he had said. Four occupants of the car were then pulled out and beaten to death allegedly by protestors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||UP govt gives permission to Rahul, Priyanka to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||The Uttar Pradesh government has given permission to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and three others to visit Lakhimpur, a top official said here. Earlier in the day, the state government had denied permission to Rahul Gandhi for the visit, and an official spokesperson had said that no one would be allowed to visit the violence-hit district to vitiate its atmosphere. "Permission has been given to five leaders of Congress, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, to visit Lakhimpur," Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI. Priyanka Gandhi is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. She was on her way to meet the families of farmers killed in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri when she was stopped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Not allowed to meet Priyanka Gandhi, says Robert Vadra||Robert Vadra on Wednesday claimed that he has been stopped from going to Lucknow to meet his wife and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been detained in Sitapur while on her way to meet victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. In a Facebook post, Vadra also said that he was "shocked" at the manner his wife has been "arrested". "I have been stopped to get to Lucknow, UP. to check on my wife and make sure she is fine and well. I am shocked beyond belief, how Priyanka has been arrested under Section 151 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," he said in the post. Vadra said he spoke with Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday and was informed that she has not been served with any order or notice. She has not been produced before a judicial officer and has not been allowed to meet her legal counsel, he said. "I am really worried for her and I had packed my bag to go to Lucknow now, when I was informed that I won't be allowed to step out of the airport. This is totally shocking that as a husband I can't even go and support my wife," Vadra said. "Thankfully, she has a huge support of the masses.But for me, my family and my wife comes first. I really hope and pray that she is released soon and is back home safe," he added. The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday also denied permission to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Sunday's violence during a protest, and in Sitapur, where Priyanka Gandhi has been in detention since Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt hits back at Opposition ||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said the opposition has adopted a negative attitude in the sensitive Lakhimpur Kheri incident and warned that no one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere. Government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh alleged that the opposition parties wanted to visit Lakhimpur Kheri for a photo opportunity and "now yuvraj , referring to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had decided to tour the area. "Government has taken a decision (by denying permission) as per law and has also requested them (Rahul Gandhi) not to come," he told reporters. Singh said the state government will go deep into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "In the Lakhimpur case, the law will take its own course and guilty will be caught, he said. Singh alleged that the opposition's attitude on the sensitive Lakhimpur incident was "negative". "They got a chance for a photo opportunity and do Twitter politics while sitting at home. Their objective is to take photos and post it on social media," he said. "No one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere," he added. "If they (Opposition leaders) want to visit Lakhimpur, they can do after some days and meet the victims' families. We have no objection to it," Singh said. Attacking Gandhi, he said, "now yuvraj of a party has also decided for political tourism as his sister is already there, referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. He (Rahul Gandhi) might not remember that it was in the Congress regime during the emergency when the massacre took place. Sikhs were killed in 1984 riots," Singh said. "Rahul says he wants to visit Lakhimpur to know the ground reality. If they know nothing, why you and your sister are jumping (kud rahe hai) on the issue. You put a photo of a drone being used in Sitapur. What's wrong with it. It's the technology which is being used by the police," he said. On Rahul Gandhi's allegation over the post-mortem of the victims, Singh said, "All the families agreed to its report. On request of one family, which had an objection, a panel of four doctors was sent for re-postmortem." The probe is being conducted in full "transparency", he claimed, He alleged atrocities being committed on farmers in Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan. Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said he along with two Congress Chief Ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) -- will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families hit by the violence. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI that the Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Will implement changes in NEET-Super Speciality exams from next year, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that in the interest of students, it has decided to implement changes in the pattern of the NEET-Super Speciality examination from academic year 2022-23. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna recorded the submission of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati and disposed of pleas of students who challenged the Centre's earlier decision to implement changes in the examination pattern of NEET-Super Speciality from this year. The bench, however, said that it is leaving the question open on the validity of the changes made in the pattern of the examination. On Tuesday, the top court had given one last chance to the Centre to put its house in order and take a call on reversing the changes made to the NEET-Super Speciality examination 2021. An anguished top court had said that the medical profession and education have become a business, and now, the regulation of medical education has also gone that way which is the nation's tragedy. The apex court was not satisfied with the justification given by the Centre, National Board of Examination (NBE) and the National Medical Commission (NMC) for making the last-minute changes after the notification for the examination was issued in July. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas of 41 post-graduate doctors and others who had challenged the last-minute changes made to the syllabus after the notification was issued on July 23 for the test to be held on November 13 and 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Dictatorship going on in India now, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said he along with two Congress Chief Ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) -- will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families hit by the violence. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI that the Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur. Gandhi charged that farmers are being mowed down and the name of a union minister and his son is coming up, but no action is being taken. Farmers of the country are being "systematically attacked", he alleged. "There used to be a democracy, there is a dictatorship in India now. Politicians cannot go to Uttar Pradesh. We are being told since yesterday that we cannot go to Uttar Pradesh," Gandhi said. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others including BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by the protesters. The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged a case against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far. In a letter written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath yesterday, the Congress said a five-member delegation led by Rahul Gandhi planned to visit the district. It also called the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “without any reason or justification”. Gandhi Vadra, a Congress general secretary, on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at a police compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. “Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP,” she said. “I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning,” the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||UP govt denies permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur||The Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur, a top police official said here. "The UP government has not yet given permission for Rahul Gandhi's visit to Lakhimpur and has asked him not to come," Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI. "DMs of districts concerned have given us in writing that prohibitory orders are in place there and his visit could create problems. Therefore, he will not be allowed," Thakur said. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Sunday's violence during a protest, and in Sitapur, where Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been in detention since Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Farmer killed in Lakhimpur violence cremated after second autopsy||Gurvinder Singh, alias Gyaniji, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, was cremated on Wednesday morning after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family, police said. Family members of the 22-year-old, from Moharia village of Bahraich, had earlier refused to cremate him, claiming that he was shot dead but the post-mortem report had no mention of it. They received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi singer Sonia Maan. With the Uttar Pradesh government agreeing to the demand, a second post-mortem examination was conducted on Tuesday night by a team of experts from Lucknow, Superintendent of Police (SP) Sujata Singh said. Hours after this, Gurvinder Singh was cremated by his family members in his village in the presence of Tikait, ADG (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and senior police and administration officials, Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. A post-mortem report will be prepared under the supervision of the experts who conducted the exam, SP Singh added. District Magistrate Dinesh Chandra Singh said the family members of Gurvinder Singh had raised objections on the post-mortem examination done earlier. "With the permission of the state government, it was done again and videographed as well," he added. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday. The UP government is facing a massive flak after eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur on Sunday. Four of the dead were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||India logs over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 278 casualties in a day||India added 18,833 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,71,881, while the active cases declined to 2,46,687, the lowest in 203 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,538 with 278 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections remained below 30,000 for the 12th straight day. The active cases comprise 0.73 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.94 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,215 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,09,825 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,68,03,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 37 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 103 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 75,656, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 92.17 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 278 new fatalities include 151 from Kerala and 39 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,49,538 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,272 from Maharashtra, 37,845 from Karnataka, 35,682 from Tamil Nadu, 25,677 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,848 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||PM asks 9 lakh UP families to light diyas, who he made 'lakhpati'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged nine lakh families in Uttar Pradesh, whom he said he had made “lakhpati”, to light two diyas each outside their homes on Diwali in the name of Lord Ram. “It has been said that 7.5 lakh diyas will be lit in Ayodhya this Diwali, and the nine lakh poor who have got a house will light 18 lakh diyas in front of their houses. Lord Ram will be happy,” Modi said in Lucknow. Around the time he spoke, 129km away, Pawan Kashyap was standing outside the Lakhimpur Kheri district collectorate, waiting for a sub-divisional magistrate rank officer to hear him out. Pawan’s elder brother Raman, 35, a television journalist, was on assignment in Tikunia on Sunday when an SUV owned by Union minister Ajay Misra Teni, and allegedly driven by his son, ploughed through a group of farmers walking back after a protest. Raman got hit and died in hospital, he said. Speaking to The Telegraph over phone, Pawan said: “I have evidence to prove that Ashis Monu Misra, son of Ajay Misra Teni, crushed my brother under the wheels of his Thar jeep. I have video proof that Monu was loading his pistol and trying to run away from Tikunia on Sunday after crushing people on the road, including my brother, a journalist, and farmers, who had gathered there to show black flags to Keshav Prasad Maurya.” Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, was a guest at a wrestling event in Teni’s village. The black flag protest was planned against Teni’s threat from a public platform days earlier that he would fix the protesting farmers in two minutes if they did not mend their ways. “Why is the government not arresting the minister and his son? Why is the government not looking at the death of my brother? What about the Diwali of my widowed sister-in-law Aradhana Kashyap, her 11-year-old daughter and two-and-a-half-year old son?” asked Pawan. Neither Modi nor anyone from his government, in which Teni is a minister of state for home, has condemned the horror even after a spine-chilling video emerged showing an SUV hitting the farmers from behind and racing off. The minister had earlier said the protesters had thrown stones at the vehicle, causing the driver to lose balance and lead to an accident in which the farmers died. Teni denies his son was at the wheel. Surjeet Singh Channi, a digital media journalist who was also at the spot on Sunday, told this paper: “The farmers were waiting for the deputy CM at the helipad in Tikunia and later came to know that Maurya had gone by another road. So they were returning home. I thought I would get a bite from some farmers on the road and moved towards them when the minister’s cars came at full speed, crushing many and leaving many injured. I fell on the road and a black SUV ran over my right leg. Still I was not badly injured.” Channi continued: “Two people of roughly 70 years and 60 years were lying there in a pool of blood. I asked the farmers to take them to Tikunia Primary Health Centre in my Swift car. The 70-year-old died in the car. A doctor administered an injection to the 60-year-old man and me and then asked us to go to Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital. From the district hospital, I went home and later came to know that the man whom I took there had also died.” The journalist told this paper: “I am from Tikunia. I couldn’t see who was there in the cars but I could identify that all the cars belonged to the Union minister.” Modi did not utter one word about the bloodbath in his 35-minute speech in Lucknow, in which he claimed credit for having turned 3 crore families into “lakhpatis”.  The reference was to the beneficiaries of a housing scheme for the poor. “Some gentlemen used to say that they have made Modi the Prime Minister but what has he done in return,” the Prime Minister said. “I am going to tell you something after which my detractors, who waste their energy in criticising me…, would jump. I think I should say this. I got the opportunity to make lakhpati those three crore of my friends, my family members who were living in huts and did not have a pucca house,” Modi said. He then went on to ask the beneficiaries to light the diyas on Diwali. The irony of invoking the name of Ram, worshipped as an ideal ruler who symbolises justice, and Diwali, the festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil, seemed to have been lost on Modi. Keval Singh, an uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was crushed to death on Sunday, said: “We want Modi to order the arrest of Monu and suspend Teni, the mastermind killer, who had said in a speech a few days ago that he would teach the farmers a lesson and make them flee Lakhimpur Kheri.” Luv Preet, whose father Satnam Singh told NDTV his son had called him from hospital and asked him to come quickly but died before he could be taken to a bigger hospital, was cremated on Tuesday. His mother fainted several times on the short walk from their home to the field where he was laid to rest. Luv Preet’s two sisters wept by the glass casket that held their younger brother’s body. Satnam Singh, who had kept his composure as he recalled the phone call, broke down before the pyre and tried to embrace his son one last time. When told that Modi was in Lucknow and he did not mention the killings,  Keval said: “Modi has made Teni a minister because they are he same. Modi is not different from Teni. Both threaten the farmers for protesting against the three farm laws. I don’t see any difference between Teni and Modi. But still we demand that they arrest Monu, suspend Teni and ensure that they are punished for the crime they have committed.” Neither Modi nor anyone from his government, in which Teni is a minister of state for home, has condemned the horror even after a spine-chilling video emerged showing an SUV hitting the farmers from behind and racing off. The minister had earlier said the protesters had thrown stones at the vehicle, causing the driver to lose balance and lead to an accident in which the farmers died. Teni denies his son was at the wheel. Surjeet Singh Channi, a digital media journalist who was also at the spot on Sunday, told this paper: “The farmers were waiting for the deputy CM at the helipad in Tikunia and later came to know that Maurya had gone by another road. So they were returning home. I thought I would get a bite from some farmers on the road and moved towards them when the minister’s cars came at full speed, crushing many and leaving many injured. I fell on the road and a black SUV ran over my right leg. Still I was not badly injured.” Channi continued: “Two people of roughly 70 years and 60 years were lying there in a pool of blood. I asked the farmers to take them to Tikunia Primary Health Centre in my Swift car. The 70-year-old died in the car. A doctor administered an injection to the 60-year-old man and me and then asked us to go to Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital. From the district hospital, I went home and later came to know that the man whom I took there had also died.” The journalist told this paper: “I am from Tikunia. I couldn’t see who was there in the cars but I could identify that all the cars belonged to the Union minister.” Modi did not utter one word about the bloodbath in his 35-minute speech in Lucknow, in which he claimed credit for having turned 3 crore families into “lakhpatis”.  The reference was to the beneficiaries of a housing scheme for the poor. “Some gentlemen used to say that they have made Modi the Prime Minister but what has he done in return,” the Prime Minister said. “I am going to tell you something after which my detractors, who waste their energy in criticising me…, would jump. I think I should say this. I got the opportunity to make lakhpati those three crore of my friends, my family members who were living in huts and did not have a pucca house,” Modi said. He then went on to ask the beneficiaries to light the diyas on Diwali. The irony of invoking the name of Ram, worshipped as an ideal ruler who symbolises justice, and Diwali, the festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil, seemed to have been lost on Modi. Keval Singh, an uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was crushed to death on Sunday, said: “We want Modi to order the arrest of Monu and suspend Teni, the mastermind killer, who had said in a speech a few days ago that he would teach the farmers a lesson and make them flee Lakhimpur Kheri.” Luv Preet, whose father Satnam Singh told NDTV his son had called him from hospital and asked him to come quickly but died before he could be taken to a bigger hospital, was cremated on Tuesday. His mother fainted several times on the short walk from their home to the field where he was laid to rest. Luv Preet’s two sisters wept by the glass casket that held their younger brother’s body. Satnam Singh, who had kept his composure as he recalled the phone call, broke down before the pyre and tried to embrace his son one last time. When told that Modi was in Lucknow and he did not mention the killings,  Keval said: “Modi has made Teni a minister because they are he same. Modi is not different from Teni. Both threaten the farmers for protesting against the three farm laws. I don’t see any difference between Teni and Modi. But still we demand that they arrest Monu, suspend Teni and ensure that they are punished for the crime they have committed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||IAF chief rejects two-finger test rape test||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday said the banned two-finger test was not conducted on the woman officer who has accused a fellow IAF officer of rape at the Air Force Administrative College in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Chaudhari’s statement came days after the 28-year-old officer had levelled serious allegations against the IAF authorities including subjecting her to the banned test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant who has been arrested. Asked about the allegations of the woman officer, the IAF chief said: “IAF law is very strict on any such incident and strict action will be taken after the detailed inquiry. No two-finger test was done.” The victim in her complaint to the Tamil Nadu police had said that her seniors at the IAF had forced her to withdraw her complaint against the accused officer. She had lodged the complaint on September 20 and the accused was arrested by police on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||‘Guerrilla tactics’ help Jayant Chaudhary reach Lakhimpur Kheri||Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday said the entire state machinery under the Yogi Adityanath government is trying to suppress the truth of what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri and clamping down on the Opposition. The RLD chief, one of the few leaders to be able to reach the Uttar Pradesh district where farmers and a journalist were mowed down by a minister’s SUV on Sunday, said he had to employ “guerrilla tactics” to do so. “Reaching Lakhimpur was a tough task because Yogi has put the entire government machinery to work towards thwarting the Opposition. There needs to be a separation between the state and the party which is not there in UP… from the district magistrate to state-level officials, police, it seems everyone has taken membership of the BJP,” Chaudhary alleged in a phone interview to PTI. Chaudhary, who took 13 hours to reach Lakhimpur Kheri from Delhi, several hours more than it would take to cover the 420km-odd distance, met the families of some of the farmer victims. All roads to Lakhimpur Kheri, about 130km from Lucknow, have been blocked for Opposition leaders. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Deepender Hooda are in detention, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was not allowed to step out of Lucknow airport, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was detained at the state border, and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has not been allowed to travel to the district. It is a “worrisome trend” that no one in the bureaucracy has raised questions over orders given by the political class, Chaudhary said, adding that he was surprised to hear additional director-general (law and order), Prashant Kumar, saying that political people are not allowed in the district. Giving details of his journey,  Chaudhary said it was “tough” and he reached on Monday evening. “I had to change many roads as soon as I got advance information that a particular road had been sealed. We could not communicate with anyone as we had switched off our telephones. I had to send people who were with me on a different route, so a lot of guerrilla tactics had to be employed… it is again frightening to have to do those things,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Halted, Bhupesh Baghel sits on floor at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was stopped by police at Lucknow airport on Tuesday after he landed there and wanted to go to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been detained in Sitapur. Baghel sat on a dharna at the airport and later told a news conference on Zoom: “I didn’t want to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, I was going to the Congress party office here and then to Sitapur. But the state government believes I am going to meet the (families of) victim farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. I never saw such a scared government. Its members killed people and now fears that we would reach the spot and expose them.” Baghel said the police prevented him by saying that Section 144 was imposed in many districts, including Lucknow. “If Section 144 is imposed then how is the Prime Minister holding a public meeting here?” asked Baghel. “The PM is celebrating 75 years of Independence by killing the farmers and stopping the leaders from going to meet the victims’ families.” Baghel, who landed at the airport around 1pm, left after waiting for five hours. On Tuesday, former BJP MP of Bahraich Savitri Bai Phule was allegedly pulled by her hair and bundled into a police jeep after she attempted to meet the family members of victims in Lakhimpur. Phule had visited the villages of two deceased farmers in Bahraich on Tuesday morning and was going to Lakhimpur Kheri when she was intercepted. Phule alleged that the police attacked her with criminal intention. “The police thrashed me, pulled me by my hair before pushing me into a jeep. I will keep trying to meet the family of the deceased farmers — two of them are from Bahraich,” she said. Phule, who was a BJP member till 2019 and eventually formed her own Kanshi Ram Bahujan Samaj Party, has been detained at the police lines in Lakhimpur Kheri. Additional director-general of police (law and order), Prashant Kumar, said: “We appeal to the leaders to let us maintain peace and avoid going to Lakhimpur Kheri. Those who violate the order will be stopped.” In Meerut, six Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha leaders were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attacking the police on Monday when they tried to prevent them from burning the effigy of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to register their protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Vineet Bhatnagar, superintendent of police of Meerut city, said: “On Monday, some people who were trying to burn an effigy poured petrol on the policemen and tried to set them on fire. The other policemen saved them. We have registered a case against 20 people and arrested seven.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Sharad Pawar warns BJP of high price ||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday warned the BJP that it will have to pay a heavy price for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and asserted that the entire Opposition is with the farmers. Describing the violence as an “attack on farmers”, Pawar, a former Union agriculture minister, said its responsibility lies with the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh and the “people will show them their place.” “Whether it is the government at the Centre or in Uttar Pradesh, they are not sensitive at all. The kind of situation that was created in Jallianwala Bagh, we are witnessing a similar situation in Uttar Pradesh. Today or tomorrow, they will have to pay a heavy price for it,” he told reporters here, joining the chorus of criticism over the Sunday incident in which at least nine people, including four farmers, have been killed.. Expressing anguish over the deaths, Pawar assured the farmers that the entire Opposition is with them and will soon take a call on the future course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||LAC: China air force in three Tibet bases, says V.R. Chaudhari||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday said China had deployed its air force in three bases in Tibet on their side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and assured that the IAF was fully deployed and prepared for any eventuality. The newly appointed IAF chief said India was also fully prepared to deal with any two-front war scenario, referring to the danger posed by China and Pakistan along its borders. His statement comes three days after Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane had sounded an alert saying that China had deployed troops in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh, including forward areas, which was a matter of concern. “The situation on the Line of Actual Control is that the Chinese Air Force is still present on three air bases on their side of the LAC. We are fully deployed and prepared on our side,” said Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari. As India faces the threat of two-front aggression from Pakistan and China, the IAF is working with a depleted fleet. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said the sanctioned 42 squadrons won’t be there in the next 10-15 years. “We will not be able to achieve the 42 squadron strength in the next 10-15 years,” he said. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Addressing the media on Tuesday ahead of the 89th anniversary of the IAF on October 8, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said the induction of Rafale and Apache aircraft have significantly added to India’s combat potential. He said there was an increased presence of the Chinese army across eastern Ladakh as Beijing continues to enhance infrastructure in the Tibet Autonomous Region. “Increased Chinese army presence across eastern Ladakh continues,” he said. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari also said the S-400 surface-to-air missile defence system would be inducted this year. Sino-Indian talks The next round of military talks between India and China is likely to take place next week, sources in the defence ministry said. So far 12 rounds of military talks have taken place between the two armies to resolve the border standoff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Priyanka’s query for PM Modi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, detained at the guesthouse of the Second Battalion, Provincial Armed Constabulary, in Sitapur since 4.30am on Monday said in a statement at 6.30pm on Tuesday that she had not been served with any written order or notice or shown an FIR until then. Priyanka and other party leaders were detained early on Monday by Uttar Pradesh police in Sitapur while they were on their way to meet family members of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The Congress leader said she had seen a “portion of a paper on social media” in which 11 people had been named, “8 of whom were not even present” when she was detained. Issued by the court of a local sub-divisional magistrate, it says the 11 have been booked under Sections 107, 116 and 151 of the CrPC. All these sections are related to preventive detention because of apprehension of breach of peace. On Tuesday morning, Priyanka released a video on social media, stating in Hindi: “Modiji namaskar. I have heard that you are in Lucknow to celebrate Amrit Utsav of Independence. I want to ask you whether you have seen this video?” Someone is seen giving her a mobile phone in which a video is playing and she asks: “I want to ask you (Modi), have you seen this video?” The video shows a Thar jeep and an SUV running over people on a road. The people are heard yelling and crying. The cars speed away. “This video shows the son of a minister in your government crushing the farmers under his vehicle. See this video and tell this country why this minister was not suspended?” Priyanka asks. Eyewitnesses have alleged Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel. She continues: “You have kept leaders like me in detention without any order or FIR. I want to know why this man is free when Modiji today you are sitting on the dais of a mehfil (gathering for entertainment) of Amrit Utsav of Independence. Do you remember that the farmers had handed us Independence? Even today the sons of the farmers are protecting this country on the borders. The farmers are in trouble for months and raising their voice. And you are ignoring them.” “I request you to visit Lakhimpur. Those who gave us Independence and give us food, those who are the soul of this country, listen to their woes and understand them. It was your religion to protect them,” Priyanka says in the video. The Congress leaders during the day shared a video on social media in which a drone is seen flying. A person is heard saying: “This drone has been deployed by the government just above the place where Priyankaji has been detained. It is above the door of her room.” As the camera through which the video was shot moves down, what appears to be the guesthouse of the Provincial Armed Constabulary comes into view and the person says: “This is the reality of this scared government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Three TMC leaders get visit nod||A three-member delegation of Trinamul Congress, led by Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, visited Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday and met the family members of some of the farmers killed on Sunday. The Trinamul team, which included Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev and Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, visited the houses of the dead farmers. It was unclear how the Trinamul team was allowed to visit the district when other Opposition leaders, including chief ministers, have been barred. Police sources said they were escorted to the spot because they were not violating Section 144, which prevents assembly of more than four people at a place. Dastidar told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri: “Can the son of a minister murder a common man? He crushed them under his vehicle. He should be punished…. Democracy is missing here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Congress expresses apprehensions about future of democracy in India||The Congress has expressed serious apprehensions about the future of democracy in India, contending that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scant regard for constitutional morality and human values. The party expressed its angst over Modi’s attitude towards the horrific crime committed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri where a Union minister’s SUV mowed down farmers. The Congress made this grim observation on account of two concerns: first, the Prime Minister’s refusal to dismiss Union minister Ajay Misra Teni despite eyewitness accounts of his son’s involvement in the murder of farmers; and second, his government’s tendency to ignore tragedies and prevent Opposition leaders from meeting families of the victims to express empathy. The Prime Minister never comments on any development that shows his government in poor light even as he tweets and speaks on all kinds of trivial and insignificant issues. Modi hasn’t uttered a word on the death of hundreds of people during demonetisation, lockdown and farmers’ agitation. Even during tragedies that shook the nation — like Unnao and Hathras cases — Modi chose not to react. In the Pegasus scandal, which affects national security, he refused to comment. At a protest organised by the Congress, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “Koi sunane wala nahin, koi parwah nahin (There is no one to hear, no one cares). It was never like this. Jo shapath liya uski dhajjiyan uda di (The oath that he took, he has blown it to smithereens).… This is a signal to the country. Will democracy survive? People can foresee the future, what lies ahead. The model of Modi’s governance — resorting to coercion using central agencies — has put constitutional rule in jeopardy.” Arguing that Lakhimpur demonstrated they were itching to cross the line, Gehlot said: “The common people will have to rise now to save democracy. People now know how Modi deploys hollow rhetoric to mislead the nation, he says something and does something else. Nobody feels safe under his rule. And Yogi Adityanath is another form of Modi; the methods are the same. The delusion of Modi’s greatness now lies shattered. The people must rise now.” Even the party’s official briefing by former law minister Ashwini Kumar focused on degeneration of human and constitutional values in Modi’s regime. Kumar said: “Have we lost the right to feel empathy towards our fellow human being who is in grief? Are we expected to rub salt on the wounds? Does the Opposition have the right to raise its voice against the state’s zulm? Can a leader no more articulate the hurt feelings of society? Are we still a democracy?” Insisting that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was going to Lakhimpur Kheri only to wipe tears, he asked, “What is her crime that she has been under detention?” Former home minister P. Chidambaram said: “Priyanka’s arrest and detention are totally illegal and an abuse of power. The officer told her she was arrested under Section 151 of the CrPC. Any person arrested under 151 cannot be detained for more than 24 hours, unless there is an order of the judicial magistrate under any other provision of law.” The veteran leader added: “There is no order of any judicial magistrate. Her constitutional rights under Articles 19 and 21 have been grossly violated. Her arrest violated several provisions of the CrPC. No woman can be arrested after sunset or before sunrise and Priyanka was arrested at 4.30am, which is illegal. She was arrested by a male police officer — which is illegal.” The Congress has written to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister informing him that a team led by Rahul Gandhi proposes to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Congress holds peaceful protest  in Odisha||The alleged murder of four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh has caused ripples across the country with protests taking place even in Odisha. Congress workers on Tuesday held a peaceful protest near the Gandhi statue at the Janata Maidan in Bhubaneswar demanding immediate resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni and arrest of his son Ashis Misra blaming them for the deaths. Congress activists held protests across the state also. They alleged that Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel of one of the SUVs that crushed farmers under its wheels. Congress workers in Bhubaneswar were joined by a 45-year-old farmer Girish Ranjan Mohanty who said he had chosen to be a part of the protest as it was being held to highlight a gross injustice and to bring farmers’ demands to the fore. “I have joined the protest on my own,” said Mohanty who hails from Gothapatna on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. An automobile engineer-turned-farmer Mohanty said: “When I was posted as an automobile engineer at Koraput in 2019, about 500km here, I decided to come back to my house because of family problems. I had thought that once the family issues were sorted out I would find a job in Bhubaneswar. But I failed to get a job due to lockdown and decided to take up farming to support my family.” Mohanty has a joint family with nearly six to seven acres of land. “We cultivate paddy. After taking up farming I realised the pain and anguish of farmers. They need support of the government. But the government has turned killer. The hands of the Modi government are stained with the blood of farmers,” he said. While Mohanty sat with Congress leaders at the Mahatma Gandhi statue under the open sky with temperature hovering around 40° Celsius, a Congress worker Ajay Sahu condemned the police brutality against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “Is this way UP police should behave with a woman and that, too, someone like Priyanka Gandhi. The UP police and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath should apologize and release her unconditionally,” said Sahu. “Whatever compensation has been announced by the UP government for the slain farmers not acceptable. It should be in crores,” he added. Earlier on Monday, the Sanjuka Kisan Morcha had organised a protest demanding action against the Union minister of state for home. They also accused Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of inciting violence against the farmers .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Video makes farmers stick to their demands||The emergence of a video clip that shows a vehicle ploughing through people has changed the mood of the farmers. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday made it clear that the farmers would continue to protest in Lakhimpur Kheri till Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni is dismissed and his son and accomplices are arrested. In a statement, the SKM said the video shows “the minister’s son Ashis Misra was indeed driving the ‘Thar’ vehicle, from which he later got down and ran away, with cover and support provided by the police, and while firing on protesters. The journalist Raman Kashyap’s family is pointing out that he also got killed by vehicles crushing him”. The SKM is also not backing away from its assertion that one of the farmers had died of a gunshot wound. “Gurvinder Singh s/o Sukhwinder Singh (20 years) from Mukronya Nanpara died because of bullet injury. The first post-mortem did not confirm this, however. In his case, a re-post-mortem will be conducted by a team of doctors from AIIMS, BHU, PGI and a senior forensic doctor in Bahraich, under video recording and in the presence of SKM representatives,’’ the statement said. About the agreement reached with the Uttar Pradesh administration on Monday in a joint media conference by western Uttar Pradesh farm leader Rakesh Tikait and additional director-general (law and order) Prashant Kumar, the SKM said it was only to pave way for the last rites to be performed as the farmers were sitting in protest with the bodies. The key demands of the SKM remain — the immediate arrest of Ashis and his accomplices, and the dismissal of Teni and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar from their posts immediately. The Union minister and the chief minister are being targeted for “inciting” their party workers against the protesting farmers. Tikait has since come under considerable criticism from several quarters, some of whom suggested he had compromised too soon while others saw a possible realignment of forces in Uttar Pradesh because he did the joint media conference and given his earlier political leanings. Several SKM leaders rubbished this narrative being played out on social media, maintaining that other leaders from the movement were also part of the negotiations with the administration and the agreement was struck in consultation with the local unions and the family members of the victims. “For anyone to say Rakesh Tikait has compromised is unfair. There were a whole lot of other SKM leaders also involved besides local unions. Talks with the UP administration paved the way for the last rites. The police also agreed to do a post-mortem which will provide us the legal documents to carry this movement further. It is unfair to say that justice has been compromised. Larger justice issues remain,’’ Kavita Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, an SKM constituent, told The Telegraph. An All India Kisan Sabha leader told this newspaper that their members also managed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri by Monday morning, pointing out that most farmer union leaders managed to reach the area despite the barricades, except Gurnam Singh Chaduni. Further, he said, what was most important was to ease the tension in the area and the agreement made that possible as the process for the last rites commenced after the media conference. Since Sunday, the SKM leadership has been appealing for calm, underscoring the fact that it is the peaceful nature of their protest that has sustained it for over nine months and limited the options with the government to break the struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Varun Gandhi demands culprits be arrested||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted a video that purportedly shows farmers being run over in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and demanded that the owners of the cars be identified and the culprits arrested, continuing to prod his party over the farmers’ movement. “In Lakhimpur, the video that shows cars running over farmers will shake anyone’s soul,” Varun tweeted in Hindi. “Police should take note of this video and identify the owners of the car, those sitting in the car and others involved to make immediate arrests,” added the MP from Pilibhit. Farmers have claimed the car, which ploughed through the protesters and killed their brothers, was being driven by junior home minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis. No arrests have been made so far. On Monday, Varun had sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and tweeted it, calling for lodging a murder case against the culprits and favouring a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe. Earlier, too, the Lok Sabha MP had said the protesting farmers should be treated with sensitivity and had slammed party leaders for linking them with extremists. Varun’s position on the farmers’ issue in the face of silence of the BJP leadership has raised eyebrows in party circles. While many feel he was doing the right thing, others fear his position could anger the party managers. Varun, son of late Sanjay Gandhi, is also a member of the Nehru-Gandhi family. His cousins Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have been championing the farmers’ cause as Congress leaders while Varun seems to be doing the same in the BJP. Varun and his mother Maneka Gandhi, both BJP MPs, had joined the party much before the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo took full control of the party in 2014. The BJP then had showcased the mother and son as their own Gandhis. While Maneka was made a minister in the first Modi government, she was kept out in the second government. Varun, too, finds himself sidelined. Modi was in Lucknow on Tuesday to participate in an event connected to his government’s housing scheme for the poor. The event was aimed to prepare the ground for the polls in the key state early next year. Internally, the events in Lakhimpur Kheri, particularly the video showing people being run over, has led to unease and fear that it could cast a shadow on the upcoming polls. The prolonged farmers’ protest has turned out to be a difficult proposition for the BJP to handle amid a firm stand taken by the Modi government not to accept the demand for repealing the three farm laws. After a big show was organised by the agitating farmers at the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat, the Yogi government had hiked sugarcane rates, hoping to counter the influence. The incident in Lakhimpur Kheri has triggered a fresh row and party leaders said in private that the leadership needs to deal the issue with sensitivity and patience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||One year of Hathras imprisonment||Sanjida Rahman asked the crowd of reporters: “My children keep asking where their father is. What do I tell them?” Her husband Atiqur Rahman has been in jail for a year now, along with four others who were headed to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh in 2020 when they were arrested. Sanjida was among the relatives of the two of the five undertrials who addressed a media conference here on Tuesday to mark the first anniversary of their imprisonment. Those in jail include Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, Islamist student group Campus Front of India (CFI) leaders Rahman, Rauf Shareef and Masud Ahmed and their driver Alam. Kappan, a freelancer and the secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, had hitched a ride with Rahman and Ahmed who were on their way to Hathras in Alam’s taxi to express solidarity with the family of a girl who was gang-raped and murdered and her body cremated by police despite objections from her relatives. Shareef, CFI’s national general secretary at the time, was arrested later in Kerala by the Enforcement Directorate. They have been charged with sedition, incitement and for allegedly raising funds for terrorism under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and are being investigated for money laundering as well. The police have claimed that they were hatching a conspiracy to create communal disharmony in the state. Rahman was due for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here for aortic regurgitation at the time of arrest. Despite an order from the Uttar Pradesh director-general of prisons last week, Rahman is yet to be moved to AIIMS. “What justice is this? What is this punishment for? Only because we are Muslims, and he spoke out for the rights of others,” Lucknow-based Sanjida, a mother of two, said. Her husband is a PhD scholar at Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut. Delhi-based Alam’s wife Bushra said: “He is trapped…. He does not know any political person. I just want him to be released.” L. Hanumanthaiah, Kannada poet and Congress MP, spoke at the media conference. “Sensible Indians must speak now and should not be silent because they are afraid of the administration. If sensible citizens and so-called intellectuals don’t open their mouths, we won’t be living in a democracy. We will go towards becoming a fascist country,” the MP said. He added: “The (rape and murder) victim’s family can still not live in peace. They are guarded by paramilitary troops who accompany them even to the provision shop. They have requested to be shifted as they can’t live in that village but the government has not done so. They have sold six of their seven buffaloes as they are unable to even venture out to graze them.” The victim’s family as well as Hanumanthaiah are Dalits. The accused in the case are from the landed Thakur community. Delhi University professor Apoorvanand said that accusing the Popular Front of India and its mass organisations like the CFI of conspiracy has become a pattern — be it the Delhi riots, the Hathras murder or the recent Darrang killings in Assam. “No permission is needed to express solidarity with the suffering…. If the PFI or the CFI is not banned, then they have every right to engage in political activity. The times are such that almost every day there is the anniversary of someone who is arrested being marked by a news conference,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lok Janshakti Party factions get names, symbols||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday allotted new names and symbols to the two factions of the Lok Janshakti Party for the bypolls to two Bihar Assembly seats on October 30. The faction led by Union food processing minister Pashupati Kumar Paras — the brother of party founder and former central minister late Ram Vilas Paswan — will be called Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party, and can use the “sewing machine” symbol in the bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan constituencies. The other faction led by MP Chirag Paswan — Ram Vilas’s son — will be called Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and has been given the “helicopter” symbol for the bypolls. These allotments are an interim order until the EC decides on a dispute between both factions claiming to represent the party. Last week, the EC disallowed the use of the LJP’s “bungalow” symbol and its name owing to the dispute. The party split in June after five of its six MPs replaced Chirag with Paras as national president. The BJP recognised the faction led by Paras and made him a minister. Despite being in the NDA, the LJP under Chirag contested against the candidates of ruling ally Janata Dal United in the 2020 Bihar polls. The LJP emerged from a split in the remnant Janata Dal in 2000. In Bihar, the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), which merged into the JDU earlier this year, held the “ceiling fan” symbol — which is now not in use by any party in the state. The Chirag faction’s “helicopter” symbol potentially offers him a slight benefit from former RLSP voters who may confuse the two. The JDU and RLSP trace their roots to the undivided Janata Party of which Ram Vilas was also a part of. In 2015, six Janata Party descendants — Samajwadi Party, JDU, Janata Dal (Secular), Indian National Lok Dal, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Samajwadi Janata Party had unsuccessfully tried to reunite.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Kerala High Court bins state’s order capping the price of RT-PCR tests||Kerala High Court on Monday set aside the state government’s order capping the price of RT-PCR tests in all the private diagnostic laboratories. The court directed the state government to take a fresh decision on the price after consulting private labs within three weeks. A single-judge bench of Justice T.R. Ravi passed the directive based on two petitions filed by private diagnostic labs that claimed the price of Rs 500 for the test was too little. The petitioners had contended that many of them were incurring huge losses since a good quality test costs around Rs 1,500. The cost of an RT-PCR test was Rs 4,500 at the beginning of the pandemic. But the price was revised within months to Rs 1,700 last year after a Kerala State Medical Services Corporation Ltd market research showed a considerable reduction in input costs. On April 30 last year, the state government capped the price at Rs 500. But the court noted that it would not be proper to permit the labs to immediately charge Rs 1,700. “The interest of justice requires that the state government decide the matter after hearing the petitioners or their representatives at the earliest, at any rate, within three weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this judgment,” the court order said. The petitioners argued that the government never heard the labs before capping the price at Rs 500. But the state government contended that it was empowered to order such a price cap according to provisions in several legislations, including the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the executive powers vested in the government under Article 162 of the Constitution. In its defence, the Kerala government had made a comparison of RT-PCR rates in other states and cited the examples of Punjab where it was Rs 415, Odisha that offered tests for Rs 400, and Rs 500 in Maharashtra, Haryana and Uttarakhand. The government noted that the price cap was based on the advice of the Indian Council of Medical Research. But the court concluded that the government order was open for judicial review since it “cannot be treated as a part of a legislative process”. “The reliance placed on the cost of RT-PCR test in the other states, is also not a reasonable yardstick, since there is no material either before the government or before the court to ascertain how the prices were arrived at in the said states,” the court ruled. The high cost of RT-PCR tests had led to widespread manipulation and fake negative reports in the state. Police in Malappuram had arrested the manager of a lab that sold fake RT-PCR certificates in September. It was found that only a fifth of about 2,500 swab samples collected during August were tested for Covid-19. But all of them were provided Covid-negative certificates, posing a huge health risk in the state already reeling under a stubborn spike in cases. The scam came to light when Dubai health authorities informed airline companies that it would not accept negative certificates issued by the said laboratory. Karnataka police had arrested seven people from Kerala’s Kasaragod district with fake RT-PCR negative certificates in August. They had allegedly procured them at cheap rates before heading to Mangalore where a negative report is still mandatory for entry from Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||WHO to decide on emergency use of Covaxin next week||The World Health Organisation said on Tuesday it would take the final decision next week on whether to grant Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, emergency use listing (EUL) its stamp of approval expected to boost the vaccine’s acceptability. The WHO and an independent group of experts “are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant emergency use listing to Covaxin”, the international health agency tweeted on Tuesday night. “Covaxin’s manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has submitted data to the WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at WHO’s request on September 27,” the agency tweeted. “WHO experts are currently reviewing this info and it if addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalised next week.” The EUL process conducted by the WHO and a technical advisory group of independent experts is centred on determining if a manufactured product such as a vaccine is “quality-assured, safe and  effective,” it said. India’s drug regulatory authority had approved Covaxin and Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, in early January. But while Covishield received WHO’s EUL listing on February 15 this year, WHO’s decision on Covaxin is awaited. The delay has prompted sections of Indian researchers to contrast the speed at which India’s drug regulatory authority had approved Covaxin —  even before Bharat Biotech had made public the results of its vaccine’s efficacy trials —  and the diligence they say is evident in the WHO’s process. Bharat Biotech had published a paper describing the efficacy trial results in early July on an archive for research preprints, but some scientists have expressed concern that the paper had not been published in a peer-reviewed medical journal until early October. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign currently relies primarily on Covishield and Covaxin. But among the 920 million vaccine doses administered till Tuesday, around 820 million are Covishield and about 100 million are Covaxin. An EUL from the WHO is expected to ease restrictions on international travel for recipients of Covaxin in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||SC rebukes Centre for abruptly changing NEET syllabus||The Supreme Court on Tuesday again pulled up the Centre and medical education authorities for abruptly changing the syllabus for the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021, observing that it has been done to favour private players. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna castigated the government over the sudden change in the syllabus pattern, though the Centre informed the court that it will postpone the exams scheduled in November to January 2022 to mitigate the hardships of the aggrieved doctors. “Seats which are vacant are never in government colleges. It is always in private. We have a surmise that the seats in government colleges are not lying vacant. It appears that the entire haste is for filling the vacant seats in private colleges. “The impression we get is that medical education has become a business. That’s the tragedy of medical education in this country,” Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, told additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati during the hearing. The court made the observations after Bhati, in response to a query from the bench, said there are 414 colleges in the country which are offering super-speciality courses, out of which only 114 are run by the government. “These seats are never vacant in government-run institutions. So the entire aspect looks like it is done to fill up the seats in private colleges.… The interest of students and the medical profession should weigh higher as they will be torch-bearers of this profession,” the bench said. The bench made the oral remarks while dealing with a joint petition filed by over 41 doctors challenging the abrupt move of the authorities to change this year’s pattern for the entrance examination. During the hearing on Tuesday, the bench wondered why the changes had been brought so abruptly, although deciding the pattern and syllabus was in the exclusive domain of the experts concerned. “Why are these changes brought in a hurry? Please have some concern for the students. You have an exam pattern holding field since 2018, so why now? Logic seems to be to fill the seats,” Justice Chandrachud observed. “Just because you have authority, you will exercise it in this fashion. Would the heavens have fallen if it was done from next year?” the bench asked. Justice Chandrachud said its true that setting examination patterns are in the domain of experts, but the same cannot be done in such an arbitrary manner. The arguments would continue on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
