07-10-2021||India||Watch out in Oct, Nov, Dec: Health Ministry's warning over Covid-19||A senior Health Ministry official on Friday warned citizens about the threat of a resurgence in Covid-19 cases during the upcoming festival and wedding season, and advised them to avoid crowded places and celebrate festivals virtually. He cautioned people by saying, “Please watch your October, November, December”. Asserting repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet, the government said that though the situation is plateauing, the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day. “We cannot take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful,” an official said at a joint media briefing. Warning people about the threat of Covid -19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, “Please watch your October, November, December.” He advised people to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel and to stay home, celebrate festivals virtually and explore online modes of shopping. The government said that Kerala recorded 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country last week. Kerala has over lakh active cases currently and the figure in four other states is ranging between 10,000 and 50,000. It said five states — Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya — are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over five per cent. Thirty-four districts across nine states and union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, according to the government. Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. The government said 71 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while 27 per cent have got both doses. Listing its preparations to tackle any surge in coronavirus infections, the government said 8.36 lakh hospital beds are currently available in the country for Covid-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. It said 4.86 oxygen-supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds are available. “We are prepared to face a daily surge of 4.5-5 lakh Covid-19 cases,” an official said. The official said there is no issue of vaccine availability in the country now. With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India’s total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The number of deaths climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
07-10-2021||India||Science relating to booster doses of Covid vaccines still evolving: Centre||The science relating to the use of booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines is still evolving and the developments are being closely watched, the government said on Thursday.  NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there are several studies that are looking into the subject of booster doses.  "This is an evolving science and a paradigm of information...that data is still emerging. We are watching this science very very carefully through our NTAGI system. We know that COVAXIN has done a study on booster doses and those results can be available anytime. We are also aware that although the antibody can disappear, the presence of T-cell immunity is a huge protection that also has to be accounted for," he said.  "We also know that WHO has not given a clear-cut recommendation on the matter. The situation is that it is an evolving, learning phase and we are watching science as it emanates and in India also, there are studies which are looking at this aspect," Paul told reporters at a press briefing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Not attended in 5 years, says Varun Gandhi, dropped from top BJP body||BJP MP Varun Gandhi — who had made headlines with his sharply critical  tweets about the death of farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Khiri — on Thursday brushed off his exclusion from the BJP’s 80-member national executive. “I have not attended a single NEC for the last five years. I do not think I was on it,” the 41-year-old who has been with the party for 17 years, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The names of Gandhi and his mother Maneka Gandhi did not feature in the list made public by the BJP on Thursday. There were two other omissions — Subramanian Swamy, who was seen as being critical of the party of late and former Union minister Birender Singh, who was also seen as sympathetic towards the farmers' protests against the Centre's farm laws. Many Union ministers and veteran leaders like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi have made It to the list. Varun Gandhi was the only BJP leader to speak up on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue, in which the son of a BJP Union minister has been accused of murder. Ashish Mishra, the son of BJP's junior home minister Ajay Mishra, has not been arrested.  Earlier today, the Uttar Pradesh police summoned him for questioning. Gandhi not only demanded "accountability" in the issue, he also wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,  seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and  ₹ 1 crore compensation for the families of the farmers who died. “Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer,” he tweeted, posting a video of the horrific moment an SUV, coming from behind at a high speed, ploughed through farmers holding a peaceful protest. While a section of BJP leaders called the omission of him and Maneka Gandhi a "routine rejig", others admitted that he had upset the senior leadership of the party with his criticism. "He projected as if the entire fault lies at the doorsteps of the leaders. We are awaiting the investigation report and believe that incident was unfortunate. He should have been patient at a time when the entire opposition is targeting the party," ANI quoted a senior BJP leader as saying. "There are other senior leaders from UP who have become part of the council in their place. There are at least ten. They must have lost their utility or relevance. We have seen the statements of the son on various occasions. It is after all the party's decision," ANI quoted another leader from Uttar Pradesh as saying. Both Ajay Mishra and his son have denied that they were present at the spot, though the minister told NDTV that the SUV belonged to his family. Amid opposition demands that he step down, Mishra met his boss, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday. Government sources have ruled out any resignation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu and several other Punjab Congress leaders detained at UP police station||Several Punjab Congress leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, were on Thursday prevented from heading to Lakhimpur Kheri and were detained at a police station in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh.  Earlier in the day, a large number of party workers, leaders, including several ministers and legislators assembled in Mohali here and headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles to protest against the killing of farmers during violence in the UP district. The protestors led by Sidhu were stopped at the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border where UP police had put up barricades.  Several party leaders Sidhu and ministers Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Vijay Inder Singla, among others were arguing with senior police officials for not letting them proceed.  Sidhu asked police officials to take action against perpetrators of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident rather than stopping public representatives.  He slammed UP police for not arresting the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra.  According to the protesting Congress leaders, UP police officials told them that they could allow only five persons to Lakhimpur Kheri. But the party leaders insisted on allowing ministers and MLAs from Punjab.  Later, UP police took Sidhu; ministers Vijay Inder Singla, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Pargat Singh; several MLAs, including Madan Lal Jalalpur, Fateh Jang Bajwa, Raj Kumar Chhabbewal, Harjot Kamal, Rajinder Singh; and Punjab Congress working presidents Kuljit Nagra and Pawan Goel to Sarsawa police station, Saharanpur in a bus, said an official.  Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny had earlier said they would stage a sit-in wherever they were stopped from heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri.  Congress legislator Sunder Sham Arora had said they were ready for courting arrest if prevented from going to UP.  Before the protest march, a group of farmers showed black flags to Sidhu's cavalcade when it was on its way from Patiala to Mohali.  Sidhu has demanded the arrest of MoS Home Mishra's son in connection with the death of farmers during violence in UP, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday.  Mishra's son has been booked for allegedly mowing down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. However, the union minister has denied allegations about his son's involvement in the case.  Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start.  Before the protest march Thursday, Sidhu, who was holding a farmers' flag, slammed the BJP-led government in UP over violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that took lives of eight people.  Sidhu said Punjab Congress and party MLAs are standing firmly with the farmers.  He asked why UP authorities hadn't taken action against Mishra's son even after an FIR was lodged in the matter.  Are union minister and his son above the law and constitution? he asked.  This fight is for our farmers, he said, adding: If UP police do not arrest the union minister's son, I will go on hunger strike. It is my 'vachan' (promise)."  Later, he said, If the arrest is not made by tomorrow (Friday), or he does not join the investigation, I will go on a hunger strike."  Sidhu described Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi as saviours of democracy. Meanwhile, Haryana Congress leaders, including Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kiran Chaudhary, who started their march from Panipat were also not allowed to move ahead from the Haryana-UP border. They were led by Kumari Selja.  Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.  Two BJP workers, Mishra's driver, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, were also killed in the incident.  While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Mishra's native place.  No arrests have been made in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||SC asks Centre reason behind fixing limit to determine economic category for NEET||The Supreme Court on Thursday posed searching questions to the Centre on its decision to fix a limit of rupees eight lakh annual income for determining Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category for reservation in NEET admissions for medical courses. The top court allowed the impleadment of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and Department of Personnel and Training and asked them to file an affidavit as on what was the basis for fixing the limit of Rs eight lakh annual income to determine the EWS category. The Centre said fixing a limit of Rs 8 lakh annual income for the EWS category is a matter of policy based on the National Cost of Living Index. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath, and BV Nagarathna asked the Centre to specify what was the basis and parameters for fixing the limit and whether any deliberation has taken place on the issue or simply the figure of Rs eight lakh income was picked up from the limit of determining the creamy layer in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas challenging the Centre and Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) July 29 notice providing 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) and 10 per cent for EWS category in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) admissions for medical courses. "We want to know what the basis for Rs 8 lakh annual income is. What was the study behind this? Was there any deliberation? Can you say the Rs eight lakh limit is for all over the country? Every state and every state has a different cost of living. Cosmopolitan cities like Mumbai, Bangalore, and Chennai have different costs of living than cities in Uttar Pradesh or any other smaller city. How can the limit of Rs eight lakh be the same for every place in the country," the bench said. It asked whether the government has undertaken the study of the Gross Domestic Product of every household in a State and whether it has ascertained the criteria for economic backwardness and what its methodology was. "Even for House Rent Allowance, you have a concept of Class-1 and Class-2 cities. How can you say Rs 8 lakh will be applied for everywhere in the country. You cannot just say it is a matter of policy and get away with it," the bench said. The top court asked Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj to reflect on the issue and to file an affidavit with regard to the questions asked by it and clarified that these questions are only its prima facie views. "Economic Backwardness is a realistic thing. There is no doubt about it as people don't have money to purchase books, to even have food. But as far as the EWS is concerned, they are forward class and there is no social or educational backwardness among them. So can you apply the same yardstick of Rs eight lakh limit for the creamy layer to the EWS? Please remember, with regard to the EWS we are not dealing with social and educational backwardness. What was the basis of fixing the limit or have you simply lifted the criteria for the creamy layer and put it for EWS ," the bench said. The top court said that it wants to know what exercise was undertaken to arrive at these indicia for EWS as it cannot apply the same indicia which have been applied for Social and Economically Backward Classes (SEBC). "The case of a creamy layer is that due to economic advancement they have crossed the threshold and the indicia of backwardness with regard to them have been completely obliterated. But in regard to EWS, there is no concept of obliteration of social backwardness," the bench said. Nataraj said that though he does not have any instruction from DoPT and the Ministry of Social Justice, as they were not the party to the case, these are larger issues that will be deliberated before a five-judge Constitution bench where the validity of the 103rd amendment is pending. The bench in its over three and half hour hearing said that the court at present was not concerned with the validity of the amendment but is dealing with the implementation of the amendment. At the outset, the ASG said that if the court is to deal with the applicability of the EWS category quota, then it would be desirable that States are also made a party to the case. He countered the claim of petitioner students that rules of the game were changed after the game had begun saying that the question of quota comes at the time of counselling for admissions and not during the notification of examination. He said that at the time of counselling, the roster/reservation pattern will be declared as to how many seats will go to whom (SC/ST/OBC and EWS). "The Government has increased the seats to accommodate EWS category students in 2019, but Centre was not able to implement the quota last year. The benefit of the increase in seats has gone to the students last year. Now, we have decided to implement it from this year," he said. Senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan, appearing for students have claimed that Rs eight lakh limit has been fixed arbitrarily without showing any methodology to determine the criteria and around 2500 seats will go to the EWS category, which would affect the prospects of other students. On September 17, the top court has agreed to hear a batch of pleas of students against the July 29 notice providing 27 per cent reservation for OBC and 10 per cent for EWS category in 15 per cent UG and 50 per cent PG All India Quota seats (MBBS/BDS and MD/MS/MDS) with effect from the current academic session 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan, seven others, sent to 14-day judicial custody||A court here on Thursday sent Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and seven others in 14-day judicial custody in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Their bail applications will be heard on Friday, the court said. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had sought an extension of their NCB custody, but the request was not granted. Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a Goa-bound ship, while the other five were arrested the next day. They were produced before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar at the end of their earlier remand. The court sent them in judicial custody even as the probe agency sought extension of remand till October 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||SC permits girls to take entrance exams at Rashtriya Indian Military College ||Days after induction of girls in NDA, the Supreme Court on Thursday permitted female candidates to appear in the examination for Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) in Dehradun, scheduled to be held on December 18, saying the Centre has walked a mile and should walk a step ahead. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul directed the Centre to issue necessary modified advertisement in this regard within two days without changing the schedule. "We put to the Additional Solicitor General that the respondent has walked a mile and should walk a step ahead. We do believe that six months is more than enough for a disciplined organisation like the respondent to arrange their affairs. The apex court made it clear that this would be applicable insofar as the is concerned. However, with regard to the Rashtriya Military Schools, the process will begin with the academic session 2022-2023. The top court perused the affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India in pursuance of its order dated September 22, 2021 and said, "Dehors the niceties, the fact is that all boys schools were going to turn into co- education institutions, is something the respondent has accepted." It will have its own ramifications in terms of infrastructure and personal requirements, the court said. "The one caveat we have is that what is being proposed is that the entrance examination scheduled in June, 2022 will be permitted to be taken by the girls resulting in their entry in January 2023 and periodically the strength would increase with a schedule given up to January, 2028," the bench said. The bench said the manner and how it has to be implemented, "we leave to the respondent". The matter is now listed for next hearing on January 18, 2022. At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati informed the bench comprising Justice M M Sundresh that preparations for the December 18, 2021 exam were already at an advanced stage. Bhati sought the nod from the bench to allow entry of girls into the RIMC and Rashtriya Military School for the year beginning from January 2023 and not June 2022. The bench, however, refused to accept the submission and said that six months time was more than enough for preparations to be made for the induction of girls for the June 2022 session. "You are effectively postponing everything, why do you want to postpone for a year? You will have six months", the bench said. The ASG told the bench that October 30, 2021 is the last date for submission of applications and the exam is scheduled for December 18, 2021. The apex court , however, said "we are not saying that there are no difficulties". The top court had earlier directed the Centre to file an affidavit within two weeks on the issue of induction of girls to RIMC in Dehradun saying the issue cannot be delayed further. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kailas Udhavrao More who has raised the issue of entry of girls to the RIMC Dehradun. Earlier in July, the apex court had said as far as RIMC is concerned, it is stated that it is a 99 years old institution which will complete 100 years next year. "The question is whether it completes its 100 years with gender neutrality or not!" the top court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||India to allow all foreign tourists in country from October 15 by chartered flights||India has decided to allow foreign tourists into the country, beginning with granting tourist visas to those travelling by chartered flights from October 15 and those by regular planes from November 15. The Union Home Ministry on Thursday announced that with this, the restrictions placed on visa and international travel since March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic stand further eased given the present overall pandemic situation. After considering various inputs, the ministry has decided to begin granting of fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15, 2021, a home ministry statement said. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so only with effect from November 15, 2021 on fresh tourist visas. All due protocols and norms relating to COVID-19 as notified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare from time to time shall be adhered to by the foreign tourists, carriers bringing them to India and all other stakeholders at landing stations, the statement said. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all visas granted to foreigners were suspended last year. Various other restrictions were also imposed on international travel by the central government to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. After considering the evolving Covid-19 situation, foreigners were later on allowed to avail any kind of Indian visa other than tourist visa for entry and stay in India. However, the Home Ministry had been receiving representations from several state governments as well as various stakeholders in the tourism sector to start tourist visas also to allow foreign tourists to come to India. Therefore, the Home Ministry consulted all major stakeholders like the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Tourism and various state governments where foreign tourists are expected to arrive and took the decision, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Health ministry warns Indians over Covid surge in festive & wedding seasons||"Please watch your October, November, December," a senior Health Ministry official warned people on Thursday about the threat of COVID-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, and advised them to avoid crowded places and celebrate festivals virtually. Asserting repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over, the government said that though the situation is plateauing, the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day. "We cannot take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful," an official said at a joint media briefing. Warning people about the threat of COVID-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Please watch your October, November, December." He advised people to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel and to stay home, celebrate festivals virtually and explore online modes of shopping. The government said that Kerala recorded 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country last week. Kerala has over over lakh active cases currently and the figure in four other states is ranging between 10,000 and 50,000. It said five states -- Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya -- are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over five per cent. Thirty-four districts across nine states and union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, according to the government. Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. The government said 71 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 27 per cent have got both doses. Listing its preparations to tackle any surge in coronavirus infections, the government said 8.36 lakh hospital beds are currently available in the country for COVID-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. It said 4.86 oxygen-supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds are available. "We are prepared to face a daily surge of 4.5-5 lakh COVID-19 cases," an official said. The official said there is no issue of vaccine availability in the country now. With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP Police paste summons notice at Ajay Mishra's house for son Ashish||Two men were arrested on Thursday and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son asked to appear before police in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that killed eight people. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home, has been asked to come to the police lines at 10am Friday, a notice said. The Lakhimpur police late on Thursday evening pasted the notice at the Union minister’s residence. The notice, issued under Section 160 of the criminal procedure code that relates to summons to witnesses, said Ashish Mishra must appear in person and present evidences that he is aware of the incident. “If Ashish Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” said Lucknow range Inspector General (IG) of police Laxmi Singh. Two empty cartridges were found at the site of the violence near Tikonia village, police said. They identified the arrested men as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by police. They were earlier being questioned by police. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Police said they have formed a nine-member team headed by Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal to investigate into the FIR lodged against the minister's son and the others. The arrests came on a day when the Supreme Court termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident "unfortunate" and sought a status report by Friday from the Uttar Pradesh police. The court specifically asked the UP Police to specify whether the accused named in the FIR have been arrested. Within hours, the UP Police announced the arrests. A notice has been pasted at the Union minister's house in Lakhimpur city under section 160 of the CrPC, seeking the presence of his son at the police lines in Lakhimpur to present any oral, written or digital evidence. According to police, the investigations so far had named an accused and mentioned six unnamed accused. Three of them had died at the spot. Out of the remaining four, two were arrested on Thursday, a police statement said. A forensic team went to the site on Wednesday and found two empty .315 bore cartridges. "In the light of this, the incident site was meticulously probed by a metal detector today," the statement said. During the day, Inspector General (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh and Additional Director General of Police (Lucknow zone) S N Sabat visited the police lines where the two were being quizzed. Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, was among the eight people who died on Sunday. Three people are alleged to have been lynched after an SUV ran into a group of farmers during a protest over a visit by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. IG Laxmi Singh said the role of these three was not clear earlier, but "things are becoming clear now". She refused to divulge anything more. Asked if the three people who died were the instigators of the violence, the ADG Sabot said events unfolded only after the "accident". Anyone behind the steering wheel has complete control over the vehicle and is 100 per cent responsible for it, he said. He suggested that other people in the vehicle could have a reason to instigate or abet whatever happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Suraj Beera :The Entrepreneur Digital Creator paving a new path of Travel & Wellness||Suraj Beera is an internationally acclaimed entrepreneur and digital creator best known for his incredible travel cinematography and, more notably, his two highly successful travel health and diet management startups. He's worked on projects and commercials for a variety of brands, and he's now striving to bring people together through.He believes in the power of positive storytelling and the development of ideas that affect individuals, communities, brands, and the environment. Suraj Beera is a well-known persona on social media for his one-of-a-kind travel film creations with his travel brand "aliveisawesome" as well as his social endeavours for a better life in his home country of India. He has also documented and launched an awareness campaign about the recent wildfires in Turkey and Greece, as well as assisting people through crowdfunding and travel supplies. On Instagram, he has developed many remarkable and unique verified ad clips for Mercedes Benz, Audi Germany, BMW, Fossil, and Pepsi Global as part of paid agreements. Suraj Beera was in charge of a Pepsi Global commercial featuring Leo Messi.He considers travel to be a positive influence in the globe. He claims that it broadens your horizons, promotes cultural understanding, and builds a sense of community. It boosts economies, provides jobs, and lifts communities. As a result, he believes that travel has the potential to transform destinations, provide economic effect, and enhance people's lives. He was successful in gathering 2,53,000 signatures for a new rule prohibiting dangerous chemical production near human regions in India on Change.org in response to the Vishakhapatnam gas tragedy. With a worldwide following of 35,000 people on Instagram, YouTube, and Discord, he established the travel community “ALIVE IS AWESOME” with top producers from all over the globe and engaging advertising, photography, and travel content. We are not taking care of our food intake due to proper lack and suggestions of dieticians in this modern world where we have very limited time and a lot of health problems have been identified for various age groups and proper intake of food is very important, and “ALIVE IS AWESOME” a travel and digital creator Instagram brand which is popular across the world for its mind blowing and unique travel photography and videos which is inspiring people to connect and make a positive impact through travel. Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/aliveisawesome/?hl=en Twitter: https://twitter.com/SurajBeera Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/andrew.suraj.7||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Prateek Shukla: A Multi-talented Entrepreneur ||Internet of Things (IoT) is a new-age innovation that allows multiple devices to communicate and exchange data with each other to enhance their overall functionality. In fact, IoT uses the internet to create, analyze and make decisions based on data. It helps industries all around the world to work smartly and more effectively by automating processes. This essential piece of technology allows businesses to keep track of and have a glimpse into the productivity of the company assets. Using the real-time insights it provides, the companies can reduce their wastage, improve their work capacity, and enhance their safety quality all at once. Considering its advantageous imprint on business operations, IoT has become a significant growth factor for industrial ventures. Prateek Shukla, a market expert, and young entrepreneur made no mistake to identify the growth opportunity in the IoT industry and launched his IoT solution firm – Altorum Leren – to provide companies with effective IoT products and services. His Initial Journey into the Realm of Cyber Security Expert Even before entering the domain of IoT, Prateek gained quite a lot of success in cyber security and internet safety. As the world around us is getting more dependent on the internet, the relevance and importance of cyber security are also becoming paramount. As most modern businesses store valuable business and customer data in cloud services, they must put serious effort into protecting that data from theft. Poor configuration can make any business vulnerable to cyber-attacks while damaging its credibility as a service. Prateek, at the age of 18, took the challenge to make people aware of the urgency of cyber security with his highly insightful book “The Unrevealed Secrets of Hacking and Cracking.” He even ended up developing an app called Casa Curo to allow the housing complexes to track their security measures. Building a Revolutionary IoT Solution Firm from Scratch Prateek’s entrepreneurial journey was never a cakewalk. He initially faced quite a few setbacks before locating a future in a potential domain like IoT. This visionary individual invested himself in serious market research and knowledge hunting to emerge as a successful business. Finally, riding on his market knowledge and in collaboration with his current business partner Sandeep Parira, Prateek bootstrapped his start-up venture Altorum Leren. They have even launched their first product Alfiniy, a SaaS platform for IoT that will offer businesses guidance for preventive and predictive maintenance. Using Edge Computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI), the innovative product helps industries minimize both asset failure and resource wastage. Altroum Leren has also been honored with the prestigious title of ‘Automation Technology Provider of the Year’ by NITI Aayog (Government of India) during the Global Artificial Intelligence Summit held on September 29th. The Summit was attended by well-known global industry leaders, data experts, and AI and IoT pioneers and the focus of the Summit was to highlight the prominence and roles of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) in human lives and business industries. Sharing his journey as a budding businessman, Prateek Shukla says, “Carrying a dream to build my own business, I moved to Bangalore when I was just 22. I quickly realized that I required more knowledge and experience to thrive in a marketplace that is exceptionally competitive. So, I started to spend hours in intensive market study and, eventually, kicked start Altorum Leren with an aim to reform the IoT domain using my innovative business model.” “Automation is the future, and our Vision is to accelerate the future of IoT industries by exploring and addressing the possible future challenges today. The subscription-based model of our product Alfinity has proved its merit and has been widely accepted by the manufacturing, transport, and agricultural industry. We are here to stay and grow to leave our competitors behind,” comments Prateek talking about his company’s vision. The IoT start-up has already served several private and Government ventures successfully and is looking forward to expanding its clientele to a total of 40+. Prateek even has set a goal of generating a turnover of 15 crores in the next three years. This talented individual knows what it takes to be a successful entrepreneur and never shies away putting all of his dedication and hard work which keeps him ahead of his industry peers. LinkedIn URL - https://www.linkedin.com/in/prateek-shukla-4003149a/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Yash Vashishtha Is All Set To Bring Revolution In Advertising & Marketing Industry With Social Matte Media ||They say that it requires a whole lot of determination and courage in ensuring that you live the life of your dreams and Yash Vashishtha is a living example of it. Hailing from Mumbai, the passionate guy has uplifted the market with his immense knowledge and passion. Currently, he is the owner of the leading social media marketing agency named Social Matte Media which is known for its innovative ideas to increase the reach of the brand. With time, Yash has built a great team of experts who work diligently to help their clients in their businesses. The covid period has been a curse to every business including the advertising industry. Yash believes that Entrepreneurship is all about solving people's problems. Hence to tackle this problem, Yash came up with the startup which is Social Matte Media. It resolved the sudden pause in the advertising industry. By converting the online information portals to marketing portals, Yash and his team took the initiative to be the change in the marketing and advertising industry. By creating media portals across several social media platforms including YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook, they ensure a wider reach of the client's project to the audience via a click. When Yash was asked about how his solutions are going to benefit people in their businesses, he said, "Currently we have a network of more than 1000 media portals with an audience network of more than 800 Million. Our team has revolutionized the online advertising medium and has collaborated with brands through these media pages." Adding to this, the owner also claims to have monetized the existing media portals and has taken the initiative to provide businesses to all the existing and new clients. When it comes to revenue generation, Yash revealed that Social Matte Media connects brands with the media portals that are willing to advertise their products via social media marketing at a nominal cost. With each deal, they cut out a certain percentage which they keep as their revenue. Yash's startup is more than welcoming for the young talents across the globe. The owner claims that any number of people can join the firm to work online and earn money. Interested people can start working with them and they will guide you in your professional development. Social Matte Media is all set to bring revolution in the advertising and marketing industry and we all know that Yash won't stop till he takes the company to new heights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Influencer and entrepreneur, Prasad Nagarkar deems social media as a boon||Man has been evolving and upgrading since its inception. From inventions of stone tools to artificial intelligence, humans have come a long way. But, the advent of the internet has changed the world from pin to plane.   We all are well aware of the fact that the internet has opened the door to a hundred or more inventions and the formation of social media platforms is of them.   Facebooks, Instagram, Twitter, etc. have made our lives easy and convenient. Isn't the idea of being mentally present everywhere cool? We can't even think of the ways that these applications have changed our lives.   Instagram, in particular, has helped many people to get all the fame and name that they have today. Prasad Nagarkar is one of them. He is a burgeoning social media influencer and a successful entrepreneur.   Mr. Nagarkar believes that social media is a boon to humankind. He says, "Social media has fetched the world closer, it has altered the geographical margins by making its reach vast. People are now updated about every corner of the earth, it is just a matter of few clicks, isn't it?   We all will agree to Mr. Nagarkar's these words. This application has reformed our ways of living. Many people use social media as a way out of their regular lives and relax their minds.   It is because of social media that influencer is now considered as a new job title. Mr. Nagarkar is a perfect example of a successful influencer who never flops in showing his amazing fashion and fitness life to the world.   He is prominent at handling his personal life, public life and entrepreneur life flawlessly. This zeal of his has inspired millions of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Niraj Kanjani Talks About Taking The Risk Of Quitting Part-Time Job & Working Independently!||It is critical to be focused and disciplined in life to achieve success. To obtain all of one's main goals, one must maintain a clear head in all of their endeavours. Niraj Kanjani, an entrepreneur from Ahmedabad, has made a better life for himself by following this way of life. He is an IT specialist who has carved out a niche for himself. By becoming self-employed and going on the entrepreneurial path, Niraj Kanjani took a big risk. He stopped working part-time and started outsourcing his IT services. Over the last five years, Niraj has helped a number of software companies with various apps, which has benefited him. With each subsequent project, Niraj gained a deeper understanding of app development and social media marketing. In the year 2020, entrepreneur Niraj Kanjani discovered the value of discipline. He shares, "In school, I never took anything seriously. In the year 2020, however, I have realised the value of discipline. Because I was at home, I realised how important it was to set a time restriction and finish the project within that time range." Niraj was doing quite well when he was a part-time worker. But he wasn't feeling the creative satisfaction. It takes courage to start working independently without having help from anyone. So was there any time Niraj was worried? He says, "Sometimes, yes. But I know what I was doing and what I wanted. I trusted by skills and I know I am a good engineer, I am good with web and app development. So I was sure that the result will be in my favour." Niraj Kanjani says that he is quite content with the way his career has been shaped. But he wants to expand his business overall in India and more at the international level. He hopes to make an even better income in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Sidhu marches to UP, demands union minister's son's arrest||Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has demanded the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son in connection with the death of farmers during violence in Uttar Pradesh, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday. Union Minister of State for Home Mishra's son has been booked for allegedly mowing down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. However, Mishra has denied allegations about his son's involvement in the case. Sidhu on Thursday led a protest march from Punjab to Lakhimpur Kheri in protest against the killing of farmers. A large number of party leaders including ministers, legislators and workers first assembled at Mohali here and then headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start. Sidhu had resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief on September 28 but it wasn't immediately clear if the resignation was withdrawn. Before the protest march Thursday, Sidhu slammed the BJP-led government in UP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He said Punjab Congress and party MLAs are standing firmly with the farmers. He asked why UP authorities hadn't taken action against Mishra's son even after an FIR was lodged in the matter. Are union minister and his son above the law and constitution? he asked. This fight is for our farmers, he said, adding: If UP police do not arrest the union minister's son, I will go on hunger strike. It is my 'vachan' (promise)." Later, he said, If the arrest is not made till tomorrow (Friday), or he does not join investigation, I will go on a hunger strike." Sidhu called Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi saviours of democracy. Earlier, Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny said they would stage a sit-in wherever they were stopped from heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri. Congress legislator Sunder Sham Arora said they were ready for courting arrest if prevented from going to UP. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. Two BJP workers, Mishra's driver, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, were also killed in the incident. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Mishra's native place. No arrests have been made in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Work-life imbalance, insufficient incomes top causes of work stress in India, says survey||A significant percentage of employed professionals in India are feeling stressed at work, and work-life imbalance, insufficient incomes, and slow career progress are cited as the top three causes of work stress in India, says a survey. Leading online professional network LinkedIn has launched a special mental health' edition of the Workforce Confidence Index to address the prevalence of work stress in India, and how professionals expect greater flexibility to keep their mental health in check. Based on the survey responses of 3,881 professionals from July 31 to September 24, the findings reveal that more than half of India's (55 per cent) employed professionals are feeling stressed at work. The latest edition of the Workforce Confidence Index revealed that India's overall workforce confidence remained steady with a composite score of 55 from July 31 to September 24, 2021, despite drastic transformations in the world of work. When asked to share their primary reasons for work stress, employed professionals cited 'balancing work with personal needs' (34 per cent), 'not making enough money' (32 per cent), and 'slow career advancement' (25 per cent) as the top three stressors at work today. "These stressful times of change have impelled the need for greater flexibility and work-life balance among professionals. But our survey reveals a wide gap between what employees need and what employers are offering to cope with stress," said Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn. Gupta further said that while nearly half of (47 per cent) employed professionals wish to end work at reasonable hours, only about one-thirds (36 per cent) were actually able to do so. And while 41 per cent planned for time-off, only 30 per cent could take time off in the past two months. "These alarming statistics reflect the urgency for companies to understand how creating a culture that encourages work-life balance and prioritises well-being is critical moving forward," Gupta said. Amid such stressful times, 1 in 3 professionals are also seen drawing optimism from the availability of jobs (36 per cent) and improved control over expenses (30 per cent) in today's recovering, yet competitive jobs marketplace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||British diplomat molested in Chandigarh||A woman diplomat posted at the British Deputy High Commission here was allegedly molested by an unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreant, police said on Thursday. The 60-year-old diplomat was walking towards the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association in Sector 10 from her house in Sector 9 around 6:30 am on Wednesday when a man on a motorcycle approached from behind and hit her on her back inappropriately, they said. In her complaint, the diplomat said she raised an alarm and even ran after him, but the man sped away, the police added. After receiving the complaint, the Chandigarh Police registered a case under section 354-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 3 police station. The police said they were scanning footage from close circuit television cameras installed in the area to trace the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi, Maneka Gandhi's names from top BJP list after tweets on Lakhimpur Kheri||BJP president J P Nadda announced the 80-member National Executive of the party on Thursday, with the names of its top brass, ranging from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to many Union ministers, several state leaders and veterans like L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi figuring on the list. BJP MP Varun Gandhi, who has been speaking in support of farmers during their ongoing stir against the three agri laws, his MP mother Maneka Gandhi and former Union minister Birender Singh, who has also been sympathetic to the farmers' cause, have been dropped as executive members. Besides 80 regular members, the executive will also have 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees. The executive is a key deliberative body of the party which meets to discuss key issues facing the government and shapes the organisation's agenda. The disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has prevented its meeting for a long time. Many Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, are expectedly on the list with recently inducted minister Ashwini Vaishnaw also being included. Former Union ministers like Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar also remain the members of the national executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Two teachers shot dead in Srinagar in latest attack on civilians||Two government school teachers, including a woman, were shot dead by militants in Eidgah area of the city amid increasing attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The killing of the teachers, which drew widespread condemnation, took the number of civilians killed in the last five days in Kashmir valley to seven, including four from the minorities. "At about 11.15 am, terrorists shot dead two school teachers at Sangam Eidgah in Srinagar district," a police official said. He said one of the two slain persons is a woman. The deceased have been identified as Supinder Kour, a resident of Alochi Bagh area of the city here, and Deepak Chand, a resident of Jammu. They were working as teachers at Government Boys School, Sangam. The latest killing has taken the number of civilians shot dead in the valley to seven, including six in the city, over the past five days. On Saturday, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar, at Karan Nagar. Later that night, another civilian Mohammad Shafi Dar, resident of Batamaloo, was shot at and injured at SD Colony Batamaloo. He succumbed to injuries a few hours later. On Tuesday, three civilians including Makhan Lal Bindroo, owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, were shot dead by militants within two hours in separate incidents in Srinagar and Bandipora districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Bindroo, owner of Bindroo Medicate, was shot dead by the assailants from point blank range while he was at his pharmacy. Within an hour, militants struck in Hawal area of the city, killing a non-local street vendor. The vendor, who used to sell bhelpuri, was shot at point-blank range and died on the spot. The victim was identified as Virender. Within minutes of the second killing, militants shot dead Mohammad Shafi Lone at Naidkhai in Bandipora district in north Kashmir. Meanwhile, political parties have condemned the killing of the two teachers. Shocking news coming in again from Srinagar. Another set of targeted killings, this time of two teachers in a Govt school in Idgah area of the city. Words of condemnation are not enough for this inhuman act of terror but I pray for the souls of the deceased to rest in peace, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said on Twitter. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mehbooba Mufti said the Centre's claims of building a 'Naya Kashmir' has actually turned it into a hellhole. Disturbing to see the deteriorating situation in Kashmir where a minuscule minority is the latest target. GOI's claims of building a Naya Kashmir has actually turned it into a hellhole. It's sole interest is to use Kashmir as a milch cow for its electoral interests, she wrote on Twitter. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said it is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Reports of cowardice emerging. Two teachers shot dead. It is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Muslims have been killed too. I personally had a killing in my family. This is a lunatic fringe which is a curse for Kashmir. May Allah rid us of this curse, Lone said in a tweet. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur also condemned the killings, saying the killing of unarmed teachers, who have nothing to do with politics, is nothing but purely inhuman act and frustration. Those who killed the two teachers have no religion. These teachers were teaching students, what was their fault, Thakur said. He said the cowardly act deserves the highest form of condemnation. The killing of unarmed civilians can never be justified as no religion allows to kill innocents, the BJP spokesman said, as he expressed sympathies with the families of the slain teachers. He urged police to arrest the group who are killing innocent civilians, including teachers, in Srinagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SC asks UP about persons named in FIR, their arrest||Terming "unfortunate" the killing of eight people including four farmers in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Supreme Court on Thursday sought a status report by Friday from the Uttar Pradesh government on the accused named by the police in FIR and whether they have been arrested. The apex court has also sought details of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) and the judicial enquiry commission, reportedly set up by the state government. The incident, which triggered a major political storm with the opposition parties accusing the BJP government in UP of shielding the culprits, was heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana as a suo motu (on its own) case. "You yourself have pointed out, it has also been reported and it is in the letter petition, which we have received, that eight persons, some of them are farmers and one is a journalist and there are other persons also who have been killed. These all are unfortunate incidents in which different persons have been murdered," the bench said. "We need to know who are the accused persons against whom you have registered the FIR and whether they have been arrested or not. Please explain this in your status report," it said and fixed the case for hearing on Friday. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, started by saying, Grievance is that you are not looking into it (incident) properly and the FIR is not registered properly, Lawyer Garima Prasad, appearing for the state government, also termed the incident as unfortunate and said that an SIT and the judicial commission of inquiry have been set up by the government and she may provide the details in the status report. "I can get details by tomorrow... The judicial commission of inquiry is being led by a former judge of the Allahabad High Court judge," she said and sought a copy of the letter whose cognizance has been taken by the bench. "You also tell us about the status of the PIL before the Allahabad High Court in the case...tomorrow we are listing. Get all the instructions," the bench observed orally. During the brief hearing, the CJI referred to a message to the court. "We have received one message when the hearing is going on from one Amrti Pal Singh Khalsa that the mother of the deceased Lovepreet Singh is in critical condition due to shock of loss of her son. She needs immediate medical assistance. This says that the court may direct the state of UP to grant medical facilities to her... "You (state lawyer) please, immediately tell your state government so that it can take care of the mother of the deceased...extend all medical facilities. You can get her admitted in a nearest government medical college," the bench observed. Earlier in the day, the top court said it would like to hear the two lawyers who had written a letter seeking a high-level judicial inquiry, also involving the CBI, into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed in violence during a farmers' protest. The bench said that the letter was to be registered as a PIL and due to some miscommunication it was listed as the suo motu (on its own) case. "Does not matter, we will hear it nonetheless, said the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The bench asked the court officials to intimate the two lawyers - Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C S Panda to appear and passed over the case. This letter is addressed by two lawyers. We directed the Registry to register this as a PIL but due to some miscommunication, it was listed as a suo motu.. . Inform both the lawyers who wrote the letter to be present, the CJI said. The matter was again taken up and adjourned to tomorrow after the oral directions to the state government. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates 35 PSA oxygen plants under PM CARES fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated 35 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under the PM CARES fund across 35 states and union territories in an event at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. With this, all districts of the country will now have commissioned PSA oxygen plants, the PMO has said. Till now a total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under the PM CARES fund across the country, it added, noting that of these, more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen per day. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present on the occasion and hailed Modi's efforts in boosting health infrastructure across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Protesters cannot be silenced through murder, says BJP MP||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted a video purportedly of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and said the protesters cannot be silenced through murder asking for accountability for the farmers. "The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer," the Pilibhit MP said in a tweet. He posted a 37-second video in which a speeding Mahindra Thar jeep is seen running over people. Two SUVs -- one black and another white -- was seen following the jeep while there is a commotion of people shouting and crying in the video. The video, which has gone viral on social medial, is said to have been taken on October 3, the day on which violence took place in Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly mowed down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||India logs over 22,000 fresh Covid cases, 318 casualties in a day||With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, while the active cases declined to 2,44,198, the lowest in 204 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,00,258, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities that include 134 from Kerala and 90 from Maharashtra, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 13 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.72 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.95 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,489 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,09,825 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,68,03,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.57 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 38 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 104 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 92.63 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,49,856 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,362 from Maharashtra, 37,854 from Karnataka, 35,707 from Tamil Nadu, 25,811 from Kerala, 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,863 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||UP govt sets up Commission to probe Lakhimpur Kheri incident||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a one-member Commission to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed, a senior Home Department official said on Thursday. "A notification for the constitution of the Commission has been issued. The commission has been given two months time to probe the matter," the official said. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952 (Act no. 60 of 1952), the Governor is pleased to appoint Justice High Court, Allahabad (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-member Commission of enquiry with Headquarters at Lakhimpur Kheri," the notification dated October 6 said. "The Commission shall complete the enquiry within a period of two months from the date of the issue of this notification. Any change in its tenure shall be at the behest of the Government," it added. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||India slams Pakistan for bringing up Kashmir issue at UN||Pakistan is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism and masquerades as its victim and should stop cleansing its own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, and Buddhists, India has said in a strong response slamming Islamabad for again raking up the Kashmir issue at the UN. Emphasising that the fight against terrorism has to be unrelenting and across all fronts, Counsellor/Legal Adviser at India's Permanent Mission to the UN Dr Kajal Bhat said that all member states must fulfil their obligations enshrined in international counter-terrorism instruments and conventions. "Let me express my dismay that Pakistan has once again misused this august forum to repeat at adnauseam their litany of lies, Bhat said at the General Assembly 6th committee (Legal) meeting on Measures to eliminate international terrorism'. "Here is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism masquerading as its victim. We condemn their Pavlovian response wherever the name of India is mentioned and reject all their allegations and insinuations," she said on Wednesday. India's strong response came after Pakistan's UN envoy Munir Akram again raked up the issue of Kashmir at the Sixth Committee meeting and made baseless allegations against India in his remarks. "Jammu and Kashmir is, and will always be a part of India," she said. "We call on Pakistan to stop cleansing their own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and others, Bhat said. While some states lack the legal-operational frameworks and necessary Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) capacities, others are "clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism by providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists," Bhat said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. "We must enhance capacities of the former, but must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable, she said. Bhat said terrorism continues to persist globally, spreading into new areas, with terrorists having significantly enhanced their capabilities by gaining access to new and emerging technologies like drones, virtual currencies and encrypted communications for furthering their objectives and accomplishing their evil acts. COVID-19 pandemic has further aggravated the situation. Isolation due to lockdown, distress and economic uncertainty has made the world more susceptible to radicalizing narratives and violent extremist propaganda, she said. Asserting that terrorists at one place are a threat" to the whole world, Bhat said fighting terrorism collectively requires action from all of us, without any exception. She underscored India's condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and firm belief that there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, and wherever, whenever and by whomsoever, they are committed. There cannot be bad terrorists or good terrorists based on their intensions or objectives. A member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), India is already in the process of upgrading its Financial Intelligence Network to ensure quicker referral of terror-financing cases to law enforcement agencies, she said. India reiterated the need for early finalisation of the Draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, saying the UN needs to do more in this direction. "We believe that when right action is not taken at the right time, then it is time itself that causes the action to fail, Bhat said, strongly calling on states to unite in efforts and end the stalemate preventing the adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT). We all need CCIT as a law enforcement instrument that should strengthen the existing framework of global anti-terrorism conventions, she said. India expressed hope that the UNGA Resolution of December 2020 that recommends to Sixth Committee to establish the Working Group with a view to finalising the process on the draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism will bring finality to the most important task in hand before the international community. Welcoming the adoption of the 7th review resolution of the Global Counter Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) by the General Assembly by consensus in June 2021, Bhat expressed hope that the member states will walk the talk and implement the strategy by taking effective measures. India had contributed constructively to the GCTS negotiations, especially to strengthen the language on countering the financing of terrorism, prevention of misuse of emerging technologies, strengthen the rights of victims of terrorism, providing greater financial resources to the UN counter-terrorism architecture and obligations of member states to take effective measures to prevent terrorist activities. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||BJP ‘link’ to SRK  son’s case witness||The National Investigation Agency has formally taken over the investigation of the seizure of nearly 3,000kg of heroin from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat on September 16. The Congress had asked that a sitting Supreme Court judge probe the drug haul, said to be the largest anywhere in the world in recent memory. “The case relates to seizure of 2988.21 Kgs of Narcotics substance (heroin) seized at Mundra Port, Gujarat disguised as consignment of ‘Semi-processed Talc stones’ originating from Afghanistan which had arrived from Bandar Abbas Port, Iran,” an NIA statement said on Wednesday night. Last week, Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh had demanded a judicial inquiry, saying he had no faith in the NIA. He had alleged that some BJP leaders were involved in drug smuggling. The Congress has alleged that Saturday night’s Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raid on a cruise ship in Mumbai and the subsequent arrests, including that of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, were an attempt to deflect attention from the Mundra seizure. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday alleged that BJP members were involved in the NCB raid and named Manish Bhanushali, who he said was “vice-president of some wing of the BJP”. Malik said Bhanushali was the man shown in a video escorting Arbaaz Merchant, a friend of Aryan who too has been arrested, to the NCB office in Mumbai. Malik showed photos of Bhanushali with senior BJP leaders. Malik said that another outsider, a man named K.P. Gosavi, had escorted Aryan to the NCB office and clicked a selfie with him. After the selfie went viral, the NCB issued a clarification saying the person (Gosavi) had nothing to do with the agency. Malik on Wednesday shared a screen shot of Gosavi’s Facebook profile where the latter claims to be a “private detective agent”. NCB deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh said the two men named by Malik were independent witnesses. “Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been done with malice,” he said.He denied that people with BJP links were part of the raid. “Independent witnesses were part of the probe, and Gosavi was one of them,” All panchnamas have been made as per the process of law, which allows you to include independent witnesses,” Singh said. News agency ANI quoted Bhanushali as saying: “Malik has put wrong allegations against me. BJP has nothing to do with it (the arrests)…. I received information on Oct 1 that a drugs party was to be held. I was with NCB officers (at the ship) for updated info.” ANI identified Bhanushali as a BJP worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Rahul, Priyanka visit kin of deceased farmers||The father of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was mowed down by a Union minister’s SUV, allegedly driven by the minister’s son, in Lakhimpur Kheri told Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday that he wanted justice, not compensation. “I am not happy with the police and the government. They came and gave us money. I told Rahul that whoever is with us should fight to ensure that the killer son of the Union minister is arrested. The goonda is still out and his father is still a minister. The home minister can easily influence the investigation,” Satnam Singh told Rahul when he, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other Congress leaders met their family around 9.30pm. “The government gave us money but he has to be arrested. We all can see that the governments are protecting the killer. Even if crores of rupees are given, how can we be happy? Even if you weigh our son in rupees, you cannot return him to us,” Satnam told reporters afterwards. “This is all we spoke to Rahul about. He said he will stand with us always,” the father said. Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni accepts that the SUV that crushed to death the farmers returning from a protest was his, but denies his son Ashis was driving it. Before a video emerged clearly showing the SUV hitting farmers from behind, ploughing through them and speeding away, Teni had claimed that the farmers threw stones that caused an accident in which several of them got run over. Eyewitnesses have said Ashis, who is also known as Monu, was at the wheel. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to utter words of condolence or condemnation on the horror. Modi visited Lucknow on Tuesday, but did not care to travel 129km more to Lakhimpur Kheri where innocent farmers and a journalist were murdered in cold blood. The spine-chilling incident happened days after Teni had warned from a public stage that he would fix the protesting farmers in two minutes if they did not mend their ways. Congress leaders had been trying to reach Lakhimpur Kheri since Sunday night, but were blocked by the Yogi Adityanath government that put Priyanka Gandhi under detention at Sitapur, 40km from the district, at 4.30am on Monday. A Congress chief minister was not allowed to step out of Lucknow airport and a deputy chief minister was detained by police at the state’s border with Haryana. On Tuesday night, the party announced that Rahul would travel to Lakhimpur Kheri. Finally, on Wednesday, the government yielded and gave permission for the visit. But when Rahul, accompanied by two Congress chief ministers and party leaders, landed at Lucknow airport at 1pm, he had to sit on dharna twice before he was allowed to reach his vehicle. The police were insisting he follow their route and that they escort him, which the Congress leader refused to do. “Which rule is there in the country that decides which vehicle and route a citizen will take?” Rahul asked a police officer, who was heard replying: “We have orders from above.” “They are creating a trap for me to stop here. First they said I can go on my own and then said they will take me in their vehicle through a route they have decided. Matlab kuchh na kuchh badmashi kar rahe hai,” the former Congress president said. Eventually, the Adityanath government had to give in. Earlier in Delhi, Rahul had at a news conference explained why it was important that Opposition leaders visit the spot. “The Opposition’s responsibility is to create pressure. When we create pressure, action is taken. In Hathras, action was taken after we built pressure. The government wants that we don’t raise this issue, don’t create pressure, so that the murderer escapes. Had we not gone to Hathras, the rapist would have escaped. So we are creating pressure,” the Congress leader said. “When we go, when the chief ministers, myself, others go to visit the families, we are trying to give them confidence that in this country, you cannot be run over by a criminal who calls himself the home minister’s son and then nothing happens. We are not going to allow that. That is the message we are trying to give them. It is a message of hope,” he added. Rahul’s convoy left Lucknow airport at 3pm and travelled the 85km to Sitapur in two hours. Rahul and Priyanka, who was freed after two days, started from there at 6.30pm and reached Lakhimpur Kheri at 8pm. A Congress leader alleged that the government had tried to slow their movement by parking vehicles on both sides of the road. Luv Preet’s home was the first they visited, from where they travelled to the residence of journalist Raman Kashyap at Nighasan, reaching around 11pm. Raman’s father Ram Dulare Kashyap told reporters: “We want the killer Monu to be arrested and hanged for committing mass murder. We are farmers and my son had joined journalism only a year ago because he wanted a respectable life. He got death instead at the hands of those who should have been behind bars years ago.” Teni, a strongman, had at the public platform from where he threatened farmers asked people to recall who he was before he became a legislator and minister. Rahul spoke to journalists briefly after visiting the two homes. “Both the families want justice. They are saying that the entire country knows who did this but the government is not arresting them. The father of the killer is (junior) home minister and this is the reason he is still free,” he said. “I’m here to help the families and mount pressure on the government so that the families get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||UP home minister meets Amit Shah, says he was not called||Junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni met his boss and Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday as the Opposition and farmer organisations intensified their demand for his sacking. The protesting farmers have alleged that Teni’s son Ashis Mishra ran over and killed farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The minister himself has been accused of delivering a provocative speech against the farmers. Teni, who had been camping in his constituency of Lakhimpur Kheri since the incident on Sunday, arrived in Delhi on Wednesday and called on Shah. Asked by reporters whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had summoned him to Delhi, Teni said: “Nobody has asked me to reach Delhi. I have some personal work here.” BJP sources played down the meeting and ruled out the possibility of his resignation. The BJP sources said Teni was not involved in the incident. “A junior minister meeting his senior is a normal affair.… Why should he resign? How is he involved in the incident?” a BJP leader asked, terming the Opposition’s demand “totally unfair”. On the minister’s son, this leader said the law would take its course if it was established that he was in the car that mowed down the farmers. An FIR has been lodged against Ashis but so far the police haven’t arrested him. Teni has claimed that neither he nor his son was present at the place of violence and ruled out any pressure on him to step down. The minister has said the vehicle shown in the video ploughing through the farmers is his but denied he or his son was in the car. “Why would I resign? There is no pressure on us,” he had told reporters on Tuesday. BJP insiders underlined that in the past seven years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had never buckled under Opposition pressure to sack any minister. “In the Modi government, a minister will not resign just because the Opposition wants it. Action will be taken only if a probe shows the minister is guilty,” another BJP leader said. The BJP leadership has so far not spoken out on the horrific incident, and party spokespersons have focused on slamming the Opposition. The lone BJP leader to have taken a strong stand over the incident has been Varun Gandhi, MP from Pilibhit. He has sympathised with the protesting farmers and called for the arrest of the culprits and a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Centre assures SC of implementing amended NEET syllabus next year||The Centre on Wednesday assured the Supreme Court that the amended syllabus pattern for the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021 would be implemented from next year to mitigate the hardship for doctors seeking to study post-graduate courses. The assurance was given by additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati in the backdrop of the dressing down the Centre received from the top court during the last few days on the issue. Bhati assured a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna that the modified syllabus would not apply for this year’s examination scheduled for next month. The bench then passed the following order: “Aishwarya Bhati, additional solicitor-general appearing on behalf of the Union of India in the ministry of health and family welfare, states that having regard to the interest of the body of students who would have commenced preparations for the ensuing NEET-SS examination before the change in the pattern was notified, a decision has been taken by the Union government in consultation with the National Medical Commission and the National Board of Examinations to the effect that the modified pattern shall be given effect to only from the academic year 2022-2023. “Since the Union government and the expert bodies have taken a decision to hold the ensuing NEET–SS examinations for 2021-2022 on the basis of the pattern which held the field until academic year 2020-2021, it is not necessary for this Court to adjudicate upon the validity of the modified pattern proposed for 2022-2023. That issue is kept open. In the circumstances, the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution are disposed of. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.” The bench passed the order while dealing with a joint petition filed by 41 doctors challenging the abrupt move of the medical authorities to change this year’s entrance examination pattern. According to the petitioners, the government had suddenly on August 31 issued a notification announcing that all the questions for the exam this year would come from the general medicine stream and not super-speciality courses. This was contrary to the existing pattern of 60 per cent questions being asked from the super-speciality courses and 40 per cent from general medicine. The circular was issued despite the earlier examination notification issued in July this year mandating that the exams would be held under the existing pattern. The petitioners had argued that the rules cannot be changed once the game had commenced. The bench had on Tuesday observed that doctors can’t be treated as “footballs” and the government had apparently made the controversial move to favour private medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Supreme court sets aside cop's CISF appointment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the appointment of a man to the post of constable in the Central Industrial Security Force while observing that an individual who wishes to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude with impeccable character and integrity while those with criminal antecedents are unfit for it. The bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J.K. Maheshwari passed the order after the Centre had challenged a ruling of Madhya Pradesh High Court which granted permission to him to join training after taking note that he was acquitted in a kidnapping case. The bench noted that the ministry of home affairs issued the guidelines in February 2012 for consideration of the cases of the candidates against whom criminal cases were registered or tried by the courts. In furtherance to the said guidelines, the case of the respondent was referred to CISF headquarters, New Delhi, in which the standing screening committee assembled and examined the cases of 89 candidates, including the respondent, and passed an order that the respondent was not eligible for appointment. This decision was challenged before a single bench of the high court which allowed his appointment. The division bench also upheld the decision. Allowing the appeal against the high court’s decision, the apex court said that “it appears that the Committee was of the view that acquittal of the respondent, in the facts of the present case, cannot be termed as ‘honourable acquittal’ and the said acquittal may be treated by giving the benefit of the doubt”. “The respondent who wishes to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude and have impeccable character and integrity. A person having criminal antecedents would not be fit in this category. The employer is having the right to consider the nature of acquittal or decide until he is completely exonerated because even a possibility of his taking to the life of crimes poses a threat to the discipline of the police force,” the bench said. The apex court also said the employer is having the right to consider the suitability of the candidate according to government orders/instructions/rules at the time of taking the decision or induction of the candidate in employment. “Acquittal on the technical ground in respect of the offences of heinous/serious nature, which is not a clean acquittal, the employer may have a right to consider all relevant facts available as to the antecedents, and may take an appropriate decision as to the continuance of the employee,” the bench said. Even in this case, a truthful declaration regarding concluded trial has been made by the employee, still, the employer has the right to consider antecedents and cannot be compelled to appoint the candidate, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri:  Cong govts step up aid to deceased farmers’ kin||Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi, chief ministers of Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Punjab, on Wednesday declared their governments would provide compensation of Rs 50 lakh each to the families of the four farmers and a journalist allegedly run over by a Union minister’s car in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The announcement came after the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government of Uttar Pradesh, where the incident took place, said it would provide Rs 45 lakh each and a job to the victims’ families. On Wednesday, Baghel and Channi accompanied Rahul Gandhi to Lucknow and then to Lakhimpur Kheri “I am a farmer and Punjab is a state of farmers. The UP government’s people have killed the farmers. The Punjab government will give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the murdered farmers and the journalist,” Channi told reporters at Lucknow airport. Baghel said: “Chhattisgarh is known as a rice bowl. I know the pain of the farmers. As the Punjab government has announced, the Chhattisgarh government will also give Rs 50 lakh to each deceased farmer’s and the journalist’s families who were crushed by the son of a Union minister in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.” On Monday afternoon, additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar had held a news conference with Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait by his side and said the Adityanath government would give Rs 45 lakh each to the family of the deceased and a job to a family member. On Monday morning, Tikait was the only leader allowed to reach the incident site in Tikunia, where a large-scale protest was going on against the incident. Tikait had tried to broker peace by holding four rounds of meetings with Kumar and the agitated farmer leaders. Kumar had said the situation was returning to normal after his meeting with Tikait. Aman Deep Singh Sandhu, a farmer leader of Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “We are happy that the Congress is giving more money than the state government to the deceased poor farmers’ and reporter’s families. Those whom Monu (Union minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra) killed are extremely poor and need help.” Keval Singh, uncle of Luv Preet Singh, who was allegedly crushed under the wheels of Ashis’s jeep, said: “Teni and his son are goondas. The state government wants to buy us by giving us a few lakhs and at the same time standing by the goondas. Modi is supporting a goonda minister and Yogi is protecting the goonda son of a goonda minister.” Pawan Kashyap, younger brother of deceased journalist Raman Kashyap, said: “Come and see our financial condition. Our sole breadwinner was killed by the Union minister’s son. We thank the two chief ministers for feeling our pain and request them to take forward our battle for the arrest and punishment to Teni and Monu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Kashmiri pandit businessman's daughter dares his killers||The daughter of prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman Makhan Lal Bindroo, who was killed by militants on Tuesday evening, has vowed to follow in her “fighter” father’s footsteps and dared the killers to have a debate with her and prove that they are right. In a string of attacks, Bindroo, 68, a pharmacist, and Virendra Paswan, a non-local vendor, were gunned down on Tuesday. Militants have carried out several attacks targeting BJP men, non-locals and Kashmiri Pandits since the 2019 scrapping of the state’s status. “I don’t have a single tear in my eyes. Because he (Bindroo) is (was) a fighter. He died like a fighter. He always said I will die with my shoes on,” Smriddi Bindroo, an academic, said at her residence in Srinagar’s Indra Nagar locality. “Whoever is the person who shot my father dead, mister, come in front of me, if you have any education. My father gave me education and politicians gave you guns and stones, you want to fight with guns and stones, that is cowardice.” Bindroo and his family never migrated from Kashmir even during the peak of militancy in the 1990s. In the last 30 years of militancy, Bindroo was joined by his wife at the pharmacy daily where they dispensed medicines during the day and returned home late in the evening. Bindroo’s death is being seen as a setback to the process of bringing back migrant Kashmiri Pandits. Among many who visited Bindroo’s Indra Nagar residence was former chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Smriddi proudly recalled her father’s contribution in giving them the best education. “I am an associate professor, I started from zero. My father started with a bicycle. My brother is a famous diabetologist today. My mother sits in a shop. This is what Makhan Lal Bindroo made us. A Kashmiri Pandit, he will never die. You can just kill the body,” she said. She challenged the militants to a “face to face debate” if they had “guts and courage”. “Then we will see what you are. When you can’t utter a word, then you will understand that you can only throw stones and open fire from behind,” she said. Smriddi appeared to be arguing that the gun-wielding militants lacked education and were being misused by politicians, in line with the dominant narrative in the country. However, many in Kashmir argue that militancy has attracted many educated youth, who have taken up arms after all peaceful means to achieve their goal failed. “You have killed a body, but what that body produced is me. This is what I am, my father’s daughter,” the young academic, in her 30s, thundered. “I being a Hindu (but) have read the Quran and the Quran says that the body will die but his spirit stays. Makhan Lal Bindroo will be alive in spirit.” Smriddi said she used to ask her father if he was scared. “He would say: ‘If I live in fear, then every day will become difficult to live. If I die, it will only be once,’” she quoted her father as saying. Siddarth, Bindroo’s diabetologist son, said he had expected his father to die a natural death. “That is because he lived a natural life, an extraordinary life. He made a name for himself as a pharmacist, became famous because he was a man of principles. He sold genuine medicines. All, young and old, loved him,” he said. The doctor said he had moved out of Kashmir for work, but his father encouraged him to come back. Siddarth said they had no information about any threats received by his father, adding that he would have continued going to the shop even if he had.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Kerala government yet to withdraw cases against anti-CAA protesters||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday confirmed that his government had yet to implement its decision to withdraw cases against those who protested against the citizenship matrix and participated in the Sabarimala agitation. The chief minister informed P.T.A. Rahim, a Left-backed Independent MLA, in a written reply in the Assembly that the cases were still being examined by a committee headed by the inspector-general of police (crime branch) that would take further action. The LDF government had in February this year, ahead of the state polls, decided to withdraw all “non-serious” cases following a huge uproar by the Opposition and civil society. The chief minister informed Rahim that 2,636 cases had been booked against those who unleashed violence after the government decided to implement a September 2019 Supreme Court order to permit women of childbearing age to enter the Sabarimala temple. Another 836 cases were booked against anti-CAA protesters, an act that faced a lot of flak from progressive and secular forces as the LDF government had taken the lead to pass a unanimous resolution against the citizenship matrix and promised never to implement it in the state. The DMK government in Tamil Nadu had in September withdrawn 5,570 cases registered against the protesters of the citizenship matrix and the farm laws during the tenure of its predecessor AIADMK, a BJP ally. On Wednesday, proceedings began at a court in Thamarassery in Kozhikode against 11 workers of Youth League, the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League, who had protested against the citizenship matrix in December 2019. “We had peacefully protested outside post offices on December 19, 2019. The police arrested and released us on station bail. But today, we had to appear before the court fearing arrest since we did not respond to the previous summons assuming the government was anyway withdrawing the cases,” local Youth League leader Mujeeb Rahman, one of the 11 accused, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Vijayan’s reply triggered widespread condemnation. “I did sense something was wrong when the local police station sent me a notice to appear last week,” Hameed Vaniyambalam, president of the Welfare Party of India, told this newspaper. He was among those booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix without police permission in Kozhikode. “This is a government that moved a resolution in the Assembly against the CAA,” he noted. Dalit activist K.K. Baburaj, writer T.T. Sreekumar, scholar J. Devika, Sunni Muslim leader Nasar Faizi Koodathayi, rights activists Gro Vasu and C.R. Neelakandan were among the hundreds booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix. They were booked under IPC Sections 109 (abetment), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), and 283 (obstruction in public way or line of navigation), which can entail a maximum punishment of two years. Baburaj, who was named in an FIR for protesting against the citizenship matrix in Kannur, said he never trusted the LDF government. “They will withdraw cases only against Leftists,” said Baburaj, who subscribes to the Communist ideology but not its politics. “I am ready to face any consequence for protesting. But that may not be the case with everyone as these cases are like the sword of Damocles that any government would happily use,” he said. Sunni leader Koodathayi voiced similar sentiments. “I had received summons after the case was booked. But I had doubted the sincerity of the government (in withdrawing the cases),” he told this newspaper. Neelakandan, who faced two cases, accused Vijayan of trying to please Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Pinarayi (Vijayan) is trying to please Modi with whom he has a good understanding. That’s why he is not willing to withdraw these cases,” he alleged. “Such cases are a stumbling block for youths who won’t get police clearance for passports or even government jobs that need background checks,” Neelakandan added, urging the government to keep its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Unesco report bares job insecurity in schools ||Short-term contracts, part-time jobs and outsourced hiring have become commonplace in teacher recruitment at India’s schools, with teachers at private schools worse off in terms of social-sector benefits, a report by the UN’s education arm Unesco shows. The State of Education in India Report 2021, prepared with data from government agencies and independent research publications, said over two-thirds of teachers at private schools did not even have a contract, leaving them vulnerable. (See chart) Most of the contract-less are guest teachers, part-time teachers and those whose hiring had been outsourced. They tend to lose out more on benefits like annual increments, pension, provident fund, health insurance, leave entitlements and legal protection against arbitrary employer action. In contrast, two-thirds of government school teachers at all levels have contracts of more than three years, the report says citing the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) 2018-19, a survey of the job situation in the country. This segment may be considered equivalent to regular teachers, the report adds. It does not explain why the government school teachers who have no contract — making up 28 per cent of the total — have average salaries higher than their peers with contracts of three years or less. The Unesco report quotes PLFS data to say that 59 per cent of schoolteachers in the private sector are ineligible for any benefits, and only 11 per cent receive the maximum benefits. At government schools, 19 per cent of teachers were found ineligible for benefits while 41 per cent received the maximum benefits. In the early childhood education centres like the Anganwadis, 35 per cent of the instructors and workers have no contracts. In the government sector, special education teachers (who teach subjects like sports or music) and vocational education teachers (carpentry, metal work) have a heavy presence among those without contracts. “The government sector has also adopted an ‘outsourcing model’ for assigning computer teachers in schools, where an agency is contracted to provide teachers. These teachers are on the rolls of the agency, and the government pays the agency for their service,” the report says. “This model is also followed in private schools who may use intermediary agencies through which teachers are provided, or they may contract a private firm to provide a complete curricular component, such as art education or physical education programmes. The models of teaching are undergoing change, driven by private sector enterprise.” The 2018 Global Teacher Status Index had said that schoolteachers in India are seen both by themselves and the public as having a status equivalent to that of librarians, lower than in China or Russia where teachers are deemed equivalent in status to doctors. The Unesco report says India’s teachers need to be better recognised and valued. Covid blow The pandemic and the subsequent school closures, still continuing in most states, has exposed teachers to job loss, pay cuts and salary delays while also increasing their workload, the report says. Government school teachers have been assigned tasks like conducting Covid surveys, facilitating vaccination, and distributing midday meal rations and learning materials at students’ doorsteps. They have had to join election duty, with over 1,500 primary teachers in Uttar Pradesh believed to have died of the virus after catching the infection during panchayat poll duty this year. Despite these assignments putting them at high risk, teachers are yet to be counted as frontline workers. With schools offering online education, most teachers have seen extended work timings that have blurred the boundary between work and home. Citing data in the media, the Unesco report says the state-wise job losses for teachers varied between 40,000 and a few hundred thousand in the aftermath of the Covid outbreak. There were reports of up to 65 per cent teachers having their salaries put on hold in private schools and instances of teachers being paid on an hourly basis. All this has taken a psychological toll. The report quotes a study to say about a fifth of teachers reported an inability to concentrate or work according to a plan, and 27 per cent reported anxiety over the stability of their jobs. Pranati Panda from the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration said teachers’ motivation was linked directly to service conditions and avenues of promotion. “For quality education, the government should ensure that teachers get recruited with clear service conditions and promotional avenues. This has been highlighted in the NEP (National Education Policy) too,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Rahul warns Centre to not interfere with processes of healing and hope||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday warned the government against interfering with the democratic processes of healing and hope, contending that there could be explosive consequences if people were convinced that getting justice against the powerful was impossible. Rahul expressed outrage that the issue of removal of a central minister whose son was accused of running over farmers was being debated. “Such questions shouldn’t arise in democracy. Somebody mowed down six persons and you are asking if action will happen or not. This question should be asked in dictatorship, not democracy.” What he meant is that accountability is inevitable in a democracy and explained how dangerous was the idea of demolishing this democratic tradition of political morality. He said: “We see a systematic attack on the farmers of this country and it is arrogance, because the government does not understand the power of the farmers and they are provoking the farmers, they are insulting the farmers, they are killing the farmers. This is a very dangerous and bad idea.” Rahul added: “No action is taken against the minister whose son kills farmers. There has been a systematic attack on farmers. We see what happens in Hathras. Before that, their MLA raped a girl (in Unnao). This is a new kind of politics. Whatever criminals want to do, they can do. Whether it is rape, murder of farmers… those who kill, who rape roam free and the victims are targeted. Then a narrative is built using institutions, which are under the control of the RSS-BJP, using the police and different structures, but, what you will find is that there is a limit to this narrative.” Explaining the importance of healing and delivery of justice, he added: “You will find sooner rather than later, there will be an explosion, the size of which people are not understanding. We are trying to tell the government, let the democratic process work. This is what the country is about; do not interfere with the democratic process, because it is a safety valve. If you shut the safety valve, other types of problems will come.” He added: “So, we are pushing for maintaining the democratic process. When we go, when the chief ministers, myself, others go to visit this family, we are trying to give them confidence that in this country, you cannot be run over by a criminal, who calls himself the (junior) home minister’s son and then nothing happens, we are not going to allow that. That is the message; we are trying to give them. It is a message of hope. Today, those families don’t have hope. Today, the farmer doesn’t have hope.” The Congress leader further said: “Our job is to create pressure. There is punitive action till we build pressure. We built pressure in Hathras and then only action started. Now the government doesn’t want us to raise this issue. If there is no pressure, the criminals can escape. Had we not gone to Hathras, the rapists would have gone scot-free. Had we not mounted pressure on their MLA (in Unnao rape and murder), he would have come out. That’s why we are at it. The truth is that it is the media’s job. You have forgotten your responsibility and you ask us why we are doing politics.” Inaugurating a statue of former Congress chief minister of Haryana Bhajan Lal through videoconference, Rahul reiterated the point saying: “The BJP leaders malign, abuse and threaten farmers for months but no action is taken. Now they start killing the farmers and no action is taken.” The Congress stressed the importance of healing touch with chief ministers of Punjab and Chhattisgarh announcing Rs 50 lakh each to the families of the victims of Lakhimpur. What Rahul said had greater significance as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah had shown the tendency of not speaking up on such issues. There is no indication that they plan to remove minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni despite incriminating evidence against his son. Modi, as chief minister of Gujarat, has the track record of not removing tainted ministers from his government. Even as Prime Minister, he refused to drop ministers despite corruption charges against the likes of Nitin Gadkari and Piyush Goyal. In the Congress-led UPA, railway minister Pawan Bansal was removed from the cabinet because his nephew was found discussing transfer-posting with an officer. Law minister Ashwini Kumar was sacked because the BJP created an uproar against his presence at a meeting of the CBI. Even Shashi Tharoor was dropped as minister of state for external affairs in a controversy related to the IPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Python hurt in fight with tigress at Nandankanan||Rupa, a white royal Bengal tigress, attacked and injured an 11ft-long Indian python on Tuesday when it tried to enter into her enclosure at the Nandankanan Zoo on the outskirts of the city. The fight between the two was witnessed by some visitors and they immediately alerted the zoo officials. The python, which sustained injuries to its abdomen and other parts, is reported to be stable following a two-hour-long operation by the veterinary doctors at the Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). This is the first such battle between a tigress and a python in the zoo considered to be one of the major tourist attractions of the state. Dr Indramani Nath, head of the department of surgery and radiology at OUAT, told The Telegraph: “The python, an ambush hunter, is around five to six years old and grey in colour. It had sneaked into the zoo from the nearby Chandaka forest on Tuesday around 10.30am. When the tigress noticed the snake, she pounced upon it. A battle ensued and the tigress managed to overpower the snake using her paws as a weapon.” Zoo sources said after being injured by the tigress, the python got terrified and curled up in a corner of the enclosure to protect itself. Though it tried to slither out of the enclosure, it was unable to do so due to the injuries it had sustained. “As the snake was non-poisonous, the tigress suffered no harm. However, the python sustained multiple injuries to muscles on various parts of its body,” Dr Nath said. While the tigress was confined to her enclosure, the python was rushed to the OUAT for treatment. “When we saw the condition of the python, we immediately formed a seven-member team. After X-ray, we started the treatment including surgery on its muscles. However, there was no skeletal injury. We had to put a tube in its intestine through its mouth to find out if there were any major ruptures inside the body. Thankfully, there were none. The injuries were in the lower part of the abdomen, soft tissues and skins. The operation went on from 1pm to 3pm. The python is stable and under observation,” Dr Nath said. He added: “No food will be given to the snake for at least seven days.“ A python can survive without food even for a month. After seven days, we will give her egg albumin and yolk. Once its condition improves, we will release rats near it to see whether it’s able to get back its hunting skills. Once it shows signs of complete recovery, it will be released into the wild.” Zoo veterinary doctor Sarat Sahu told this newspaper: “The tigress is in a good condition. No injury marks were found on her.” Nandankanan has 27 tigers, including six white ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Axe-wielding sadhu panic in Bihar villages||Residents of Lakshmipur and neighbouring villages in West Champaran district of Bihar are spending sleepless nights in fear of an axe-wielding sadhu. Motilal Sadhu allegedly beheaded a woman last month when she resisted his attempts to molest her. He is said to hide in vast sugarcane fields, bushes or along riverbanks in the area during the day, but emerges wielding an axe at night to roam the deserted village streets, shouting expletives and threatening to kill nine more people. The threats are enough to terrorise the villagers who scamper to their homes as dusk falls or gather in groups to mount a vigil to ward off any possible untoward incident. “We carry torches, sticks, spears and mobile phones with us and patrol the streets because the sadhu has been threatening to kill nine people in our village. He has already killed one and we do not want to take any chances,” said Sunny Kumar, a resident of Lakshmipur village, around 250km northwest of Patna. According to Kumar, the hermit also screams out the names of the people he is going to kill, but often keeps changing them. Motilal had allegedly tried to molest a woman in Lakshmipur on September 23 while she was cutting grass in a field for her cattle. She resisted and her children playing nearby raised an alarm, following which he beheaded her with the axe and fled away. The villagers alleged that Motilal was besotted with her. An FIR has been registered at Chautarwa police station in connection with the killing of the woman. Motilal had earlier tried to sexually assault another woman while she had gone to work at her farm. He had cut the nose of her father-in-law when he tried to save her, villager said. Motilal has become a headache for the police, who have labelled him a “psycho”, clever enough to thwart all attempts to nab him for the last two weeks. “We are not sitting idle. We have been conducting raids to arrest the sadhu, but he takes advantage of the topography of the area to escape. We spotted him once in a sugarcane field and tried to surround him, but he fled using the cover of the tall plants,” Chautarwa station house officer (SHO) Shambhu Sharan Gupta told The Telegraph. “Another time we tried to corner him, he jumped into a local river. Some policemen also jumped after him, but could not catch him. We will nab him soon,” Gupta added. The SHO also said Motilal had now tonsured his head and shaved his beard since the police spotted him last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
