08-10-2021||India||Success Story of Shivam Bangwal, A serial Entrepreneur and founder of People News Chronicle||Born on 6 November 1999 in Srinagar, Uttarakhand Shivam started running behind the questions of technology and the world of internet from an early age. This pursuit helped him choose the right path and Shivam Bangwal became an innovator in the field of online world. Shivam Bangwal is a personality of devoting all his time and effort to his prosperous career while maintaining a good reputation. Somehow the man did it all, set temporary goals, and separated his attention between homework and his interests. Shivam is a founder of Branding Panther, People News Chronicle and Youthistaan. Branding Panther the result of his continuos effort on productivity. On top of this, his Digital Marketing career took a turn for the worse but initially, Shivam was downgraded due to a slow start and a bit of frustration, but things fly by due to his consistent effort and quality work. Now Branding Panther is considered as an top pr agency in india and is soon going to reveal the list of its top 30 influencers which they are managing exclusively. People News Chronicle is a global media and entertainment website which is seen at the top of the news website. While, Youthistaan is a Indian based media and entertainment website which mainly focuses on the quality content for youth. Shivam Bangwal loves to get around with entrepreneurs and business minds because owning a business was something he was born with. He then decided to excel in his work by performing many tasks such as the most sought-after in the Press Release, Influencer marketing, SEO, Web Developing for both ends (Front/Back) and Designing. Success comes to those who have a fire in their stomach and an attitude of not giving up hope. Simply put, success is a desire to achieve the impossible. Effective and efficient, the young man made a habit of devoting time to himself and his body. Commenting on mental health, he says, "I see mental health as a very important thing, and I am very happy that this generation is talking so much about it and all the different findings in this field. I think physical and mental health should be a priority in everyone's life, at least in your top three. "Every entrepreneur has an emotional problem, and each person has a different way of dealing with it. There are common ups and downs, but I have never fought emotionally about it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Congress intensifies demand to dismiss Ajay Mishra, arrest his son in Lakhimpur case||The Congress on Friday demanded the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, arrest of his son Ashish and setting up of a commission of two sitting judges so that farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence get justice within 30 days. It also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow 'raj dharma' by ensuring that all those accused in the killing of farmers during the violence on Sunday are arrested. Violence had broken out on Sunday after two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence which included four farmers. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son has been accused of hitting farmers with his vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri. The UP Police has lodged a case against Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before it at 10 am Friday, but he skipped the summons. The MoS Home has, however, claimed that neither his son nor he was present at the site when the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri erupted on Sunday that led to the death of eight people, including four farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that going by the Supreme Court's observations on Friday, "it has become clear that the (Narendra) Modi and Yogi (Adityanath) governments are standing with criminals who have kept the Consitution and law bound". "We have only one demand that Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni is dismissed immediately without any delay and all accused are arrested." Since the top court has expressed doubt over the police, CBI and the administration, "we want that a commission of two sitting judges be set up under whose supervision an SIT should be formed and the guilty be punished within 30 days," Surjewala said. Only then the Constitution and the law could be saved, else people will lose faith in them, he claimed. "Modi ji, you did not follow 'raj dharma' after Atal Bihari Vajpayee told you to do so earlier. But, this is a test for him (Modi) to follow 'raj dharma' now. No accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri killings have been arrested till now," the Congress chief spokesperson said. He also demanded the constitution of a special bench to hear the pending murder case against Ajay Mishra Teni and decide on it on its next date of hearing on October 20. A case of murder of one Prabhat Gupta was registered against Ajay Kumar Teni and the verdict of the revision petition filed in the Allahabad High Court is pending for three-and-half years. Surjewala said while taking up the Lakhimpur violence issue suo motu, the Supreme Court has said that they want a responsible government and asked whether the government sends a notice to every accused person or ordinary person. "Does this not prove that the Modi and Yogi governments are standing with criminals who tie the Constitution in bonds and those who trample upon and law?" he posed. The Supreme Court Friday said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case questioned it over not arresting the accused against whom FIR has been lodged. It asked the state whether the accused in other cases lodged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code are treated the same way. "If you see the FIR, section 302 is there. Is it the same way you treat other accused," the bench asked while terming it as a "very serious charge". The top court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan, two others denied bail in cruise ship drugs case||A metropolitan magistrate here on Friday denied bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in a case pertaining to the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan (23) and the other two accused. The court on Thursday sent Aryan Khan and seven others arrested in the case in 14-day judicial remand after their NCB custody ended. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, opposed the bail applications of the three accused. After hearing the arguments, the magistrate denied bail to Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant, saying their applications were not maintainable. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested these three along with some others over the last weekend after raiding the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening. The central agency had claimed to have recovered drugs from the ship. A total of 18 persons have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||SC glare on media tweet suggesting CJI met Lakhimpur Kheri violence victims||Expressing displeasure over a tweet posted by a media organisation which falsely claimed that Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana had met the kin of victims of Lakhmipur Kheri violence, the Supreme Court Friday said it respects the media and their independence but this is not at all fair . The apex court, which was hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence matter, termed the tweet very unfortunate and said the media should verify the facts. "We are sorry to observe that somebody is exceeding the limit of freedom of speech. They should verify the facts. These are all false representations which is being done," said a bench, comprising the CJI and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The issue cropped up when an advocate told the bench that on Thursday, a media organisation had posted a tweet which said the CJI had met the kin of victims of Lakhimpur Kheri incident. "All of us are at the receiving end of irresponsible tweets. I have seen some about myself also," said senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. CJI Ramana said, "They must have some sense because I was sitting in the court. How can I go to Lucknow and visit the family." "Leave it there. We should not bother about these things. In public life, we have to receive..," the CJI said. Justice Surya Kant said the court expects they should come out with a bona fide and voluntary report to say this is what we have done . "We respect the media and their independence but this is not the way to cross it. This is not at all fair," Justice Kohli said. "It is part and parcel of public life. Let it be," the CJI said. The top court said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons were killed on October 3. The bench told Salve to communicate to the top most police official that evidence and other relevant materials in the case are not destroyed. The court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||MoS Ajay Mishra says his son will appear before police on Saturday||Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son faces a murder case in connection with the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, Friday said his son was "innocent" and will appear before the Uttar Pradesh police Saturday to record his statement. He said Ashish missed the police summons for Friday 10 am as he was "not well". "We have full faith in law. My son is innocent. He got a notice on Thursday but he said he was not well. He will appear before the police tomorrow and give his statement and evidence as he is innocent," the Union minister of state for home told reporters at Chowdhury Charan Singh airport here. On Opposition relentless attack on him and demand for his resignation, the minister said, "Vipaksh to kuch bhi mangta hai (Opposition can demand anything)." "This is a BJP government which works in an unbiased manner. Action will be taken against those found guilty," he said. The minister's son is named in the FIR in the Lakhimpur violence that took place on October 3 in which eight persons including four farmers and a journalist were killed. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before it at 10 am Friday, but he skipped the summons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Gadkari asks Tesla to manufacture electric cars in India||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he has asked US-based Tesla several times to manufacture its iconic electric vehicles in India while assuring that all support will be provided by the government to the company. Addressing 'India Today Conclave 2021', Gadkari further said electric cars manufactured by Tata Motors are not less good than electric cars manufactured by Tesla. "I have told Tesla that doesn't sell electric cars in India which your company has manufactured in China. You should manufacture electric cars in India, and also export cars from India," he said. Tesla has demanded a reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India. "Whatever support you (Tesla) want, will be provided by our government," Gadkari added. The road transport and highways minister said that he is still in dialogue with Tesla officials regarding the company's demand related to tax concessions. Last month, the heavy industries ministry had also asked Tesla to first start manufacturing its iconic electric vehicles in India before any tax concessions can be considered. At present, cars imported as completely built units (CBUs) attract customs duty ranging from 60-100 per cent, depending on engine size and cost, insurance and freight (CIF) value less or above USD 40,000. In a letter to the road ministry, the US firm had stated that the effective import tariff of 110 per cent on vehicles with customs value above USD 40,000 is "prohibitive" to zero-emission vehicles. It has requested the government to standardize the tariff on electric cars to 40 per cent irrespective of the customs value, and withdraw the social welfare surcharge of 10 per cent on electric cars. It has stated that these changes would boost the development of the Indian EV ecosystem and the company will make significant direct investments in sales, service, and charging infrastructure; and significantly increase procurement from India for its global operations. The company has argued that these proposals would not have any negative impact on the Indian automotive market as no Indian OEM currently produces a car (EV or ICE) with ex-factory price above USD 40,000 and only 1-2 per cent of cars sold in India (EV or ICE) have ex-factory/customs value above USD 40,000. Recently, Gadkari had said Tesla has a golden opportunity to set up its manufacturing facility in India given the country's thrust on e-vehicles. Tesla is already sourcing various auto components from Indian automakers and setting up base here would be economically viable for it, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: No action will be taken under pressure, says Yogi ||There will be no injustice with anyone and no action will be taken under any pressure, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday, amid demands by the opposition to arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son in the Lakhimpur-Kheri violence case. Describing the violence, which left eight people, including four farmers, dead, as unfortunate, he said the government is going deep into the details of the incident. "There is no place for violence in democracy, and when the law is giving guarantee to secure everyone, there is no need to take it into one's hands, whosoever they be," the chief minister said while speaking to a news channel. On allegations that attempts are being made to save the minister's son, Ashish Mishra, in the case, Adityanath said, "There is no such video. We have issued numbers, and if anyone has evidence, they can upload it. All will be crystal clear. There will be no injustice with anyone. No one will be allowed to take the law in his hand but no action will be taken under any pressure." "We will not arrest anyone on allegations. But yes, if someone is guilty, he will also not be spared irrespective of who he is," he said. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Asserting that action in Uttar Pradesh is take based on evidence, Adityanath said, "We did this all over the state. Action was taken against whosoever evidence was found." "Be it a BJP MLA or an opposition MLA and anyone in any post. We never hesitated in taking action. In Lakhimpur incident also, the government is doing the same thing," he said. On pasting of notice summoning Ashish Mishra and his arrest, the chief minister said, "A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted by the government and a judicial commission has also be formed." The judicial commission will probe the entire case and officers in the SIT will delve into its details, he said. "The arrests of those whose videos have come and involvement was confirmed have started," Adityanath said. While Luvkush and Ashish Pandey have been arrested in the case, police have summoned the minister's son Ashish on Friday but he did not turn up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Fresh summons issued to minister's son for Saturday||The Uttar Pradesh Police issued a fresh notice to Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra asking him to appear before it by 11 am on Saturday in connection with the violence that killed eight people, including four farmers, after he missed his 10 am deadline on Friday. The latest notice, pasted on the wall of Mishra's house Friday afternoon, warned that legal action will be initiated against him if fails to appear before the investigators on Saturday. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the team probing Sunday's incident waited for him at the police lines but he didn't show up, after which the fresh notice was served. As Mishra did not show up, reports emerged that he may have fled to Nepal. Asked about it, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said, "If this is true, the Centre should intervene and get the accused arrested from Nepal." In a statement issued here, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, "...there is no trace of him (Ashish Mishra). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh Police teams searching for him." The morcha expressed its "serious concern and shock" at Mishra not yet being arrested. After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside Mishra's house asking him to appear before it at 10 am on Friday. The arrested men were identified as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by the police in connection with the violence. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. In its statement, the morcha alleged that two other men -- Sumit Jaiswal and Ankit Das -- were also involved in the violence, but they are not being arrested by the police. "There is only information on a notice issued to Ashish Mishra summoning him for questioning. The UP government and Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra are adopting protective tactics to ensure that Ashish Mishra roams free," it said. It alleged that Sumit Jaiswal was in the Thar vehicle that mowed down the farmers and was clearly seen escaping from the vehicle. Similarly, a video clip where a police official was seen questioning a person caught during the incident revealed that Ankit Das was in the Fortuner vehicle that was also involved in the violence, the morcha said. The morcha demanded immediate arrest of Ashish, Sumit and Ankit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Azad threatens to gherao PM's residence if Lakhimpur Kheri culprits not arrested in seven days||Azad Samaj Party chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad on Friday said he and his supporters will gherao the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi here if the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are not arrested within seven days. The prime minister should talk to farmers, go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet family members of slain farmers, he demanded. "The prime minister tweets on every issue but he is yet to react on the killing of the farmers. The culprits are roaming free. We will gherao the PM's residence if the culprits are not arrested within seven days," Azad said at a press conference here. The Dalit leader compared the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and asserted it will have huge repercussions in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections next year. Azad alleged there is no law and order in Uttar Pradesh and demanded that the CM tender his resignation. He also supported the demand for a caste census, saying it will help ascertain the percentage of neglected sections of society. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel. In FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union minister's son, Ashish Mishra, and others in connection with the incident at the Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||SC not satisfied with steps taken by UP govt in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||The Supreme Court Friday said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons were killed on October 3 and questioned it over not arresting the accused against whom FIR has been lodged. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana told senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the UP government, to communicate to the top most police official that evidence and other relevant materials in the case are not destroyed. "What is the message you (state) are sending? Even in normal circumstances... will the police not go immediately and arrest the accused. Things have not proceeded the way they should have. It appears to be only words and not actions,"  said the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. It asked the state whether accused in other cases lodged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code are treated the same way. If you see the FIR, section 302 is there. Is it the same way you treat other accused, the bench asked, while terming it as a very serious charge. The top court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||No quick fix solutions to party's deep-rooted problems, Prashant Kishor tells Congress||In a message for the Congress, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday said those looking for a quick revival of the grand old party-led opposition following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are in for a big disappointment as there are no quick fix solutions to the "deep-rooted problems" of the party. Kishor's tweet comes in the backdrop of days of speculation that he was in talks with the Gandhi family and was set to join the Congress. "People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP led opposition based on Lakhimpur Kheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment," Kishor said on his Twitter handle. "Unfortunately there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP," he said. Former Union minister and senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily had last month voiced strong support for Kishor's induction into the Congress and said those opposing his entry into the party were "anti-reform". Though there has been speculation both within and outside the Congress over Kishor's likely admission into the party, there has been no official word indicating his entry. Kishor's tweet is being viewed by many as an indication that things may not be working out between him and the party leadership. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||IAF's prompt actions in eastern Ladakh testament to its combat readiness, says chief||The IAF's prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh last year were a testament to its combat readiness and its ongoing capability enhancement programme is aimed at achieving desired results "swiftly and decisively" across domains, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary said on Friday. In an address on the occasion of the 89th Air Force Day, he also strongly called for upgrading the training modules for air warriors and asked senior officials to invest time and efforts in "nurturing and empowering" their subordinates and young officers and to consider it as their primary task. Referring to the tri-services integration, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary also "assured," the nation of the Indian Air Force's "unwavering commitment" towards delivering joint capability and generating integrated response options as a part of a coherent national strategy. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and several top officials of the three services and the Defence Ministry were among those present at the event. The IAF also carried out a spectacular air display showcasing its vintage aircraft and modern fleet on the occasion. On the modernisation plans of the IAF, the chief of Air Staff pitched for "creative and skilful" employment of new-age capabilities through the development of unique tactics and "out-of-the-box" operational plans and training programmes to gain mastery over modern trends of aerial warfare. "As our challenges continue to rise, so does our strength and resolve to ensure best possible application of air power. When I look at the security scenario that we face today, I am acutely conscious that I have assumed the command at a crucial time," he said at the Air Force Day parade held at the Hindon airbase on the outskirts of Delhi. "We must demonstrate to the nation that external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory. I pledge to do all I can to provide you with clear direction, good leadership and the best of resources that I can muster," he said. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said the year gone by was "quite challenging yet extremely rewarding". "The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh were a testament to the Indian Air Force's combat readiness. Our efforts in completing all Covid-related tasks was also a major achievement in support of national efforts," he said. Following the escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh in mid-June last year, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft as well as its attack helicopters in the key air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control. In his address, the chief of Air Staff particularly focused on the need to devote attention to human resources. "It is my firm belief that when we continue to acquire the latest technologies, there is a much greater need to devote our attention to the people placed below us. As seniors, invest your time and efforts in nurturing and empowering your subordinates. I am confident that each one of you will treat this important task as your primary responsibility," he said. The IAF chief said that though the "targeted training programmes" are helping air warriors to develop the aptitude for mustering the modern trends of aerial warfare, acquiring the "right attitude" is equally important. "Our focus on grooming and mentoring them (young officials/air warriors) as leaders for shouldering tasks should be sustained," he said. "I am of the view that while we are actively pursuing self-reliance in hardware, innovative thought has historically been our core strength and I look forward to creative and skilful employment of these capabilities through the development of our own unique tactics and out of the box operational plans," he said. On the tri-services integration, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said the IAF remains steadfast in its view that integrated jointness is the way ahead. "It is also our belief that the core competence of each service, indeed of all organs of national power must be synergised to generate desired effect and capability. Here I wish to assure the nation of our unwavering commitment towards delivering joint capability and generating integrated response options as a part of a coherent national strategy," he said. The chief of Air Staff said the security environment in the region and beyond has been "impacted by a complex interplay of geopolitical forces". "Moreover, the advent of new domains over and above the traditional domains of land, sea and air has resulted in a paradigm shift in the way military operations will be conducted," he said. "In sync with the changing nature of war fighting, the ongoing capability enhancement in the IAF is aimed at providing the optimum means for employing air power and achieving desired effects across domains swiftly and decisively," the IAF chief said. He also asked air warriors to continue work with skills, courage, determination and hard work. "Remember that it is our sacred duty to protect the nation's sovereignty and integrity at any cost and you are to do what it takes to ensure that we do not let the nation down," he said. The chief of Air Staff said the IAF stands today on the threshold of an era that will define its stature as a "potent strategic aerospace power". "The need of the hour is to reassess and realign with emerging trends in order to gain from ongoing efforts towards greater self-reliance in high-tech items," he said. "I am happy to report that several projects are well underway for harnessing the potential of automation, data analytics and artificial intelligence in order to transform the way we fight future wars," he said. The IAF chief said young men and women who are joining the force are highly competent and aware of today's digital world. "We have to upgrade our training methodology so that these air warriors are equipped with the right skills and knowledge for confident and audacious use in battle," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister's son yet to appear before police||Union Minister of State for Home Kumar Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was asked to appear before the police at 10 am on Friday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, did not reach the police lines till 11.30 am, sources said. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the probe team is present in the police lines for questioning him, they said. "Ashish Mishra has not turned up till now," an official source said around 11.30 am. In a statement issued here, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, "...there is no trace of him (Ashish Mishra). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several UP Police teams searching for him." The morcha expressed its "serious concern and shock" as Mishra was not arrested. As investigators waited for Mishra, reports emerged that he might have fled to Nepal. Asked about it, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said, "If this is true, the Centre should intervene and get the accused arrested from Nepal." After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside his house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. The arrested men were identified as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by police. In its statement, the morcha alleged that Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das and some other persons were also involved in the violence, but they are not being arrested by the police. "There is only information on a notice issued to Ashish Mishra summoning him for questioning. The UP government and Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra are adopting protective tactics to ensure that Ashish Mishra roams free," it said. It alleged that Sumit Jaiswal was in the Thar vehicle that mowed down the farmers and was clearly seen escaping from the vehicle. Similarly, a video clip where a police official was seen questioning a person caught during the incident showed that Ankit Das was in the Fortuner vehicle that was also involved in the violence, the morcha said. The morcha demanded immediate arrest of Ashish, Sumit and Ankit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||India logs over 21,000 fresh Covid cases, 271 casualties in a day||With 21,257 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,39,15,569, while the number of active cases declined to 2,40,221, the lowest in 205 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,127 with 271 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 14 straight days. The number of active cases has declined to 2,40,221, accounting for 0.71 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.96 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,977 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,85,706 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total number of tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,00,43,190. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 39 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.64 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 105 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,25,221, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has crossed 93.17 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops engaged in brief face-off in Tawang||Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh last week and it was resolved following talks between local commanders of the two sides as per established protocols, people familiar with the development said on Friday. It is learnt that the face-off took place after a Chinese patrol tried to enter Indian territory and the troops of China's People's Liberation Army were forced back. The incident came to light days before another round of high-level military talks between the two sides on the eastern Ladakh row. The Corps Commander level talks are likely to take place within the next three-four days, said one of the people cited above. About the fresh face-off, the people said both sides undertake patrolling activities up to their line of perception and whenever the troops come face-to-face, the situation is managed according to established protocols. "Physical engagement can last for a few hours prior to disengaging as per mutual understanding. However, there has been no damage to defences," said the person cited above. "The India-China border has not been formally demarcated and, hence, there is a difference in perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the countries," the person said. The people said maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the areas of differing perceptions has been possible by adherence to existing agreements and protocols between the two countries. The incident took place in the midst of continuing stand-off between Indian and Chinese militaries in several areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh for nearly 17 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Hate speech in India linked to RSS accounts: FB whistleblower||The disclosures of Frances Haugen, who hit the headlines across the world earlier this week as “the Facebook whistleblower”, include multiple references to the promotion of divisions and ethnic violence in India. Her main claims on Facebook’s work in India are that pages associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) promoted “fear mongering, anti-Muslim narratives”, that a lack of Indian language editors led to unchecked hate speech here on the platform, and that the BJP uses Single User Multiple Accounts for propaganda that affects neighbouring Bangladesh as well. Haugen, a former Facebook data scientist, recently told the US Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the global social media giant “promotes global division and ethnic violence”, including in India. A Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph on Thursday that the company had made significant investments to detect hate speech, as a consequence of which its prevalence had come down drastically now. In May, Haugen, 37, had quit the social media giant, in which she had earlier been part of the “civic integrity tram” that monitored election interference across the world. The team was disbanded after the presidential polls in the US in 2020. Last month, she filed at least eight complaints with the SEC, the markets watchdog in the US, through lawyers at the NGO, Whistleblower Aid. She went public with her allegations on CBS News earlier this week and later testified to the US Congress. A leaked internal FB document, “Adversarial Harmful Networks – India Case Study”, is cited in one of the SEC complaints uploaded on CBS News’ website. An excerpt says: “RSS (Indian nationalist organization Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) Users, Groups, and Pages promote fear mongering, anti-Muslim narratives targeted pro-Hindu populations with V&I (violent and incendiary) intent…. There were a number of dehumanizing posts comparing Muslims to ‘pigs’ and ‘dogs’ and misinformation (claiming that men have been urged to rape their female family members). “Our lack of Hindi and Bengali classifiers means much of this (anti-Muslim) content is never flagged or actioned….” The RSS and the BJP are yet to respond to Haugen’s claims. Last year, The Wall Street Journal had quoted unnamed current and former Facebook staff who had claimed that the platform allowed posts by BJP legislators that incited violence, on the advice of Ankhi Das, its then public policy director for South and Central Asia, who was linked to the RSS. An undated internal survey by Facebook, cited by Haugen, revealed that the posts that got the most views were fake. “40% of Top VPV (View Port Views, or impressions) Civic Posters in West Bengal Were Fake/Inauthentic/fake. The highest-VPV user to be assessed as inauthentic had more than 30M accrued in the L28 (last 28 days),” she said in one of the complaints. Viral shares included an “out-of-context” video by an Indian politician to stir anti-Muslim and anti-Pakistan sentiments. Another leaked internal document titled “Lotus Mahal” was cited to suggest that the BJP encouraged its members to have multiple Facebook accounts, which is not illegal but is discouraged by the social media platform as the trend is linked to provocative content. The excerpt in the complaint says: “BJP IT Cell worker (shared) coordinated messaging instructions to supporters with a copypasta campaign... targeting politically-sensitive tags.… 103 suspicious entities across IN & BD (India and Bangladesh).” A Facebook spokesperson told this newspaper: “Over the years, we’ve invested significantly in technology that proactively detects hate speech even before people report it to us. We now use this technology to proactively detect violating content in Hindi and Bengali, alongside over 40 languages globally. As a result, we’ve reduced the prevalence of hate speech globally -– meaning the amount of the content people actually see -- on Facebook by almost 50 per cent in the last three quarters and it’s now down to 0.05 per cent of all content viewed.” She added: “In addition, we have a team of content reviewers covering 20 Indian languages. As hate speech against marginalised groups, including Muslims, continues to be on the rise globally, we continue to make progress on enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.” Mark Zuckerberg wrote to employees earlier this week: “If we didn’t care about fighting harmful content, then why would we employ so many more people dedicated to this than any other company in our space --- even ones larger than us?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC seeks report, police summons Ajay Mishra's son ||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra has been summoned for questioning and two men arrested over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, police said on a day the Supreme Court sought a status report from the Uttar Pradesh government on the case. Ashis, booked for murder, has been asked to present himself before the police at 10am on Friday, a notice said. “If Ashis Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” inspector-general of police (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh said. Pawan Kashyap, brother of slain journalist Raman Kashyap, regretted that Ashis had not been arrested yet. “It’s strange that a police who arrest people for chanting anti-government slogans and put up their posters at street crossings are merely sending summons to a man accused of cold-blooded murder,” he said. The Yogi Adityanath government had put up posters of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters at public places in November-December 2019. The police identified the two arrested men as Luvkush and Ashish Pandey. State government sources said the two were in the convoy of SUVs that crushed four protesting farmers and a TV journalist on Sunday. Farmers have alleged that Ashis, also known as Monu, was in a Thar jeep that led the convoy and deliberately ploughed into the farmers. The minister has denied his son was in any of the cars, but Ashis has been named in an FIR for murder the police have registered. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday formed a single-member judicial commission under retired Allahabad High Court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to probe the incident in two months. After five victims were run over, the farmers allegedly lynched three people — Hari Om, the driver of one of the cars, and two BJP workers. IG Singh said the role of these three had not been clear earlier but “things are becoming clear now”. She refused to say more. Asked whether these three were the instigators of the violence, additional director-general of police (Lucknow zone) S.N. Sabot said things had started only after the “accident” and that meant those behind the steering had complete control over the vehicles and were 100 per cent responsible for what happened. “Other people sitting close to that have a reason to instigate or abate the things,” he added. Sources said a police team had collected spent bullets from the spot. Asked, Singh said: “Some evidence has come and the forensic team is examining them.” A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked Uttar Pradesh authorities to ensure the “best medical treatment” of the mother of one of slain farmers, 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh, at a government medical college. An advocate, Amritpal Singh Khalsa, had informed the court that Luv Preet’s mother was in critical condition from shock at the loss of her son. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, sought a status report from the Uttar Pradesh government on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, including the names mentioned in the FIR. The bench had earlier converted into a PIL a letter from two advocates, Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C.S. Panda, that had sought an independent probe. Justice Ramana said the petition would be heard again on Friday and clarified that the registry had wrongly said the court had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Modi anguished over road deaths in UP, but not death of farmers||And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them… Exodus 9:12, King James Version Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed anguish and condolences. It was not Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh the Prime Minister had on his mind. He was referring to a tragic incident of 15 road deaths at Barabanki in the same state. For the fifth day running, Modi continued to remain silent over the farmers run over and killed by a car owned by his junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni on Sunday. In another tweet, Modi expressed grief at deaths caused by a house collapse in Karnataka. “Anguished by the road accident in Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives,” a tweet from the Prime Minister’s official handle @PMOIndia said on Thursday morning. A bus had collided with a sand-laden truck near Baburi village in Barabanki on Thursday, leaving 15 people dead and 21 injured, a PTI report said. The PMO’s tweet announced Rs 2 lakh each for the families of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Another comment by Modi on Thursday provoked relatives of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims to ask why he was “annoying” them “by making absurd statements while keeping mum on the bloodbath organised by the minister of state for home”. Modi had said his government “doesn’t wait for people to come to it” but “reaches the people”, prompting the Lakhimpur Kheri victims’ families to ask why he or his ministers had “not reached us”. The second tweet from Modi’s official handle said: “The loss of lives due to a house collapse in Belgavi, Karnataka, is saddening. My thoughts are with the bereaved kin in this hour of sadness.” It announced financial assistance for those killed and injured. On Sunday, four farmers and a journalist were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri and many others were injured when a car, which Teni has acknowledged belonged to him, appeared to deliberately plough through a group of protesting farmers from behind. The farmers say Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra was at the wheel but the minister denies this. While Modi spoke not a word on this, he seemed to strike a self-congratulatory note at an event in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, referring to how Thursday marked 20 years in high office for him. “I had never imagined that I would rise from the post of chief minister to Prime Minister. But on this day, 20 years ago, I got a new responsibility to serve the people,” Modi said, adding that he had taken oath as Gujarat chief minister for the first time on October 7, 2001. Modi’s remarks were followed by BJP leaders tripping over themselves to heap praise on him. Teni, whose removal has been ruled out by BJP sources, participated as chief guest at a Bureau of Police Research and Development programme on Thursday with the media shut out of it. Ashok Kashyap, a relative of the wife of journalist Raman Kashyap, who had been run over with four farmers in Sunday’s incident, told The Telegraph on Thursday: “No Prime Minister, home minister, chief minister or any other minister has visited our homes to ask what we need and expect. “Summing up Modi’s attitude, I would say he is an empty conch shell (dhapor shankh) that produces an annoying sound.” Kewal Singh, uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh, one of the four slain farmers, said: “Modi or (chief minister) Yogi (Adityanath) have no feelings for people. They can say anything in their speeches but cannot stand with a victim of their own government.” 'Intimidation’ Kewal alleged the administration was trying to intimidate the farmers into remaining silent. He said “a subdivision-level officer” had used “harsh language” while visiting the family on Wednesday to hand over a cheque for Rs 45 lakh as compensation. “Some senior officers come here every now and then, sometimes to warn us to remain silent on the incident and at other times to request us to remain silent,” Kewal said. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who had on Monday brokered peace between the administration and the agitated farmers, said he had learnt that “officers are trying to bully the victims’ families”. “I want the officers to give us their bank account numbers and we will return the money they have given to the families of the slain farmers and the journalist,” he said. He stressed that he had “an agreement with the government that Monu would be arrested, the minister would be suspended and the inquiry would be completed within a few days”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||BJP drops Varun & Maneka Gandhi from party executive list||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi was on Thursday dropped from the party national executive committee along with mother Maneka Gandhi hours after he had tweeted that “protesters cannot be silenced through murder” and demanded “accountability for the innocent blood of farmers”. Varun has been the lone voice in the BJP demanding justice for the protesting farmers run over and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday by a car that Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni has accepted as belonging to him. On Thursday morning, Varun tweeted a longer and clearer version of a video showing people being run over by a car. “The video is crystal clear. Protesters cannot be silenced through murder,” the MP from Pilibhit, which adjoins Lakhimpur Kheri, said in his tweet. “There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer.” In the afternoon, the BJP released a reconstituted list of its national executive members, from which Varun and Maneka — MP from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh — were missing. Maneka had been a cabinet minister in the first Narendra Modi government but did not make it to the second government in 2019. The BJP’s national executive committee has 80 members, 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees. Another key member dropped was Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy, who has been critical of the government over several issues such as the economy and the China border standoff. Officially, the BJP gave no reason for the changes. Party leaders dodged the question whether Varun had been punished for his tweets and claimed the changes were a routine matter. They said the list had been revised now because the party planned to hold a meeting of its office-bearers later this month. Varun has been tweeting regularly on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as well as on the farmers’ 10-month-old protest against three central farm laws, and has been perceived as defying the party line on both issues. His tweet on Thursday has been the strongest so far, appearing to obliquely express his anger that no arrests had been made so far despite “crystal clear” evidence. Varun had on Monday written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath — and also tweeted it — demanding a murder case be lodged and a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe be instituted. On Tuesday, he tweeted a shorter and grainier version of the video that showed a black jeep ploughing through protesting farmers from behind, saying it was enough to “shake anybody’s soul”. He had demanded that those responsible be arrested. Varun had earlier said the farmers protesting the farm laws should be treated with sensitivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Priyanka Gandhi calls on Narendra Modi to resign ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has intensified her attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded his resignation. “The Prime Minster should take moral responsibility for the incident of Lakhimpur Kheri and resign,” the Congress general secretary told reporters in Bahraich on Thursday, where she had gone to meet the family members of Gurvindar Singh and Daljeet Singh, two farmers who were among those crushed to death in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. “How can we expect a fair inquiry when a home minister and his son are behind the crime? The minister who is in charge of law and order in the country is father of the killer,” Priyanka added. She also expressed her dissatisfaction with a judicial probe into the incident by a retired judge and said: “This is not going to serve the purpose. We are demanding a probe by a sitting judge of the high court.” Priyanka first went to the home of Gurvindar Singh at Mohrania village in Nanpara. “I had met the families of three victims in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and I’m meeting two in Bahraich today. They all have said clearly that they don’t care about financial compensation. They want the arrest of the culprits and suspension of the minister. “It seems that Narendra Modi is trying to give a message to the people of the country that those in the government, the ministers and the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders can do anything against the common man, the farmers, the Dalits, the women,” she said after meeting Gurvindar’s family. On Wednesday night, Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi had met the families of deceased farmers Luv Preet Singh and Nachchattar Singh and journalist Ramayan Kashyap. Puran Singh, Gurvindar’s cousin, said: “We showed Priyanka some videos and she was convinced that the minister’s son killed my brother, other farmers and a journalist. The killers are roaming freely because their leader is a central minister in the Modi government.” Priyanka offered prayer at Mari Mata Mandir, a temple of goddess Durga in Lucknow, on Thursday morning before leaving for Bahraich. Earlier, she tweeted in Hindi: “We will fight for justice till the end, till conclusion. All the victims’ families have said they will get justice when the Union minister would be suspended and the killers were arrested.” Meanwhile, Navjot Singh Sidhu, president of Punjab Congress Committee, was detained by the police in Saharanpur while he was on his way to Bahraich along with hundreds of his supporters to join Priyanka. Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, who was headed to Lakhimpur Kheri with dozens of supporters, was detained in Bareilly. However, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra met the families of three victims in Lakhimpur Kheri as they had reached there in a group of five. The government has imposed a preventive order and is not allowing the assembly of more than five people. A large number of Congressmen gathered at the gate of Raj Bhavan, demanding audience from the governor and returned after an hour when Anandiben Patel received their memorandum, which registered their protest against the arrest of Priyanka in Sitapur for three days from Monday. She was allowed to proceed towards Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: UP police helping  Ajay Mishra's son, says SKM||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday accused the Uttar Pradesh police of helping junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra abscond and expressed dissatisfaction with the one-member committee set up to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. The one-member committee, which was promised by the Uttar Pradesh administration on Monday to ease the tension over Sunday’s incident, was notified on Wednesday. The Morcha, which is describing the deaths as “farmers’ massacre”, maintains that the panel was hurriedly notified in view of the Supreme Court hearing on Thursday. According to the Morcha, the one-member judicial panel is not according to their demands and does not instil confidence in the farmers of the country. “The order does not mention anything about the key reason or objective of setting up such a commission. The inquiry should be on whether or not the incidents of Lakhimpur Kheri were pre-planned intentional murders, with the aim to intimidate and quell protesters. “In the notification issued, there is no mention of the open threat issued by the Union government minister (Teni) in a public meeting, about the role of the MoS and his son in the gruesome developments of Sunday and thereafter,” the Morcha said, referring to reports of the deceased journalist Raman Kashyap’s family saying that they were being asked to change their complaint. The family, lifelong supporters of the BJP, have alleged that they are being pressured to file a complaint stating that Raman was beaten up by the farmers. The family has said that Raman was run over by the SUV. “Members of the BJP want to include my brother’s name in their FIR to show that an equal number of deaths happened on both sides. Four farmers and four BJP workers will make the cross case equal and balanced. They want to use my brother for this balancing act,” Raman’s brother Pawan told news website News Laundry. The Morcha said: “Further, the notification gives a time window of two months and indicates that the timeline can be extended too. From all of this, it is clear that this ordering of a judicial inquiry into the matter is to essentially buy time, to whitewash the actual set of events and to postpone justice for the victims.” Upset with the manner in which both the state and central governments are handling the case, the SKM said it would announce the future course of action on October 12 if its demands were not met by then. The Morcha has demanded the arrest of Ashis, who eyewitnesses insist was in the car that mowed down the farmers, and dismissal of his father from the Union council of ministers. The Morcha’s collective leadership is slated to meet on Friday to chalk out the future course of action, but the announcement will be made only on October 12 as it wants to wait for the antim ardas (last prayer) for the farmers who were killed. Meanwhile, a protesting farmer was injured in Naraingarh area of Ambala in Haryana on Thursday morning after being allegedly hit by a car that was part of a BJP MP’s convoy. The farmers had converged on the Naraingarh-Sadhaura road to protest the presence of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini at a function in the area. While the convoy was returning from the event, one of the cars hit a farmer, prompting the protesters to wonder if this was a coincidence or a strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||India to give tourist visas from October 15||The Centre on Thursday said it would begin granting fresh tourist visas to foreigners coming to India through chartered flights from October 15. Foreign tourists travelling by flights other than chartered aircraft would have to wait till November 15. Tourist visas have been suspended by India since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year. The Union home ministry on Thursday said it received representations from several state governments and various stakeholders in the tourism sector to start tourist visas. The ministry consulted all major stakeholders like the ministries of health, external affairs, civil aviation, tourism and several state governments where foreign tourists are expected to arrive. “After considering various inputs, the MHA has decided to begin granting of fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15, 2021. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so only with effect from November 15 on fresh tourist visas,” the ministry said in a statement. All due protocols and norms relating to Covid-19 as notified by the ministry of health and family welfare from time to time will have be followed by foreign tourists, carriers bringing them into India and all other stakeholders at landing stations. “With this, the restrictions placed on visa and international travel stand further eased given the present overall Covid-19 situation,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir minority teachers shot dead by militants||A principal and a teacher, one a Sikh and another a Dogra, were killed by militants inside their school in a Srinagar locality, marking another bloody day in Jammu and Kashmir where rebels are increasingly targeting people of minority communities. Officials said three militants stormed the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Sangam locality in Srinagar’s Idgah area at 11.15am, apparently searching for non-Muslim teachers. Eyewitnesses said they snatched the mobiles of the teachers but picked up two — principal Supinder Kour, 45, and teacher Deepak Chand, 39 — and shot them. Kour was from Srinagar’s Aloochi Bagh locality and Chand was from Jammu. The city has been rocked by six civilian killings in as many days, shattering the tall claims of the Narendra Modi government that the scrapping of state’s special status will end militancy in Kashmir. Some Valley politicians linked the killings to the Centre’s 2019 decision to scrap Article 370, through which many here believe that New Delhi seeks to change the Muslim-majority character of the erstwhile state, which has ended up deepening the fissures between communities. Fear has gripped the minority communities, with some apprehending a return to the deadly 1990s when thousands of Pandits and some Sikhs migrated to other parts of the country. In Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval, home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Intelligence Bureau chief Arvind Kumar to discuss the unfolding situation. The killings, it is feared, will deal a further blow to the Centre’s long cherished goal of facilitating the return of migrant Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley. Of the five men and a woman who fell to militants here during the past six days, four — Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Virendra Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar, Kour and Chand — were members of minority communities. The families of the victims were devastated by their deaths with videos showing them crying inconsolably. “Why did you kill her? Why didn’t you kill me? What had she done?” asked the wailing mother of Kour. Mohit Bhan, a Kashmiri Pandit who is the spokesperson of the PDP and lives in the Valley, said the killings have triggered a deep sense of insecurity among the minority communities. “Received frantic calls , fear in the voice sent shivers down my spine. Go out stand with them they need you more than ever today. The callousness of  administration for pushing us back to 90s can’t be ignored,” Bhan tweeted. Director-general of police Dilbagh Singh said the killings have been executed to create an atmosphere of fear and disturb harmony in Kashmir by giving a communal colour to the situation. “We are grieved that such incidents have taken place one after another. People have lost lives. We are working on cases which happened earlier. Srinagar police have got a lot of clues and soon terrorists involved in this barbarity, targeting values and communal harmony, will be exposed,” Singh told reporters. The DGP said it was an attempt to malign Kashmiri Muslims. “Those who come from outside to earn a living are targeted and there is a conspiracy to prove there is no love lost. Terrorists are terrorists and are doing it at the behest of agencies from across (the border),” he said. Though the killings have been widely mourned in Kashmir, some politicians claimed they were a fallout of the decision to scrap its special status. “When Article 370 was abrogated, a group of usual low IQ, high decibel RW (Right-wing) social media influencers went overboard to argue for forced demographic change, without realising what the repercussions of this alarm. The blood is on their hands as well,” tweeted National Conference spokesperson Ifra Jan. Jan deleted the tweet after Kashmiri Pandit Twitter users accused her of defending the gruesome killings. In January, Satpal Nischal, a 70-year-old Punjabi jewellery shopowner in Srinagar’s Saraibala, was shot dead by militants. A month later, militants killed Aakash Mehra, son of the owner of Krishna Dhaba at Sonwar here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Plea against UP govt for forcibly discharging Siddique Kappan undergoing Covid treatment||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Thursday moved a contempt petition against the Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly shifting journalist Siddique Kappan back to Mathura jail by prematurely discharging him from hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The petition is yet to be listed for formal hearing. According to the KUWJ, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had on April 28 this year directed the Uttar Pradesh government “to provide adequate and effective medical assistance to him and to allay all apprehension relating to his health, it would be in the interest of justice to shift Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi for proper medical treatment”. The petition filed through advocate Wills Mathews stated that the top court had directed that the “recovery of Mr Siddique Kappan was the first requirement for discharging him and shifting him to Mathura Jail, whereas the respondents got him discharged when Mr Kappan was Covid positive, with high sugar level around 460, along with dental problems and various other serious medical problems”. “… the act of discharging Mr Siddique Kappan at midnight on 06.05.2021, even depriving him of his sleep, amount to contempt of court,” the petition stated. According to the plea, despite a legal notice dated May 9 and reminder dated May 25 “for taking care of urgent medical issues of the accused in compliance with the specific directions of this Hon’ble court, the respondents did not take any step to correct their mistakes and as the accused is still in need of the medical assistance, which was denied to him, and delay in treatment will result in irreparable injury”. It added: “The petitioner is moving the present contempt petition as left with no other alternative remedy as the illegal action of the respondents/contemnors were wilful and deliberate.” Kappan, a freelancer and secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ, was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police on October 5 last year while he was going to Hathras village to report on the gang-rape and murder of a minor Dalit girl. The state government had accused Kappan of being a member of the Popular Front of India and being involved in anti-national activities. The KUWJ had, however, categorically denied the allegations against Kappan. On October 7 last year, the Uttar Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Kappan under various IPC sections relating to sedition. As his medical condition had worsened in April last year, the apex court had directed that he be shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The KUWJ has alleged that Kappan was shifted to the AIIMS on April 30 pursuant to the court’s direction. However, he was forcibly taken out of the hospital on May 6, “when he was sick and treatment was going on, at midnight and taken to Mathura jail”. It further stated that Kappan had gone into depression following the death of his mother in June this year. The petition said: “Even after one year of the arrest, that is, on 05.10.2020, the accused is not in receipt of the chargesheet…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Congress builds pressure on BJP to remove Ajay Mishra||The Congress on Thursday sustained its pressure on the BJP for the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni and the arrest of his son Ashis Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, a day after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra brought the horrific crime into national focus by their visit to the victims’ families. While Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu led a massive delegation of ministers, MLAs and party workers to Uttar Pradesh, similar groups from Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Haryana also marched towards Lakhimpur Kheri under their top state leaders. Though none of these groups were allowed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh administration was brought under tremendous pressure, demolishing the perception that the controversy will go off the boil after the visit by Rahul and Priyanka. Sidhu declared he would go on a fast-unto-death from Friday if Teni’s son wasn’t arrested. “You have to confront the governments when zulm (oppression) crosses the limit. Over 600 farmers have died in the movement against the farm laws but the Narendra Modi government is unmoved. So far, no politician has died for the cause. I am taking a public vow — I will go on fast from tomorrow if the minister’s son who ran over farmers is not arrested. I am ready to sacrifice my life for ensuring justice for the farmers.” That the Congress is taking the agitation seriously, unlike the symbolic gesture of protest usually, was manifested not only in Priyanka’s determined resolve to reach Lakhimpur Kheri and Rahul’s combative support to the cause, but the involvement of senior leaders in Thursday’s campaign. In Punjab, while deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and several ministers drove to Saharanpur where they were taken into custody, even chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi joined them briefly to motivate the delegation. Channi had accompanied Rahul and Priyanka to Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, announced financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the victims’ families. The massacre of farmers has become an emotional issue in poll-bound Punjab as two young Sikhs had lost their lives in the tragedy. Even the delegation from Uttarakhand was led by Harish Rawat while both Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Kumari Selja were present in the Haryana group. The Rajasthan delegation was led by state Congress chief Govind Dotasara. Sachin Pilot tried to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday itself but was detained at Moradabad. Delegations from Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states are also scheduled to reach Lakhimpur Kheri. The party high command has also decided to seek time from the President to demand the removal of Teni and the arrest of his son. The Uttar Pradesh Congress unit submitted a memorandum to the governor for the arrest of the father-son duo and held demonstrations throughout the state on Thursday. The Lakhimpur episode is bound to affect the coming elections in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere but it has already impacted the Congress’s internal politics. While veteran P. Chidambaram, who had talked of fear in the party a few days ago, had to jump in favour of Priyanka on Wednesday, it was followed by a series of tweets by G-23 leader Anand Sharma in support of the Congress leadership. Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha, both G-23 members, wrote a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath explaining legal points about the illegality of Priyanka’s arrest. While Sharma attacked the Uttar Pradesh government for arresting Priyanka and stopping Rahul on Wednesday, he tweeted on Thursday: “Commending Rahul and Priyanka’s courageous act of compassion and solidarity with farmers whose sons were killed. A sincere and expressed commitment to fight for justice for the bereaved farmers which must be supported by all who respect the rule of law.” The G-23 is clearly in a mood for reconciliation which will help the party change the narrative about the leadership crisis with Rahul emerging as the clear leader. The momentum is only going to pick up from here as electioneering will start now in five states, pushing the leadership question aside even if Rahul doesn’t take over formally. This dramatic change of ambience might have done a great favour to the party as a generation war theory was gaining currency after the joining of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani and the outbursts of sulking veterans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||LIC agent held over ghost policy fraud||The Odisha Crime Branch on Thursday arrested an LIC agent for misappropriating Rs 1.81 crore by claiming death benefits on ghost policies. The accused, Kabiraj Behera of Kanas in Puri district, used to take out policies in the name of dead persons by manipulating documents, paid their premiums for a few years and then declared them dead to claim death benefits. The crime branch is investigating how he used forged documents to perpetrate the fraud on the LIC and whether the family members of the ghost policy holders were also involved in the racket. The Economic Offences Wing of the crime branch arrested Behera following a complaint by LIC officials who grew suspicious about the claims made by him. Crime branch officials said Behera, who has been working as an LIC agent since 2003, had fraudulently managed to take out 23 LIC policies between 2013 and 2019 in the name of four dead persons using forged documents showing them alive. He paid the premium for these policies regularly. “After about 3 to 5 years of paying the premium for these policies, he used to forge death certificates in the names of insured persons and made death claims in favour of the nominees of the insured persons in the local LIC branch office. He attempted to avail financial benefits under death claims against these 23 policies,” DIG crime branch J.N. Pankaj told The Telegraph. In all the policies the sum assured (death claims) was kept less than Rs 10 lakh to avoid suspicion and to ensure that the claim amount could be released without any hassle. “The accused is aware that an assured sum of less than Rs 10 lakh comes well within the financial power of the local LIC branch manager to settle the death claim. It need not be referred to the LIC divisional office for verification,” said crime branch officials. “The total amount of claims raised by the nominees of 23 policies through the present accused was more than Rs 1.81 crore, and against five policies, the LIC of India had released payments. However, the LIC officials during verification got suspicious about it and passed the information to the crime branch,” the officials added. During the search of the accused house, many incriminating documents pertaining to the processing of death claims like, voter identity cards, ATM cards, bank pass books, cheque books and Aadhaar cards were seized. “We have also seized papers containing the purported full signatures of the Ghost Policy Holders from the accused’s house. Investigation of the case is continuing to ascertain whether the family members of the deceased persons were involved or not,” said officials. An LIC official said, “The family members of the deceased must be involved in the crime. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
