09-10-2021||India||Mumbai police summon CBI director in phone-tapping case||The cyber cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned CBI director and former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal in a phone-tapping and data leak case, a senior official said here. Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The case relates to the `leak' of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the state intelligence department. Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period. It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Shukla or any other official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan's driver questioned by NCB in drugs case||The NCB on Saturday summoned Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's driver in a case related to the recovery of drugs on a Goa-bound cruise ship that has led to the arrest of 18 people, including the A-lister's son Aryan Khan. The NCB recorded the statement of the driver who drove Aryan and his friends to the cruise ship that started its journey from Mumbai, said a ndtv.com report. Aryan was arrested last Saturday by the anti-drugs agency as it raided a cruise ship and found narcotic drugs. He was on Friday sent to the Arthur Road jail. Along with him, five other men arrested in the case too were sent to the same jail, while two women accused including Munmun Dhamecha were sent to Byculla women's prison, a police official said. They are likely to spend the weekend in quarantine cells of the two prisons as the Sessions Court, where they will need to file appeal for bail, would not be working on October 9 which is the second Saturday of the month, police sources said. They would not get any special treatment inside the prison, sources said. On Thursday, the metropolitan magistrate had sent eight accused including Aryan (23) in 14-day judicial custody after their NCB remand ended. Khan and others were brought to the prison after 2.30 pm, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||NCB: Do not see political party or religion while arrersting||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday said all the allegations levelled against the agency in connection with the cruise ship raid and alleged recovery of drugs, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested, are "baseless, motivated afterthoughts and prejudicial". NCB Director, Mumbai Zone, Sameer Wankhede said the anti-drugs agency works professionally. "We do not see any political party and religion. We do our job professionally," he added. Based on a tip-off, an NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The incident took a political turn when Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that the raid was "fake" and that "outsiders" were involved in it. On Saturday, Malik alleged that the NCB had initially detained 11 persons from the Goa-bound cruise ship, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. A senior NCB official told media persons on Saturday that the two men, whom Malik had claimed as "outsiders" involved in the raid, were actually among the nine independent witnesses involved in the operation. He said the duo was not known to the NCB before October 2, when the raid was conducted. NCB Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh told reporters that such statements are based on conjecture and assumptions. "These assumptions are frivolous and malicious in view of documents and records of procedures duly followed by the NCB that can subject to legal verification. The NCB reiterates that its procedure has been and will continue to be professionally and legally transparent and unbiased as all the suspect/accused persons have been treated at par and in accordance with the law," he said. When asked about allegations, Singh said he will not comment on what other people are saying about the NCB. "The NCB is a responsible organisation. Whatever we say, we say it based on the proofs and evidence. We are doing our work honestly and dedicatedly," he said. Singh said independent public witnesses are mandatorily required to be present during any seizure operations as per the set legal procedure. Malik had claimed that a man named (K P) 'Gosavi', who is seen escorting Aryan Khan in one of the videos, was not an NCB official, and his social media profile states that he is a private detective based in Kuala Lumpur. He had also said that two men were seen escorting Arbaaz Merchant, also arrested in the case, in another video, and one of them is a member of the BJP, (later identified as Manish Bhanushali). Singh said the NCB strongly adheres to the legal procedure and involves at least two independent witnesses in all its seizure operations. "As the operations are conducted on a real-time basis, so the field verification of independent witnesses is not possible as the main focus is on drug recovery," he said. Singh said a total of nine independent witnesses were involved in the whole operation (cruise ship raid) and Manish Bhanushali and K P Gosavi were among them. "None of the Independent witnesses, including the two (Bhanushhali and Gosavi) were known to the NCB before October 2," he said. Later in a statement, Singh said a total of 14 persons were brought to the NCB zonal office (in Mumbai) for examination. "All of them were served notice under section 67, examined thoroughly and their statements were recorded," Singh said. Eight persons were arrested and the remaining six persons were let off since no incriminating evidence was found against them, he stated and added that the other six "can be associated if the need arises in the investigation as per law". As panchnamas were made at the respective spots, hence the place, timing, situation and resources may differ, he added. Singh stated that these documents are a matter of court record and have been produced in the court and will be part of a charge sheet in future. "Hence all such documents are part of a transparent legal procedure open to scrutiny at appropriate fora," he added. Meanwhile, Sameer Wankhede said those are the independent witnesses. "Whatever they (who are raising allegations) want to say let them say. We will speak before the court," he said without taking any names. Wankhede said the case is sub-judice and the investigation is underway. The NCB will follow the orders of the court, he added. "The NCB is an independent and professional agency. We did not see any political party and religion and we do our job professionally," he added. On Friday, a metropolitan magistrate's court in Mumbai rejected bail applications of Aryan Khan and two others, following which he was sent to the Arthur Road prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi to inaugurate Indian Space Association on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Space Association (ISpA), an industry body aspiring to be the voice of the Indian space sector, on October 11, the PMO said on Saturday. He will also interact with representatives of the space industry on this occasion. The ISpA will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies. Echoing the prime minister's vision of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', the ISpA will help in making India self-reliant, technologically advanced and a leading player in the space arena, the PMO said. The ISpA is represented by leading home grown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India, the PMO noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Mandaviya directs 19 states to pace up vaccination||COVID-19 containment can derail if festivals are not celebrated following protocols, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya warned on Saturday and exhorted 19 states to escalate their inoculation pace so that India can achieve administering 100 crore vaccine doses in the next few days. India has so far administered over 94 crore Covid vaccine doses. Reviewing the progress of COVID-19 vaccination with principal secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission from all major states, Mandaviya underlined that administering 100 crore doses of Covid vaccine is the immediate milestone in India's inoculation journey. According to a Health Ministry statement, Mandaviya noted that if festivals, synonymous with auspiciousness, joy and large gatherings, are not observed as per Covid protocols, containment of COVID-19 can get derailed. "The two-pronged solution is to follow Covid protocols very strictly and to speed up vaccination," the minister said. He cited results of experiments that pegged the number of first dose recipients not developing severe COVID-19 to be 96 per cent and further pointed out that the number increases to nearly 98 per cent for people who have taken both doses of the vaccine. Officials of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal took part in the meeting. Observing that over eight crore balance vaccine doses are physically available with states, Mandaviya enquired about specific hurdles, if any, faced by them in increasing their pace of vaccination and vaccine coverage among the target population, the statement said. Many states are nearing saturation of coverage in urban areas and are catering to the floating population in the city, it said. Labour and time-intensive door-to-door vaccination is being undertaken in some geographically aloof pockets where first dose coverage is nearing saturation. Uttar Pradesh state that comparatively limited supply of Covaxin and its shorter span between the doses as a rate inhibiting factor, according to the statement. "In consultation with the states, the minister exhorted each state to increase their target so that the administration of the last six crore doses for reaching the mark of 100 crore is achieved in the next few days," the health ministry stated. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged all the state health administrators to be strict with observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour during festivities to prevent a COVID-19 outbreak. He underlined the need to adhere to a detailed standard operating procedure issued through a ministry's letter on September 21. It included no mass-gatherings in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent case positivity. Gatherings with advance permissions and limited people to be allowed in districts with a positivity rate of 5 per cent and below. Relaxations and restrictions to be imposed based on weekly case positivity. States should closely monitor case trajectories in all districts daily to identify any early warning signal to ensure the imposition of restrictions and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour accordingly. All rituals like the burning of effigies, Durga Puja pandals, Dandia, Garbas and Chhatt Puja should be symbolic. The number of people allowed to participate in gatherings and processions should be regulated. Places of worship should have separate entry and exit points while the use of common prayer mats, offering of 'prasad', the sprinkling of holy water should be avoided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||India, China to hold 13th round of military talks on Sunday||India and China will hold another round of high-level military talks on Sunday with a focus on making some forward movement in the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, government sources said. The talks are scheduled to start at 10:30 AM at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said on Saturday. The Indian side is expected to seek disengagement as soon as possible in the remaining friction points besides pressing for resolution of issues in Depsang Bulge and Demchok. The 12th round of talks had taken place on July 31. Days after the talks, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. The 13th round of talks is taking place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops -- one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh last week and it was resolved within few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Last month, close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending few hours. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravne on Saturday said the military build-up by China in the eastern Ladakh region and new infrastructure development to sustain the large-scale deployment are a matter of concern. He also said if the Chinese military maintains the deployment through the second winter, then it may lead to an LoC-like situation (Line of Control) though not an active LoC as is there on the western front with Pakistan. The Indian delegation at Sunday's talks is to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Those who killed BJP workers not culprits, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that he doesn't consider those who killed BJP workers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri as culprits as they only reacted to SUV running over protesters. Eight people were killed in the violence that broke out on October 3 after an SUV allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. The dead included farmers, BJP workers and a journalist. "The killing of two BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri after a convoy of cars mowed down four farmers is a reaction to an action. I do not consider those involved in the killings as culprits," Tikait said in reply to a question asked during a press conference here. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav said, "We are sad over the loss of lives, be it BJP workers or farmers. It was unfortunate and we hope justice is done." Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Yadav alleged during the press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Delhi could face power crisis, Kejriwal writes to Narendra Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital could face a power crisis and that his government is taking adequate steps to avoid such a situation. He said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his intervention in making adequate arrangements of coal and gas to generation plants supplying electricity to the city. "Delhi could face a power crisis. I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it. In the meanwhile, I wrote a letter to Hon'ble PM seeking his personal intervention," Kejriwal tweeted. In his letter to Modi, the Delhi CM noted that the city was facing a coal shortage since August. "I draw your attention to the prevailing coal shortage situation that is continuing since August/September for the third month in a row," the letter stated. It has affected the power generation from the major central generating plants supplying power to Delhi, it said. Kejriwal requested the prime minister's intervention for adequate coal to be diverted from other plants to plants like Dadri-II and Jhajjar TPS, which are supplying to Delhi. He also requested gas allocations to Bawana, Pragati -I and GTPS supplying power to the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meeting to be held on October 16||Top Congress leadership will gather here on October 16 to deliberate on the current political situation, including the Lakhimpur violence, and decide on the organisational elections at a meeting of the party's working committee. The meeting of the Congress' top decision-making body has been convened after demands from some quarters within the party to discuss important issues, including some defections in the recent past. Former leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written to the Congress president to convene a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) soon. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal tweeted, "A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on Saturday, the 16th October, 2021 at 10 am at AICC Office, 24, Akbar Road, New Delhi to discuss current political situation, forthcoming assembly elections and organisational elections." The party leadership is also likely to decide on the schedule for electing the new Congress chief. The party, in its CWC meeting, held on January 22 had decided that the Congress would have an elected president by June 2021, but the same was deferred at the May 10 CWC meet in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. The latest meeting is being held in the wake of Lakhimpur clashes on October 3 in which eight people lost their lives, including four farmers who were allegedly run over by an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. The incident has given enough ammo to the Congress to corner the BJP government and recapture the lost political space. The CWC meeting will also discuss certain dissenting notes rising within the party over the spate of defections and the party's poor electoral fortunes. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president as well as an organisational overhaul. The demand grew louder after a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCP claims BJP leader's kin was let off by NCB hours after detention ||NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had initially detained 11 persons from a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai coast last week, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. Addressing a press conference here, Malik, who is NCP's spokesperson and a Maharashtra minister, alleged that Bharatiya's brother-in-law Rishabh Sachdeva was among those three persons. Two others - Pratik Gabba and Aamir Furniturewala - who had brought Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, to the cruise party, were released along with Sachdeva two hours after their detention, he said. When contacted, Bharatiya declined to immediately comment on the NCP's allegation, but his office said he would hold a press conference later in the day. "The names of Pratik and Aamir figured in the ongoing hearings in the court," Malik said. Malik had earlier announced that on Saturday he would reveal the name of the BJP leader, whose brother-in-law, he claimed, was let off by the anti-drug agency. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede had raided the Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The NCP leader demanded that the call records of these three persons along with that of Wankhede be examined. "Rishabh Sachdeva's father and uncle came to the NCB office and telephonic conversations happened between Wankhede and the BJP leaders in Mumbai and Delhi from the phone of Sachdeva's father," Malik claimed. "Why were the phones of these three persons not seized?" he asked. According to Malik, the Mumbai police were also given information that 11 persons had been detained from the cruise ship. Malik also alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise was "fake, planned and conspired to defame the film industry and the Maharashtra government". "Selective people have been arrested...The matter is serious. CCTV footage should be taken and a detailed inquiry should be conducted," the minority affairs minister alleged. He also hit at the BJP for attacking him over his allegations. "The BJP says that I am attacking the NCB since my son-in-law was arrested by the agency. I have never supported my son-in-law and he will fight his case. How can I give information I have in this case to the NCB which has framed a false case. If an independent commission is set up to conduct a probe, I will do so," Malik said. His son-in-law Sameer Khan had been arrested by the NCB on January 13 this year in an alleged drugs case. He had got bail in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Farmer leaders to burn effigies of Modi, Shah on Dusshera||Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a pre-planned conspiracy . Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav alleged during a press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence. In the incident on Sunday in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, eight people were killed, including four farmers. "The incident was part of a pre-planned conspiracy and the attackers tried to terrorise farmers," farmer leader Darshan Pal said at the press conference of the SKM, an umbrella body of farm unions, spearheading the stir against three agri laws. He also claimed that the government has adopted a violent approach against protesting farmers. "But we won't take the path of violence," Ugrahan asserted. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. "We demand Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish be arrested," Ugrahan said. The SKM also said that on October 18 it will call 'rail roko' to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. It said that on October 26, they will call for a mahapanchayat. Meanwhile, Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the SIT on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines earlier in the day. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) before 11 am, the time mentioned in the second summons served to him the previous day after he did not turn up for interrogation on Friday. While Ashish Mishra is facing questioning by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, his father Ajay Mishra is huddled with lawyers at his local party office in Lakhimpur. Sources said the police team has prepared over two dozen questions for Ashish Mishra to answer in connection with the case. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police then had pasted a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||India, Denmark decide to expand ties in health and agriculture sectors ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his visiting Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen on Saturday held "fruitful" talks with a focus on expanding cooperation in a range of key areas such as health, agriculture, water management, climate change and renewable energy. In his media statement after the talks, Modi said both sides reviewed the progress made under the India-Denmark Green Strategic Partnership and deliberated on further expansion of overall cooperation in multiple sectors. The two sides also inked four agreements that will provide for deepening of cooperation in areas of science and technology, climate change and skill development. "A year ago today, we took the historic decision to establish a Green Strategic Partnership between India and Denmark in our virtual summit. This is a sign of far-reaching thinking and respect for the environment by both our countries," he said. The green partnership, finalised at a virtual summit between the prime ministers of the two countries, aims to create a framework for significant expansion of cooperation in areas of renewable energy, environment, economy, climate change and science and technology. Describing the talks as "fruitful", Modi said both sides decided to cooperate in areas like efficient supply chain, smart water resources management and technologies relating to the farm sector to increase agricultural productivity in India. In her remarks, Frederiksen said the cooperation between India and Denmark is a great example of how green growth and green transition go hand-in-hand. She said both sides decided to boost cooperation, particularly in the health and agriculture sectors. Frederiksen arrived here early this morning on a three-day state visit. Earlier in the day, Modi welcomed Frederiksen to India at a ceremony in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Danish prime minister also visited Rajghat and paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. Ahead of the talks between the two prime ministers, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on Frederiksen. "Welcomed Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen on her first visit to India. Our Green Strategic Partnership will advance further as a result," Jaishankar tweeted. India and Denmark have strong trade and investment ties. More than 200 Danish companies are present in India and over 60 Indian companies have a presence in Denmark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma takes dig at Priyanka Gandhi ||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday took a dig at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for sweeping the floor when she was detained recently in Uttar Pradesh, asking how this could be news as cleaning a room is part of anyone's daily household chores. Participating in the India Today Conclave 2021 here, Sarma said India has changed and people will not pay attention to such "stage-managed" acts of politicians. "I don't know how come a lady sweeping the floor could be news. This is a common household practice in every family of India. I have seen my mother sweeping the floor. Have you not seen your mother sweeping the floor?" he asked. The chief minister said the act of Priyanka Gandhi, during her detention in Uttar Pradesh, was "staged-managed" otherwise how come a photographer was present there to shoot the video. Priyanka Gandhi was detained at Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh early on Monday when she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers who were killed after a convoy of vehicles ran over them on Sunday. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, was allegedly in that convoy and police have registered a murder case against him for the incident. During the detention at a police guesthouse in Sitapur, Priyanka Gandhi was seen in a video sweeping the floor. On Friday, the Congress leader made a surprise visit to a Dalit hamlet in Lucknow and picked up a broom to clean it. Replying to a question on the Assam government's move to evict encroachers from government land, the chief minister said eviction process, be it against indigenous people or migrant Muslims, will continue according to the state government's land policy. "We cannot allow 1,000 families to grab 77,000 acres of land. Eviction is an ongoing process," he said. Deaths of two people and desecration of one of the bodies during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district recently were condemned by individuals, political parties and social groups. Sarma said that many people in Assam, since pre-Independence days, believe that migrant Muslims are the root cause of many problems like the encroachment of land and losing the culture and identity by the indigenous people. He said efforts should be made by migrant Muslims to remove such beliefs of the indigenous people. Asked about his controversial comments that he does not want the votes of migrant Muslims, the chief minister said he knows that the community does not vote for the BJP and that is why he does not want to spend time wooing them. "I have made a deal. They will not vote for us. So, I will not campaign in their areas. But I will carry out all development works in their areas," he said. Sarma also gave an example saying out of the seven lakh free houses to be constructed in Assam, 4.5 lakh will be of migrant Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||NCB searches film producer Imtiyaz Khatri's premises in cruise drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted searches at the residence and office of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri here in connection with the seizure of drugs from a cruise ship, an official said. "The Mumbai zonal unit of the NCB began the searches at Khatri's residence and office in Bandra here this morning," he said. Khatri's name cropped up during the interrogation of the accused persons, who were earlier arrested in the drugs seizure case, the official said, adding that the NCB has been cracking down on the drug peddlers and suppliers in the metropolis. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team had raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Air India and the many complex turnaround challenges Tatas face ||The Tata Group will have a monumental task on its hands when it takes control of loss-making Air India two months from now after winning the state-owned carrier with a Rs 18,000-crore bid. First of all, the Tatas will be flying into an aviation market reeling from the coronavirus pandemic that has left India’s airlines bleeding cash. This will make restoring Air India’s fortunes even tougher. Kapil Kaul, chief executive of airline consultancy CAPA, believes turning around Air India’s performance could take three to five years. One of the immediate challenges facing the new owners will be to find office space. The deal does not include the airline’s other assets and the buildings like the Air India building at Nariman Point and Airlines House in Delhi. As a result, one of the Tata Group’s first jobs will be to locate office accommodation for Air India’s roughly 12,000 employees. The Tata Group will also have to launch a global manhunt for top personnel who will need to pick up the reins very quickly. Currently, Air India has no CEO and Rajiv Bansal, its chairman and managing director, is an IAS officer, who is also the Civil Aviation Secretary. As well, the airline will have to decide where to have its new headquarters. Before its merger in 2007 with Indian Airlines, Air India was headquartered in Mumbai. Post-merger, the combined airline moved to Airlines House in New Delhi which had previously been the Indian Airlines’ headquarters. But its greatest challenge will be to bring together the three airlines now under its control -- - Air India, Air Asia and Vistara. It looks almost certain they will merge the two low-cost airlines Air India Express and Air Asia India. The only hurdle to be surmounted is that AI Express flies Boeings and Air Asia India has Airbus 320s. Air Asia in MAlaysia is financially strapped and would have no objection to the merger. Ideally, Vistara and Air India should also be merged but it’s not clear whether Vistara’s parent Singapore Airlines has given the go-ahead for this move. Under the deal announced Friday, the Tata Group also gets a 100 per cent stake in the low-cost carrier Air India Express and a 50 per cent stake in SATS which provides ground catering and other services for Air India and other airlines. The Tata win had been widely expected and was considered almost a certainty. The only other bidder, Spice Jet’s Ajay Singh, would have had considerable difficulty assembling the large sums of money required both for the bid and to keep the airline in the skies. The Tatas will pay Rs 18,000 crore for the airline, out of which Rs 15,300 crore will go towards repayment of Air India’s colossal debt mountain. The deal will take effect when the payment is made within the next two months. The government will continue to pay the retirement benefits of around 55,000 former employees. Besides the purchase amount, the Tatas will also have to spend heavily to modernise Air India’s fleet which is quite old. Many aircraft will need to be replaced. The airline has 117 aircraft currently and Air India Express has 24 planes. Air India’s massive government-backed debt totals around Rs 70,000 crore.  It received a $4.2-billion bailout from the government in 2012. Apart from the Rs 15,300, the rest will now have to be cleared by the government. The Tata Group’s three airlines will together have about 25 per cent of the Indian aviation market. However, this is far behind the market leader, IndiGo which has a dominating 60 per cent share of passenger traffic. Air India is also making operational losses and the new management team will need to move urgently to trim these sharply. However, it has several routes, both nationally and internationally, which were started for political reasons at the behest of powerful politicians, and which could now be cut if they are loss-makers. Several international routes have been launched partially to serve the government’s diplomatic goals and these could also be in for the chop in the not-too-distant future. The Tata Group has yet to unfold its strategy for bringing together the three airlines it now owns in India. It has a controlling 85 per cent stake in Air Asia India and is likely to buy out the remaining 15 per cent because its Malaysian partner is keen to exit the Indian market. It’s unclear whether Singapore Airlines would be happy about bringing together Vistara with Air Asia India and Air India. But combined, the three airlines together could be a fighting force against IndiGo which is a tough and ruthless competitor. The Tatas have a huge opportunity in the international markets where Indian carriers have allowed the Gulf carriers to grab a large chunk of Indians travelling abroad. It’s thought that Dubai’s Emirates gets about 20 per cent of its revenue from Indian passengers. The same’s true for Etihad and Qatar Airways. Similarly, Indians travelling eastwards have divided their preferences between airlines like Singapore Airlines, Thai Airways and Cathay Pacific. In recent years Air Asia International has also grabbed a big slice of the low-cost market. Nevertheless, Air India gets two-thirds of its income from its international routes and is the leading player from India in the international market and it could build on this in coming years. Airline industry experts predict that the hub-and-spoke system operated by Singapore and the Middle Eastern airlines may weaken post-pandemic because passengers will want to take direct flights and not increase infection risks by changing flights.  Says an aviation industry expert: “The future, even for Singapore, is to grow the business here.” There are other issues that remain unclear. Air India has always been designated as the national carrier and that status has brought considerable benefits. In his statement welcoming Air India into the Tata fold, Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, referred to the airline as “the country’s flagbearer airline”. Air India’s interests were always kept paramount even when foreign airlines applied for routes into India. Also, government employees were issued orders some years ago that they had to fly Air India unless the airline did not have flights to their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son being interrogated by SIT||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the SIT on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines here in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) before 11 am, the time mentioned in the second summons served to him the previous day after he did not turn up for interrogation on Friday. Police officials here at the spot refused to comment on the ongoing interrogation. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu ended his "silent protest" after the minister's son turned up for questioning. The Punjab Congress unit chief began his 'maun dharna' from 6.15 pm on Friday outside the home of local journalist Ram Kashyap in Nighasan tehsil. The protest came to an end around 11.30 am on Saturday Kashyap had also died in the incident on October 3. Speaking to reporters after ending his fast, Sidhu said, "This is the victory of truth. A person may be a king, but no one is bigger than justice. If there is justice, there is 'shaasan' (governance), and if there is no justice, there is 'kushaasan' (misgovernance). This is the victory of the families of farmers. The family of Lovpreet Singh and the family of Raman Kashyap." Lovepreet Singh of Palia village of Lakhimpur is among the four farmers who died in the violence. While Ashish Mishra is facing questioning by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, his father Ajay Mishra is huddled with lawyers at his local party office in Lakhimpur. Sources said the police team has prepared over two dozen questions for Ashish Mishra to answer in connection with the case. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police then had pasted a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died in the violence last Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Ajay Mishra Teni, who was in Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said Ashis could not appear for questioning because he was “not well” but would have his statement recorded on Saturday. Teni declared his son innocent and denied he had gone into hiding. A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the 10-month-old farmer protests against three farm laws, said: “There is no trace of him (Ashis). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh police teams searching for him.” Adityanath told a TV interviewer that nobody would be arrested until there was concrete evidence against them. Reminded about the allegation that Ashis was in a car that mowed down farmers, he said “there is no such video (showing Ashis)”. A Thar jeep belonging to Teni and a Fortuner had run over and killed four protesting farmers and a journalist at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday afternoon with some eyewitnesses saying Ashis, also known as Monu, was in the car. Following the deaths, the farmers are alleged to have killed a driver and two BJP workers. Some reports said Ashis, named in the murder FIR, may have fled to Nepal. Deputy inspector-general (headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, head of the nine-member team probing the incident, had waited in vain for Ashis at the police lines on Friday morning before issuing the fresh notice. It was pasted on the wall of the minister’s home in the afternoon. Adityanath, asked by the TV interviewer whether Ashis was absconding, skirted the question. “An SIT (special investigation team) and a judicial commission have been formed. The judicial commission will probe the reasons behind the incident and the SIT will investigate deeper into the case,” he said. Asked about Ashis’s alleged culpability, he said: “There’s no such video (showing him at the scene) till now. We have given out a phone number and told people to share evidence (via WhatsApp).... No action will be taken against anybody under pressure from anybody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Will ramp up production capacity as new vaccines come on stream, India tells UN||India has informed the UN that it will ramp up its production capacity as new Indian vaccines come on stream, emphasising that the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open as COVID-19 vaccines need to reach every corner of the globe. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti on Friday said that India has provided medical related assistance and subsequently, vaccines to numerous countries all over the world. "We meet at a time when the Covid crisis is nowhere near the end. However, with the introduction of vaccines, there is hope that we will finally be able to turn the corner, he said while speaking at the UN General Assembly General Debate of the Second Committee on Crisis, Resilience and Recovery Accelerating Progress towards the 2030 Agenda'. "As Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi mentioned, we will resume this and work closely with other partners to end this pandemic. For this, the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open. We will ramp up production capacity as new Indian vaccines come on stream," Tirumurti said. India will resume the export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. The government had stopped the export of COVID-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April. India has exported over 66 million vaccine doses to nearly 100 countries through grants, commercial shipments and the COVAX facility. During his address to world leaders at the high-level General Assembly session last month, Modi had said that India is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. India's digital vaccine delivery platform CoWIN has supported its vaccine drive, Tirumurti said, adding that Modi has announced that India has offered this CoWIN platform to the world as a global public good. We are bridging the digital divide by leveraging technology solutions that are low cost, developmental and designed to empower all citizens, especially women, he said. Tirumurti said at the General Assembly that the disruption caused by the pandemic has disproportionately impacted the Global South. Many of our ambitions and goals have been thrown out of gear, including the pathway to Sustainable Development Goals, he said. He said the message to the world is for the international community to come together to combat the pandemic and build a resilient system that will drive global recovery. International institutions have been slow to react initially, but have finally started to get their act together in a more coordinated manner. The Indian ethos of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam The World is One Family' should show us the way to build back better, Tirumurti said. Stressing that the digital technology is already a game changer, Tirumurti said its utility during this period of building back will only increase, as a force multiplier. India has already deployed digital technology in a people-friendly and citizen-centric manner to ensure inclusive, integrated and equitable development and delivery of services within our country, including through our unique digital identity system, he added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||India logs over 19,000 fresh Covid cases, 248 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 19,740 COVID-19 infections, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,35,309, while the number of active cases has declined to 2,36,643, the lowest in 206 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,375 with 248 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been below 30,000 for 15 straight days, the ministry said. The active cases have declined to 2,36,643 and comprise 0.70 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.98 per cent, the highest since March last year, it said. There has been a decrease of 3,578 cases in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data stated. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 40 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 106 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,32,48,291, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 93.99 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Future Laureate’s India question||Maria Ressa asked me with the concern the hunted alone can convey: “Will Rana Ayyub be safe?” I had run into Ressa, who shares this year’s Nobel Peace Prize with another journalist, Dmitry Muratov, in the summer of 2018 in the corridor of the Estoril Congress Center in Portugal. Two days earlier, Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler (a digital media platform for investigative journalism that had earned the wrath of the Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte), had been conferred the Golden Pen of Freedom Award. The corridor of the convention centre, less than 200 metres from the Palacio Estoril Hotel where some of the scenes of the sixth James Bond movie, On Her Majesty’s Secret Service, were filmed, was teeming with journalists and media executives who were attending the 70th World News Media Conference, organised by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA). Ressa, who had received multiple rounds of standing ovation during her acceptance speech in which she had also mentioned India and the threats from trolls, was being mobbed by many journalists. I, too, introduced myself to Ressa and when she realised that I am from India, she told me that someone had sent her a link to the report on the award ceremony I had filed for The Telegraph. It was then that she asked me about Ayyub, the Mumbai-based journalist relentlessly targeted by Right-wing trolls and sections of the establishment. A few weeks earlier, Ayyub had written in The New York Times how she and many of her colleagues were slut-shamed and threatened with rape on social media for being critical of Hindu nationalist politics and the government. Ressa herself has been the target of a psychological barrage laced with death and rape threats by countless real and fake social media users — she called it the “shark tank” — because of the journalism her digital platform is pursuing. Several cases have been filed against her; she was arrested in 2019 and convicted in 2020. The appeal is pending. When Ressa asked me whether Ayyub would be safe, I did not know what to say. Since then, the harassment Ayyub has faced has increased manifold. On Friday, soon after the Nobel Peace Prize was announced, Ayyub told Sankarshan Thakur of The Telegraph: “Maria Ressa is not just one of the bravest journalists in the world who has taken on the might of the Duterte regime but is also an ally, friend for journalists who are trying to hold the line. “She is a friend who I have turned to for advice, hope, empathy on days the going gets tough for me in India. As a journalist facing multiple cases, this Nobel Peace Prize for Maria is a shot in the arm for me and her colleagues across the world. Like her, I have faced the most debilitating, sexualised, online and offline harassment. This Nobel is not just for Maria but for every unsung journalist speaking the unpopular truth.” At the award ceremony in Estoril, Ressa, who headed the CNN bureau in Manila and was its lead investigative reporter in Asia before co-founding the game-changing Rappler (a portmanteau of “rap” for discussion and “ripples” for making waves), was midway through her speech when India cropped up. “According to Freedom House (a watchdog), in at least 30 of 65 countries it studied, cheap armies on social media are rolling back democracy globally. In India, South Africa, Mexico, it happens on Twitter; other countries, on WhatsApp. Social media platforms are now choice tools for authoritarian rule.” Ressa sounded the alarm on the exponential power of trolls backed by those wielding power. “When a lie is repeated 10 times, truth has a chance to catch up... but when it’s repeated a million times, it becomes the truth, especially when it is backed by online state-sponsored hate exploiting the fracture lines of society,” she said. Ressa had concluded her spirited acceptance speech by playing a video clip that showed a cross-section of journalists replying to questions on the threats and intimidation they face in the Philippines while discharging their professional responsibilities. Some of the questions and answers follow: Have you ever been harassed because of your work? Jason Felipe Villamor Gutierrez, foreign correspondent: Yes. Have you been threatened online? Inday Espina-Varona, journalist: Oh, yes. Have you been called biased? J.C. Gotinga, foreign correspondent: Yes. Have you been called stupid? Ed Lingao, broadcast journalist: Yes, plenty of times. By idiots. Have you been accused of corruption? Ezra Acayan, freelance photojournalist: Yes. Have you been called fake news? Lingao: Oh, yes. They always say I am fake news. Anything that is critical is fake. Right? Have you been accused of being an imperialist spy? Gotinga: Yes. Have you ever been accused of being a communist operative? Espina-Varona: Yes. Have you ever been threatened with rape? Pia Ranada, multimedia journalist: Yes. What will stop you from reporting? Gutierrez: Nothing. Espina-Varona: Nothing. Ranada: Nothing. Lingao: Death? Acayan: Dude, you have to kill me. Three years ago, I had begun the report for The Telegraph by listing the questions and answers. Then I had written: “If there was a lump in many a throat, there was a knot in the gut too. One country was among those spotted more than once inside a vicious online propaganda machine that was described as a ‘shark tank’: India.” At the conference in 2018, Michael Golden, the then president of WAN-IFRA and the vice-chairman of the board of The New York Times Company, spoke of Gauri Lankesh, who had been shot dead a year earlier in Bangalore. Ressa requested all the Filipino journalists in the audience to stand up and be recognised for “trying to do our jobs”. Ressa thanked WAN-IFRA “for having our backs” and told the spellbound audience that her team back home was staying up at 1am to witness the moment. “My heart breaks when I look at what our young reporters and staff have to live with — and the courage they show in the face of brute force and impunity... the respect they continue to show authorities, the nightmares they fight at night, the mission that lives inside them,” she said. “My name is Maria Ressa. We are Rappler, and we will hold the line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Supreme Court frowns on UP carnage probe||The Supreme Court on Friday suggested that Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashis, who is yet to be arrested, was receiving preferential treatment and said it was “not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government” in investigating the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. “When there is a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury, will (all) the accused in this country be treated the same way? Sending notices like, ‘Please, come tell us’?” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said, alluding to the Uttar Pradesh police merely summoning Ashis instead of arresting him. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said the police investigation was “not serious”, underlined that the officers involved were “local”, and said the probe should be conducted by some other agency to ensure a “fair, free and impartial investigation”. It added that the CBI could not be relied on in the present case — “for reasons known to you and all of us” — leaving open the possibility that it might consider constituting an independent probe team. The bench also made it a point to ask the state government to ensure that all the evidence was protected and preserved. Justice Ramana had turned livid at the outset when Uttar Pradesh additional advocate-general Garima Parshad sought a brief passover saying senior advocate Harish Salve, who was to represent the state government, was busy with some other matter. A passover refers to a brief postponement of proceedings. After Justice Ramana said no passover would be granted, Salve managed to log in for the virtual hearing. Salve began his arguments by saying “the young man who is being targeted…” only for the CJI to cut him short saying the charges were very serious. “We have given him notice; he has to show up at 11am tomorrow,” Salve said about Ashis, alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that had mowed down four protesting farmers and a journalist on Sunday. Ashis has already missed his first summons for questioning on Friday. Justice Ramana immediately asked: “Mr Salve, is it the same way we treat other accused, too, like sending notices, etc?” Salve suggested Ashis, also accused of shooting a farmer, had not been arrested because the post-mortem report did not show any bullet wounds. But the bench said this could not be a ground for not taking a murder accused into custody. Salve too admitted that “the manner in which the car was driven and if the allegations are true — I’m saying if the allegations are true — there is a 302 (murder) case”. The CJI then said: “This is the opinion of the bench. This is a responsible state government and police, but when there is a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury, will (all) the accused in this country be treated the same way? Sending notices like, ‘Please, come tell us’?” The bench added: “The way the investigation is proceeding, it seems the police are not serious. Who are the people in the SIT (special investigation team) — you have your DIG, superintendent of police, circle officers, all local people, and this is what happens when all the local people are there.” When Salve said “action is being taken at the highest level”, Justice Ramana retorted: “Action is only in words here.” Justice Kohli observed: “Proof of the pudding is in the eating.” Justice Ramana then asked whether there was any request from the state to transfer the case to the CBI. “It is entirely in your Lordships’ hands. The state has not made such a request. Please have this matter on reopening (after a weeklong Dussehra vacation). If your Lordships are not satisfied with the progress, then you may hand it over to the CBI,” Salve said. Justice Ramana said: “We are not making comments. The CBI is not a solution for reasons known to you and all of us. It is better if some other person or agency investigates the matter. We can keep this after vacation and let us see how it progresses.” “We have to make a pudding which is palatable,” Salve conceded, hinting that some concrete action would be taken. “I have been assured at the highest level that between today and tomorrow, whatever is the shortfall will be filled up because the message has gone,” he said. The court, which had turned into a PIL a letter petition from two advocates seeking an independent probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, fixed the next hearing for October 20. The court’s written order said it had gone through the status report in the Lakhimpur Kheri case “filed on behalf of the state of Uttar Pradesh in compliance of our order dated 07.10.2021”. “On a perusal of the status report and considering the submissions of learned senior counsel, we wish to observe that we are not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government. “The learned senior counsel has given an assurance to this court that he will talk to the concerned authorities of the state government and ensure that necessary steps be taken keeping in view the concern expressed by this court. Learned senior counsel also assured the court that he will communicate with the state government to get the investigation of the alleged incident conducted by some other agency so that fair, free and impartial investigation is held. “Learned senior counsel also assured the court that he will communicate with the concerned highest police authorities in the state to protect and preserve the evidence and other material relating to the incident in question.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Teni fails to answer police summons ||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis failed to answer a police summons for questioning on Friday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, prompting farmer leaders to allege he was in hiding and the government was trying to protect him. The police have served a fresh notice asking Ashis to appear by 11am on Saturday or face legal action. Teni, who was in Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said Ashis could not appear for questioning because he was “not well today” but would have his statement recorded on Saturday. Teni declared his son innocent and denied he had gone into hiding. A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the 10-month-old farmer protests against three farm laws, said: “There is no trace of him (Ashis). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh police teams searching for him.” Adityanath told a TV interviewer that nobody would be arrested until there was concrete evidence against them. Reminded about the allegation that Ashis was in a car that mowed down farmers, he said “there is no such video (showing Ashis)”. A Thar jeep belonging to Teni and a Fortuner had run over and killed four protesting farmers and a journalist at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday afternoon with some eyewitnesses saying Ashis, also known as Monu, was in the car. Following the deaths, the farmers are alleged to have killed a driver and two BJP workers. Some reports said Ashis, named in the murder FIR, may have fled to Nepal. Deputy inspector-general (headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, head of the nine-member team probing the incident, had waited in vain for Ashis at the police lines on Friday morning before issuing the fresh notice. It was pasted on the wall of the minister’s home in the afternoon. Adityanath, asked by the TV interviewer whether Ashis was absconding, skirted the question. “An SIT (special investigation team) and a judicial commission have been formed. The judicial commission will probe the reasons behind the incident and the SIT will investigate deeper into the case,” he said. Asked about Ashis’s alleged culpability, he said: “There’s no such video (showing him at the scene) till now. We have given out a phone number and told people to share evidence (via WhatsApp).... No action will be taken against anybody under pressure from anybody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium iterates Sakya Sen’s name for third time||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday iterated Calcutta advocate Sakya Sen for elevation as a judge of Calcutta High Court, rejecting for the third time the objections apparently raised by the Union government. “The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on 8th October, 2021 has, on reconsideration, resolved to reiterate its earlier recommendations for elevation of Shri Sakya Sen, advocate, as judge in Calcutta High Court,” said a brief resolution passed by the collegium of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. In another resolution, the collegium approved a proposal to elevate Soubhik Mitter, advocate, as a judge of Calcutta High Court. The collegium also recommended nearly two dozen others for elevation to different high courts in the country. Sakya Sen is the son of Justice Shyamal Sen, former acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court, acting governor of Bengal, and former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court. He had also headed two panels linked to the jurisdiction of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the Saradha scam. While no official reason has been cited for not elevating Sakya Sen till now, sources said one reason could be his relative young age. He was said to have been in his early forties when the first recommendation was made in 2017 by the then collegiums, headed by then Chief Justice Dipak Misra. The memorandum of procedure requires a minimum age of 45 for elevation to a high court. The collegium had then said the high court collegium had recommended the name, probably considering his ability and performance in the court and the shortage of judges from the Bar. “In the case of Shri Sakya Sen, we approve his name for elevation in relaxation of the age criterion,” the Supreme Court collegium had said. However, on August 8, 2018, following objections from the Centre that Sabyasachi Chaudhury and Sakya Sen were too young, the collegium remitted their case back to the Calcutta High Court collegium. On July 24, 2019, the Supreme Court collegium made a fresh recommendation for Sakya Sen’s elevation. On September 1 this year, while the four other names were iterated by the collegium, Sakya Sen was not mentioned. But on Friday, the collegium iterated his name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||LAC: Sources confirm India-China 'face-off' in Tawang  last week ||Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a “face-off” for a few hours last week at Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 Chinese soldiers crossed into the Indian side, defence ministry sources said on Friday. The latest incursion comes a month after about 100 Chinese soldiers had transgressed 5km across the Line of Actual Control in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a wooden bridge before retreating. These transgressions have come amid a 17-month-old border standoff between the two sides in eastern Ladakh following Chinese incursions since May 5 last year. However, neither India’s defence ministry nor its army has yet made any official disclosure about the Uttarakhand and Arunachal transgressions, prompting veterans to suggest that silence may now be the official policy. “Chinese aggression started with Ladakh and has reached Uttarakhand and Arunachal, but the government is still having us believe that no one entered Indian territory,” a retired lieutenant general told The Telegraph. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least 4 Chinese troops, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. The comment prompted Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held within India-claimed lines. “Nearly 200 Chinese troops crossed over into (Arunachal) last week and were stopped by Indian military personnel. The matter was resolved and troops from both sides disengaged after the local commanders intervened,” a defence ministry official said. “The standoff continued for a few hours. The situation was brought under control after a customary banner drill, during which both sides held up banners before marching back to their respective positions.” An army source confirmed the incident but avoided saying the Chinese had transgressed. “The two countries have differing perceptions about the LAC, which is not formally demarcated. Peace and tranquillity has been made possible by adhering to the existing agreements and protocols,” he said. “Both sides undertake patrolling up to their line of perception. Whenever patrols of both sides meet physically, the situation is managed according to protocols and mechanisms agreed by both sides. Physical engagement can last a few hours prior to disengagement, which takes place according to mutual understanding.” Transgressions and border skirmishes are not uncommon along stretches of the disputed, 3,488km China border along Arunachal, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The Indian Army chief, General M.M. Naravane, had last week said that border incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached. In eastern Ladakh, the Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Twelve rounds of military talks have taken place. There’s been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra but the standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. General Naravane last week sounded an alert about a heavy Chinese troop build-up across the eastern Ladakh border. Days later, the air force chief, Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, said China had deployed its air force in three Tibetan bases across the LAC from Ladakh but added that the IAF was fully prepared for any eventuality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi and BJP of standing with a criminal ||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entire BJP were standing with a criminal to deny justice to the farmers murdered in a horrific incident never witnessed before in the country. Expressing shock at the continuance of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, who is also a murder accused in another case, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “India’s Constitution has become captive of criminals; the rule of law is being mowed down by jeeps and the sentiment of the judiciary is being deliberately ignored.” The party ran a social media campaign throughout the day to highlight the Prime Minister’s silence and inaction on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre that has shaken the nation’s conscience. On October 10, Priyanka Gandhi will address a Kisan Nyay rally in Varanasi to press for justice for the victims. Surjewala asked since when police had started pleading with criminals to appear in a murder case, referring to the summons sent to Mishra’s son Ashis on two successive days. Ashis is accused of mowing down the farmers. “Uttar Pradesh police is treating the minister’s son like son-in-law. They are issuing summons to the murder accused. The government goes to the court to say firing might have happened but it missed the target. The court had to say it expects a responsible government. Both the Modi and Yogi (Adityanath) governments as well as the BJP appear to be standing with the criminals,” he said. Pointing to the irony of the minister himself being a murder accused, Surjewala said: “A murder case was filed against Ajay Mishra (Teni) and others in 2004. How will justice be delivered if the case is not decided in 17 years? On March 12, 2018, Allahabad High Court reserved an order on whether a murder trial will continue against Mishra or not. For three years, the order was not passed and Mishra became a central minister. The Supreme Court should take note of this case. We demand a special bench to complete the process in this case in two days and report to the Supreme Court in the next hearing what has to be done.” A delegation of Punjab leaders headed by Navjot Singh Sidhu met the families of the victims in Lakhimpur on Friday. Sidhu announced that he would sit on fast from Saturday till the minister’s son is arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||India to drop jab terms for UK||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Friday spoke to his British counterpart Elizabeth Truss and agreed to facilitate travel between India and the UK, indicating that New Delhi is prepared to drop the quarantine requirements for British nationals travelling from the UK after London on Thursday announced willingness to recognise India’s vaccine certification. “Good to talk to UK Foreign Secretary @trussliz. Agreed to facilitate travel between our two countries. This will help to implement the Roadmap 2030,’’ Jaishankar tweeted on Friday afternoon. Britain had on Thursday  announced that travellers from India who are fully vaccinated with any vaccine recognised by the UK regulator will not require to quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Ten persons arrested for 'murdering' Muslim youth ||Ten persons have been arrested on the charge of murdering a Muslim youth who was in a relationship with a Hindu girl in Belgaum, Karnataka. The girl’s parents — Eerappa Basavanna Kumbar, 54, and Susheela Kumbar, 42 — and members of a Hindu Right-wing organisation named Sree Ram Sena Hindustan were among those arrested on Friday, 10 days after the dismembered body of Arbaz Aftab Mulla, 24, was found near railway tracks at Khanapur in Belgaum district, 500km from Bangalore. The decapitated body was found with hands tied at the back and multiple stab wounds. Arbaz was a used-car dealer who lived with his widowed mother, Najeema Shaikh, a schoolteacher. Sena leader Pundalik Maharaj, who was among seven persons detained on Sunday after figuring in the FIR, is also among those arrested. Those arrested have been booked under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 341 (wrongful restraint), 120b (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 388 (extortion by threat of an offence punishable with death). The maximum punishment is the death sentence. In her complaint, Najeema had accused the girl’s father and members of the Sena of repeatedly threatening her and her son over the interfaith relationship. The little-known organisation is said to be inspired by the Sree Ram Sene, a larger outfit that has a history of attacks against minority communities and their interests. The Sree Ram Sene has denied any link with the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
09-10-2021||India||DU teacher cries ‘marks jihad’ by Kerala school board students||A Delhi University teacher and former chief of a Right-wing organisation has described as “marks jihad” the increasing number of Kerala school board students securing admission in DU colleges with 100 per cent marks in the Class XII exams. The Kerala government has rejected as “baseless” the allegation of Rakesh Kumar Pandey, associate professor of physics at Kirori Mal College, and said there was no leniency in the award of marks. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Pandey, former president of the Right-wing National Democratic Teachers’ Front, said: “A college had to admit 26 students in a course having 20 seats only because they all had 100 per cent marks from Kerala board. For last few years, Kerala board is implementing #MarksJihad.” “If any board wants to control the admission in DU, it can do so by giving 100 per cent marks. I have been watching a trend for the last three years. There is an increase in the number of students from Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education with 100 per cent marks. I feel there is a motif (sic) behind this. Some people want to send their volunteers into DU.” Students, teachers and lawmakers have criticised the use of the term “jihad” and the levelling of allegations against a particular state board without any evidence. In Islam, jihad means “struggle”. Pandey on Friday claimed he had not made any communal innuendo, but had referred to the communist ideology. Kerala has a communist government. The teacher’s comment is an extension of the Right-wing’s propensity to project a fallacious interpretation of the idea of “jihad” and use the term to besmirch a particular religion and attribute sinister motives to everyday actions. Pandey’s comments also appeared to be born out of the warped view that envisioned a new course at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) that links Islamist and communist terror and describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”. Pandey reinforced such a belief when he told The Telegraph on Friday: “The term love jihad is used when you manipulate love to spread a religion. Here I found the board is being manipulated (to award more) marks to spread an ideology. I saw a parallel, so I used the word jihad. I did not mean religion here. The Left ideology is declining at DU and JNU. This is a way to send volunteers to maintain their strength.” “Love jihad” is a Right-wing coinage to describe a relationship between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. Recently, a Kerala bishop added another dimension to it by claiming that a “narcotics jihad” was leading the state’s youths to addiction. There has been an attempt in Kerala recently to drive a communal wedge in the state that has a Muslim population of over 25 per cent. Together, Muslims and Christians number close to Kerala’s Hindu population, an unusual demographic mix in the country. Pandey claimed that the students and teachers protesting his social media post were either from Left or Congress forums. “No religious group has objected to my post. It was not meant for them,” he said. In his Facebook post, Pandey claimed that DU-affiliated colleges were having to take in students in excess of the number of seats because of alleged bloating of marks. Pandey said that in terms of number of students securing 100 per cent marks in Class XII exams, the Kerala board was second only to the CBSE, which is a national board with many more students. He claimed that most students from the Kerala board were not able to communicate in Hindi or English. One of the reasons Pandey has doubted foul play is that almost none of the Kerala school board students who had scored 100 per cent in the Class XII board exams had achieved the feat in Class XI. Mohammad Hanish, principal secretary in the Kerala department of general education that oversees the functioning of the school board, said the board had conducted the exam in a fair manner and that there had been no leniency in the award of marks. “The comments by the professor are baseless. There is no question of inflation of marks. No undeserving student has got 100 per cent marks,” Hanish said. Jeeban Babu K, director in the department of general education, said the state board had conducted the exams physically in schools this year unlike other boards, referring to the pandemic-time upward trend in marks due to the cancellation of physical exams by them and assessment on the basis of formulae that took previous exams and internal performance into consideration. “Our students appeared in the exam and got marks. Because the schools were open for a few days for classes and practicals, certain relaxations were given. We identified certain chapters in each subject to be the focus areas from which most questions were set. Also, more question options were available,” Babu said. CPM Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas criticised Pandey for trying to create a communal divide in society. In a letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Brittas urged him to issue a strong condemnation of the academic’s comments and ensure action was taken against Pandey. “At no stretch of the imagination, those comments can be considered as accidental but are intended to defame Kerala and to create polarisation in the society,” Brittas wrote. “His comments are suspected as a part of a deliberate attempt to cause divide and suspicion among students from outside states who are studying in DU. What further aggravates the situation is that his comments of marks jihad are not only derogatory in nature but also… (aimed) to cause communal divide and tension between various religions,” he wrote. Student outfits such as the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Students Federation of India (SFI) and the All India Students Association (AISA) have disapproved of Pandey’s comments and organised protests. DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said: “All the boards in the country are given the same preference by DU. The term ‘marks jihad’ should be resisted.” Rajesh Jha, a college teacher associated with Academics for Action and Development, said no particular board should be targeted as liberal marking was a common phenomenon now. “Stereotyping a board of a state or a region is unacceptable. A researcher can point to the general trend of liberal marking and how students from across boards are scoring 100 per cent marks,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
09-10-2021||India||Shows of strength by Paswan’s relatives on first death anniversary||The first death anniversary of former Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday turned out to be a show of strength between his brother and Union minister for food processing industries Pashupati Kumar Paras and son Chirag Paswan, an MP. While Paras, who heads the Rashtriya LJP, observed the occasion in Patna, Chirag, leader of LJP (Ram Vilas), did so in Delhi. Top leaders from various parties chose to attend the functions according to their inclination towards he ruling dispensation or the Opposition. Leaders from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) attended the event organised by Paras, while Chirag’s programme attracted top Opposition leaders of the country, apart from a few from the BJP. Paras had engineered a split in the LJP in June this year, walking away with five of its six Lok Sabha members, leaving Chirag to fend for himself. Later on, Paras was inducted as a minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers. The Election Commission recently allotted names and symbols to the two separate entities — sewing machine for the Rashtriya LJP and helicopter for the LJP (Ram Vilas) — for the bypolls to two Assembly seats on October 30. Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief ministers and BJP leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi as well as several other leaders from the NDA went to the programme organised by Paras and paid homage to Ram Vilas. “We have gathered here to pay tributes to Ram Vilasji. People will remember the work done by him and his popularity will always remain. I had personal relations with him and I will always respect him. He passed away last year, but it was not an age to go. We will do whatever is needed to carry his memory among the masses,” Nitish told mediapersons. Nitish had not attended the first barsi (first death anniversary according to the Hindu lunar calendar) organised by Chirag in Patna in September. Both the leaders do not see eye to eye since Chirag fielded candidates against Nitish’s Janata Dal United in the 2020 Assembly elections — a move that the JDU has blamed for its poor performance. The JDU managed to win just 43 seats while the undivided LJP bagged just one seat. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, said to be estranged from his party, also attended the event in Patna and paid tributes to the leader. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Lalu and his daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and several others attended the programme organised by Chirag at 12 Janpath in New Delhi. Chirag welcomed everybody with verve on the occasion, but stayed away from making political comments in public. However, the presence of the senior Opposition leaders gave credence to the speculations that they were reaching out to Chirag to bring him into their fold. In fact, Lalu and his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav have been urging Chirag to switch over to their camp. The event at 12 Janpath also saw Rahul holding the hand of Lalu and having a hearty chat. It also laid to rest the speculation about bitterness between their parties over the bypolls to two Assembly seats in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
