10-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Over 700 detained following civilian killings||Security forces have detained over 700 people in Jammu and Kashmir in response to the killing of seven civilians, including those from the Kashmiri Pandit, Sikh and Muslim communities, in six days. Several of those detained are believed to have links to the banned Jamaat-e-Islami or are suspected overground workers (OGW), and come from Srinagar, Budgam or other areas in southern Kashmir. A senior police officer told NDTV they had been detained to "break the chain of attacks in the (Kashmir) Valley". The officer also said the attacks may have been fuelled by an increase in radicalism following the Taliban's rise to power, and that the killers were going after "easy" targets. The murders have sparked outrage in the already tense Kashmir Valley, with opposition leaders fiercely critical of the administrations' apparent inability to stop the attacks and locals living in fear. On Thursday, National Conference leader and former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah told NDTV that innocent people are dying and demanded the government re-assess polices. Mr Abdullah also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit the Valley and offer reassurances to those living there. The most recent deaths were of two government schoolteachers - Supunder Kour (a Sikh) and Deepak Chand (a Hindu), who were shot dead by gunmen in Srinagar on Thursday. "The pistol-wielding men came... asked for ID cards of teachers and fired at two... one each from the minority Sikh and Hindu community," news agency Reuters quoted a schoolteacher as saying. On Tuesday, Makhan Lal Bindroo, 70, the owner of a pharmacy in Srinagar's Iqbal Park, was shot at inside his store. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A Kashmiri Pandit, Mr Bindroo stayed in Kashmir even during the 1990s - the peak of terrorism. Two others killed on Tuesday were Mohammad Shafi, a taxi driver in Bandipora, and Virender Paswan from Bihar, a street food vendor in Srinagar. Police have attributed most attacks to "The Resistance Front" - reportedly an offshoot of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba. They have also said seven of the 28 civilians killed since January are non-Muslims. On Thursday the Home Ministry sent a team of senior officers to Kashmir to supervise operations. This was after Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting and reportedly criticised local officials. Earlier this week sources told NDTV the police were clueless and planning a massive crackdown. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has condemned the killings and warned terrorists that a "befitting reply" will be given to those found involved in the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
10-10-2021||India||LAC: India, China hold 13th round of talks to resolve problems||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday held talks to resolve problems at frictions points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where the countries have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday. The 13th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies began at 10.30 am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC and got over at 7.00 pm, the officials said. It came more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC, in early August. The focus of the ongoing talks is to cool tensions at Hot Springs and Depsang, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. Officials earlier said disengagement of rival frontline soldiers deployed at Hot Springs was on the agenda for the 13th round of talks. The talks come at a time of massive military build-up and infrastructure development by PLA across LAC, with the Indian Army matching the Chinese moves. In February, the two sides pulled back their troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector. But despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry in the Ladakh theatre. Army chief General Naravane on Saturday said if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so is the Indian Army, flagging concern about the continuing Chinese build-up in the theatre. The latest round of military dialogue follows a face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s sensitive Tawang sector last week and another incursion by PLA in Uttarakhand on August 30. Top Indian and Chinese commanders had agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on LAC at the 12th round of talks, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border. A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Maharashtra bandh; several trade groups extend support in Pune||Several trade organisations in Pune have expressed support for Monday's Maharashtra bandh called by the ruling MVA constituents and other outfits to protest against the October 3 killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) president Fattechand Ranka said all shops, except those dealing in essential items, will remain closed till 3 pm on Monday. Over 2,000 traders dealing in fruits, vegetables, flowers, grains, onions and potatoes etc will support the bandh to show solidarity with farmers who play an all-important role in their sector, said Rohan Ursal, secretary of the Shree Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Adate (Traders) Association. Transport is also likely to be hit in Maharashtra's second largest city as rickshaw unions have decided to not ply their vehicles during the duration of the shutdown on Monday. ”Our organisation and several other transport groups will be supporting the bandh,” said Rickshaw Panchayat functionary Nitin Pawar. However, commuting respite for the public is expected from the civic-run Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd, which has decided to run extra buses on Monday. “As PMPML services fall under the essential category, we will be functioning on Monday, and have decided to ply extra buses, on all routes if needed,” said its transport manager DM Zende.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Kashmiri Pandits in US ask India to re-evaluate Kashmir policy||Kashmiri Pandits in the US have strongly condemned the recent targeted and gruesome killings of civilians in the Valley by the militants and asked the Indian government to re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the minority community if it wants them to return. At least seven people were killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in the last five days. Of those killed, four belonged to minority communities. The Kashmiri Overseas Association (KOA), a socio-cultural organisation of the Kashmiri Pandits in the US, has expressed shock and anguish over the gruesome killings of pharmacy owner Makhan Lal Bindroo, street food vendor Virender Paswan and two teachers -- Deepak Chand Mehra and Supinder Kaur. Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Mehra, a Hindu from Jammu, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop that evening. Minutes later, 'chaat' vendor Paswan from Bihar was gunned elsewhere in the city. Almost simultaneously, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. Three days before that, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri at Srinagar's Karan Nagar locality. Later that Saturday night, they gunned down Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batmaloo. According to the KOA, emotions of rage and helplessness ran high when the Kashmiri Pandits residing in various parts of the US heard of the "gruesome, targeted killings of innocents in Kashmir by the terrorists". "These incidents brought back the painful memories of 1990, when members from the community were killed, women were raped, children rendered orphans, resulting in the exodus of over 400,000 people to save lives and honour, said KOA president Dr Archana Kokroo. "The recent targeted killings have terrorised the minority community in the Valley and many are fleeing their homes again," Kokroo said. "Our peace-loving and progressive community has survived the brutality of the forced exodus of 1990 due to our perseverance and hard work. We continue to live by our values of non-violence. Killing another one of us is not a victory for the terrorists, Kokroo said. "This is the saddest event that every humanitarian must mourn. India is an independent nation and all Indians have constitutional rights and freedoms. A few interlocutors should not be able to threaten human rights with violence, said Lavanya Vemsani, a Professor of Indian History and Religions in Shawnee State University, Ohio. "The government must increase security in the Valley, especially for the non-Muslim minority," Vemsani said. Dr Ashok Moza, president and founder of Chemicals Inc, said the government of India "needs to consider creating clusters of thousands of Kashmiri Pandits and other non-Muslims in different parts of the Valley and offer them protection just like Israel has provided to its citizens on the West Bank." "The recent killing is a clear reminder that non-Muslims in general and Kashmiri Pandits in particular are unsafe in the Valley, Moza said. Commenting on the recent killings, long-time social and cultural activist in Boston Sanjay Kaul, who is also the vice president of the World Hindu Council, said that the government "must re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the community and work on building their confidence if they are encouraging them to live in the Valley. The Kashmiri Pandit community is once again on the edge as their woes continue even after 32 years in exile, he said. Reacting over the incident, Pran Chaku, distinguished technologist and a long time Houston resident, said, "This incident has horrified and shocked Kashmiri Pandits globally. I hope the government acts sternly. If the security of the minority community and their right to live in their place of birth cannot be guaranteed, then the government has failed us." Padma Shri awardee Subhash Kak, Regents Professor Emeritus at the prestigious Oklahoma State University, said: It has been heartbreaking to read about the brutal killings by terrorists in Srinagar. We must stand resolute and fight this evil for good . Rajesh Kachroo, a PK-ReHinGe activist in Virginia, advocated establishment of a homeland for Kashmiri Hindus in east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir. "We have reiterated that the only safe option for Kashmiri Hindus, who are refugees in their own country, is establishment of homeland, east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir, Kachroo said. "KOA sends its deepest condolences to the families of the dead and pray that there are no more killings. We all stand in solidarity with the families of these bravehearts, KOA Secretary Anil Ganju said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for 6 districts in Kerala from Oct 12||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for six districts in the state for October 12, 13 and 14, predicting heavy rains. The weatherman, in a 4 PM bulletin, issued an Orange alert in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts for three days. Meanwhile, a Yellow alert has been sounded in Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. Currently, all of the southern districts of the state have been put on Yellow alert. "Heavy (7-11 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala on 10 and 11 of October 2021. Heavy (7- 11 cm in 24 hours) to Very Heavy (12-20 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala from 12 to 14 of October 2021," the IMD website read. A Red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert denotes heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Rahul hits out at PM for his silence over ‘killings of farmers and BJP workers’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Sunday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he remains silent on the "killings of farmers and BJP workers", and rising prices, but turns "violent" when he is criticised or his "friends" questioned. He also targeted the government over Army Chief General M M Naravane's "China was here to stay" remark in the context of standoff in eastern Ladakh. "'China here to stay.' Where? On our land," Gandhi said on Twitter, tagging a media report on General Naravane's statement on the PLA build-up. In another tweet, the former Congress chief attacked the prime minister over his silence on the rising fuel price prices and the recent "killings" of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. "PM silent - rising inflation, fuel prices, unemployment, murder of farmers and BJP workers. PM violent - lack of camera and photo-op, true criticism and questions on friends," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the prime minister on issues of China, inflation and his silence on the Lakhimpur violence that left eight dead including four farmers, BJP workers and a journalist. Speaking at the India Today conclave Saturday, Gen Naravane had said, "Yes, it is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up has occurred and continues to be in place, and to sustain that kind of a build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side." "So, it means that they (PLA) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Penalise power plants for not stocking coal for 30 days, says Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday sought action against private thermal power plants in the state for "punishing consumers" by not maintaining adequate coal stock for electricity generation. His remarks came a day after state-owned utility Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was forced to cut down power generation and impose load shedding in the wake of a severe coal shortage. Punjab must prevent & prepare, rather than repent & repair Private Thermal Plants floating guidelines, punishing Domestic Consumers by not keeping Coal Stock for 30 Days should be penalised. It is time to aggressively work on Solar PPAs, & roof-top solar connected to the Grid! tweeted Sidhu. According to the Central Electricity Authority guidelines, power plants located at a distance of over 1,000 km from a coal mine should always have minimum coal stock of up to 30 days but this level of stock is not maintained by the power plants in the state. Because of inadequate coal supply, power plants were running at a reduced capacity in the state, an official of the PSPCL had said on Saturday. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday hit out at the Centre for insufficient coal supply and apprehended impending shutdown of the state's thermal power plants due to fast depleting coal supplies in the next couple of days. He said Punjab was not getting adequate coal supply despite agreements with various subsidiaries of the Coal India Ltd and had asked the central government to immediately ensure the state's quota of coal to tide over the power crisis. The PSPCL on Saturday had appealed to power consumers to conserve power in the light of the acute shortage of coal in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Thales group to focus on addressing cyber security requirements of Indian armed force||Leading French defence major Thales Group is planning to focus significantly on addressing requirements of the Indian armed forces for new-age cyber security solutions, artificial intelligence and advanced capabilities in big data analytics. Chairman and CEO of Thales Group Patrice Caine said the company has been looking at expanding its overall footprint in India, particularly in the areas of emerging technologies that will be crucial for the armed forces. The Indian Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force have been focusing on acquiring futuristic technologies like nanotechnology, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, swarm drones and robotic technologies to deal with future security challenges. Caine said Thales Group is aiming at expanding its overall footprint in India in a number of segments, including in areas of cyber security, artificial intelligence and digital solutions. "We are also looking at bringing some key pieces of equipment and systems to contribute to raise our level of involvement in sharing defence technologies with India's defence sector in the field of sonar, radars and other platforms," he told PTI. However, he refused to share the details. Caine said that India's defence manufacturing sector is moving in the right direction riding on a series of policy initiatives by the government and Thales would like to be a key partner of the country in its quest to become a key producer of military platforms and solutions. "We are totally committed to help India expand its defence production under the 'Make in India Initiative' by producing equipment either on our own or with our partners. India has a good talent pool to develop cyber-security solutions, AI applications and big data analytics," he said. India is expected to spend close to USD 300 billion in the next five years in procuring defence equipment and almost all major global defence firms are eyeing a slice of it. The Thales Chairman and CEO also indicated that the company is looking at having joint ventures with a number of Indian companies for a range of prodicts and military solutions but refused to share details. He said India is now considered as a key country for sourcing various raw materials for the company's global production line and it is going to double procurement from the country in the next five years. “India is now a key and reliable country in our global supply chain,” he said. Thales is part of the French firms that provided key components for the Rafale jets procured by India. As part of Thales' offsets commitments under the Rafale deal, the company helped Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) in producing modules for the RBE2 radar. Thales has been providing avionics and other equipment to the state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for over four decades and is involved in supplying equipment for various other key military projects. Present in India since 1953, Thales has offices in New Delhi, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai, among others. Over 600 employees are working with Thales and its joint ventures in India. Caine also complimented India's reform measures aimed at boosting defence manufacturing. The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry. In August last year, it was announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The Defence Ministry has set a goal of a turnover of USD 25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Vice President laments stereotyping of North-East||Lamenting that despite being such a wonderful place, the general attitude toward the North East to this day is largely characterised by ignorance, lack of appreciation and stereotyping in the rest of India, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urged people to visit the region to appreciate its beauty and cultural richness. The fact is that seven of the eight states of the region performed better than the country's Human Development Index (HDI) in 2019, he underlined. "But how many of us are aware of this?" Naidu asked. “Not many outside the region would know that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report finds Nagaland as the safest state for women in India,” he pointed out. The vice president also said that Assam is world renowned for its tea and silk, while Manipur, a state with just 0.24 per cent of the country's population, produces a good number of international sportspersons. "True to its name, this 'land of gems' has given us rare gems like Mary Kom and Mirabai Chanu who have done India proud," he wrote in a Facebook post. Naidu said that after his seven-day trip to the region, he has returned assured that the North-East is witnessing a new era of resurgence. "I have a better understanding of the men, matters, aspirations, challenges and opportunities of the region. A welcome development is the decline in insurgency in the region. I am confident that the north-eastern region would become totally free of insurgency in the near future in view of the various developmental initiatives and the strong desire of the people for peace and progress," he said. Naidu urged people from other parts of the country to visit the North-East to appreciate the natural beauty and cultural richness of the region. "But it is disappointing to note that despite being such a wonderful place, the general attitude toward the north eastern region to this day is largely characterised by ignorance, lack of appreciation and stereotyping in the rest of India. This must change," he asserted. "We have a lot to learn from the north-eastern states. Some time back, I saw a video of a road in Aizawl, Mizoram and was amazed to see motorists observing strict traffic discipline even though no traffic cop is in sight. This is a rare sight in other big Indian cities," he said to drive home his point. Naidu said although he wanted to cover all the states in the region, he decided against visiting Mizoram to enable the state administration focus more on dealing with an upsurge in COVID-19 cases. Later this month, he will undertake a three-day visit to Sikkim and Darjeeling from October 20, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi a patient listener, democratic leader, says Shah||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "democratic leader", Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said even his critics will agree that the Union Cabinet has never functioned in such a democratic manner as it is functioning in the Modi government. Rejecting allegations that Modi is an autocratic leader, Shah said that he has not seen a "patient listener" like the prime minister, who gives importance to all worthy suggestions given by anyone irrespective of their designation or position in the hierarchy. In an interview to SANSAD TV, the Union minister said Modi does not hesitate in taking political risks for decisions that are in national interest, and at times has taken bitter decisions for the welfare of the nation. Responding to a question that opposition and critics term Modi an autocratic leader who takes all decisions on his own, Shah described the prime minister as a "democratic leader". He is a very patient listener and gives importance to all worthy suggestions irrespective of the person's designation, Shah said. "...I have closely seen both Modi and his style of working. I have never seen a patient listener like him. Whatever may be the issue, he patiently listens to everyone and speaks least, and then takes a proper decision. He takes decisions patiently after considering suggestions given by all including a . small-time official or worker," the home minister said. Underlining that Modi does not impose his decisions, Shah, a former BJP president, said, "Those who have worked with him or at times there are critics also among those who worked with you, they all would agree that the Union Cabinet never functioned in such a democratic way as it is being run in a democratic manner with Modi ji being the prime minister." Shah said that Modi insists on discipline and therefore, details of some meetings, which are required to be confidential as they are premature, do not come out in public. The home minister stressed that decisions in every meeting are taken after collective consultation. Shah said that Modi has always maintained that he is in power to change the country for the better and not merely to run the government. Therefore, he does not hesitate in taking harsh and risky decisions which may be against the party's supporters but are in the interest of the nation and the people, the minister said. Noting that one has to take harsh and tough decisions in national interest, Shah said, "When you crack down on black money, bring economic reforms, seal all loopholes of tax evasion, then some people suffer, those who voted for us for years may also suffer." "It happens, but they also understand that Modi is not going to get anything out of this, eventually it will benefit the country. So, finally every one associates with Modiji," he said. Shah listed out various achievements of Modi during his 20-year-long public life, especially of his leadership both as Gujarat chief minister and as prime minister at various critical junctures. Taking on the opposition, Shah said that some opposition parties assume it is the birth right of their leadership to be in power. But Modi changed this by focusing on people-centric and nation first politics, he said. Shah said he would request friends from these opposition parties, who criticise the government's policies, that if there is corruption in the present government expose it. "Expose our failures to the people. But don't lower the political standard by resorting to personal attacks," Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Only PM's friends safe in the country, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday launched a scathing attack against the BJP in PM Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi, saying only the ruling party leaders and their "billionaire friends" are safe in the country. Vadra said this during a "Kisan Nyay Rally", days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case. Addressing the rally, Priyanka said when she speaks to people, they tell her that there are no jobs and income. Farmers, Dalits and women are feeling harassed, she claimed. People may belong to any caste and religion, they are not safe, the Congress leader alleged. "In this country, the prime minister, his council of ministers, people from his party and their billionaire friends are safe. Understand this properly. The country is getting damaged," the Congress leader said. Before the rally, Priyanka visited the Kashi Vishwanath and Kushmanda temples. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel also offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Prayers of different religions were recited at the rally. Senior UP Congress leader Pradeep Mathur told PTI that Congress workers from different walks of life accorded a warm welcome to the party general secretary. State Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said with the Sunday's event, the party has launched itself aggressively for the upcoming 2022 UP Assembly elections. "The Congress under the leadership of Priyankaji will comprehensively defeat the demon power, which has unleashed itself in various parts of the state," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Only PM's friends safe in the country, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday launched a scathing attack against the BJP in PM Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi, saying only the ruling party leaders and their "billionaire friends" are safe in the country. Vadra said this during a "Kisan Nyay Rally", days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case. Addressing the rally, Priyanka said when she speaks to people, they tell her that there are no jobs and income. Farmers, Dalits and women are feeling harassed, she claimed. People may belong to any caste and religion, they are not safe, the Congress leader alleged. "In this country, the prime minister, his council of ministers, people from his party and their billionaire friends are safe. Understand this properly. The country is getting damaged," the Congress leader said. Before the rally, Priyanka visited the Kashi Vishwanath and Kushmanda temples. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel also offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Prayers of different religions were recited at the rally. Senior UP Congress leader Pradeep Mathur told PTI that Congress workers from different walks of life accorded a warm welcome to the party general secretary. State Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said with the Sunday's event, the party has launched itself aggressively for the upcoming 2022 UP Assembly elections. "The Congress under the leadership of Priyankaji will comprehensively defeat the demon power, which has unleashed itself in various parts of the state," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Manish Sisodia accuses Centre of not acknowledging coal crisis||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the Centre is not ready to accept that there is a coal crisis and its policy to turn a blind eye to every problem could prove fatal for the country. Union Power Minister R K Singh today said there isn't any coal crisis and that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the prime minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach, Sisodia said at a press conference. This clearly show that the central government is making excuses to "run away" from crisis. They had done the same thing when the country grappled under an oxygen shortage. They would not even accept that there is a problem. They try to prove states wrong instead, Sisodia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Covid compliance hits new low as festive season approaches: Survey||As India enters the festival season, a survey by a digital community-based platform that has measured basic COVID-19 safeguards found that only 13 per cent people rated mask compliance in their area and district as effective while just 6 per cent termed social distancing norms as beneficial. The survey by LocalCircles, which received 65,000 responses from citizens residing in 366 districts of India, found out how people were complying to mask and social distancing protocols in cities and districts, while travelling in flights/airports, trains/railway stations and bus/bus stands as well as places like vaccination centres which many have visited in the last few months. Sixty-four per cent were men and 36 per cent respondents were women. Forty-six per cent respondents were from Tier-1 areas, 29 per cent from Tier-2 areas, and 25 per cent from Tiers-3, 4 and rural districts. A previous LocalCircles survey from June 2021, which was shared by the Union Ministry of Health in its briefing on July 6 this year, had indicated that mask compliance was rated as effective by 29 per cent people then and social distancing compliance as effective by 11 per cent. The drop in mask compliance ratings from 29 to 13 per cent and in social distancing compliance ratings from 11 per cent to 6 per cent indicates that complacency has set in with many now believing that COVID-19 is gone," said Sachin Taparia, founder of LocalCircles. With 2021 festive season already on and likely to see significantly higher levels of socialising, shopping and community events, the risk of COVID cases rising is now high , he warned. The travel euphoria currently is stronger than the one LocalCircles reported in February-March this year, Taparia said. LocalCircles on March 23 this year had raised the red flag highlighting the need to enforce mask and social distancing compliance and implement movement restrictions or lockdown at the earliest when its "citizen pulse trackers" indicated high levels of risk. On the mask front in the latest survey, just 13 per cent respondents said that more than 90 per cent people in their area, district or city are compliant and only 30 per cent respondents termed mask compliance as effective during travel at airports, stations, bus stands, etc. On the bright side, the survey showed that mask compliance levels were higher vaccination centres as 61 per cent of citizens said it was effective when they visited the places in the last two months. Regarding social distancing norms, just 6 per cent respondents said compliance levels are effective in their area, district or city. The survey respondents also said the top indoor locations where they have observed low social distancing compliance were vaccination centres, trains, buses, malls and indoor shopping complexes. So, while mask compliance at vaccination centres is somewhat working, social distancing compliance isn't effective. Forty-per cent of the survey respondents said shopping markets were the top outdoor location where social distancing compliance wasn't working. The report also suggested that the Central government, state governments and district administrations must ensure that clear guidelines are formed and enforced for community gatherings and compliance to masking and social distancing norms. Special focus is needed on awareness creation and ensuring compliance in Tier-3, 4 towns and rural districts where some cases of the citizen feedback received showed that compliance is at near-zero levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Power consumption moderates by 72 million units on Saturday, shows improvement||Power consumption dipped by nearly 2 per cent or by 72 million units (MU) to 3,828 MU on Saturday compared to 3,900 MU on Friday, showing slight improvement in supply situation across the country amid coal shortage crisis, according to the power ministry data. According to the data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on Friday or October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9), which also became cause of concern among the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. On Saturday, Tata Power arm Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) which operates in North and Northwest Delhi, had sent phone messages to its consumers saying, "Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across the north, power supply scenario between 2-6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted - Tata Power-DDL." This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. The ministry of power in a statement issued on Saturday had said, "It was noted that on 7th October, 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply. The Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at power plants in near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve." According to the data, the peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in day touched 172.41GW on October 8. This is the highest peak power demand met from October 1 to 9. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03GW on Saturday, October 9, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn. The latest available data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7, 2021, was not adequate as there were 16 plants with cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW which had the dry fuel for zero days. Besides, as many as 30 plants with 37,345 MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450 MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7, 2021. There were 19 plants with 29,160 MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864MW capacity had coal for four days. There were six plants with 6,730MW capacity had coal stock for five days while 10 plants with 11,540MW capacity had coal for six days. While one plant with 2,270 MW capacity had coal for seven days, another power plant with 920 MW capacity had coal for eight days. The coal stock data for October 7, 2021, also showed that there were 69 non-pithead plants which had coal stock for less than four days and categorised as supercritical stock. Besides there were 23 plants which had coal for less than seven days and categorised at critical stock. The CEA monitors 135 coal-based thermal power plants with cumulative capacity of over 165GW.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi warns against Hindu vs Sikh narrative in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday warned against attempts to turn the Lakhimapur Kheri incident into a "Hindu vs Sikh battle", saying it is dangerous to create these fault lines and reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. The Pilibhit MP, who was recently dropped from the BJP national executive, said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri is about the "cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite", and the issue has no religious connotations. "To use the word 'Khalistani' liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction," he said. In a tweet, he said, "An attempt to turn Lakhimpur Kheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity." Police had arrested Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. Farmer organisations have blamed the father-son duo for the incident and are alleging that the minister had made a provocative speech while his son was inside a vehicle that hit farmers. Both have denied the allegations. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in retaliation. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound UP. Gandhi has been sympathetic to the farmers' cause over their protests against three agricultural laws and often tweeted in their support, a stand which is said to have not gone down well with the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Border dispute: India, China hold 13th round of military talks||After a gap of over two months, India and China on Sunday are holding another round of high-level military talks with an aim to move forward on the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the security establishment said. The 13th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The talks began at around 10:30 AM, the sources said. The fresh round of talks is taking place over three weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh. The two foreign ministers met on the sidelines of the SCO Summit in Dushanbe on September 16. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. The Indian delegation at Sunday's talks was to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. On Saturday, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said if the Chinese military continues with its large-scale deployment in the eastern Ladakh region, then the Indian Army too will maintain its strength on its side which he said is "as good as what the PLA has done." The fresh round of talks is taking place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops with one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh around 10 days back and it was resolved within a few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols. Last month, close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending a few hours. India has been insisting that resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for an overall improvement in ties between the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra, accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, sent to 14-day judicial custody||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was produced before a court here late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. After around 12 hours of questioning in connection with the violence in which eight persons including four farmers were killed, a medical team examined Ashish Mishra in the crime branch office, after which he was taken for production before a judicial magistrate, who sent him to custody, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. He said an application for police remand of Ashish Mishra was submitted to the judicial magistrate who fixed it for hearing at 11 am on Monday. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Mishra's arrest but the minister and his son had denied the allegations. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the incident. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||India records 18,166 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deaths||India logged 18,166 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,39,53,475, while the active cases declined to 2,30,971, the lowest in 208 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,50,589 with 214 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 16 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.68 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.99 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,672 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Senior citizen files petition before Kerala HC against PM vaccine photo||A senior citizen has filed a writ petition before Kerala High Court seeking the removal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photograph from his Covid-19 vaccination certificate. Peter Myaliparambil, a senior citizen and an RTI activist from Kottayam in central Kerala, noted in his petition that the Prime Minister’s photograph on his personal vaccination certificate was a violation of his fundamental rights. “The petitioner has a right to be left alone. The petitioner has a right not to be subject to messaging that to the petitioner appears no more than propaganda and publicity for an individual,” Myaliparambil argued in the plea. The petitioner explained that he had paid Rs 750 for a single dose of Covishield vaccine at a private hospital in Kottayam, mainly because of the lack of slots for free vaccines. “The petitioner has paid for his vaccination…. In fact, it was the non-availability of free vaccine slots that led to the petitioner opting for the paid vaccination. The state has no right to claim credit by inserting a photograph of the Hon’ble Prime Minister in the certificate issued to a paid-vaccine recipient,” Myaliparambil said. He submitted copies of vaccination certificates from the US, Indonesia, Israel, Kuwait, France and Germany to show that none of these featured pictures of the heads of state or government. His contention is that none can encroach on another’s private space. “The certificate issued to the petitioner, in his name, having his personal details and the details of a medical record, is his private space. The State has no right to access that space, any more than the petitioner consents to it.” Advocate Ajit Joy, who represents the petitioner, told The Telegraph that Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar had on Friday ordered the Union and state governments to file their responses within two weeks. The petitioner contended that the purpose of such a certificate was to confirm the vaccination status of an individual. “It is a certificate issued merely to confirm the status of vaccination of a person. The photograph of the Hon’ble Prime Minister has no relevance (to) such a certificate as can be seen from such certificates issued by other countries.” Myaliparambil highlighted how several campaigns were being run giving the entire credit to Modi for the “largest vaccination campaign in the world” and cited how the University Grants Commission and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Bangalore region, had put up banners thanking the Prime Minister for free vaccines. “On the whole, the petitioner is concerned that the national campaign against Covid-19 is being converted into a media campaign for the Hon’ble Prime Minister…. There seems to be an effort to show the campaign as a one-man show, a propaganda to project an individual at State expense,” he noted. He contended that the Union government and the Prime Minister “cannot claim to have done anything but their duty”. He noted that the Prime Minister’s being given so much prominence in the Covid-19 vaccination campaign “is leading to the colouring of the petitioner’s rational thought and critical appraisal leading to a distortion of the petitioner’s freedom to vote including exercising free choice”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Callousness spreads to autopsy reports, too||Families of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims have alleged that the post-mortem reports they have been given are carbon copies that are too faint to read, and that protests to the authorities have brought no redress. Pawan Kashyap, brother of Raman Kashyap, a journalist killed along with four farmers by a Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni on October 3, alleged the administration had issued the illegible copies “deliberately”. “Clearly, everybody is under pressure from the government. This could be why they have given us a carbon copy of my brother’s post-mortem report that neither the doctors nor the lawyers among my friends can read,” he told The Telegraph. “All I understand is that the report says Raman died of injuries. A post-mortem report must mention the nature of injury, but it’s so indistinct that we cannot make out whether it has this information.” Pawan said he had received the copy on Wednesday and requested the sub-divisional magistrate, who has been coordinating between the police and the families, to provide a clearer copy. “Despite my repeated requests, they are not giving me a clearly written post-mortem report. This shows something very serious is still going on in the administration,” he said. Puran Singh, a cousin of Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich — one of the four farmers killed in the incident involving the Thar, which was allegedly carrying Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra — made the same complaint. Some eyewitnesses have said Gurvinder was shot dead by Ashis. In the Supreme Court on Friday, the state government counsel had said Ashis had not yet been arrested because the post-mortem did not show a bullet injury. “The first post-mortem report that we received on Wednesday was unclear. All we understood was that he (Gurvinder) died of injuries. Since some eyewitnesses have said he was killed by a bullet fired by Monu, we refused to receive the first post-mortem report,” Puran told reporters. “Then the local administration agreed to have a second post-mortem. It’s report, given to us on Friday, too was illegible. All we were able to glean from it, again, was that Gurvinder had died of injuries.” A senior criminal lawyer in Lucknow, Umesh Kumar Singh, said it’s normal practice to provide families with carbon copies of handwritten post-mortem reports but if the families apply, they can be given typed reports. He said the carbon copies are normally expected to be legible. The additional chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, Ashwini Kumar, said: “They should immediately submit a request with the CMO (chief medical officer) for a clear or typed report. They have every right to have a clear copy.” Prashant Kumar, additional director-general of police, said: “We will hear every issue raised by the victims’ families and sort them out gradually.” Teni has claimed his son was not in the Thar but 4km away at their village of Banvirpur. But Pawan said some people had told him that when Ashis heard of farmers sloganeering against his father in the neighbourhood, he decided to go and see for himself. He quoted a source at Banvirpur as saying: “I was not on the spot but I heard from someone who was that Monu said, ‘Let’s go and see how these people have had the audacity to enter my area and protest against us’.” Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav accused the government of protecting Teni and his son. “They first crushed the farmers and a journalist and then by denying them justice, they crushed the law of the land. Now the BJP government is crushing democracy by allowing a criminal to remain a Union minister,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Covid: Jab syringe export restrictions after govt stupor||The Centre has imposed temporary export restrictions on syringes for Covid-19 vaccines to address a possible shortage that industry executives say could have been averted through government planning they had first requested over 18 months ago. The Union health ministry on Saturday announced restrictions on the export of a range of auto-disposable, disposable and reuse prevention syringes for three months, saying they are needed to vaccinate all eligible citizens within the shortest possible time. The restrictions suggest that inadequate quantitative planning by the government that had hobbled India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign through limited supplies in its early months has also impacted syringes, experts tracking the campaign and executives have said. “It is clear there has been poor planning — a failure to make projections and prepare for inventories needed,” said R. Ramakumar, a health economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “We saw this with vaccines, we’re seeing it with syringes,” he added. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign had administered 940 million doses by Saturday morning and needs to deliver at least 948 million more doses to fully vaccinate the country’s estimated 944 million adults with two doses. Only about 265 million (28 per cent) people have received both doses so far. The export restrictions will stall the supply of 0.5ml and 1ml auto-disposable syringes, 0.5ml, 1ml, 2ml and 3ml disposable syringes, and 1ml, 2ml and 3ml reuse prevention syringes to international agencies and countries dependent on Indian-made devices. For instance, Hindustan Syringes and Medical Devices, the world’s largest manufacturer of auto-disposable syringes, will have to hold or seek special permission from the Indian government to meet pending orders of over 30 million 0.5ml and 1ml syringes from Argentina, Brazil and Guatemala. Hindustan Syringes has already had to hold back nearly 100 million syringes meant for Unicef to divert them to meet the health ministry’s demand for India’s vaccination campaign even though the order from the UN outfit for children predated India’s order. “It was awkward — such actions could threaten our credibility,” said Rajiv Nath, managing director of Hindustan Syringes and president of the All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association. “This kind of situation could have been avoided had industry received advance demand visibility.” Nath first wrote to the health ministry in April 2020, suggesting that it would be “prudent to plan in time” for vaccine delivery to avoid shortages of syringes. He had also proposed a timeline for production ramp-up from 44 million syringes per month in April 2020 to 67 million by March 2021 to 90 million by September 2021, requesting both committed orders and financial support from the government. In April 2021, Nath again wrote to the health ministry saying the company had increased production to 70 million per month and could raise it to 87 million by September, and again requesting “clarity of committed orders and financial support”. Despite those pleas, members of the All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association say the health ministry’s orders have come in dribs and drabs, foisting uncertainty on producers who are cautious about large investments that might remain unused after the Covid-19 threat recedes. Nath again wrote to the health ministry last month asking for the “probable quantities” of syringes India would require between January and March 2022 and between April 2022 and March 2023 to enable the company to allocate appropriate production space. Ramakumar said it was “not surprising” that the industry would seek clarity of committed orders and respond only to demand, particularly if there is a risk that the extra production capacity created for Covid-19 might become redundant after the epidemic. The health ministry’s Saturday announcement of export restrictions for three months on select syringes follows a Union commerce ministry notification on October 4 that had imposed such a halt on all syringes, triggering concern within industry and international agencies. The notification prompted the World Health Organisation Regional Office for the Americas and the Pan American Health Organisation to write to the Indian government on October 7, saying there is a “critical demand” for India-made syringes and requesting that pending orders be shipped out. The All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association has welcomed Saturday’s clarification, saying this implies that the export of insulin syringes, 0.3ml syringes and 5ml or larger syringes could continue. The 0.3ml auto-disposable syringes may be used to deliver the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine but are not suitable for Covishield or Covaxin, the primary vaccines used in India. Health experts had attributed the slow start of India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign earlier this year to poor planning and lack of adequate advance investments by the government to prepare for the quantum of doses required in its early months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Union minister's son sent to judicial custody in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, was arrested on Saturday night after almost 12 hours of questioning by the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. Around 10.45pm, an officer stepped out of the crime branch office at Lakhimpur Kheri where Ashis was being questioned and said: “After long interrogation, we conclude that Ashis Mishra is non-cooperative. He is not replying to many of our questions. We are taking him into custody on this ground. We are arresting him.” The officer did not identify himself. Ashis, accused of being in his father’s Thar jeep when it mowed down four farmers and a journalist on Sunday, had arrived for interrogation at 11am after having missed the first summons to appear at 10am on Friday. The Supreme Court had on Friday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government while alluding to Ashis being merely summoned rather than arrested, asking whether “(all) accused in the country would be treated the same way” when there is “a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury”. State government counsel Harish Salve had then told the court he had been “assured at the highest level that between today and tomorrow, whatever is the shortfall will be filled up”. On Saturday, a local police officer claimed Ashis had come armed with videos to try and establish he was in his village of Banvirpur when the carnage took place 4km away in Tikunia. The officer, who sought anonymity, expressed doubt whether the videos could establish Ashis’s contention. “However, we don’t know how the SIT will react to the clips,” he had said in the evening. At his Lakhimpur Kheri office in the afternoon, Teni told his supporters: “I have faith in the law and believe my son will emerge unscathed. We are happy to cooperate with the investigation.” Ashis had arrived at the crime branch office accompanied by two lawyers and four relatives, all of whom remained inside the building throughout the interrogation, police sources said. Over 1,000 police and paramilitary personnel were deployed in and around the building, as well as the police lines compound where it is located. While journalists waited outside the crime branch office — held back by a human chain of policemen — a crowd of about 100 people stood outside the compound gate, about 50 metres away. Among them were many BJP supporters. Local people said hundreds of farmers had gathered across roads and fields within a kilometre of the police lines and were constantly in touch with their sources stationed outside the compound gate. Over 100 BJP workers held a candlelight march in Lakhimpur town on Saturday evening, demanding the arrest of the killers of Shubham Mishra, a booth-level leader of the party. Mishra and two others — said to be inside the cars in a convoy led by the Thar — were allegedly beaten to death by farmers after five people were run over and killed. In the morning, Shubham’s brother Shantanu had told The Telegraph over the phone: “It’s obvious that both sides are blaming each other. All I know is that my brother was killed. We all, including his wife Rekha and one-year-old daughter Akriti, should get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||China is there to stay, says Indian Army chief Naravane||The Indian Army chief said on Saturday that the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh suggested that “they are there to stay”, a day ahead of the 13th round of military talks to resolve the 17-month-long standoff. Speaking at the Indian Today Conclave in Delhi, General M.M. Naravane said: “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up which had occurred continues to be in place. And to sustain that kind of build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all this development.” “But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too. The build-up on our side and the developments on our side are as good as what the PLA has done,” the army chief added. The PLA is the Chinese People’s Liberation Army. Although the Indian Army has been talking about the massive Chinese deployment in eastern Ladakh and declaring that it is prepared for any eventuality, it has of late been publicly acknowledging a long haul. Last week Naravane had said border incidents would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached. Gen. Naravane said on Saturday that the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh would become like the Line of Control with Pakistan considering the massive build-up — additional military equipment and troops deployed since last year — by India and China along the frontier. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The Indian Army chief said on Saturday that if the Chinese soldiers continued to stay put through a second winter, it would “definitely mean that we will be in a kind of LoC situation”. Man and machine of the army are permanently stationed in large numbers along the Pakistan border. “But it will not be an active LAC as it is there on the western front. We have to keep a close eye on build-up and troop deployment so that they (the PLA) don’t get into any misadventure once again,” Naravane said. Since last winter, India and China have amassed troops and equipment at altitudes of 14,000ft and above. Each side has deployed 50,000 soldiers along the LAC in Ladakh, backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. The sources in the army said disengagement of Chinese troops from Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains would be taken up during Sunday’s corps commander-level talks that would take place on the Chinese side of the Chushul-Moldo border. A recent intelligence report has suggested that the Chinese army has been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. Besides, China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh and ramped up infrastructure at its existing airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources said. India, too, has stepped up its border infrastructure development programme, including the building of roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions. So far, there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Warning on remote electronic voting by Election Commission||A former chief election commissioner and an ex-returning officer who had flagged the “vulnerability” of electronic voting machines to tampering have opposed a purported proposal for remote electronic voting by the Election Commission. The Economic Times on Saturday reported that the EC is working on an “Internet-free” prototype to upgrade EVMs to allow people to vote from areas outside their constituencies. The report said: “For remote voters, the paper ballot on the EVM’s balloting unit will be replaced with an electronic ballot inserted in the unit. A constituency card reader, similar to a barcode reader, will be installed at the presiding officer’s control unit. “When a ‘remote voter’ approaches the presiding officer, the constituency card reader will decipher the voter’s constituency data and relay it to the balloting unit, which will display the ‘electronic ballot’ of the seat to which the voter is registered. The vote registered will be saved in the control unit, constituency wise, and tallied to each respective constituency during counting.” The EC did not confirm or deny the report. CEC Sushil Chandra is yet to respond to queries from The Telegraph sent via email and WhatsApp. Former CEC O.P. Rawat told this newspaper: “This will not be acceptable to political parties as it introduces new areas of suspicion…. How will any machine that has the data of so many constituencies stored in it give the data for counting constituency-wise? It is terrible. This can’t happen.” Several Opposition parties, including all national parties except the BJP, had asked the EC to revert to paper ballots before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, citing “opaqueness” in the electoral system. Last year, NGOs had demanded postal ballots for domestic migrants while Opposition parties had flagged concerns over potential fraud. Besides service voters, this facility is available now to people above 80, Covid patients and the disabled. The election agents of the candidate are allowed to be present in polling stations to verify if the people casting their votes tally with the voters’ list. During the special summary revision of the voters’ list in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha district this week, 18,898 voters were found to have the same photograph. Rawat explained: “I don’t think it (remote voting) is feasible without using the Internet and once you use the Internet, the security of your EVM is gone. That is the only strength the Indian EVM has — that it is standalone, it cannot talk to other machines, and it is not Internet-ready.” In 2019, IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, former returning officer of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, had claimed that paper trail machines were vulnerable to becoming Trojan horses for tampering voting machines. Back then, the EC had said a “rigorous scrutiny” was being done, although no evidence of “transfer of vote from one candidate to another has been found” in the Lok Sabha polls that year. Gopinathan told this newspaper on Saturday: “My view is that the EC should get a paper published on this proposed tech in a peer-reviewed journal so that the authority of the arguments are clearly established and countered in a transparent way.” Voting app The Telangana State Election Commission, which conducts local body polls in the state and does not come under the EC’s supervision, has announced the pilot launch of a mobile voting application to be tried out in a dummy election in Khammam on October 20. Not only does this throw to the wind the EC’s precaution of keeping voting devices off the Internet, the voters will also be unsupervised. Nor has the state poll panel revealed how it plans to prevent coercion of voters. Rawat said Gujarat’s experience in using Internet voting in municipal polls in 2010 and 2015 had shown that despite huge expenditure, less than 1 per cent of votes were cast through this mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Farmer unions term Lakhimpur Kheri carnage ‘a terror act’||Farmer unions on Saturday termed the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage an “act of terror” that was part of a larger conspiracy to break their 10-month-old protest, and said the “massacre” was to their movement what Jallianwala Bagh was to the freedom struggle. The unions have drawn up a protest programme that will seek to tap emotions with the ashes of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims taken to every part of the country. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced a month-long agitation that would culminate in a mahapanchayat in Lucknow on October 26 if Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, was not dismissed and arrested with his son Ashis by Monday. The announcement came at a news conference in Delhi where Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait commanded the most interest amid speculation about him having “turned” and helped the government broker an “agreement” with the farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday. Although SKM leaders had earlier clarified that Tikait had not acted alone and various other union leaders were involved in the five rounds of negotiations with the administration, the speculation has persisted. The news conference on Saturday seemed an attempt to put a lid on the controversy. Tikait made it clear there was no question of giving up the agitation midway, saying: “Sangharsh se samadhan (resolution through struggle) is our motto.” He explained that Monday’s agreement had been a limited one to ease the tensions building up, with the bereaved families having refused to cremate their dead without some form of assurance from the administration. Given the importance the SKM attaches to the movement remaining peaceful, union leaders were keen to ensure the tensions did not flare up, knowing this was exactly what the government was hoping for. BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that after failing to discredit the movement by branding it “Khalistani, Pakistani, Naxals”, the BJP government was now resorting to direct violence to break the agitation. He cited the provocative statements by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar (since withdrawn) asking party cadre for “tit-for-tat” action against the farmers, a sub-divisional magistrate in Karnal ordering police to break the heads of protesting farmers, and now farmers being run over and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. “They want to provoke us into violence, but we will not fall into this trap,” Ugrahan said. On reports of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri beating to death two people after a car belonging to Teni had mowed down five people, Tikait said: “It was a reaction to an action; it was not planned.” He added: “When two cars meet with an accident here, even educated people — fully aware that they can claim insurance — block the road and fight with each other.” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, an SKM constituent, stepped in to highlight that the law distinguishes between premeditated murder and reactive killing. “At the same time, the SKM believes that every person killed in the incident — irrespective of political affiliation — should get justice,” he said. Yadav said that if the government failed to meet the SKM’s demands by Monday, the protest programme would be set in motion. Either way, October 12 will be marked as Shaheed Kisan Divas across the country as it coincides with the antim ardas (final prayers) for the farmers killed on October 3. The SKM has urged farmers across the country to pay tribute to the slain farmers by attending the event at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri or organising prayer meetings at their own places on Tuesday. Candlelight marches will be organised that evening. The SKM has urged all citizens to light five candles in memory of the five “martyrs” — the four farmers and one journalist killed by the speeding cars — outside their homes at 8pm. If its demands are not met, the SKM plans to hold a Shaheed Kisan Yatra from Lakhimpur Kheri to every district of Uttar Pradesh and to every state, carrying urns containing the slain farmers’ ashes. In each state, this journey will conclude at a local holy place or historical site. On Dussehra, effigies of BJP leaders, including the Prime Minister and Union home minister, will be burnt across the country. This will be followed up with another rail roko on October 18, after which the mahapanchayat will be held in Lucknow on October 26, Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
