11-10-2021||India||Coal ministry conducts pre-bid conference for auction of 11 mines||The government on Monday organised a pre-bid conference for prospective bidders for the sale of 11 coal mines. The coal ministry launched the second attempt of the auction of 11 coal mines earmarked for the sale of coal last month. "Ministry of Coal has organised a pre-bid conference today for prospective bidders," according to an official statement. These were the mines that were offered in the first attempt launched on March 25 and had fetched single bids. Presentations were made on the terms and conditions of auction, technical details of mines and the National Coal Index by SBI Capital Markets Ltd, Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) and DDG respectively, the coal ministry said. The auction will be held online through a transparent two-stage process, on the basis of percentage revenue share. Key features of the auction process include the introduction of the National Coal Index, ease in participation with no restriction for prior coal mining experience, full flexibility in coal utilisation, optimised payment structures, efficiency promotion through incentives for early production and the use of clean coal technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in UP's Jewar; BSP, Congress demand action||A middle-aged Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Jewar area near Noida at gunpoint, police officials said on Monday, as opposition political parties, including the BSP and the Congress, demanded action against culprits. None of the four accused have been arrested yet over the incident that took place on Sunday morning outside a village even as multiple police teams were formed and surveillance teams, along with dog squads, deployed to probe the case, the officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said, "The incident took place between 9.30 am and 10.30 am on Sunday in open fields near the village where the rape survivor often went to cut grass and the accused also went often to graze his cattle. Both are from the same village and known to each other well." The key accused, who is a drug addict, had dragged the woman into the fields and forced himself on her, according to the police officer, even as local officials said the woman was raped at gunpoint. "The role of other people in the act could be ascertained after investigation. The key accused is on the run and details could be confirmed after his arrest," she said. DCP Shukla said the rape survivor was taken to the district hospital after the incident where her health condition was stable on Monday. The police said an FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the law on the basis of a complaint by the woman's husband and an investigation is underway. BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident, while a Congress delegation from Noida went to meet the family of the rape survivor. "The gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Gautam Buddh Nagar is extremely sad and shameful. The BSP demands that the BJP government in UP take strong action against the accused persons, and give justice to the affected family," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader Pankhuri Pathak, who led a party delegation to meet the Dalit woman's family, described the incident as a "heinous crime" and alleged failure of law and order in the region. "Jewar's name is now heard often because of an airport being developed in the area but this incident of gang-rape gives one an idea of the law and order situation in the area, which is close to Delhi," Pathak said. She added that the delegation was going to meet the family on instructions of the Congress high command. Azad Samaj Party chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the incident. "In Gautam Buddh Nagar, a Dalit woman was gang-raped at gunpoint by barbarians and casteist slurs were hurled at her. The barbarians have no fear of the law. Law and order has completely failed in UP. Dalit lives are in danger every moment and the incompetent government remains a mute spectator," he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Amit Shah holds meeting with power, coal ministers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with Power Minister R K Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi amid reports of the ongoing coal shortage in the country, officials said. During the hour-long meeting, the three ministers were believed to have discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands. Top officials of the power and coal ministries attended the meeting. The meeting came in the wake of several states warning of a possible power crisis due to the shortage of coal supply to power plants, officials said. According to the data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9) which also became a cause of concern during the ongoing coal shortage. On Saturday, Tata Power arm Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL), which operates in North and Northwest Delhi, had sent phone messages to its consumers saying, "Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across the north, power supply scenario between 2-6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted - Tata Power-DDL." This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting electricity production in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants, that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. The Ministry of Power in a statement issued on Saturday had said, "It was noted that on 7th October, 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT, thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply." The Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter, try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at power plants in the near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve. According to the data, the peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in day touched 172.41 GW on October 8. This is the highest peak power demand met from October 1 to 9. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03 GW on Saturday, October 9, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn. The latest available data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7 were not adequate as there were 16 plants with a cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW which had the dry fuel for zero days. Besides, as many as 30 plants with 37,345 MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450 MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7. There were 19 plants with 29,160 MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864MW capacity had coal for four days. Six plants with 6,730 MW capacity had coal stock for five days, while 10 plants with 11,540 MW capacity had coal for six days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra sent to three-day police custody||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday got three-day remand of Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.  Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence on October 3.  "Police had demanded a 14-day remand of Ashish. They have got three-day remand from October 12 to 15," senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav told reporters.  The remand will end on October 15 morning.  The police remand was granted by Chief Judicial Magistrate Chintaram, with the condition that Ashish Mishra will not be harassed and his lawyer will remain present during interrogation, Yadav said.  Earlier, a court had sent Ashish Mishra to 14-day judicial custody.  Ashish was arrested on Saturday night after around 12 hours of questioning in connection with the Lakhimpur violence.  Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday.  While farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Mishra's arrest, the minister and his son had denied the allegations.  Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the violence. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died.  Aged around 35, Ashish Mishra, alias Monu, looks after political activities of his father in his Kheri parliamentary constituency and was also vying for party ticket from the Nighasan seat to contest the upcoming UP Assembly polls.  The Supreme Court had on Friday questioned the non-arrest of the accused, directing preservation of evidence and mulled over transferring the probe to another agency.  The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three farm laws, had alleged that the violence was held under a pre-planned conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the minister and his son.  An "antim ardas" (final prayer) for the dead farmers will held on Tuesday at Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia village.  The SKM has also given a call for a "rail roko" protest across the country from 10 am to 4 pm on October 18 and a "mahapanchayat" in Lucknow on October 26.  Ajay Mishra should be "dismissed" from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy, opposition Congress, SP and the SKM are demanding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||UP Polls: Akhilesh Yadav's yatra to woo voters begins on Tuesday||Seeking to galvanise public support ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav will commence a yatra from Kanpur on Tuesday. "The 'Samajwadi Vijay Yatra' yatra aims to make people aware about the corrupt, autocratic and suppressive policies of the BJP government and to establish real democracy," the party said in a statement on Monday. Yadav will travel in a Mercedes bus, which has been turned into a 'rath' having posters of Akhilesh Yadav displayed on one side and that of party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on the other, besides a picture of party leader Mohammad Azam Khan. A day before the yatra, the party released a 17-second video in which Akhilesh Yadav is seen talking to his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and touching his feet to get blessings. BJP leader and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav, saying "the one who dumped the harried people during the corona times is going to the public in his five-star rath" and termed it as "another insult to the people of the state". The SP said that yatra will start from Kanpur and in the first two days on Oct 12-13 it will cover Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur. "The yatra aims to provide justice to farmers, youths, dalits, the deprived, the backward, minorities and all sections and rid the state of autocratic and suppressive government," SP spokesperson Rajendra Chowdhury said. Chowdhury said it was the third such yatra by Akhilesh Yadav after the ones in July 2001 and September 2011. The politically crucial state is again headed for a heated multi-cornered contest with all major parties like the BJP, BSP, SP and the Congress reaching out to voters. Smaller parties like the Aam Aadmi Party and the AIMIM too are in the fray. The BJP alleged that Akhilesh Yadav was "'scared and nervous" to accept that the UP government has been working for "a crime-free society, including the eradication of corruption, attachment of the properties of criminals and development of the state". In a statement, Sidharth Nath Singh said,"When CM Yogi was running from one district to another to provide relief to the people during corona, the SP leader was busy tweeting from his air conditioned drawing room from where he will be going to land in his air conditioned luxurious 'Rath' pretending to go to the people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Coal Scam: HC exempts Rujira Banerjee’s presence before trial court||The Delhi High Court Monday exempted for the time being the physical appearance of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee before a trial court in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. The trial court in Delhi had directed her to appear before it personally on October 12. The high court said it will hear on October 29, the plea filed by Rujira Banerjee challenging the Enforcement Directorate's complaint filed in the case, the trial court order taking cognizance of that complaint and the subsequent issuance of a summons for physical appearance. Justice Yogesh Khanna granted Rujira Banerjee's exemption from personal appearance for the time being after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Enforcement Directorate, urged the court to take up her plea for hearing after the Dussehra break. Till then, the lady client (Rujira) may not appear in person, said the Solicitor General. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Rujira Banerjee, prayed that her client be allowed to appear through her lawyer before the trial court. List on October 29. Meanwhile, the petitioner will appear before the trial court through counsel, the judge ordered. On September 30, after she appeared virtually in relation to the complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed her physical presence on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. Rujira Banerjee has contended that the Enforcement Directorate (ED)'s complaint against her is arbitrary, false, vexatious and an abuse of the process of law. The complaint has been filed to harass and cause prejudice to her and her family, the petition contended. A bare perusal of the impugned complaint confirms that the respondent agency (ED) falsely averred that petitioner had not complied with its illegal summonses (issued by ED)... Owing to the fact that she is a mother of two young children and a resident of Kolkata, the petitioner has repeatedly requested that she be examined at her residence in Kolkata. "The fact that the petitioner was in constant dialogue with the respondent in relation to the aforementioned summons clearly shows that there was no intention on the part of the petitioner to disobey the same, the petition said. It further argued that the trial court took cognizance and issued a summons on the complaint in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. The Ld. CMM failed to appreciate that not only were the notices in question illegal and in excess of jurisdiction, but furthermore the mode of service i.e., email to a third party, of summons dated 18.08.2021 at the first instance is contrary to law and cannot be held against the Petitioner, it said. The couple has already approached the high court for quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in the case. On September 21, the court had refused to grant any interim relief in relation to the ED summons. The 33-year-old MP, who is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||PM Modi and Boris Johnson discuss Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Monday held a telephonic conversation during which they welcomed the UK's recognition of Indian vaccine certification and agreed on the need for a coordinated international approach to engagement with the Taliban, according to a statement by the UK. The telephone talks came four days after the UK announced that Indian travellers fully vaccinated with both doses of Covishield or any other vaccine approved by it will not require to undergo a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival from October 11. The British statement said the two prime ministers discussed the shared fight against coronavirus and the importance of cautiously opening up international travel. "They agreed the UK's recognition of Indian vaccine certification is a welcome development to that end," it said. According to the statement shared with journalists by the British High Commission here, the two leaders also discussed the strength of the UK-India relationship and climate action in the context of the upcoming COP-26 in Glasgow. "The leaders also talked about the current situation in Afghanistan. They agreed on the need for a coordinated international approach to engagement with the Taliban, emphasising the importance of upholding human rights in the country," it said. It said the prime ministers welcomed the progress made on the 2030 Roadmap since it was agreed by Johnson and Modi in May. "This includes in areas such as trade and defence. The leaders looked forward to the upcoming visit of the UK Carrier Strike Group to India and the deepening of the UK-India strategic partnership," it said. In a tweet, Prime Minister Modi later said, "Was a pleasure to speak to Prime Minister @BorisJohnson. We reviewed progress on the India-UK Agenda 2030, exchanged views on climate action in the context of the forthcoming COP-26 in Glasgow, and shared our assessments on regional issues including Afghanistan." According to the statement issued by the UK, Johnson underlined the importance of making concrete progress on climate change ahead of and at the upcoming COP26 Summit. "He noted that India already leads the world in renewable technology and expressed his hope that they will commit to a more ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution and to achieving Net Zero emissions," it added. The Roadmap 2030 was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson at a virtual summit in May. The roadmap is aimed at elevating bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and guide cooperation over the next decade in the key areas of trade and economy, defence and security, climate change and people-to-people connect among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: court seeks NCB's reply to Aryan Khan's bail plea||A special court here Monday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file its reply on October 13 to a bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Special Judge V V Patil, hearing matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said it would hear the bail plea on Wednesday (October 13). Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court for bail after his plea for the same was rejected by a magistrate's court last week on the ground that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide the matter. On Monday, when Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai mentioned the bail plea, NCB's advocates A M Chimalkar and Advait Sethna sought a week's time to respond and file their affidavit. They said the investigation in the case was still on and there was quite a lot of material collected by the agency and at this stage, it needs to be seen if releasing Aryan Khan on bail would hamper the probe into the case. Desai, however, objected to it, saying a person's liberty is at question here, and argued that releasing the accused on bail would not stop the investigation in the case. "The bail will not stop the investigation. The NCB can continue their probe. That is their duty. But, keeping my client (Aryan Khan) in custody, especially when there has been no recovery (of drugs) from him, is not required," Desai said. "He (Aryan) has not been found in possession of any narcotics and there is no other material against him. Since his arrest, he has been in the custody of the NCB for a week and his statement was recorded twice. Why does he still need to be in jail?" the senior counsel argued. Chimalkar, however, said that the agency needs at least a few days time to file its reply. "What Desai is arguing appears to be rosy, but this is not what the investigation reveals or divulges. Aryan Khan is in judicial custody. Whether his release on bail will affect or hamper our investigation needs to be seen," Chimalkar said. Sethna, appearing for NCB, told the court that there was no extreme urgency for the bail plea to be heard immediately. Desai then sought the court to hear and decide Aryan Khan's plea separately, saying the recovery of drugs from each accused in the case was different. But, Chimalkar and Sethna opposed it and said the conspiracy is the same. Apart from Aryan Khan, four other accused in the case - Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sateja, and Mohak Jaiswal - have also filed bail pleas in the special court. The court said it would start hearing Aryan Khan's bail plea on Wednesday. Aryan Khan has been charged with offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act pertaining to possession, consumption and purchase of drugs. The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Five Army personnel killed in gunfight with terrorists in JK's Poonch||Five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed in a fierce gunfight with terrorists during an anti-insurgency operation in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, officials said. A heavy gunfight was underway in the Surankote area with at least four to five heavily armed terrorists who crossed into the country a few days ago, claimed NDTV.com sources. The operation was launched in a village close to DKG in Surankote in the early hours following intelligence inputs about presence of terrorists, a Defence spokesman said. The hiding terrorists fired on the search parties resulting in a fierce gunfight and critical injuries to a Junior Commissioned Officer or JCO and four other soldiers. They died from their injuries. All five soldiers succumbed to their injuries. The encounter with the terrorists was going on and further details are awaited, the spokesman said. The officials said there are reports about presence of a group of heavily-armed terrorists in Chamrer forest after they managed to sneak from across the Line of Control (LoC). Reinforcements have been rushed to the area to plug all escape routes to ensure the terrorists are neutralised, they said. Meanwhile, in another part of the valley, two militants were killed and a policeman was injured during encounters in Anantnag and Bandipora districts on Monday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation at Khagund in Anantnag district's Verinag area following information about the presence of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated, he said. The police official said that while one militant has been killed, a policeman suffered injuries. He added that the operation is going on. In another encounter, which broke out at Gundjahangir in Bandipora district's Hajin area, a Lashkar-e-Toiba militant was killed. "Killed terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund Bandipora," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Benefits of Using the Right Online Payment Services for Your Business||One aspect of business that is universal to all fields and industries is the payment transaction. The payment transaction is one of the most integral steps in the cash cycle. It is therefore imperative that businesses make sure that they choose the payment service that is most convenient to them. Companies of all sizes must understand the process of payments relevant to their end products and must partner with the payment service that will give them the greatest advantage in their sector and with their intended customers. Benefits of the Right Payment Service Online Payment Facilitators Until recently, the system of transaction management was handled by physical payment processors. Because these facilities had a bargaining advantage over their clients, high rates, poor service, and unexpected and inexplicable fees were common. Only the largest companies and organizations had any sort of leverage in protecting their interests. The solution to this problem is software companies rebranding as online payment facilitators. Online payment facilitators offer a more customer-focused approach to transaction management that is viable, without the disadvantages of payment processors. Customer Support and Improved Productivity Payment facilitators are designed to view the customer as the priority, and so the payment service is streamlined to the customer’s product, whatever that may be. The goal is to make the payment process for the goods and services of any company as easily reconcilable as possible. Thus, the input of field operatives is used to create an innovative, integrated platform that makes payment transactions as straightforward as possible.  Maintaining and managing the payment system when problems arise is also important. The processes for handling issues or glitches are streamlined to be as few as possible to remove unnecessary redundancies that would waste the customer’s resources. More Reasonable Rates The market for food payment facilitators is already a competitive one, and better charges were always a part of the mission. Therefore, improved rates over payment processors are a result. There are no complex and expensive processes that narrow a company's profit margin. Online payment facilitators can also advocate on behalf of their customers. Better Overall Customer Experience Another aspect of business that is universal to all industries is the customer, for whom every product and service is provided. The demands of the customer must be met, but the customer's experience while interfacing with any company is as important as the service itself. An easy-to-use, financially secure, and fast payment or transaction process is important to fulfilling this. A satisfied customer will trust the company and will become a loyal customer. Loyal customers and increased customer lifetime value are key to any service provider’s survival in today's economy. Conclusion A good online payment facilitator like Paystudio: white label payment gateway will make transactions hassle-free for customers of their client. They will make managing those transactions much easier as well. That is why opting for the best online payment facilitator is important if any business wants to stay competitive and relevant in its market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Uncommon Success: The Mark Neilson Story||It has been said that success isn’t about where you start, it’s about where you finish. When some people complain about having lemons there are others who sell lemonade. Mark Neilson is living the American Dream and he is helping others do the same. From humble beginnings in Alaska to the top of a multi-billion-dollar industry. This is insurance guru’s Mark Neilson’s story. Mark Neilson grew up in Cordova, Alaska where he lived in a small trailer with his working-class parents. Both of his parents worked hard around the clock, his father worked in the commercialized finishing industry and his mother would work odd jobs to help the family. Mark recalls working with his father in the fish market when he was old enough. His family moved to Utah where he grew up learning hard working values from the continued example of his mother and father. Mark’s parents always encouraged him to earn income on his own, he remembers having a lemonade stand when he was young. At the age of 19, Mark moved to Denmark for a religious mission where he would spend the next two years in service of others. This experience changed the course of his life forever. It was during this two-year period that he found his passion for helping others. He credits the time that he spent overseas for helping reinforce many of the service-based leadership skills he applies to his business. After returning from the mission, Mark knew that he could never achieve his goals staying home in Utah, so he left. After moving around a bit, looking for the right place, Mark relocated to San Jose, CA. Upon arrival he tried a few different careers including electrical work. Like many entrepreneurs, Mark never felt he was getting paid for his value and knew it was unlikely that he would get a promotion. Determined to live a different life than the one he grew up with, Mark kept looking until he found the insurance industry. He fell in love. The fact that he could determine his own income and did so by helping people was exactly what he had been searching for. Since that time Mark has gone on to become one of the top performers in the entire insurance industry. His accolades include, Diamond Club Member, Million Dollar Club Member, Presidents Club Member, Gold Club Member, Single-Month Production Record Holder, Producer of the Year, among many others. His determination to succeed at a high level is evident not only in his work-ethic, but in the care that he gives to the success of others. He believes that growing up from a humble background drives him to see others pull themselves up through hard work. If you would like additional information or to see if you can work with Mark Nielson, he is reachable on Instagram via @m.neilson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Multi-disciplinary approach the need of the hour in academics||Upasana Mahanta, professor at Jindal Global Law School and dean, admissions and outreach, OP Jindal Global University (Institution of Eminence Deemed To Be University), speaks on the significance of social sciences and the need to rethink career choices. Why is there a growing need for more students to study social sciences? Since Independence, there has been an inclination towards engineering, medicine and the pure sciences to build a rapidly industrialising India. However, modern-day problems call for a look beyond the purview of pure sciences. For example, India’s COVID vaccination drive and overall pandemic response require a multi-disciplinary approach, including public policy, psychology, communication, supply chain management. Even the National Education Policy 2020 urges educational institutions to do away with compartmentalisation of disciplines. Students are often prodded by their parents to study medicine or engineering. How can this be countered? One of the primary reasons students (or parents) opt for medicine and engineering as career options is that the student can tread a path of least resistance in elevating one’s social and economic status while attaining their career goals. Career opportunities outside STEM are usually perceived as underpaid avenues and students do not always get the support to follow their passions. To counter this mindset is difficult, but not impossible. We see an increasing trend of medicine and engineering students choosing a different career stream post after graduation and looking for something niche. The job market demands each student to be different and bring diverse knowledge to the table, this is made possible by the social sciences. Therefore, a multi-disciplinary education pivoted on complex problems through the lens of science, law and policy, humanities and social sciences is important. How do the cut-off percentages in STEM studies and social sciences affect the admission process? Like many other private, new-age universities in India, Jindal Global University does not believe in judging a student only based on marks. A student is a person, not just a percentage. As a result, our admission process is holistic. It takes into account the student’s abilities in critical thinking, verbal and written communication skills as well as motivation to study a particular discipline. Consequently, cut-off percentages in STEM and non-STEM disciplines do not affect the admission process at JGU. What new-age career prospects are opening up for students of social sciences? The founders of Apple, Tesla and Alibaba are all social science graduates. There are countless other avenues for social science graduates to make their mark. A study in any of the disciplines in social sciences allows students to critically examine the state of society and how it can be made better for all. This opens avenues in law, business, communication, finance, psychology, creative arts and any career that has an impact on how society lives and thrives. What are the opportunities in research and higher studies? Research in social sciences is constantly evolving to respond to the growing complexities of the world that we live in. Technological advancements, digitisation of education and demands of an ever-changing socio-political and cultural milieu provide new and exciting research possibilities and opportunities, Mindful of this, JGU offers a wide range of master’s programmes in law, business, diplomacy, public policy, psychology, and economics. Our curriculum design and assessment processes are devised to enable students to think critically, engage with existing literature, and work towards contributing to existing knowledge. Are there gaps in academic policies and social awareness in India that somehow limit social sciences to flourish? While the National Education Policy 2020 has set the stage for social sciences to flourish, I believe it is awareness and stigma that limit its growth. For example, most parents would want their children to become engineers or doctors and that creates a very unhealthy hierarchy between disciplines that are equally important. Some of the most sought-after careers in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic include graphic designers, digital marketers and content writers. As we slip more and more into a digital lifestyle, we will hopefully realise the emotional and humanist applications of technology where research and application of social sciences will be more valuable. Social sciences and STEM are also seen as female and male gender-oriented courses, respectively. Has there been a change in this gender disparity and also in how humanities as a field of study is perceived in India? This is an extremely antiquated and dated view, which bears no merit at all in present times. These perceptions must be constantly challenged. The gender of a student has no bearing on success in a STEM or non-STEM career. While this gender disparity exists and is changing, we must move away from assigning careers based on gender. What steps is OP Jindal Global University taking to promote the growth of social science studies? Since its inception in 2009, the OP Jindal Global University has strived for excellence in higher education within social sciences, arts and humanities. Each of our programmes is interdisciplinary in nature and brings out the multidisciplinary solutions required for modern-day problems. We strive to achieve this excellence by engaging the highest quality of faculty members anywhere in India, by ensuring that our curricula are updated and future- ready and by equipping our students with the universal skills necessary to succeed in whatever career path they choose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Who was Goolam Vahanvati, the lawyer regarded as a luminary across India||In every field of work, there are people that just leave a permanent mark for the achievements and success that they have accumulated over the years. Goolam Vahanvati was one such distinguish individual. Born and brought up in Mumbai, India, Goolam was the son of Essaji Vahanvati who was a lawyer by profession and Goolam’s biggest inspiration to take up law. When he was a kid, Goolam was a straight A student and would work hard. This continued when he became a lawyer, he was sharp and dedicated to his work, this led to him building up quite a reputation for himself across the Bombay Bar his years as a junior lawyer. In 1990, he was promoted to a senior counsel position and in all this time, he had been a part of various high profile cases. In the year 1999, Goolam was promoted to the role of Advocate General of Maharashtra and when the UPA rose to power in 2004, he was offered the role of Solicitor General of India. In 2009, Goolam Vahanvati became the first ever Muslim in India to ascend to the role of Attorney General of India, the highest position in the Indian judicial system. He served as the 13th Attorney General of India until 2012 and then his term was extended for another two years. Goolam Vahanvati passed away in September 2014 due to a cardiac arrest. Many of his cases such as the stamp paper scam, the case for OBC reservations for higher education, the stock market scam and others are still talked about and even take up as case studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||India never had more decisive government, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched Indian Space Association (ISpA), an industry body aspiring to be the voice of the country's space sector, and underlined his dispensation's commitment to reforms, saying the country never had a more decisive government. Modi cited the government's success in privatising loss-making public airline Air India to assert that this shows its commitment and seriousness. He said the government's policy about the public sector is that sectors, where it is not needed, should be opened to private enterprises. The prime minister referred to the opening of a host of sectors from space to defence to private players, and asserted that his government has kept national interest as well the needs of different stakeholders in mind. He said India is seeing reforms on such a wide scale because its vision is clear, which is about having an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. Modi said India is among the few countries which has end-to-end technology in the space sector. As a partner, the government is helping industry, young innovators, start-ups and will continue doing so, he added. He said his government's approach to reforms in the space sector is based on the four pillars; allowing the private sector freedom of innovation, government playing the enabler's role, preparing youngsters for the future and envisioning the sector as a resource to help the common man's development. The ISpA will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies, the government has said. Echoing the prime minister's vision of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', the ISpA will help in making India self-reliant, technologically advanced and a leading player in the space arena, it added. The ISpA is represented by leading home grown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya, his MLA son resign from BJP, join Congress||In a big jolt for the BJP ahead of the next year's assembly polls, Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya quit the saffron party on Monday and joined the Congress along with his MLA son Sanjeev. Yashpal Arya and his son, along with their supporters, joined the Congress in the presence of senior party leaders Harish Rawat, K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala in New Delhi. Earlier in the day, they met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence. From 2007 to 2014, Yashpal Arya was the president of Uttarakhand Congress and had been a former speaker and a minister in the Congress government led by Rawat. He had switched over to the BJP in 2017 ahead of the assembly elections in Uttarakhand. He represents the Mukteshwar assembly constituency in the state. His son Sanjeev Arya represents the Nainital Assembly constituency in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Agitation will continue till farmers' demands are met, says Rakesh Tikait||The farmers' agitation will continue till all demands are met, including repealing of the three farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has said. Talking to reporters in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district on Sunday evening, he said that the Centre is overlooking "the one-year long agitation of farmers in which 750 farmers have died". Farmers have been protesting against the legislations at Delhi border points since their enactment in September last year and demanding these be repealed. Tikait claimed that farmers' income has not increased despite the price of goods. The three farm laws and the BJP are "anti-farmer", he said, claiming that the government is not ready for a dialogue to resolve the issue. The BJP government at the Centre only supports industrialists, he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Maharashtra bandh: Bus services affected||Bus services were affected in Mumbai and neighbouring areas on Monday and most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed in the wake of the bandh called across Maharashtra by three partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. As buses of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST- the transport undertaking of the city civic body) and many of the traditional 'black-yellow cabs' remained off roads, there were huge crowds on suburban railway stations to commute by local trains, which were running as per schedule. The three ruling allies - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, have appealed to people to wholeheartedly support the bandh, which began at midnight, to express their solidarity with farmers. In the morning, shops and other commercial establishments, barring those engaged in selling essential items, remained closed in Mumbai. While the BEST bus services were affected in the wake of the bandh, the local trains, considered as the lifeline of Mumbai, were operating normally, but running packed as road commuters shifted to suburban rail services. Our services are running as per schedule," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, told PTI. Most of the black-yellow cabs and auto-rickshaws were off roads in the metropolis, as per transport union leaders. "The black-yellow taxis are operating, but their number is very less. The taxi operations outside the city airport are unaffected," said A L Quadros, general secretary of the Mumbai Taximens' Union. The Metro rail services were also operating normally in the city. Officials of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) said their buses from Mumbai to other places were plying as per schedule and no untoward incident was reported anywhere. "Regional offices across the state have been informed to operate bus services in consultation with the district administration concerned and police after taking stock of the local situation," an MSRTC official said. There was heavy police deployment across the state capital in the wake of the bandh. Police personnel, including women, were on patrolling duty in every area of the city and no untoward incident was reported till now, a police official said. There was extra traffic police deployment on the city roads, where people were mostly seen travelling in private vehicles. Many senior police officials were seen visiting the 'bandobast' points. At railways stations also, extra police force was deployed. The Mumbai Police earlier said they will deploy the maximum manpower at their disposal on the streets on Monday to prevent any untoward incident during the bandh. Three companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), 500 Home Guard personnel and 400 men from the Local Arms units are already deployed as additional manpower for the ongoing Navratri festival security, an official said. In neighbouring Thane district, shops and commercial establishments remained closed in the morning and roads at many places wore a deserted look. Public buses remained off roads, while a few auto-rickshaws were seen plying in some places. Heavy security was deployed in Thane city, rural parts of the district, neighbouring Navi Mumbai township and Palghar district, officials said. Activists of the ruling allies, carrying placards and banners, took out morchas in Thane city, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Vasai towns and raised slogans to protest the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Local leaders were seen requesting traders in some places to keep their establishments shut. The Thane Small Scale Industries Association in a release condemned the killing of farmers, but said the industries and small traders were not in favour of the bandh as they were already facing losses due to the COVID-19-related curbs. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut last week said his party will participate with full force in the Monday bandh in Maharashtra. He said it was necessary to wake people up against the "anti-farmer" policies of the Central government. Eight people, including four farmers, died in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers died after being knocked down by vehicles reportedly carrying BJP workers, after which an angry mob allegedly lynched some people in these vehicles. On Saturday night, Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was arrested by the police in Lakhimpur Kheri in connection with the October 3 violence. NCP spokesman and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday said the MVA demands that Union minister Ajay Misha be sacked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||India witnesses lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 215 days||India logged 18,132 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 215 days, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,71,607, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 98 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,50,782 with 193 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 2,27,347, the lowest in 209 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 17 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 106 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.67 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. A decrease of 3,624 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 10,35,797 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,36,31,490. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.75 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 42 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 108 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,93,478, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 95.19 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 193 new fatalities include 85 from Kerala and 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,50,782 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,542 from Maharashtra, 37,885 from Karnataka, 35,783 from Tamil Nadu, 26,258 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,905 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||India, China's 13th round of talks on Ladakh row remains inconclusive||India and China failed to make any headway in resolving the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh at the 13th round of military talks, with the Indian Army saying on Monday that the "constructive suggestions" made by it were not agreeable to the Chinese side. In a statement that indicated hardening of its position on the matter, the Army said the meeting on Sunday did not result in resolution of the issues in remaining areas and that the Indian side emphasised that it expects the Chinese side to work towards it. "During the meeting, the Indian side, therefore, made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas," the Army said in a statement. The talks took place at the Chushul-Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Sunday and they lasted for around eight-and-half hours. The Army said the Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by "unilateral attempts" of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements. "The Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements," the Army said. "It was, therefore, necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the Western sector," it said. The Indian side also referred to the talks between the Chinese and Indian foreign ministers last month in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe on the sidelines of the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. "This would also be in accord with the guidance provided by the two foreign ministers in their recent meeting in Dushanbe where they had agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest," the Indian Army said. "The Indian side emphasised such resolution of the remaining areas would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations," it added. The Indian delegation also emphasised that a resolution of the remaining issues would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations. The Army said the two sides have agreed to maintain communications and also stability on the ground. "It is our expectation that the Chinese side will take into account the overall perspective of bilateral relations and will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," it said. It is learnt that the Indian side took up the stalled disengagement at Patrolling Point 15 (PP-15) as well as issues in Depsang. The talks took place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops with one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh around 10 days back and it was resolved within a few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols. Close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending a few hours. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. On Saturday, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said if the Chinese military continues with its large-scale deployment in the eastern Ladakh region, then the Indian Army too will maintain its strength on its side which he said is "as good as what the PLA has done." The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounters in J-K's Anantnag, Bandipora districts||Two militants were killed and a policeman was injured during encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag and Bandipora districts on Monday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation at Khagund in Anantnag district's Verinag area following information about the presence of militants there, an official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated, he said. The police official said that while one militant has been killed, a policeman suffered injuries. He added that the operation is going on. In another encounter, which broke out at Gundjahangir in Bandipora district's Hajin area, a Lashkar-e-Toiba militant was killed. "Killed terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund Bandipora," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Priyanka becomes Congress's face for UP Assembly elections 2022||The Congress on Sunday projected Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as its face for the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. At a Kisan Nyay rally in Rohania, Varanasi, Priyanka was projected as a lone crusader for justice while other challengers to the BJP were dismissed as compromised opportunists. Samajwadi Party leader and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was singled out and accused of surrendering to the BJP’s coercive politics, an indication that the Congress was willing to go solo this election, due next March. Priyanka’s post of general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh does not automatically make her the party’s face for the state election. But Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, the AICC observer for Uttar Pradesh, told the rally: “The RSS-BJP incites people in the name of religion. Who fights for your rights; who fights for your welfare? “Who will you stand with -- those who fight for your rights or those who crush your rights? Support Priyanka, the next government will be formed under her leadership.” Priyanka asked people to answer one question honestly. “Ask yourself this question: has your life improved? Have they (the BJP) fulfilled their promises? If not, come with me; stand with me. I will not stop until I usher in real change.” In the end, this was the admission that she had taken up the challenge to confront Adityanath, shedding any inhibitions stemming from apprehensions about the outcome. The Congress, which last won an Uttar Pradesh election in 1985 and now commands barely 8 per cent of the vote share, has a long way to go in terms of organisational muscle. But Uttar Pradesh has defied political logic in the last three elections by giving decisive mandates successively to the Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadis and the BJP. The Congress is scanning the skies for that ray of hope from the ruins of Uttar Pradesh. Although the stated purpose of the meeting was to seek justice for the farmers – both in the context of the new farm laws and the Lakhimpur Kheri atrocity --- the atmospherics left little doubt that it marked the launch of the Congress election campaign with Priyanka as its mascot. All the speakers dwelt on her commitment to the welfare of the state and her sustained fight for justice. Former MP Rajesh Mishra said: “No other Opposition leader was seen fighting for the people during the last four years. Whenever she raised her voice, the Yogi (Adityanath) government had to pay heed. She fearlessly fought on the streets.” Another senior leader, Ajai Rai, described Priyanka as the saviour of Uttar Pradesh and said the state had finally got a leader. State Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu described Priyanka as the commander leading the fight against “goonda raj” in the state. “The rule of law has been destroyed in the state. Yogi is practising the politics of repression. Priyanka has taken it on herself to end this misrule,” he said. “From Sonbhadra to Unnao, Hathras and Lakhimpur, she has been like the sun rising against the darkness. She showed the same concern during the CAA-NRC struggle as well.” Lallu added: “Will you support those who surrendered to the BJP and hid in the safe confines of their homes, or Priyanka who fought for your cause? Akhilesh Yadav was scared of criticising the BJP. He hid in his home. His fight has been symbolic. Priyanka is committed to freeing the state of goonda raj. Come, support her in this mission.” Deepender Hooda lauded Priyanka’s courage and determination. “India’s soul was crushed under the wheels in Lakhimpur Kheri and Priyanka was the first leader to raise her voice,” he said. “Ek taraf satta khadi hai, doosri taraf satya khada hai. On one hand is arrogance and the brutality of power, on the other is the force of morality. We expect every citizen to stand with Priyanka in this battle.” Priyanka herself built a strong case against the Adityanath government, alleging justice was impossible under his rule. Recalling Sonbhadra, where tribal people had been killed for land, as well as Unnao, Hathras and Lakhimpur, she said: “People wanted justice in each case, not compensation. But there is no scope for justice under this regime. A minister’s son crushes innocent farmers and the government stands with the perpetrators instead of delivering justice. The Prime Minister comes to Lucknow but shows no concern. He refused to meet the families of the farmers.” Priyanka said: “They are celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. The farmers gave us freedom. Freedom has no meaning if citizens can’t expect justice. “The nation’s foundations rest on the hope for justice. That’s the constitutional spirit. But justice is not given anywhere in the country. Where will the people go if the chief minister and the Prime Minister side with the minister whose son mowed down farmers?” Priyanka also referred to subjects such as unemployment and the rising prices apart from the dangers of the new farm laws. She regretted that a segment of citizens felt that Narendra Modi had bolstered people’s sense of security. “That’s a myth. Nobody is secure except Modi’s friends. Women are unsafe, the poor are losing their livelihood, Dalits and minorities are unsafe. The country is being destroyed,” she said. “Look at the truth hidden behind the propaganda. This is no longer about elections; this is about the country. Who will save the country? Don’t get misled by their politics. Save your country. The Congress is not scared; the Congress cannot be silenced. Nobody can frighten us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Cops who killed Adityanath's 'admirer' arrested||Police on Sunday  arrested inspector Jay Narayan Singh and sub-inspector Akshay Mishra on the charge of killing Manish Gupta, a Kanpur-based real estate developer who was an “admirer” of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in a Gorakhpur hotel on September 27. Meenakshi, wife of Gupta, had alleged that six policemen had barged into the hotel room in the name of routine checking but they were actually there to extort money from the guests. Gupta died after being allegedly beaten up by the cops in his hotel room for taking time to show his identity proof. Meenakshi had alleged that the senior administrative and police officers had tried to bully her and refused to accept her complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India|| Varun Gandhi castigates efforts to communalise Lakhimpur carnage||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Sunday castigated the efforts to communalise the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage, sending a message to his party and its government. “An attempt to turn #LakhimpurKheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immortal & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal,” Varun tweeted. “We must not put petty political gains above national unity.” Some BJP politicians, including Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, have sought to portray the protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri as Khalistani extremists. Many of the protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri were Sikhs. Of the five men mowed down last Sunday, the four farmers were Sikhs and the journalist was a Hindu. The Terai region of which Lakhimpur Kheri is a part has a large Sikh population, with settlers from the community arriving after the Partition. Varun was recently dropped from the BJP national executive committee along with mother Maneka Gandhi, also a party MP. The decision followed his relentless questioning on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and his persistent demands for strong action. On Sunday, Varun said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri was about the “cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite”, and insisted that the issue had no religious connotations. “To use the word ‘Khalistani’ liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction,” he said. Ashis Mishra, son of Teni, has been arrested in connection with the October 3 massacre. He is alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that had, along with some other cars in a convoy it was leading, ploughed through a crowd of protesting farmers, killing five people. Varun has over the past few months annoyed the BJP leadership by publicly airing sympathy for the farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws since last November. Other BJP leaders and the party’s ecosystem have repeatedly tried to discredit the farmers and paint them as terrorists or Naxalites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||J&K: Sikh leaders accuse govt of failing to protect minorities||Sikh leaders on Saturday accused the government of failing to protect the minorities in Kashmir and said they would not join work unless their safety was ensured. Fear has gripped the Valley after a spate of civilian killings by suspected militants. Four of them, including a Sikh woman who was a school principal, belonged to minority communities. Muslims are in majority in Kashmir. A few dozen Kashmiri Pandit families have migrated to Jammu following the killings while hundreds of government employees from minority communities have stopped going to office fearing for their lives. Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee general secretary president Navtej Singh on Saturday told a media conference that minority community members would not join their duties in government offices unless the administration assured that they would be protected in Kashmir. “Life is more precious than anything else. We are living in fear. An unarmed lady was killed inside her school. Naturally all employees are scared. Unless the government ensures their protection, they won’t attend duty,” Singh said. A government official said the administration was encouraging the minorities to stay home until the situation eased. Singh said it was the prime duty of the government to protect the minorities but it had failed. “Otherwise, how is it possible to enter a school and kill people? Moreover, it was already in the knowledge of the government as a doctor (pharmacist) and a (non-local vendor) had been killed a day earlier,” he said. The pharmacist, who was a Kashmiri Pandit, and the vendor were killed on October 5. Two days later, militants killed the Sikh school principal and a teacher, a Kashmiri Pandit. Scores of Sikhs on Friday staged a protest in Srinagar, where they raised slogans against the Resistance Front, a militant group believed to be behind the killings. Sikhs, who number less than a lakh in Kashmir, have vowed to stay on. But some Kashmiri Pandit families have migrated to Jammu, prompting the Valley leadership to urge them not to leave. BJP youth leader Sahil Tikoo, a Kashmiri Pandit, said they must return and “face the battleground with valour”. “This fear of being dead has to go and now is the time. Either we face them now or we stop crying over it. We can’t be scared of these cowards,” Tikoo tweeted. Sikh leader Budha Singh said some people had claimed that the Sikh principal was killed for hoisting the Indian flag on Independence Day, wondering whether the scores of members of the majority Muslim community in Kashmir who too had unfurled the Tricolour would also be targeted. The national flag was raised at many places on August 15 on the government’s directions. “Will they do the same with (slain militant) Burhan Wani’s father who also raised the flag? A 1,000-odd schools did so at the government’s behest. Will they also be targeted? Our biggest medical institute has a Tricolour on top of it, will they kill the director?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Martina Navratilova calls Amit Shah's praise for Modi a joke||Martina Navratilova, the tennis legend who torments the Right-wing ecosystem in India with her occasional tweets, has this time hit where it hurts the most. “And for my next joke…” Navratilova tweeted on Sunday night, adding an emoticon for astonishment and another that resembles a clown. Below the tweet she had added a tweet on a news report that said “Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not a ‘dictator’ but the most democratic leader the country has ever seen”…. Shah’s comments were excerpted from an interview with Sansad TV on the occasion of Narendra Modi completing 20 years in public office last week. One Twitter user thanked Navratilova while another referred to the backlash that was activated when singer Rihanna tweeted on the farmers’ protest. Navratilova has been sticking to her Twitter bio motto — “Time to speak out now” — unfailingly. In 2016, she had drawn the ire of Indian trolls when she shared on Twitter an article on the crackdown on JNU students. In 2019, Navratilova had skewered the rapport between Modi and then US President Donald Trump. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is among those who tasted the power of her off-court serve and volley, getting chastised when he blamed a rise in rape cases on “vulgar clothing”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister’s son sent to jail, cops seek custody||Ashis Mishra was sent to judicial custody by a magistrate shortly after his arrest late on Saturday night, but officers said the police special investigation team hoped to get his custody when the minister’s son is produced in court on Monday morning. Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, was arrested at 10.48pm on Saturday after almost 12 hours of questioning by the SIT in connection with the October 3 murder of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri. He was then taken to Lakhimpur district jail, about half a kilometre from the police crime branch office where he was interrogated, to be produced around 11.30pm before a waiting judicial magistrate. A man who introduced himself as one of Ashis’s lawyers but didn’t give his name spoke to reporters before the district jail on Sunday. The unidentified person said: “The police wanted Ashis’s custody but we objected. So, judicial magistrate Deeksha Bharti sent him to judicial custody and posted the case for Monday.” He said the legal team would apply for bail on Monday. He explained that Saturday night’s relief probably owed to the lateness of the hour and the fact that Ashis had already undergone prolonged grilling. Late on Saturday night, deputy inspector-general of police Upendra Agrawal had told reporters that Ashis, the “main accused”, had “remained evasive throughout the interrogation”. “He didn’t cooperate and we decided to arrest him formally. We need more information from him, so we will apply for his custody on Monday.” A Lucknow police officer who spoke to this newspaper provided several details relating to Saturday’s questioning, which he said he had obtained from colleagues in the SIT. He said Ashis had stonewalled some half a dozen of the 45-odd questions he was asked, and answered the rest evasively. “Asked where he was during the Tikunia carnage, he said he was in his village Banvirpur, 4km away, where a wrestling programme was on,” the officer said. “Asked which car in the convoy he was driving when some of the cars ploughed into the farmers, Ashis got irritated and said, ‘I have told you I was in the village’. “When, after a few more questions, he was asked why he had decided to run the farmers over, he said he wouldn’t answer any more questions.” The officer said Ashis had come with videos to defend himself. “When an interrogator said these videos had been ‘manufactured’, Ashis replied that it was the videos showing a jeep (said to be belonging to his father) crushing people that were fake,” the Lucknow officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Sangh organisations object college naming campus park after Stan||A Catholic college in Mangalore has put on hold its plan to name a park on the campus after Father Stan Swamy following objections from Sangh parivar organisations that described the Jesuit and tribal rights defender as “anti-national”. The 141-year-old Jesuit institution, St Aloysius College (Autonomous), had planned an event on Thursday to name the park at its management institute in Kotekar, on Mangalore’s outskirts, after the priest from Jharkhand who died in custody. College sources said the park — the institution’s private property — at the St Aloysius Institute of Management and IT was to have a signboard declaring it the “Fr Stan Swamy Peace Park”. But at a news conference on Wednesday, RSS student wing ABVP, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal objected to the plan. The outfit said the college management would be solely responsible if it failed to heed their warning and something untoward happened. The college scrapped the event and said it had been postponed because of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to the city on Thursday. On Saturday, the college rector, Father Melwin Pinto, told The Telegraph in an email that no fresh date had been set for the event. To a question, he said that no police complaint had been lodged since “we have not received any direct threat except for a letter from ABVP to the principal”. On Wednesday, ABVP state joint secretary Manikanta had also sent a letter to Mangalore deputy commissioner K.V. Rajendra, police commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and the college management, protesting the move to name the park after Father Stan. Father Stan, an 83-year-old Parkinson’s patient, had been arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case under the anti-terror law UAPA, accused of Maoist links and put in jail. He died in custody on July 5 after nine months of acute physical suffering in prison. The rector said “fascist forces” were tarnishing Father Stan’s image. “I have known Fr Stan Swamy personally and am appalled to know that his good name is being tarnished by fascist forces who have absolutely no idea of the colossal work of this man among tribals and marginalised groups,” Father Pinto said. “He was a diehard social activist committed to the Constitution’s values and issues of justice. Violence was never a part of his ideology.” A college official had earlier told this newspaper the park was to be opened at an “internal event” on Thursday. “We had scheduled a small event, but then we faced this issue the previous day, and the President was in town. So we decided to postpone the event,” the official, who cannot be named, said. “But at some stage we shall have to tell people what we plan to do about naming the park, now that it has become a major issue.” About 100 progressive organisations and individuals have expressed support for the college and urged the district administration to act against those resorting to intimidation. “They have absolutely no right to interfere in the goings-on of the private institution. These organisations have a stated purpose and history (of) violence, communal divisiveness and subscribe to an idea of our country, with scant regard to the Constitution and the rule of law,” an open letter said. It was issued by the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, Campaign to Defend Democracy, All India People’s Forum, journalist P. Sainath, educationist Anil Sadgopal, rights activist Harsh Mander, Clifton D’Rozario of the All India Lawyers’ Association for Justice, and others. “This blatantly illegal behaviour is a consequence of the free run that is being given to these fascist organisations in coastal Karnataka,” the letter said. “These organisations are imposing social apartheid, interfering in the private affairs of citizens and acting against the constitutional principle of fraternity by engaging in daily acts of violence and intimidation with impunity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Proposed Puri international airport  threatens forest, livelihood||Sagar Behera, 45, returned home around 4pm on Friday with two empty cans tied to his motorcycle. A milkman, Behera had sold 40 litres of buffalo milk to sweet shops at block headquarters Brahmagiri. After he had milked the buffalos in the morning, his wife had taken the animals to graze in the forests along the coastline. Behera has been worried since he heard about a proposal to build an international airport along the coastline in his mauza, Sipasarubali. The proposed airport is expected to cover an area about 8km long and 2km wide, stretching from the outskirts of Puri town — 14km from Balabhadra Patna village — to the Bali Harchandi temple. The area is rich in flora and fauna. Several lakh cashew nut, neem, mango and casuarina trees grow on the sand dunes, protecting Puri town and the coastal villages from high tide and the recurrent cyclones. If the airport project gets going, thousands of these trees will be cut down, the sand dunes will be flattened, and hundreds of acres of forestland where cattle now graze will be absorbed into the tarmac. “I sustain my family by selling milk. If the grazing fields are taken away for the airport, I shall lose my livelihood,” Behera said. The livelihood of Balabhadra Patna’s about 140 families depends heavily on the beach forests, where they not only graze their cattle but collect cashew nuts in summer and firewood through the year. A state government official said the district administration had about 4,500 acres of land that could be used for the airport and its future expansion. However, if the sand dunes and forests have to be saved by building the airport at some distance from the sea, village farmlands will have to be taken over. Official activity on the proposed Sri Jagannath International Airport near Puri kicked off after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January. A three-member team from the Airport Authority of India (AAI) visited two proposed locations — in Sipasarubali and in Balukhanda, close to the Puri-Konark Marine Drive — in June and reportedly selected Sipasarubali. Akshya Pradhan, a 40-year-old farmer, said every family in the village earned Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 a year by collecting and selling cashew nuts. “We grow paddy, but not all the families own farmland. People survive on forest produce and casual labour,” Pradhan said. “I have two acres of land but I too collect cashew nuts in the summer.” Some others, however, are looking at the proposed airport with hope. Diwakar Dalai, 52, a former panchayat sarpanch, said the airport would boost the area’s economy. “Those opposing the airport are mistaken, it will benefit us immensely. Our children will get jobs. Others can open shops, dhabas, a taxi service and so on,” Dalai said. Pratap Dash from the nearby Narasingh Patna village too is in favour of the airport. He said agriculture was “no longer a sustainable occupation” because seawater entered the paddy fields through the Sunamukhi river during high tide, damaging the crop. The AAI has asked the state government for land records and wind speed data from the area, and a map of the Coastal Regulatory Zone. A government official said the local villagers had a few years ago formed an Upakula Jami Jangal Surakshya Samiti to guard the forests on the government land against the theft of cashew nuts and sand by the mafia. The Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation had in 2012 identified this area for a hotel project but protests from the Samiti scuttled it. Laxmidhar Sahu, a farmer from Barudi village, said the Samiti had begun protesting against the airport project. He asked why the area needed an airport when Bhubaneswar airport was just 60km from Puri. “The Centre plans to lease Bhubaneswar airport to private parties. I feel the government similarly plans to take control of the Sipasarubali area and later hand it over to the rich to build hotels. We will not allow this,” Sahu said. Puri Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati too has opposed the airport project saying it will rob the area of greenery, and its cattle of food. Ratnakar Sethi, a 55-year-old labourer from Barudi, said an airport would damage the ecology. He said the trees and 10 to 15-metre-high sand dunes protect the land and settlements from the cyclones that strike every year with wind speeds of up to 120km per hour. Jagannath Bastia, an environmental activist from Puri, said any damage to the sand dunes and beach forests could cause erosion and endanger Puri town and the villages. Bastia, president of the Beach Protection Council and former member of the Odisha Coastal Zone Management Authority, recommended at least a 2km wide strip of sand between the proposed airport and the sea. But this will necessitate the acquisition of the villagers’ land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||LAC: India and China hold 13th round of military talks||Indian and Chinese armies held the 13th round of military talks in eastern Ladakh on Sunday on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control to resolve the 17-month border standoff. The talks began around 10.30am and ended at 7pm, a defence ministry official said. Till around 9pm, neither the Indian Army nor the defence ministry issued any formal statement on the outcome of the meeting. Sources said India pressed for the disengagement process to be initiated in the remaining friction points — Depsang Plains and Hot Springs — in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the strategically located Depsang Plains. The Chinese army has disengaged “partially” from other friction points — the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra — through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. Ahead of talks, Indian Army chief M.M. Naravane had said on Saturday that the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh suggested that “they are there to stay”. “We are keeping a close watch on all this development,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||'Not seen a listener like Modiji', says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said he had “not seen a listener like Modiji” and dismissed as “baseless” the allegations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi operating like an autocrat. “These accusations (of Modi taking decisions alone) are baseless. I have not seen a listener like Modiji,” Shah said in an interview to Sansad TV, a channel for Parliament launched after merging Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV. The minister was asked about a perception among a “section of the media and intelligentsia” that Modi is an autocrat who takes decisions unilaterally without holding consultations. “During meetings, Modiji is the one who talks less and listens patiently to everybody and then takes the right decision,” Shah said, adding that under no Prime Minister has the cabinet functioned as democratically as under Modi. “Whoever has worked with him, even the critics would agree that the cabinet has never functioned in such a democratic manner,” the minister said. Asked why then such a perception had formed, he said: “Such things are deliberately done.…” Then he quickly added: One reason was the “discipline” enforced under Modi. “He (Modi) expects discipline. So whatever deliberations take place in a forum doesn’t come out. Earlier it used to get leaked but not anymore,” Shah said, smiling. “So people think that Modiji has taken a decision unilaterally. Whatever discussion has taken place is not known to the people or journalists,” he added. It is widely known that in the Modi government, a very small coterie is aware of key decisions before they come for cabinet approval. Some senior ministers had acknowledged privately that they did not know of the demonetisation decision or the decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir till these came to the cabinet. In the interview, Shah said a decision like demonetisation could only be taken by Modi, trying to project him as a strong leader. The November 2016 decision to junk the high-value currency notes, which forced millions of Indians to line up before banks for hours and days on end, is widely seen as an economic disaster. Shah also defended the government’s new farm laws and dismissed as unfounded the concerns of farmers protesting for the past nine months. The Prime Minister has not once met the thousands of farmers camped on the highways outside Delhi since November last year to convince his government to withdraw the laws. No questions were asked on the Lakhimpur massacre on which the Prime Minister is yet to react.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel inaugurates the first phase of Ram exile path ||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel last week inaugurated the first phase of a tourism circuit project which seeks to retrace the path that devotees believe Lord Ram took with his wife Sita and brother Lakshman during his exile. Inaugurating the three-day event at Chandkhuri, home to the ancient Mata Kaushalya Temple, Baghel said on Thursday that Lord Ram had a very deep connection with Chhattisgarh. “Lord Shri Ram is in the heart and soul of every Chhattisgarhia. We Chhattisgarhia people know and believe Lord Shri Ram as Mata Kaushalya’s Ram, Bhancha Ram, Vanvasi Ram, Shabri’s affectionate and kind Ram,” said Baghel. The chief minister further said that the profound influence of Lord Ram can be seen and heard in the lifestyle, folk culture and folk songs of Chhattisgarh. Lord Ram had spent about 10 out of 14 years of his exile in Chhattisgarh, he said. While paying homage to Chandkhuri, considered the home of Lord Ram’s maternal grandparents, the chief minister extended Navratri greetings to the people. He said that not only Chandkhuri, entire Chhattisgarh is the maternal home of Lord Ram. Referring to the colourful cultural and religious programmes to be organised for three days during Navratri at Chandkhuri, Baghel said artistes of national and international repute along with those of Chhattisgarh would perform during the event. On the Ram Van Gaman Marg Tourism Circuit Project, the chief minister said the route, which is about 2,260km in length, is being developed from Harchouka in Sitamarhi of Koriya district to Ramaram in Sukma. “Cultural heritage constitutes an important part of Chhattisgarh’s identity. Our government is conserving and promoting the faith centres of every section of society. Efforts are being made for the development of Ghotuls (tribal huts) and Devgudis (temple-like structures of tribal deities) to preserve the tribal culture and traditions in Bastar region from the archaeological Buddhist site in Sirpur,” said Baghel. Terming Chhattisgarh as an emerging cultural hub, Baghel said: “The government is making consistent efforts to promote the culture of Chhattisgarh, its religious and archaeological sites, tourist places and the 5,000-year-old ancient theatre in Ramgarh of Sarguja at the global level.” Referring to Dongargarh, the city of Maa Bamleshwari, Baghel said the government was working to beautify all the places of religious and archaeological importance. He said that some people are trying to disturb the age-old tradition of peace and harmony in Chhattisgarh, but they will never succeed. Chhattisgarh has deep roots of tolerance, love and harmony, he added. The programme was presided over by home and tourism minister Tamradhwaj Sahu. The chief minister, ministers, MPs, parliamentary secretaries, MLAs, officers of corporations and divisions and thousands of devotees enjoyed bhajans presented by Padma Shri Kabir brothers and the performance of Manas Mandali of Nand Kumar Sahu. Baghel also unveiled a 51ft statue of Lord Ram in the backdrop of a light and fire show at Kaushalya Mata Temple in Chandkhuri. The renovation and beautification work of the temple has been done at a cost of Rs 15 crore 45 lakh. The work includes the grand gate on the premises, beautification of the pond around the temple, construction of attractive pathways and plantation. The main attractions for the devotees are beautiful gardens, a statue of Goddess Lakshmi with Lord Vishnu on the Sheshnag bed in the middle of the pond and a sculpture depicting “samudra manthan (churning of the sea)”. On the tourism circuit, devotees will get darshan of Lord Ram at every step. Through this route, devotees would be able to experience the memories of Lord Ram from Koriya to Sukma district. Places related to Lord Ram’s exile period — Sitamarhi Harchauka (Koriya), Ramgarh (Sarguja), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariyaband), Sihawa Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar) and Ramaram (Sukma) — will be developed into world-class tourist destinations at a cost of Rs 133 crore 55 lakh under the project. The project will not only boost rural tourism in the state but would also unleash the path to new global tourism opportunities, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Odisha: Three Class I officers held with unaccounted cash of Rs 23 lakh||The Odisha vigilance officers have arrested three Class I officers after unaccounted cash of Rs 22.61 lakh was reportedly recovered from their possession. Bidhan Chandra Sahu, a superintending engineer (irrigation), Prakash Kumar Mohapatra of the Odisha State Pollution Control Board at Rourkela and regional officer Narottam Behera of the State Pollution Control Board were arrested. All of them were sent to judicial custody on Sunday, following rejection of their bail pleas. A team of vigilance officers arrested Sahu at N.C. College Road in Jajpur town while he was heading to Cuttack in his office vehicle on Saturday. During interception, a sum of over Rs 10 lakh was recovered from Sahu and Rs 64,000 was found from his residential house in Cuttack. Vigilance sleuths also held regional officer Prakash Kumar Mohapatra of the Odisha State Pollution Control Board at Rourkela on Saturday and seized Rs 1.75 lakh from him. He could not account for the amount satisfactorily. The vigilance officers held another regional officer Narottam Behera of the State Pollution Control Board on Saturday. The officer based at Balasore was arrested while he was heading to Bhubaneswar. Getting a tip off that the officer was carrying huge cash with him, the officers laid a trap at Tangi check gate on the outskirts of Cuttack. During interception, a sum of Rs 89,290 was recovered from Behera. Later, Rs 9.25 lakh was found from Behera’s residential house at Satyanagar, Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
