12-10-2021||India||Six lakh passports issued through post office seva kendras in last six months: Union minister||As many as 6,00,000 passports had been issued by the Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs) in the country in the last six months, Union Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan said on Tuesday.  He was speaking virtually from Delhi while inaugurating a POPSK at Dombivli in the Thane district of Maharashtra.  "A total of 427 POPSKs, including the new one, are operating in the country and serving the citizens to the best of their ability. They handle important documents. In the past six months, as many as 6,00,000 passports had been issued by POPSKs, which comes at 3,000 passports per day," Chauhan said.  He said the services rendered by the Department of Post are the most trustworthy as the department has a large network throughout the country.  "The services were expanded under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The services of post offices are no more limited to handling posts and money orders but they are much more," he added.  The minister also said that when services are provided there should be some tolerance and the same is shown by the passport offices and the postal department.  Kalyan MO Shrikant Shinde and senior officials of the Department of Post were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Indian economy to grow by 9.5 % in 2021: IMF||India's economy, which contracted by 7.3 per cent due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to grow by 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022, according to latest projections released by the International Monetary Fund on Tuesday. India's growth projection released by the latest World Economic Outlook remains unchanged from its previous WEO (World Economic Outlook) update of July this summer but is a three-percentage point in 2021 and 1.6 percentage point drop from its April projections. According to the latest WEO update, released ahead of the annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, the world is expected to grow at 5.9 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. The United States is projected to grow at six per cent this year and 5.2 per cent the next year. China, on the other hand, the IMF said is projected to grow at 8 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Gita Gopinath, Chief Economist of the IMF, said that compared to their July forecast, the global growth projection for 2021 has been revised down marginally to 5.9 per cent and is unchanged for 2022 at 4.9 per cent. However, this modest headline revision masks large downgrades for some countries. "The outlook for the low-income developing country group has darkened considerably due to worsening pandemic dynamics. The downgrade also reflects more difficult near-term prospects for the advanced economy group, in part due to supply disruptions, she said. "Partially offsetting these changes, projections for some commodity exporters have been upgraded on the back of rising commodity prices. Pandemic-related disruptions to contact-intensive sectors have caused the labour market recovery to significantly lag the output recovery in most countries, the Indian-American economist added. Observing that the dangerous divergence in economic prospects across countries remains a major concern, she said aggregate output for the advanced economy group is expected to regain its pre-pandemic trend path in 2022 and exceed it by 0.9 per cent in 2024. "By contrast, aggregate output for the emerging market and developing economy group (excluding China) is expected to remain 5.5 per cent below the pre-pandemic forecast in 2024, resulting in a larger setback to improvements in their living standards, she added. Noting that a principal common factor behind these complex challenges is the continued grip of the pandemic on global society, Gopinath said that the foremost policy priority is therefore to vaccinate at least 40 per cent of the population in every country by end-2021 and 70 per cent by mid-2022. "This will require high-income countries to fulfill existing vaccine dose donation pledges, coordinate with manufacturers to prioritise deliveries to COVAX in the near-term and remove trade restrictions on the flow of vaccines and their inputs, she said. At the same time, closing the USD 20 billion residual grant funding gap for testing, therapeutics and genomic surveillance will save lives now and keep vaccines fit for purpose. Looking ahead, vaccine manufacturers and high-income countries should support the expansion of regional production of COVID-19 vaccines in developing countries through financing and technology transfers, she said. Gopinath said that another urgent global priority is the need to slow the rise in global temperatures and contain the growing adverse effects of climate change. This will require more ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow. "A policy strategy that includes an international carbon price floor adjusted to country circumstances, a green public investment and research subsidy push, and compensatory, targeted transfers to households can help advance the energy transition in an equitable way. Just as importantly, advanced countries need to deliver on their earlier promises of mobilising USD 100 billion of annual climate financing for developing countries, Gopinath said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Mayawati targets Congress over killing of Dalit youth in Rajasthan||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Tuesday questioned the "silence" of Congress leaders over the lynching of a Dalit youth in Rajasthan and suggested that the Supreme Court should take suo moto cognizance of the case as it had done in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh.  She also questioned the silence of the Congress leadership over the "ruthless murder in Rajasthan" and accused the party of restricting its Dalit leaders from speaking on this topic.  In a tweet in Hindi, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president said, "In the latest incident in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the ruthless murder of a Dalit was discussed and condemned all over the country, but the Congress leadership not only kept mum but also imposed restrictions on its Dalit leaders from speaking about it. This is very sad and shameful."  Alleging that Dalits hold no importance for the Congress party, she said, "This proves that in the eyes of the Congress party and their governments, there was no importance of Dalits in the past and now also there is no concern for their lives, properties and safety. The new CM of Punjab and the new leader of Gujarat have also maintained silence by adopting double standards."  "The FIR was lodged three days after the killing in Rajasthan due to which there are scant chances of the family getting justice from the government. Therefore, like the Lakhimpur Kheri case of UP, if the Supreme Court takes suo moto cognizance of this matter as well, it would be better," she said in another tweet.  The Dalit man, identified as Jagdish, was thrashed to death by the accused on October 7 in the Prempura area of Hanumangarh.  The accused also shot a video of the entire incident in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then beating him up repeatedly with sticks.  Four people have been arrested and one minor detained in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Pakistani terror suspect arrested, arms recovered||Police have arrested a 40-year-old Pakistani national, who allegedly has ISI links and is involved in a plot to carry out a terror attack, from east Delhi's Laxmi Nagar area and seized arms and ammunition from his possession, officials said on Tuesday.  Mohammad Ashraf alias Ali, a resident of Pakistan's Punjab province, came to India via Bangladesh and had been staying in the country for 10 years after obtaining Indian identity cards through forged documents, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwaha said.  He was posing as a 'maulana' (religious preacher) and was arrested on Monday night, the DCP said.  Ashraf was recruited by the Pakistani spy agency ISI directly after he completed his schooling and was trained for six months, he added.  Officials said Ashraf was in contact with an ISI handler whom he identified as Nasir and was supposed to get information about the planned terror attack.  He has changed five-six locations in a span of 10 years, they said.  He never stayed at any specific location for long and to acquire documents, he also got married to a woman here, they said.  At his instance, an AK-47 and several other arms and ammunition have been recovered.  Ashraf has been arrested under relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Explosives Act and Arms Act, the police said.  Police suspect that he is part of a terror module.  Further investigations are on including if a lone wolf attack had been planned, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Mission 2022: Akhilesh launches 'rath yatra' from Kanpur||Kickstarting his party's "mission 2022" with a "rath yatra", SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday hit out at the BJP, saying it has "crushed farmers" and on return to power in Uttar Pradesh would "crush the Constitution" as well. The former UP CM launched the "Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra" from UP's Kanpur and it will cover all 403 Assembly segments ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls in the state. Meanwhile, Shivpal Yadav, who is Akhilesh's uncle and heads the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, also launched a "Samajik Parivartan Yatra" from Mathura. Akhilesh launched the yatra after taking blessings of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday. The yatra was flagged off by "Khazanchi", a child who was born in a queue outside a bank during demonetisation days. A Mercedes bus has been transformed into the "rath". Besides Mulayam Singh Yadav, it displays photographs of Dalit icon B R Amdedkar, Acharya Narendra Deva, Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayprakash Narayan, former president APJ Abdul Kalam, party veteran Janeshwar Mishra and jailed MP Mohammad Azam Khan. The yatra will pass through Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Hamirpur and Jalaun in the first phase and promises to make people aware about the "corrupt, autocratic and suppressive" policies of the BJP government and establish "real democracy". Attacking the ruling party, Akhilesh said, "The BJP has crushed farmers and if they come back to power, they are all set to crush the Constitution." "Therefore, the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will go to people and throw the BJP out of power," the former CM said in apparent reference to the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri last Sunday. "This rath will go on continuously for restoring the rights and honour of farmers," he added. Akhilesh exhorted party workers to reach out to people and seek their support. On the importance of Kanpur, Akhilesh said his party worked for its development. "It is a big and industrial city. Today, business establishments here have closed down. This city can not only give employment to the youth but can also improve the economy of the country and our party will work for it," he said. He recalled that his father Mulayam Singh Yadav had also started his "rath yatra" from this town and the party is following that tradition. "I am confident that people will give their support and the SP government will be formed with majority," Akhilesh remarked. Highlighting the significance of the yatra, an SP spokesman said whenever the party has taken out such a yatra, it has come to power. Exhibition of photographs of Samajwadi Party's Muslim face Azam Khan indicates the party efforts to cash in on his popularity among the minority community and also evoke their sentiment against the BJP for sending him and his son to jail in Rampur. Akhilesh's estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav also launched a "Samajik Parivartan Yatra" from Mathura. Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam was seen on his rath. The Congress leader told reporters in Vrindavan that he has come to give his "subhkamna" (good wishes) to Shivpal Yadav. Asked if he has come with a message from AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Krishnam said his visit "itself is a message". He took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav and BSP president Mayawati, saying they were not connected with people while hailing Shivpal Yadav as "jameeni neta" (grounded leader). Shivpal's rath also showcased photographs of Mulayam Singh Yadav and Ram Manohar Lohia besides that of B R Ambedkar and Chaudhary Charan Singh. The yatras by both parties come amid confusion whether the two would join hands to fight the UP polls together. Shivpal Singh Yadav had recently said that he would wait till October 11 for the response of Akhilesh on a tie-up after which he would chart his own political course. In 1988, a rath yatra was taken out from Kanpur by SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. In 2001 and 2011, it was started by Akhilesh Yadav from Lucknow and now again in 2021, it is being started from Kanpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Wreath-laying ceremony held for 5 soldiers killed in Poonch encounter||A wreath-laying ceremony was held in Rajouri on Tuesday to pay tributes to the five soldiers who were killed in a fierce gunfight with terrorists in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. Naib Subedar (Junior Commissioned Officer) Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoys Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H were part of an Army search party that came under attack from the terrorists during the operation on Monday. All five were critically injured and later succumbed to their injuries. A solemn ceremony was held at a military camp at Rajouri where wreaths were laid by senior Army officers and civil dignitaries to pay homage to the fallen soldiers, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army salutes the sacrifices of its soldiers who laid down their lives in the service of the motherland, he said. "The nation will always remain indebted to our bravehearts for their supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said. The spokesperson said that the mortal remains of the five soldiers will be sent to their respective hometowns on Wednesday. While the bodies of Jaswinder Singh, Mandeep Singh and Gajjan Singh will be taken to their respective hometowns in Punjab by road, the mortal remains of Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Vaisakh H of Kerala will be flown to their native places, officials said. After the wreath-laying ceremony, the mortal remains of all the five soldiers, wrapped in the tricolour, were moved to Jammu, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Expert panel recommends emergency use approval for Covaxin in 2 to 18 age group||An expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority has recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children in the 2 to 18 years age group with certain conditions, sources said on Tuesday. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which completed the phase 2/3 trials of Covid vaccine Covaxin for use in children aged between 2 and 18 years, had submitted the data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its verification and subsequent approval for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the jab in the beginning of this month. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on COVID-19 examined the data and deliberated on the EUA application on Monday. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended grant of market authorisation of the vaccine for the age group of 2 to 18 years for restricted use in emergency situations subject to the certain conditions," the SEC recommendations stated. The recommendations have been forwarded to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. The company had presented its proposal for grant of market authorisation of its Whole Virion, Inactivated coronavirus Vaccine (BBV152) in the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situation along with the interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial conducted. The committee noted that the interim safety data of the phase 2/3 clinical trial was reviewed in a meeting on August 26, the sources said. The overall geometric mean titre (GMT) for the paediatric population is comparable with GMT of the adult population in phase -3 efficacy study, the recommendations stated. After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended the grant of market authorisation of the vaccine for the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situations subject to certain conditions, they stated. According to the conditions, the firm should continue the study as per the approved clinical trial protocol and provide updated prescribing information/package Insert (Pl), Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Factsheet, a source said. Besides, the firm should submit safety data, including the data on AEFI and AESI, with due analysis, every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter and also as per requirement of New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. Last week Bharat Biotech had stated that it had submitted data on vaccine trials on children. The Covaxin vaccine tested on children is the same formulation as used on adults, but separate trials were needed to guarantee safety and efficacy on younger recipients. Data on these trials has not been made public yet, but tests were conducted on 1,000+ children across the country. The panel, however, noted the trial on kids showed similar efficacy rates as that on adults, reported NDTV.com. When the final approval of Drug Controller General of India come-the nod is seen as mere formality, Covaxin will be the second vaccine cleared for use on kids. Zydus Cadila's three-dose DNA jab was allowed to be used on adults and children over 12 in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Bail pleas must be taken up expeditiously, says SC||The liberty of an individual is sacrosanct and an application seeking bail must be taken up for hearing as expeditiously as possible, the Supreme Court has said. No time limit can be fixed for applications seeking pre-arrest or post-arrest bail but the minimal which can be expected is that such pleas be heard at the earliest, the apex court said. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and A S Oka said this while hearing a plea filed by an accused, who was taken into custody in March this year in connection with a case registered at Patiala district in Punjab, urging the court that his application seeking bail which is pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court be heard expeditiously. The bench noted that a sessions court had dismissed the bail application filed by the accused after which he had filed a plea seeking post-arrest bail before the high court on July 7. The petitioner's counsel told the bench that the matter was listed before the court several times but it could not be heard. "We are not going into the issue at the moment, but liberty of an individual is sacrosanct and we expect that if an application is filed either pre or post arrest, under sections 438/439 of the CrPC, it must be taken up as expeditiously as possible," the bench said in its order passed last week. Although, no time limit can be fixed, but that is the minimal which can be expected to give an audience at the earliest, the top court said. While Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) deals with the grant of bail to a person apprehending arrest, Section 439 relates to special powers of the high court or a sessions court regarding bail. While disposing of the plea, the bench requested the high court to consider the bail application filed by the petitioner as expeditiously as possible. The petitioner was taken into custody in connection with the case registered on March 30 this year for the alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Massive search operation underway to neutralise hiding terrorists in JK's Poonch, Rajouri||Security forces continued a massive search operation on Tuesday in a forest area connecting the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir, where five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) were killed in a gunfight the previous day, officials said. There was no fresh contact with terrorists during the ongoing operation in the dense forest areas of Surankote in Poonch and nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri, the officials said. Five soldiers, including a JCO, lost their lives when a group of heavily-armed terrorists opened fire on an army search party in a village close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote early on Monday. After the initial encounter, the terrorists fled to nearby Panghai forest which falls in the jurisdiction of Rajouri's Thanamandi and were chased by the troops and engaged in another encounter, the officials said. The gunfight between the two sides stopped Monday evening after the terrorists took advantage of the dense forest and fled, the officials said, adding that the whole forest belt was cordoned off and a search operation is underway to neutralise the hiding terrorists. The officials said senior police and army officers also rushed to the area to supervise the operation. Earlier, a defence spokesman said on the intervening night of October 10 and 11, a counter-terrorist operation was launched by the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the area of Shahdara, near the boundary of Poonch-Rajouri districts. During the conduct of the operation, terrorists brought down a heavy volume of fire on Army troops leading to fatal injuries to one JCO and four soldiers, a defence spokesman had said in a statement here. He identified soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty as Naib Subedar (JCO) Jaswinder Singh, a recipient of Sena Medal; Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoys Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H. The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the previous operations. Meanwhile, a group of youth staged an anti-Pakistan demonstration in Poonch town against the killing of Indian army soldiers. The youth, mostly belonging to the Sikh community, also set ablaze an effigy marked as Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said. "We condemn Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. The time has come when the Indian government should teach Pakistan a lesson for sending terrorists who are killing innocent civilians and our jawans," Kamaljeet Singh, one of the protesters said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Congress delegation to meet President, present memorandum on Lakhimpur incident||A delegation of Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and present a memorandum of facts on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, party sources said. The seven-member delegation will comprise Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, senior party leaders AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal. Sources said the delegation will meet the President on Wednesday at 11.30 AM. The party had written to him seeking time in this regard. The Congress has been demanding the immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra whose son Ashish has been named in the FIR and is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, and strict action against the accused in the killing of farmers. Ashish was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the violence, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Terming the mowing down of farmers as a "shocking incident of broad day massacre", Venugopal had said it has shaken the conscience of the entire nation. He said the Congress seek to present a detailed memorandum of facts on the Lakhimpur incident. He lamented that despite all round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Some trying to dent country's image in name of human rights violations, alleges Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed those who engage in "selective interpretation" of human rights and look at its violation with an eye on political loss and gains, saying such a conduct is harmful to these rights as well as democracy. Speaking at the 28th foundation day of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Modi said similar incidents are seen differently by some people as they describe human rights keeping their own interests in mind. Some even try to dent the country's image in the name of human rights violation, and people should beware of them, he said. Though Modi did not name any person or organisation, the ruling BJP has been critical of a section of human rights groups, including those with a global presence, for allegedly highlighting cases of HR violations selectively and in a one-sided manner to target the government. In his speech, the prime minister cited a number of measures taken by his government to deliver basic needs like toilets, cooking gas, electricity and homes to the poor and said this give rise to their aspirations and make them more aware of their rights. He said by making a law against 'triple talaq', his government has bestowed new rights on Muslim women. The prime minister also spoke of the measures like 26-week maternity leave and more stringent law for rape to highlight his dispensation's empowerment of women. The commission was set up under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, on October 12, 1993, for the promotion and protection of human rights. The NHRC takes cognisance of human rights violations, conducts enquiries and recommends compensation to victims from public authorities besides other remedial and legal measures against the erring public servants. Modi said freedom struggle and India's history are a big source of inspiration and values for human rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 181 casualties in a day||India recorded 14,313 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in 224 days, taking the infection tally to 3,39,85,920 on Tuesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.04 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,50,963 with 181 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 18 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 107 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,14,900 comprising 0.63 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.04 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,447 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 11,81,766 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,50,38,043. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 43 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 109 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,20,057, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 95.89 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Three militants killed in JK's Shopian district||Three militants of The Resistance Front (TRF), including the one involved in the recent killing of a non-local street hawker here, were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Tuesday. The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in Tulran, Imamsahab area of Shopian, in South Kashmir on Monday evening, after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing gunfight, three militants were killed, the official said. The police said they belonged to TRF -- a front for Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). "#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 03 #terrorists of LeT (TRF) killed. Identification being ascertained. #Incriminating materials including arms & ammunition recovered. Search going on. Further details shall follow," the Kashmir Zone Police wrote on its Twitter handle. Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar said one of the three militants was involved in the killing of non-local street hawker Virendra Paswan. "#ShopianEncounterUpdate: Out of 03 killed #terrorists, one terrorist has been identified as Mukhtar Shah of #Ganderbal, who shifted to #Shopian after killing one street hawker Virendra Paswan of Bihar," the Kashmir Zone Police quoted the IGP as having said. Paswan was shot dead in the Hawal area of the city on October 5 immediately after famous chemist M L Bindroo was killed near his pharmacy. Militants also killed Mohammad Shafi Lone, president of a local taxi stand in Naidkhai area of Bandipora district that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Farmers accuse Narendra Modi of harbouring criminals||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of harbouring criminals and placing ego before morality, the statement coming six hours before the expiry of its deadline to sack and arrest junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni. “His (Teni’s) continuation as a minister in the Union council of ministers can be construed only as Narendra Modi’s harbouring of criminals, Narendra Modi’s readiness to erode further the credibility of India’s Union government, or Narendra Modi’s ego becoming more important than morality in public life,” the Morcha asserted. The Morcha wants action against Teni for his “communal speech that acted as a trigger for the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre”. Teni’s son Ashis Mishra has been arrested in connection with a convoy of cars mowing down four farmers and a journalist in Lakhmpur Kheri on October 3, days after Teni had threatened to fix the protesting farmers. The Morcha, which has been spearheading the nationwide movement against three farm laws, will wait till midnight for the government to meet all its demands. However, as of Monday evening, its protest programme over the coming weeks to build pressure on the government over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage is on course. A formal announcement will come on Tuesday at the antim ardas (final prayers) to be held near the site of the October 3 carnage. “It is clear that in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre itself he (Teni) had a role to play. It was his vehicles that were in the convoy that killed innocent people,” the Morcha said. “The fact that Ajay Mishra Teni had sought to promote enmity, hatred and disharmony is clear from his speech on September 25th against minority Sikhs of Terai region. His speech was of intimidation and threat, in a public meeting at that, where he was also proudly alluding to his criminal antecedents, and on the basis of this, stern action should have taken place by now, which could have prevented the entire episode of Lakhimpur Kheri massacre.” The Morcha alleged that Teni had tried to protect his son. Since October 3, the Morcha has been citing a speech Teni had purportedly delivered on September 25 targeting the Sikh farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri. As in the rest of the Terai region of Uttar Pradesh, Lakhimpur Kheri has a sizeable number of Sikh farmers who were settled there after Partition. Many of them had fled western Punjab, now in Pakistan. The Morcha’s contention is that with other efforts to discredit its movement having failed, the BJP and its ecosystem was now trying to use direct violence to break the agitation, and to weaken it by dividing the farmers along communal lines. This has been highlighted by BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, who represents another constituency in the Terai region, Pilibhit, and is familiar with its demographic dynamics. “An attempt to turn #LakhimpurKheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity,” Varun had tweeted on Sunday. Varun has repeatedly sought justice for the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, going against his party line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Festivals to put Covid forecast and vaccines to test||The coming 10 weeks punctuated by festivals will put to test forecasts that Covid-19 in India is unlikely to flare up again into a fresh nationwide wave and the effectiveness of vaccines against severe disease and deaths, experts have said. Sections of experts believe the October-December period will serve as a “natural experiment” during which people’s behaviour is likely to provide the coronavirus opportunities to spread and the outcomes could illuminate both India’s proximity to endemic Covid-19 and vaccine efficacy. Health officials have exhorted the public to observe Covid-19 precautions through the coming weeks of festivals — Durga Puja, Dusshera, Milad-un-Nabi, Dhanteras, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Christmas and New Year’s eve — asserting that the Covid-19 threat persists. Union health ministry officials have outlined multiple options, including shopping online, celebrating festivals online, and avoiding travel to native places during festivals, to keep themselves safe and help avert any Covid-19 surges. “We have many options -- attend Durga Puja virtually, attend Ram Leela online, meet your loved ones through video calls to keep them and yourselves safe,” said Lav Agrawal, a joint secretary in the health ministry. “Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will be crucial over the three months.” Senior officials with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, have also in recent weeks urged the public to avoid any non-essential travel and venture into large gatherings only if they are fully vaccinated. Such appeals reflect concerns that although India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk steadily from the second wave’s peak in early May, clusters of infections if unchecked and allowed to spread could give rise to large localised outbreaks. India’s daily new Covid-19 infections -- that rose to a peak of over 97,000 in mid-September last year and to over 414,000 in early May -- now average about 20,000. But 56 districts across the country, including Calcutta, still have large infections and officials say the risk of fresh localised surges persists. Some public health experts, however, have predicted that the counts of people susceptible to Covid-19 across India has declined substantially with surveys indicating that over 67 per cent of the population is protected through natural infections or vaccination. “Because such a large proportion of the population is protected either through a history of the infection or through the vaccination, we should not see a large nationwide surge at all,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “If the coronavirus does not change, I expect India is already heading into endemic Covid-19,” John said. Endemicity will be marked by a small number of new cases daily as the virus continues to infect susceptible people but is unable to cause large outbreaks. Aurnab Ghose, a biologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, who is among researchers involved in coronavirus surveillance efforts, said the coming festival season is likely to serve as a “natural experiment” to test forecasts of endemicity and vaccine effectiveness. “Despite the abundant messaging, we’d expect to see enhanced opportunities for virus transmission during the coming festival weeks,” Ghose said. Although Maharashtra had imposed restrictions during the Ganesh festivals, there was greater intermingling of people than in earlier weeks, but the state has so far not shown any significant post-festival surge. “We’ve also been looking at the viral genome sequences, and nothing stands out as yet,” Ghose said. Amid strong evidence that the current Covid-19 vaccines protect against severe disease and deaths, but not so much against the infection itself, experts say there exists a possibility that infection counts will increase if people crowd during festivals. But if vaccines work as they promised to do, a medical researcher said, any localised clusters of infections that emerge after the festivals should not be accompanied by a proportional increase in deaths. Even if the infection counts increase, the researcher said, the vaccines should keep the counts of severe disease and deaths in check. The vaccination campaign has so far administered 73 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults in India one dose and 28 per cent the two doses required for full vaccination. In 18 states or Union Territories, 80 per cent of the population has received at least one dose. Bengal is among five states where less than 60 per cent of adults have received a single dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra in police custody for three days||A magistrate’s court on Monday gave the police three days’ custody of Ashis Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre case, rejecting the police’s demand for 14 days’ custody of the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. Ashis’s police remand will begin from 10am on Tuesday and end at 10am on Friday, Lakhimpur Kheri chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram said in his 4.45pm order. Special prosecution officer (SPO) S.P. Yadav told reporters the judge set three conditions for remand. The judge said:  “There should be adequate security when he is taken out (of prison or any police premises); he wouldn’t be harassed; and his lawyers may be present at some distance (during questioning).” A senior high court lawyer said these conditions were “routine”. After Friday 10am, Ashis will be back in judicial custody unless the special investigation team (SIT) succeeds in securing an extension of police remand. A police officer in Lucknow said the SIT might seek custody extension on Thursday. “Three days are not enough, but the SIT will collect as much evidence as it can and then seek extension of police custody.” Ashis is alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that, along with some other cars in a convoy it was leading, ran over and killed four farmers and a journalist at a farmers’ protest in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri, on October 3. He was arrested at 10.48pm on Saturday, after nearly 12 hours of questioning, for “being non-cooperative”. Judicial magistrate Deeksha Bharti then sent him to 14 days’ judicial (jail) custody. Sources said SPO Yadav had told the court on Monday that the police needed custody of Ashis because he had stonewalled many of the SIT’s questions on Saturday. The defence argued the police planned to torture Ashis to extract a false confession. The magistrate asked the police not to harass the accused and the police said they would not. Awadhesh Dwivedi, counsel for Ashis, told reporters: “We argued in court that the SIT had grilled Ashish for 12 hours on Saturday and he had cooperated with the interrogators. The probe team had also seized his mobile phone and revolver. There was no point seeking police remand.” He said the defence told the court the police wanted custody “only to torture him, give him third degree and make him confess to something which he was not involved in”. Dwivedi added: “The police are groping in the dark; they have no evidence that Ashish was in Tikunia when the incident took place. He has furnished video clips to prove he was in his village of Banvirpur, 4km away, attending a wrestling programme. Besides, Ashis is in jail and the police could have interrogated him there.” The Lucknow officer who spoke to this newspaper said Ashis might be taken to the scene of the carnage to reconstruct the events. He said the SIT would also seek custody of Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, the two others arrested in the case, “so that the three of them can be brought face to face in front of the probe team”. Pandey and Rana, who are alleged to have been in the convoy of cars that mowed down the five victims, were arrested on Friday and sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. The murder FIR mentions 11 accused but names only six. Of the six, three have been arrested while the remaining three were allegedly lynched by the farmers after the cars crushed five people. While all the lawyers were present in the court physically on Monday, Ashis was connected from jail via videoconferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Silence on letter on Father Stan Swamy’s jail torment ||A three-month-old letter by three Elgaar Parishad co-accused alleging “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy and accusing then Taloja prison superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar of mistreating him has yet to evoke any response from the Maharashtra authorities it was sent to. The letter alleged the 84-year-old Jesuit and tribal rights defender from Jharkhand was strip-searched “in front of the entire staff” when he was brought to the jail, and was kept in isolation so the Parkinson's patient could not receive any help from fellow prisoners. Father Stan’s health had deteriorated during the eight months he spent in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, and he died of post-Covid complications in a Mumbai hospital while under judicial custody on July 5. The Parkinson’s patient, unable to drink water from a glass, had had to move court for the use of a straw and a sipper, initially denied to him by the prison, then under the command of Kurlekar. Kurlekar was transferred just before Father Stan died. Translated excerpts from the Marathi letter — sent by jailed Pune lawyer Surendra Gadling and balladeers Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on July 7 — were published by news website Newsclick last week The letter says: “In our book, he didn't die a natural death. It was a well-planned institutional murder. We are disturbed and sad at father's death. And we have decided to fast for a day as a mark of protest.” It adds: “He desperately needed a helper due to Parkinson’s. To ensure he doesn’t get any help from his co-inmates, he was kept in isolation. It was Kurlekar’s conscious attempt to emasculate him physically and mentally. To keep him away from his co-accused activists, there were three attempts made in four months to transfer him to Arthur Road Prison.” A lawyer associated with the case said copies of the letter had been sent to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil, the chief justice of Bombay High Court, the Maharashtra state human rights commission and Kharghar police station under whose authority the jail comes. “We have received no response so far,” Nihalsing Rathod, lawyer for Gorkhe and Gaichor, told The Telegraph. Thackeray’s aide Harshal Pradhan did not respond to queries about the letter from this newspaper, sent on WhatsApp. Kurlekar, now attached to the IG Prisons office, told this newspaper: “As per provisions in the criminal procedure code and the directions of the honourable High Court, the Taloja prison authority itself has sent a letter for a magisterial inquiry.” A magisterial inquiry is routine when a custody death occurs. Gaichor had also filed a contempt petition against Kurlekar in the high court in August, after a poem he wrote to his sister was seized under Rules 17 and 20 of the Facilities to Prisoners Rules, which the high court had struck down as unconstitutional in 1992. Another Elgaar Parishad case co-accused, author Sudhir Dhawale, too had moved a sessions court against the seizure — during Kurlekar's tenure at Taloja — of his letter to colleagues at his publication Vidrohi. The letter contained a poem on Father Stan in Marathi titled “Pathalgadicha Father” (Father of Pathalgadi) — a reference to a movement to protect scheduled areas from government projects in Jharkhand. Neither case has been heard so far, a defence lawyer said. Father Stan had been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last year for his alleged links to Maoists, who are accused of fomenting violence at an Ambedkarite pilgrimage near Pune in 2018. Fifteen others — mostly rights activists, lawyers and writers — have also been arrested in the case under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The treatment Father Stan faced in jail had prompted Congress leader P. Chidambaram - who had as Union home minister widened the scope of the UAPA — to slam the Maharashtra government in which his party is a partner. “Are the administrators of the jail department and especially the DG, Prisons so bereft of human compassion that they cannot provide straws to the old and ailing prisoner?” Chidambaram had tweeted. The state government has since ignored pleas from civil society to recommend — to high-powered committees mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic — the release of the Elgaar prisoners, most of them elderly and ailing, on interim bail. Despite appeals from internationally renowned activists and human rights defenders every few weeks in the past three years, the NIA has consistently opposed bail pleas in the case. Father Stan's last public act before dying was to legally challenge Section 43D(5) of the UAPA as unconstitutional as it creates a de facto ban on the grant of bail, as well as the use of the term “front organisation”. The plea lapsed with his death. Forensic analysis by an American firm has indicated the planting of evidence on the computers of Gadling and Elgaar Parishad co-accused and human rights defender Rona Wilson. Father Stan had made a similar allegation before his arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||LAC: China 'not agreeable' to withdraw troops at friction points||The Chinese army is “not agreeable” to withdrawing from India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army said on Monday. The 13th round of India-China military talks held on Sunday “thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas”, the Indian Army added. An Indian defence ministry official said in private that Sunday’s talks had “collapsed”. Beijing too indicated that the talks had failed, with a Chinese army statement saying: “The Indian side still persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations.” In a statement on Monday, the Indian Army said: “During the meeting, the Indian side, therefore, made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas. “The Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements. It was, therefore, necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity....” The two countries’ foreign ministers too had at their recent meeting in Dushanbe agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest. A statement from Senior Colonel Long Shaohua, spokesperson for the Chinese army’s Western Theatre Command, said: “During the meeting, the Chinese side made great efforts to promote the easing and cooling of the border situation and fully demonstrated China’s sincerity of maintaining overall interests of bilateral military relations. However, the Indian side still persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations.” It added: “China is firm in its resolve to safeguard national sovereignty. The Indian side should abide by the relevant agreements and consensus reached between the two countries and two militaries, show sincerity and take concrete actions to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the border areas with China.” Responding to China’s statement, military veteran Pravin Sawhney said in a tweet: “India’s demand of PLA going back to April 2020 positions is unacceptable to China — so the stalemate will continue with serious implications for India’s sovereignty.” India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last year. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. So far, the Chinese have disengaged “partially” in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra while remaining well within India-claimed lines, but have refused to disengage from the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the Chinese appeared “adamant” at Sunday’s talks about not restoring the status quo of April 2020. A defence ministry official said the Chinese were “sticking to their stand that the occupied zones are their territory and that Indian troops should move further back as a precondition for disengagement”. An Indian Army officer said the Chinese were working to establish a “revised status quo”. He accused Beijing of going back on its word to disengage from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Sunday’s talks took place against the backdrop of two recent border transgressions by the Chinese army, in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh. Ahead of the talks, Indian army chief M.M. Naravane had on Saturday said the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh was “a matter of concern” and implied that “they are there to stay”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||JNU teachers allege research fund misappropriation ‘cover-up’ ||The teachers’ association of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday accused the varsity administration led by vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar of covering up a case of alleged misappropriation of research funds. On September 30, an emergency meeting of the university’s Executive Council (EC) decided to suspend a professor and two officials and initiate criminal proceedings against them for alleged misappropriation of funds. The JNU Teachers’ Association has alleged a cover-up, saying the matter was not allowed to be discussed thoroughly in the EC meeting. The matter relates to additional expenditure of Rs 88 lakh by A.L. Ramanathan, professor with the School of Environmental Sciences of the university, under certain research projects. The professor allegedly raised bills beyond the sanctioned amount for the projects and the officials dealing with finance released funds from the consolidated research funds. “This mode allegedly involves procuring false bills of consumables from actual or shadow vendors, getting them approved, and pocketing of the payment made for the same by all those involved without anything being received in exchange by the university/project,” said JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu. When contacted on the phone, Ramanathan said: “I cannot comment.” Surajit Mazumdar, former JNUTA secretary, said at a news conference here that during the EC meeting, the matter came up as an additional agenda item and was not discussed thoroughly. “Ideally, when there is a case of financial bungling of this nature, an enquiry is set up by the university. The accused persons are issued chargesheets and the enquiry committee recommends actions. The enquiry can widen the investigation too. But in this case, the decision was taken to send the case to the CVC (chief vigilance officer) without any discussion in the EC,” Mazumdar said. In the meantime, finance officer Samir Sharma, who had over two years of his tenure left, was relieved from his post last week. The JNUTA alleged that the move to relieve the finance officer should have been discussed in the EC meeting but it was not done to protect him and the vice-chancellor. “The bills are cleared at different levels. Bills of over Rs 2.5 lakh are sent to the vice-chancellor for clearance. In this embezzlement, it is not clear how many bills were approved by the vice-chancellor. Hence a proper enquiry is required at the level of the university,” said D.K. Lobiyal, former JNUTA president. An email was sent to VC Kumar on the issue and his response is awaited. The irregularities were brought to light by a fact-finding committee. The JNUTA alleged that apart from the Rs 88 lakh, more money might have been diverted from research project funds to non-academic purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||State parties declare income through electoral bonds||The reliance on electoral bonds — which conceal the identity of the donor — as the main source of income extends not just to the main national parties but even to regional entities, a report released by the Association of Democratic Reforms has revealed. An analysis of the financial audit reports submitted by 42 state parties shows that 14 of them declared income from electoral bonds, which cumulatively accounted for 50.97 per cent of their total income in 2019-20. The report titled, “Analysis of Income & Expenditure of Regional Political Parties for FY 2019-20”, released by the ADR on Monday, listed the Telugu parties — Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Telugu Desam Party and the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party — as the biggest beneficiaries of electoral bonds among state parties. The report says: “For the FY 2019-20, more than 62 per cent of the total income of seven National Parties came from Donations through Electoral Bonds (Rs 2,993.826 crore), wherein identity of the donor is not disclosed to the public. Of the Regional parties that have submitted their audit reports, 14 Regional Parties (TRS, TDP, YSR Congress, BJD, DMK, SHS, AAP, JDU, SP, JDS, SAD, AIADMK, RJD and JMM) have declared receiving donations through Electoral Bonds worth Rs 447.498 crore... TRS received the highest donations worth Rs 89.1529 crore or 68.34 per cent of its total income through Electoral Bonds followed by TDP declaring Electoral Bonds worth Rs 81.60 crore or 89.15 per cent and YSR-C (Rs 74.35 crore or 80.171 per cent).” The report, which uses the term “regional parties” instead of “state parties”, adds: “As per the data shared by SBI in response to ADR’s RTI application, Electoral Bonds worth Rs 3,429.5586 crore were redeemed by parties in FY 2019-20. Of this, 87.29 per cent was received by four National Parties — BJP, INC, AITC & NCP. The total amount of Electoral Bonds declared by National and Regional parties for FY 2019-20 so far is Rs 3,441.324 crore. The difference in the amount declared by political parties and data on Electoral Bonds redeemed received from SBI could be due to the manner in which parties report in their audit report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||J&K: Five soldiers die after being caught in militant ambush||An army operation to flush out militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Monday went horribly wrong after the troops got caught in an ambush leaving a junior commissioned officer and four jawans dead. Three slain soldiers were from Punjab, one from Uttar Pradesh and one from Kerala. Official sources identified the deceased soldiers as Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoy Gajjan Singh, all from Punjab, Sepoy Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Sepoy Vaisakh H. Kottarakara from Kerala. The gunfight, the deadliest in Jammu and Kashmir this year, has come amid an alarming surge in militancy in Jammu’s Pir Panjal region, which includes Poonch and Rajouri districts, in recent months. The border region, which was largely calm for nearly two decades, has seen at least half a dozen gunfights in the last few months. The army said the five soldiers died in a gunfight in Dera Ki Gali area of Poonch’s Surankote that began early on Monday. Reinforcements were rushed in to comb a large forest area where the militants are believed to be hiding. The defence spokesman in Jammu said an operation was launched early on Monday following intelligence inputs about the presence of militants in villages close to Dera Ki Gali. “The encounter with terrorists is going on. In the ensuing firefight during the ongoing encounter with terrorists, one JCO and four jawans suffered critical injuries. The critically injured were evacuated to the nearest medical facility but succumbed to their injuries,” the spokesman said. Defence sources said the militants ambushed the jawans as they were heading towards their hideout. “They (militants) were apparently watching the movement. An intense fire came from all sides and they succeeded in causing heavy casualties,” a source said. The forces had a tough time evacuating the injured as militants took advantage of the thick foliage to continue firing. The militants later escaped through the forest but efforts were underway to hunt them down. Later in the day, a fresh contact was established in Bhangai village of adjoining Rajouri, several kilometres away from the site of earlier clash, where militants are said to have fled. The security forces believe the militants had freshly infiltrated across the border and were apparently heading towards the Valley. The Line of Control in Pir Panjal region has seen multiple infiltration bids in recent months, giving a peek into how Pakistan has stepped up its activities after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The militants are increasingly targeting the minorities in the Valley with three men, including a Kashmiri Pandit and a Sikh woman, falling to the bullets of militants. The forces have detained some 900 people in the Valley in an unprecedented crackdown seeking to nab the killers, although their families alleged they are being targeted when they have no links with the attacks. In previous five gunfights in the Poonch-Rajouri belt, three armymen and seven militants have lost their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister quits BJP, joins Congress||The Congress received a huge boost in Uttarakhand as veteran Dalit leader Yashpal Arya and his MLA son Sanjiv Arya joined the party on Monday ahead of the Assembly election in the state. Yashpal Arya, former chief of the Uttarakhand Congress unit, had defected to the BJP in 2017 and served as a cabinet minister in the Pushkar Singh Dhami government. He resigned on Monday and returned to the Congress along with his son Sanjiv who is also a dynamic leader with promise. The Congress is hoping to regain power in the tiny hill state with the BJP in disarray despite changing the chief minister twice within a span of a few months. The Congress had lost a large number of leaders to the BJP before the last Assembly election. With Arya’s return, the Congress hopes to win over a sizeable section of Dalit voters in the state. Arya was unhappy in the BJP after junior leader Dhami was made the chief minister. Arya, however, said: “I returned to my family because the Congress is the only party with a history of service, sacrifice and democratic tradition. The Congress respects all castes and every religion.” Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat said Arya’s return would immensely help the Congress as he was an organisational man who contributed a lot in strengthening the party in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Cong accuses Centre of buying oil from fugitive economic offenders||The Congress on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of doing business with fugitive economic offenders who escaped from the country after looting banks, describing it as a unique scheme to sustain their financial status. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “Modi government purchased crude oil worth Rs 5,701.83 crore from Sandesara group. This detail was found through an RTI query. In September 2020, a special court declared Nitin Sandesara, Chetan Sandesara, his wife Dipti and one Hiteshkumar Narendrabhai Patel fugitive economic offenders, on the request of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Evidence shows the business is continuing and the next consignment is expected to arrive on November 1.” Explaining how several fraudsters, including Mehul Choksi, Nirav Modi, Vijay Mallya and Sandesara brothers, were allowed to flee the country despite cases against them by the Modi government, Vallabh said: “This is Modi model of helping fugitives — facilitate their escape when they get embroiled in cases and do business with them to sustain their finances. Dupe banks, run away with public money, relax at foreign locations and sell goods and services from these locations to the Government of India. Common people are hounded for missing one EMI and this is how the Modi government deals with people who looted India.” Giving details, Vallabh said: “In October 2017, ED registered a money-laundering case against Sterling Biotech and its promoters, the Sandesara brothers. The brothers, promoters of Baroda-based Sterling Biotech, fled India just before the CBI and ED registered cases against them in 2017 for allegedly siphoning off loans of government banks worth Rs 15,000 crore. Instead of central agencies going after them, they seem to be rolling a red carpet for the Sandesaras. Instead of curbing or seizing their business and assets, the petroleum ministry is shamelessly indulging in business with the Sandesaras.” He added: “From January 1, 2018, to May 31, 2020, shipments worth Rs 5,701.83 crore of Okwuibome crude oil were received from a Sterling Biotech group entity (Sterling Oil Exploration and Energy Production Company Ltd — SEEPCO), Nigeria, by our oil public sector units. SEEPCO has been producing Okwuibome crude oil. PSUs like HPCL, BPCL and IOCL have been actively purchasing oil from SEEPCO. There is a vessel en route to Paradip from Nigeria that belongs to SEEPCO and is expected to reach Paradip on November 1, 2021. So far, no vessels of SEEPCO have been seized.” Vallabh said the expose of Pandora papers had revealed that the Sandesara brothers formed six offshore firms to increase oil trade with India. “Interestingly, all of these companies were formed between November 2017 and April 2018 (ED registered a money-laundering case in October 2017) and none of them have been investigated by central agencies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Actor Nedumudi Venu dies at 73||Nedumudi Venu, rated as one of the most talented actors in Indian cinema, died at a private hospital here on Monday. He was 73. Having recovered from Covid-19, Venu had been unwell for quite some time and was admitted to the hospital after he complained of uneasiness. Shifted to the ICU, his condition worsened on Sunday. He breathed his last on Monday afternoon. He is survived by his wife and two children. Born in 1948 in Nedumudi in Kerala’s Alappuzha district, Venu began his career as a theatre artiste with famous dramatist Kavalam Narayana Panicker’s experimental theatre group. He entered films in 1978 with G. Aravindan’s Thambu. His most memorable performance that established Venu as a talent in Malayalam cinema was in Thakara in which he played the role of a village carpenter. He never had to look back after that. In his film career spanning over four decades, Venu acted in over 500 movies as hero, villain and character actor. According to film scholar N. Balagopal, Venu was one of the few actors in Indian cinema who excelled both as stylised actor and realistic actor, which in Indian theatre tradition is called Natya Dharmi and Lokadharmi, respectively. A recipient of national and state film awards, Venu did notable roles in movies such as His Highness Abdullah and Bharatham. Ente Mazha directed by Subrahmanyam was his last film.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Odisha Congress protest over Lakhimpur Kheri case  ||Odisha Congress leaders on Monday organised a silent protest — “maun brata” — from 11am to 1pm near the Raj Bhavan here demanding immediate resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni for trying to shield his son Ashis whose vehicle had allegedly mowed down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh recently. The protest was organised on the call of All India Congress Committee (AICC). However, this silent protest caught the attention of all as it was completely different from the raucous and often loud demonstrations organised by the party on different issues in the past. The activists alleged that minister’s son was driving the vehicle that crushed the farmers to death. “We organised it on the call of the AICC. The Centre instead of withdrawing the anti-farmer laws is trying to stifle the voice of farmers. Here the minister’s son’s vehicle had run over the farmers. The minister should be immediately sacked and action should be taken against all the perpetrators of the crime,” demanded OPCC president Niranjan Patnaik. Former finance minister and Congress leader Panchanan Kanungo told The Telegraph: “The minister is the abettor. He had instigated others. Perhaps, the BJP had a plan to create a fear psychosis in the minds of people in UP so that no one would turn to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “They had thought of implementing the Gujarat model in UP and across the country by resorting to fear psychosis treatment. But they won’t be successful in stifling the voice of people.” On the issue of observing the “maun brata”, the Congress said the Prime Minister has so far maintained a stoic silence on the issue. “He talks on every issue and what has prevented him from opening his mouth on the issue. Why has the minister not been sacked so far? It should be answered. As the Prime Minister is more vocal, we decided we will observe the maun brata to listen to his voice,” said Kanungo. “Why did it take so many days for UP police to arrest Ashis? He is being treated with a kid glove. What has prevented the Prime Minister from sacking Ashis? If the Supreme Court had not intervened, even the UP police would not have acted on this issue,” said a senior Congress leader and eminent lawyer Sibanada Ray Carrying placards which demanded Mishra’s resignation, the protesters pointed that the nexus between Modi-Shah-Yogi has prevented the resignation of the minister and delayed the arrest of Ashis. One of the placards read, “Modi-Yogi-Ajay Mishra down down”. Another placard read, “Stop mowing down farmers under your wheels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
