13-10-2021||India||Isolated populations in India are vulnerable to Covid-19: Researchers||Scientists from the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics here and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have found that several isolated and indigenous people such as Andaman Islanders with long DNA segments (homozygous) in their genome are most likely to be more susceptible to Covid-19. A press release from CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) said the infection of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has impacted various ethnic groups all over the world and recent studies suggested that the indigenous groups in Brazil have been massively affected by Covid-19. The research carried out by Kumarasamy Thangaraj, Director of CDFD, part of CCMB, here, Prof Gyaneshwer Chaubey of BHU and others was published online recently in the journal Genes and Immunity. Thangaraj, who traced the origin of Andaman Islanders, said, "We have investigated a high-density genomic data of more than 1,600 individuals from 227 ethnic populations. We found high frequency of contiguous lengths of homozygous genes among Onge, Jarawa (Andaman Tribes) and a few more populations who are in isolation and follow a strict endogamy, making them highly susceptible for Covid-19 infection". The researchers have also assessed the ACE2 (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2) gene variants that make individuals susceptible for Covid-19. They found that the Jarawa and Onge populations have high frequency of these mutations, the release said. "There have been some speculations on the effect of Covid-19 among isolated populations. However, for the first time, we have used genomic data to access the risk of Covid-19 on the small and isolated populations", Prof Chaubey said. Results obtained from this study suggest that there is a need to have a high priority protection and utmost care for the isolated populations, so that there would not be any loss of some of the living treasures of modern human evolution", Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, Director, CCMB said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
13-10-2021||India||Ex-PM Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following a fever, sources said. They said the 89-year-old had a fever on Monday and had recovered from it, but turned weak and is currently on fluids. All India Congress Committee secretary, Pranav Jha tweeted about Singh’s condition being stable. “There are some unsubstantiated rumours with regards to former PM, Dr Manmohan Singh ji’s health. His condition is stable. He is undergoing routine treatment. We will share any updates as needed. We thank our friends in media for their concern,” he tweeted. In April this year, Singh was admitted to the hospital due to the coronavirus infection. Prayers for the early recovery of the former prime minister poured in from a host of leaders across party lines. "Praying for quick recovery and good health of former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji who has been admitted to AIIMS," said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, former Union minister Ashwani Kumar, Congress leader Mukul Wasnik and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi also wished Singh a speedy recovery. Among others, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi and NCP's Nawab Malik also prayed for the ex-prime minister's good health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
13-10-2021||India||Government scraps basic customs duty on crude palm, soya, sunflower oil||The government on Wednesday scrapped basic customs duty on crude varieties of palm, sunflower and soyabean oils as well as cut duties on refined edible oils to ease retail prices of cooking oils and provide relief to consumers during the festive season.  Edible oil industry body SEA said the retail prices of cooking oils, which are ruling at a very high level, could now come down by up to Rs 15 per litre.  The cut in import duty and cess, effective from October 14, will remain in force till March 31, 2022, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in two separate notifications.  Agri infrastructure development cess (AIDC) has also been reduced on crude palm oil, crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil.  Crude palm oil will now attract AIDC of 7.5 per cent, while the cess will be 5 per cent each for crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil. Earlier, the cess was 20 per cent, while basic customs duty was 2.5 per cent.  Post reduction, the effective customs duty on crude palm oil will be 8.25 per cent. The effective duty on crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil will be 5.5 per cent. Earlier, the effective duty on these three crude items was 24.75 per cent each.  The basic customs duty on refined varieties of sunflower, soyabean, palmolein and palm oil too has been slashed to 17.5 per cent each from 32.5 per cent. Refined versions do not attract AIDC.  Commenting on the development, Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) Executive Director B V Mehta said: "The government has slashed import duties on edible oils because of high retail prices in the domestic market and the festive season."  However, he said the timing of the decision is not correct as it may impact farmers' income.  "Harvesting of soyabean and groundnuts has started. The decision to reduce import duties may bring down market prices and lower price realisation by farmers," Mehta said.  Asked about the impact of the decision on retail prices, Mehta said: "The retail prices of refined palm oil can can come down by Rs 8-9 a litre while that of refined sunflower and soyabean oil can come down by Rs 12-15/ litre post this duty cut".  Generally, the international prices rise after India reduces its import duties, he observed.  This is the fourth round of duty cut by the government in the last few months, as part of its efforts to reduce cooking oil rates in domestic retail markets. The government has also taken other steps including imposition of stock holding limits.  Edible oil prices in the domestic retail markets have shot up sharply by up to 46.15 per cent in the last one year due to global factors and tight supply locally.  India meets more than 60 per cent of its edible oil demands through imports.  As per SEA data, imports of edible oils rose 63 per cent to a record 16.98 lakh tonne during September, due to all-time high shipments of palm oil.  Earlier in October 2015, India had imported 16.51 lakh tonne.  Palm oil import in September 2021 at 12.62 lakh tonne is the highest in any single month since India started importing palm oil in 1996.  As per the data maintained by the Consumer Affairs Ministry, average retail prices of soya oil were ruling at Rs 154.95 per kg on October 9 this year, 46.15 per cent higher than Rs 106 per kg in the year-ago period.  Similarly, average mustard oil prices rose by 43 per cent to Rs 184.43 per kg from Rs 129.19 per kg, while that of vanaspati by 43 per cent to Rs 136.74 per kg from Rs 95.5 per kg in the said period.  In case of sunflower, its average retail price rose by 38.48 per cent to Rs 170.09 per kg on October 9 this year from Rs 122.82 per kg in the year-ago period, while palm oil prices rose 38 per cent to Rs 132.06 per kg from Rs 95.68 per kg in the said period.  Indonesia and Malaysia are the major suppliers of RBD palmolein and crude palm oil to India.  The country imports crude soybean degummed oil mainly from Argentina followed by Brazil, while crude sunflower oil is mainly imported from Ukraine followed by Russia and Argentina.  Abhishek Jain, Tax Partner, EY, says "Given, the surging edible oil prices, the Government has reduced the basic customs duty rates on crude as well as edible grade oils. The decision would be highly appreciated by the industry and would also help in reducing price burden on ultimate consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra, accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, denied bail||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was denied bail by a court here on Wednesday in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav told PTI that Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram rejected the bail applications of Ashish Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey. Ashish Mishra, who was arrested on October 9 by the special investigation team after 12 hours of questioning, had been sent to three days in police custody from Tuesday. The court also remanded Shekhar Bharti, arrested on Tuesday, in police custody for three days. Police have so far arrested four people in connection with the case -- Ashish Mishra, Luvkush, Ashish Pandey and Bharti. One Ankit Das, who is said to be a close friend of Ashish Mishra, appeared before the SIT at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur earlier in the day. The investigators had summoned Das for questioning in connection with the October 3 violence that had left eight people, including four farmers, dead. Das is the nephew of former minister Akhilesh Das and the black SUV which allegedly knocked down the four farmers is said to be owned by him. At around 11 AM, Das along with a team of lawyers arrived at the crime branch office in the reserved police lines area, the police said. On Tuesday, Das and one other identified as Latif had moved an application for surrender before the chief judicial magistrate. Earlier on Wednesday, a Congress delegation including former party president Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and an impartial judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. The delegation of senior Congress leaders also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. Gandhi told reporters after the meeting that he conveyed to the President that the MoS Home should resign to ensure an impartial probe in the Lakhimpur violence as his son Ashish is an accused in the matter. "There cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the MoS Home is sacked. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers and this voice is being suppressed," he said. The Congress delegation included A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Asked whether they have received any assurances from the president, Priyanka Gandhi claimed, "he (President) has assured us that he will talk to to the government in this regard today itself". The Congress memorandum said the situation is unlikely to change without any intervention given that BJP leaders, including UP CM Yogi Adityanath, continue to make conciliatory statements towards Ajay Mishra. The party hoped that the President will treat this matter with the urgency it deserves and take appropriate action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||No Covid checks, restrictions on those arriving from UK||The government has withdrawn a travel advisory that added COVID-19 related additional checks and restrictions on those arriving from the UK after the British government ordered discontinuation of mandatory testing and quarantine norms for those vaccinated with Covishield travelling from India. In an official memorandum issued on October 11, the health ministry said that based on the evolving scenario, it has been decided that the revised guidelines stand withdrawn and the earlier guidelines on international arrival issued on February 17 shall be applicable to all travellers arriving in India from the UK. Earlier this month, India had said that all British nationals arriving in India from the UK will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. India had made this announcement after the UK recognised Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India but retained the 10-day quarantine period for fully vaccinated travellers from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Karnataka Congress members link unit chief to scam, video goes viral||The Congress in Karnataka on Wednesday found itself in a tight spot after a video showed a purported conversation between the party media coordinator M A Saleem and former Lok Sabha member V S Ugrappa attributing the Congress State president D K Shivakumar's involvement in a scam when he was a Minister. Taking strong exception to the clipping that went viral, Shivakumar said he cannot deny that the conversation did not take place and rejected the content of the conversation. Acting swiftly, the party expelled Saleem from the party for six years and served a show-cause notice to Ugrappa, who is Congress spokesperson, seeking an explanation in three days. The conversation is said to be related to the scams in the Irrigation Department in which Shivakumar was allegedly involved when he was Irrigation Minister in the coalition government of Congress- JD(S), which ran for 14 months and collapsed in June 2019. However, Ugrappa clarified Saleem was only briefing him what the BJP people have been talking about the raids carried out by the Income Tax (I-T) Department since October 7 against three major contractors executing irrigation and highway project on 47 premises in four States, including Karnataka and Maharashtra. The search and seizure by the I-T officials have resulted in detection of undisclosed income of about Rs 750 crore, the I-T Department said in a statement on Tuesday. Minutes before the press conference by Ugrappa on Tuesday, Saleem sat next to him and started whispering about the scams. "Earlier, it was eight per cent. He increased it to 12 per cent. These are all adjustments by DKS," Saleem is heard saying in the purported video. "Uppar and G Shankar, the one from Hospet in Ballari, whom you know. Uppar is from Bengaluru," Saleem was seen explaining. When Ugrappa corrected that Uppar is from Vijayapura, Saleem said Uppar's house is right opposite to former Chie Minister S M Krishna's in Bengaluru. "It's (Irrigation) a big scandal. If dug properly, his (D K Shivakumar) role will also come out. You don't know, sir, the three made Rs 50-100 crore. If they had made so much (of wealth), then guess how much he (Shivakumar) would have made. He is a collection 'giraaki' (extortionist)," Saleem is heard saying. In reply, Ugrappa said he did not know those things. "I don't know this. We all made a point to make him (Shivakumar) State president. That's why I am not saying anything. These are the reasons...," Ugrappa is heard saying. Further, Saleem said Shivakumar stammers these days. "He stammers these days, maybe because of low BP or something else," Saleem said to which Ugrappa agreed. Saleem also wondered whether Shivakumar drinks and even gets emotional these days. He then hailed Siddaramaiah for his strong body language. Shivakumar said the conversation has actually taken place. Reacting to it, he said the media has shown Saleem and Ugrappa speaking against the party State chief. "You have shown that they have spoken ill against me. I will not deny it. They have spoken against me. Ugrappa has give a statement in a press conference," Shivakumar said. He said he has no connection with the content of the conversation. "I am unrelated to what they have spoken. I was never part of any 'percentage' (share in contracts) and I don't need it. I have no connection with it (share in contracts)," Shivakumar said. Clarifying his position, Ugrappa held a press conference today and said Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah are like two eyes and both were dear to him. Ugrappa said Saleem was briefing him about what the BJP leaders were talking outside. However, the place chosen by him was wrong and he could have spoken in private and not before the media, he clarified. The developments come well ahead of the crucial bypolls to Sindagi and Hanagal Assembly segments on October 30. Also, it has come at a time when the party has geared up for the Assembly elections, which is one-and-a-half years away. The party had also seen in the past the show of strength between the factions of Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. Ugrappa and Saleem are considered as Siddaramaiah's close aides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Probe reveals Aryan Khan's role in conspiracy and procurement of drugs, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday opposed the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, saying the probe so far has revealed his role in the conspiracy and illicit procurement and consumption of drugs. The NCB in its affidavit also said that Aryan Khan was in touch with some persons, who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. Further probe is on with regard to financial transactions done abroad, the agency said. During initial investigation, some international linkages pertinent to this applicant (Aryan Khan) have been unearthed which prima facie indicate towards illicit drug procurement. The investigation requires sufficient time so as to approach the foreign agency concerned, the affidavit said. The NCB also submitted in the affidavit that the case of each of the accused cannot be considered individually or separately, as prima facie investigation reveals that there is a close link/nexus among all the accused, including Aryan Khan, for conspiracy to commit offences. "It is not feasible to dissect or separate each from the other. All ingredients of crime, that are preparation, intention, attempt and commission, are present for this applicant (Aryan Khan)," the affidavit said. The NCB submitted its affidavit in response to the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan before special judge V V Patil, designated to hear matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The judge is currently hearing the bail plea. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 following a raid on the Goa-bound cruise ship and is presently in judicial custody. He is lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court seeking bail after a magistrate's court rejected the same last week. "It is prima facie revealed that accused No 1 (Aryan Khan) used to procure contraband from accused No 2 (Arbaaz Merchant) and the sources connected to accused No 2, from whose conscious possession six grams of Charas was recovered," the NCB said in its affidavit. It further said the material collated during investigation primarily revealed that Aryan Khan has a role in illicit procurement and distribution of contraband. "As per investigations carried out so far, accused Aachit Kumar and Shivraj Harijan had supplied Charas to Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant," the anti-drug agency said. "The role and involvement of this applicant (Aryan Khan) in the commission of grave and serious offences under the NDPS Act, including illicit drug trafficking, is apparent considering the nexus and connection of this applicant with the other accused in the case," the NCB said. "All the accused are inextricably connected and hence, it is not possible to dissect the role of each accused from the other," it added. "Prima facie investigation reveals a close nexus between all the accused persons and their involvement in conspiracy to commit illegal acts cannot be ruled out," the agency further said. "The case of each applicant cannot be considered in isolation. All these persons are an integral part of a common thread which cannot be separated or dissected from one another. In such a situation, the quantum of recovery (of drugs) from one accused becomes inconsequential," the NCB said in the affidavit. "Even though from some of the accused there is no recovery or less recovery of contraband, the participation by acts of such persons, who have acted in concert, conspiracy forms the basis of the investigation," it said. From the investigation, it is revealed that all the accused persons form a part of a "larger chain/nexus" and their involvement in the conspiracy to commit illegal acts and violations under Section 29 of the NDPS Act cannot be ruled out, the affidavit said. Section 29 of the NDPS Act pertains to abetment to commit an offence or criminal conspiracy. The NCB further said there have been several seizures of intermediary quantities of drugs from Aryan Khan's co-accused and there has also been seizure of commercial quantities of Mephedrone from one accused Abdul Sheikh. It said the allegations that the accused have been falsely implicated are untrue and misleading, as there is sufficient material in the form of WhatsApp chats and photographs which show the ingredients of conspiracy. "Considering the influence that Aryan Khan holds in the society, it is very much possible that he may tamper with evidence and influence other witnesses whom he personally knows," the affidavit said, adding there is also a possibility of the accused fleeing justice. The court is also hearing the bail pleas filed by Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Aachit Kumar, Mohak Jaiswal, Shreyas Iyer and Avin Sahu. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Central agencies like ED, CBI, NCB being misused, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday claimed that central agencies, including the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau, were being misused to target the opposition. Referring to the Income Tax department's raids on entities linked to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, the NCP president while addressing a press conference here said personnel of the agencies have been conducting raids for the sixth day on Wednesday, which is very unusual. "Central agencies, including the ED, CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) and NCB, are being misused," he claimed. He also said the Mumbai Police's Anti-Narcotics Cell has done a better job than the NCB. The NCP, which shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress, had earlier said it will face the onslaught of central agencies on its leaders and workers will full vigour. The I-T department had raided entities linked to relatives of Ajit Pawar, a senior NCP leader, in the state. Senior NCP leader and former state minister Anil Deshmukh is also facing probe by central agencies on multiple charges. The NCB recently conducted a number of raids, including on some high-profile people. Apart from the recent drugs bust onboard a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, that led to the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, the NCB last year investigated a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Kerala man awarded life sentence for killing wife using cobra||A sessions court in Kerala on Wednesday awarded life sentence in the Uthra murder case to the victim's husband for killing his wife using a cobra. On October 11, the court had held the husband -- Sooraj S Kumar -- guilty of murder, poisoning, destruction of evidence and also attempt to murder for his first try at killing his then 25-year old wife -- Uthra -- by using a viper. Additional Sessions Judge-VI Manoj M, who pronounced the sentence, said the case was a rarest of the rare, but looking at the age of the convict -- 28 years now -- it decided to award him life sentence instead of death, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) G Mohanraj told reporters outside the court. Besides life for murder, Kumar was also awarded life sentence for the offence of attempt to murder, 10 years for poisoning and seven years for destruction of evidence, the SPP said. He also said that the court has specifically directed that the convict will first serve the sentences awarded for poisoning and destruction of evidence -- total 17 years -- and thereafter, his life imprisonment will commence. Additional Public Prosecutor A K Manoj also confirmed the order and told PTI that the court has said the two life terms awarded to Kumar would run concurrently. He also said that the court has imposed a total fine of Rs 5.85 lakh on the convict. Another reason cited by the court for not awarding death was the lack of criminal antecedents of the convict, he said. After the sentence was pronounced, the victim's mother told a news channel that she was not satisfied with the decision as she had expected death would be awarded to the convict. Sooraj had killed his wife Uthra by letting a cobra bite her in her sleep in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Union coal minister reassures there will be no power crisis||Amid the country's power plants grappling with coal shortages, Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday assured that there will be no crisis to meet the supply of coal for power generation. He was talking to reporters after arriving at the Bilaspur airport before heading to neighbouring Korba district where he is scheduled to take stock of Gevra, Dipka and Kusmunda mines of the South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL), a Coal India subsidiary, and chair a review meeting with officials. Asked if the Congress was creating a hype claiming shortage of coal, the coal and mines minister said, "I don't want to do politics over this. We have already been meeting the total requirement." "Today, the requirement is 1.1 million tonnes of coal for power generation and we have already supplied two million tonnes. The stock is also rising because of it. I assure that there will be no problem in meeting the supply for power generation in the country," he said. Joshi said he was going to visit the mines of SECL to take stock and hold discussions to expedite the production there. As far as the requirement is concerned, the power ministry had put forth the demand for supply of 1.9 million tonnes (for power generation units) and after 20th (October), two million tonnes. Today only, we have supplied two million tonnes and rest of the things I will discuss after the review (of mines), he added. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) reviewed the coal supply and power generation scenario, as the government looks at ways to defuse the energy crisis being faced by several states. The coal ministry has been asked to ramp up the supply of coal while the Railways has been asked to make available rakes to transport the fuel to power plants, sources earlier said. The shortage of coal -- which makes up around 70 per cent of India's electricity mix -- has forced rotational power cuts in states from Rajasthan to Kerala. About two-thirds of the coal-fired power plants had stockpiles of a week or less, but the coal ministry earlier said, "any fear of disruption in the power supply is entirely misplaced". States have been forced to buy power from exchanges at high rates to meet the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Bangalore building tilts following torrential rains||Close on the heels of two buildings collapsing in Bengaluru, a residential building at Kamala Nagar in the city tilted dangerously late on Tuesday night while the side wall of a house in Nagarathpet collapsed on Wednesday morning following torrential rains, the civic agency said. It added that no one was injured in these incidents. As the building started tilting in Kamala Nagar near Shankar Nag Bus Stand on Tuesday night, residents ran out of their houses for safety leaving behind their belongings. Karnataka Excise Minister K Gopalaiah, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta along with the team of fire and emergency services personnel rushed to the spot following the incident. Later, the BBMP issued a statement saying, "All the people who lived in those houses and the surroundings were shifted elsewhere. Accommodation and food have been arranged for such families." Meanwhile in Nagarathpet, the side wall of an old house collapsed. Quoting neighbours, the BBMP said, no injuries occurred as no one is staying in the house for the past six years. It also said that debris removal will be started immediately. A week ago, a house had tilted in Kasturi Nagar and a residential quarters on the premises of Bangalore Milk Union Limited (BAMUL) came down crashing due to heavy downpour. In both the incidents, no casualties were reported as people were evacuated well in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches Rs 100 lakh crore Gati Shakti national master plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity that aims to develop infrastructure to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. PM Gati Shakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time, Modi said at a function to launch the plan. The plan aims to lend more power and speed to projects by connecting all concerned departments on one platform, he said, adding the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments will be designed and executed with a common vision. Modi said taxpayers' money in the past was 'insulted' through a lethargic approach to development work, with departments working in silos and there was no coordination on projects. Development, he said, is not possible without quality infrastructure and the government has now resolved to develop it in a holistic manner. Gati Shakti joins different departments for the coordinated development of projects from road to railways, aviation to agriculture, the Prime Minister said. Stating that high logistics cost in India at 13 per cent of GDP was impacting competitiveness in exports, he said PM Gati Shakti is aimed at reducing logistic cost and turnaround time. This, he said, will give a boost to India as an investment destination. The Prime Minister said the speed and scale that India is witnessing under his government was never seen in the previous 70 years of independence. Giving examples, he said the first inter-state natural gas pipeline was commissioned in 1987. From then to 2014, 15,000-km of the natural gas pipeline was built. Currently, more than 16,000-km of the new gas pipeline is being constructed. "What was done in 27 years, we are doing in it in less than half that time," he said. In five years prior to the BJP government coming to power in 2014, 1,900-km of the rail line was doubled, while in the last 7 years 9,000-km of rail line doubling has happened. Similarly, against 3,000 km of railway line electrification in five years prior to 2014, 24,000 km rail line doubling has happened in the last 7 years. From 250-km of metro in 2015, the metro rail network has expanded to 700-km and work is on another 1,000-km, he said, adding 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optic fibre network in last 7 years as compared to only 60 village panchayats in five years prior to 2014. Vessel turnaround time at ports has been reduced from 41 to 27 hours and attempts are being made to reduce it further, he said, adding 4.25 lakh circuit km of power transmission line have been laid against 3 lakh circuit km in five years prior to 2014. Renewable energy has expanded the times, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident condemnable, but such issues happen elsewhere too: Sitharaman||The Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is absolutely condemnable, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised "when they happen and not when it suits others" because there is a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Sitharaman, who is on an official visit to the US, was responding to a question during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday about the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. She was asked why there is no word on this from the prime minister, senior ministers and why there is a defensive reaction when somebody asks questions about such things. "No, absolutely not... It's nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us say that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern. "India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Dr Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it at every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits us because it's a state where BJP is in power, one of my cabinet colleague's son is in probably trouble, and also assume that it's actually them who did it and not anybody else. Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it," she said. "And it's not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It's being defensive about India. I will talk for India, I will talk for justice for the poor. I will not be mocked at. And if it is mocking, I will be defensive to stand up and say Sorry, let's talk on facts'. That's my answer for you," she said. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on October 3. To a question on the farmers' protests, Sitharaman said that the three acts which the government brought in were discussed by the various parliamentary committees over a decade. She said all the three acts have been discussed variously by the State governments, by the Center after the BJP came into power in 2014. "This has been in the making for a decade now. Every stakeholder has been consulted," she said. "When the farm laws were brought in the Lok Sabha, there was an elaborate discussion and the agriculture minister gave his reply as well. It was only when it came to the Rajya Sabha, there was a lot of noise and disturbance," she said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26 last year, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. Sitharaman said the protesters belong to one state and some parts of other states - Punjab, Haryana and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh." She said the government has been saying that it is willing to talk with the protesters and has been engaging with them. "The government has asked pointedly what is that one aspect in any one of the three laws which have been passed to which the protesters object, she said. We are willing to talk about it, tell us that one particular aspect in any one of the three laws. "Till date, we have not had even one particular aspect which is being questioned. And therefore, the protesters are not sure on what score they are protesting, what is it that they are objecting. "Then there's this issue about the minimum support price to be given to farmers," she said, adding that the MSP are announced well in time and the farmers can decide whether they want to grow a crop or not and they can otherwise choose to grow something else. She said once the farmers choose to grow any of these, for which a minimum support price is announced and procurements are done, through direct benefit transfer using technology, money is deposited as a lump sum into their accounts. The highest amount of procurement, the largest ever payment per farmer under the minimum support price which is declared has happened in the last seven years after Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi has come. Highest ever. The number of farmers, the total quantum of money, total quantum of grain procured in each one of them - the highest as has happened season after season in the last seven years," she said. Highlighting that there are recorded conversations which you can see of farmers even from Punjab, even from Haryana , she said farmers have got the entire amount into their account. "This is verifiable, not a claim which I'm making. You can go and check it out. Highest amount and the entire amount is given into the account directly the day after procurement is done. No staggering, no delaying," she said. "So we have not been told what it is that they're protesting against as yet and the minister is willing to talk even today," she added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Congress delegation meets President, demands dismissal of Ajay Mishra||A delegation of Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and an impartial judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. The delegation of senior Congress leaders also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. Four farmers were among eight people killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Gandhi told reporters after the meeting that he conveyed to the President that the MoS Home should resign to ensure an impartial probe in the Lakhimpur violence as his son Ashish is an accused in the matter. Ashish Mishra, who has been named in the FIR and is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Gandhi demanded that to ensure justice, two sitting Supreme Court judges should probe the incident and those who have committed the murders should be punished. "There cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the MoS Home is sacked. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers and this voice is being suppressed," he said. The Congress delegation included A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Asked whether they have received any assurances from the president, Priyanka Gandhi claimed, "he (President) has assured us that he will talk to to the government in this regard today itself". The Congress memorandum said the situation is unlikely to change without any intervention given that BJP leaders, including UP CM Yogi Adityanath, continue to make conciliatory statements towards Ajay Mishra. "Ajay Mishra's role is also yet to be investigated and the same is unlikely while he continues in office. Furthermore, which police official would dare to fairly investigate the son of Union MoS Home Affairs with the father occupying a position of such high influence and who enjoys continued endorsements from both the Central and the State governments. In these difficult circumstances, we call upon you as the custodian of our Constitution and the moral compass to this Government to immediately dismiss Union MoS Home Affairs and to direct an independent judicial investigation by a Commission comprising of two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the high court," the Congress memorandum said. The party hoped that the President will treat this matter with the urgency it deserves and take appropriate action. The Congress memorandum also mentions that like crores of other Indians, the President is also "deeply affected" by the "unforgivable and merciless murder" of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. "The incident has scarred the soul of India. This deliberate act of murder, in broad daylight followed by the audacious reactions of the State and Central governments, has completely eroded the people's faith in those tasked with bringing these perpetrators to justice," the party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Delhi didn't face outage due to power shortage: Power ministry||The Power Ministry on Wednesday said that there was no outage on account of power shortage in Delhi. "As per the information received from Delhi discoms, there was no outage on account of power shortage, as the required amount of power was supplied to them," a ministry statement said. It stated that the maximum demand of Delhi was 4683 MW (peak) and 101.9 MU (Energy) on 11 October, 2021. A factsheet on power supply in Delhi showed that there was no energy deficit in the city from September 26 to October 11. On October 11, in Delhi, 101.9 million units (MU) electricity was available against a requirement of 101.1 MU. The energy requirement and availability was same in Delhi from September 26 to October 10. On Monday, energy availability was higher than the requirement. It also showed that peak power demand and peak power demand met (supply) was also remained same during the period. The discoms in Delhi had drawn less power than made available to them, as per the data. It showed that NTPC (coal) offered 15.67 MU to Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) against the allocated 19.03 MU. But the Tata Power DDL had drawn 10.77 MU which is 68.74 per cent of the energy made available to it by NTPC (coal). Similarly, power made available by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and NTPC (gas) to the discoms in Delhi was more than drawn by these utilities. The other two discoms that supply power in Delhi are BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd and BSES Yamuna Power Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||India records 15,823 new Covid-19 cases, 226 new deaths||India added 15,823 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,01,743 on Wednesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.06 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,51,189 with 226 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 19 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 108 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,07,653, the lowest in 214 days, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.06 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,247 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 44 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 110 days, according to the ministry. A total of 13,25,399 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,63,63,442. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33342901, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 96.43 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 226 new fatalities include 106 from Kerala and 43 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,51,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,621 from Maharashtra, 37,906 from Karnataka, 35,814 from Tamil Nadu, 26,448 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,924 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||BJP national general secretary frowns on modern educated women||BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi has frowned on modern educated women who, under “western influences”, choose to stay single and avoid giving childbirth. His comments came as he defended Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar, who had said that well-employed young women preferred not to give childbirth and that this was “not good”. Asked to react to Sudhakar’s comment, Ravi told news agency ANI on Monday: “Not all women are like that. Even today family values are respected in our country, which is not like America or England.” But he added: “Some of the educated, particularly those working in IT-BT (information technology-biotechnology), have ‘progressed’ too much. This is happening because of western influences and micro-families. This is something that needs to be taken seriously.” Sudhakar, a medical doctor, had sparked controversy on Sunday by saying modern Indian women were refusing to conceive and often opted for surrogacy to have children. Speaking at a World Mental Health Day event at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences, Sudhakar had spoken of a “paradigm shift” in the way modern Indian women saw the family. “Sorry to say this, a lot of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they are married, they don’t want to give birth. They want surrogacy. So there is a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good,” the health minister had said. Sudhakar, castigated for his remarks, later clarified that his comments were based on a survey. “First of all I would like to convey that I’m myself a proud father of a daughter and I’m also a medical doctor by training. So I fully understand the sensitivities around women and also the mental health issues that are concerning us,” he said in a statement. “My statement about (the) younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey show that, among millennials, 19 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage. Another 8 per cent want children but are not interested in marriage. Among post-millennials (or Gen Z adults), 23 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage. As in the case of millennials, 8 per cent want children but are not interested in marriage.” Trying to douse the controversy, Sudhakar added that even modern men preferred to stay single. “There are very little gender-wise differences in these trends. It is applicable to both boys and girls.” Responding to these comments, Congress worker Lavanya Ballal tweeted: “Here are some people who stayed single to pursue their career @narendramodi, @myyogiadityanath, mohanbhagawath, umabharathi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||UGC puts off PhD rule for varsity teachers recruitment ||The University Grants Commission has put off by two years a new rule that makes a PhD mandatory for direct recruitment as assistant professor at any university. The rule was to be implemented from July this year but was not. It will now come into force from July 2023. A UGC official said that many PhD students have been unable to submit their thesis on time because of the Covid outbreak. “The UGC had received representations from students and teachers’ organisations on the difficulty faced by research scholars in completing their work on schedule,” the official said. “They said that enforcing the new rules would deprive good scholars of the opportunity to apply. The UGC considered the issue and deferred the enforcement.” The UGC has amended the UGC (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education), Regulation, 2018, to give this relaxation. Currently, candidates who clear the National Eligibility Test (NET) or earn a PhD are eligible to apply for an assistant professor’s job in the universities. The new regulations allow those who clear the NET but have no PhD to be recruited as teachers at colleges but not at universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Modi 'cautions' against selective interpretation of human rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday deplored what he felt was a tendency among some to view human rights violations through “the prism of politics” and sounded a “caution” against the selective interpretation of human rights to undermine the country’s image. “On this occasion, I wish to caution countrymen against the selective interpretation of human rights and the use of human rights to diminish the image of the country,” Modi said while inaugurating the 28th foundation day celebrations of the National Human Rights Commission here. “Of late, some people have started interpreting human rights from their own angle, according to their selfish interests. The biggest infringement of human rights takes place when they are seen from the prism of politics and political profit and loss. “The tendency to see infringement in one situation and not in a similar situation has damaged human rights a great deal. This selective behaviour is equally damaging for democracy too.” While dignitaries such as the NHRC chairperson, judges and legal experts were at the auditorium at Vigyan Bhavan, the Prime Minister addressed the gathering through a virtual link. Modi said that duties were as important as rights and that the two should not be discussed separately as they complement each other. “Rights and duties are two tracks on which the journey of human development and human dignity takes place,” he said. Modi said India’s freedom movement and history had been a great source of inspiration for human rights and that the whole world saw Mahatma Gandhi as a symbol of human rights and human values. “As a nation, as a society we resisted injustice and atrocities, we fought for our rights for centuries. At a time when the whole world was engulfed in the violence of World War I, India suggested the path of ‘rights and non-violence’ to the whole world,” he said. “Not only India but the whole world sees our Bapu as a symbol of human rights and human values.” The Prime Minister said the “concept of human rights is closely related to the dignity of the poor”. He said the question of rights arose when the poorest of the poor did not receive an equal share of the benefits of government schemes. “When a poor person gets toilets ensuring freedom from open defecation, he gets dignity. Similarly, a poor man who was hesitant to enter a bank gets a Jan Dhan account, which ensures dignity,” he said. He said that measures like the Rupay card, Ujjwala gas connections, and pucca houses for women were steps in the same direction. “We have also given new rights to Muslim women by enacting a law against the triple talaq,” Modi said. “India has ensured 26 weeks of paid maternity leave for career women, a feat that even many developed nations could not achieve.” Union home minister Amit Shah and NHRC chairperson Justice Arun Mishra too spoke on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra to be taken to massacre site||The police took Ashis Mishra into custody from Lakhimpur Kheri jail at 10am on Tuesday and will be taking him to the massacre site on Wednesday for a reconstruction of the October 3 events, sources said. On Tuesday, Ashis was being questioned at the crime branch office in the police lines, barely 500 metres from the prison gates. A source at the home department in Lucknow told The Telegraph the special investigation team (SIT) was asking the same questions that Ashis had deflected on Saturday before he was arrested. “The questions are simple, such as why he had decided to drive to the place where the farmers were protesting and what made him plough his Thar jeep into the farmers,” the official said, asking not to be identified. “Even if the accused repeats the same answer that he was not there, the interrogators will be repeatedly asking these questions. They have found that Ashis gets irritated very quickly, and that’s a positive sign for the interrogators.” The official added: “The SIT will take Ashis to the massacre site on Wednesday.” Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is accused of driving a Thar into a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four farmers and a journalist. The Thar was leading a convoy of SUVs, including a Fortuner, which too is alleged to have run over farmers. Ashis says he was elsewhere at the time. Ashis’s counsel Awadhesh Singh, who was waiting at the gate of the crime branch office on Tuesday, told reporters: “The court has allowed five defence lawyers to remain wherever the SIT takes Ashis. We will not go near them or not disturb them. We cannot influence the inquiry.” A police source told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri that Ankit Das, the owner of the Fortuner, and his associate Mohammad Latif had applied to the district court saying they wanted to surrender. On Tuesday a man named Shekhar Bharati, who had allegedly dropped Ankit near the Darchula border in Nepal, barely 10km from the massacre site, was arrested and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. Besides Ashis, the police had earlier arrested two of his associates, Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, who were allegedly in the convoy. On Monday, the court gave the SIT custody of Ashis for three days from Tuesday 10am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||LAC: Congress alleges Modi's 'lie' harmed India's strategic interests||The Congress has alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement about nobody having intruded into Indian territory has severely harmed India’s strategic interests, with China now refusing to vacate the land it had encroached on last year. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley on the India-claimed side of the LAC had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. China had seized on the comment to claim ownership of the areas it had occupied within India-claimed lines in eastern Ladakh. “Mr 56 inch, lal aankh dikha kyon nahin dete (why don’t you show red eyes)?” Rahul Gandhi, who has been harping on Modi’s failure to deal firmly with the Chinese aggression, said sarcastically on Tuesday. He was alluding to Modi’s boast before he became Prime Minister that India should deal with China by showing it “red (angry) eyes”. However, since assuming the hot seat, Modi has avoided any muscle-flexing on China — a country he refuses to even name in the context of the 17-month-old border standoff. “The Prime Minister has refrained from mentioning China by name as the aggressor, and has stipulated that ‘not an inch of Indian territory’ had been ceded,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “What was discussed at the 13 rounds of military talks? And the army chief did say, ‘China is here to stay….’” Khera said the Chinese had entered Indian territory and Indian soldiers were fighting them “but this government, and especially the Prime Minister, is scared of even taking the name of China and holding them accountable”. He mentioned the “fresh Chinese incursions” seen recently in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. “This, added to the extensive infrastructural build-up along the Hot Springs region (in Ladakh) — including a logistical facility, artillery units and an air defence base among others — poses a potential threat to India’s strategic interests.” The Congress recalled Monday’s external affairs ministry statement that said the situation along the LAC had been caused by “unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of bilateral agreements”. “It was therefore necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity,” the ministry had said. “Why did Modi lie to the country stating that no Chinese had entered Indian territory? Haven’t this government and its agencies failed at protecting India’s national security and sovereignty?” Khera asked. He argued that the implications of the Chinese incursions were critical, especially when the Chinese weren’t even open to discussing de-escalation in the strategic sectors of the Depsang Plains and Daulat Beg Oldi. “After the 12th round of military talks in August, it was mutually agreed that there would be a mutual troop pullback from the Gogra area, (but) what did happen rather was a massive troop consolidation by China along the Daulat Beg Oldi sector,” he said. “Not just has the PLA (Chinese army) consolidated troops but it has upgraded its weapons systems in the region too. They now have the advanced S-400 air defence missile system deployed at least in one location along the Demchok sector. This poses a threat to aircraft within a 400km (radius), which covers almost all of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.” Khera said Modi had told the nation there was no transgression into Indian territory because to him, national security didn’t seem as important as maintaining his image. “This strategy has now harmed India’s strategic interests,” Khera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Covid: CDSCO expert committee approves Covaxin for use in kids ||India’s drug regulatory panel has approved Covaxin in children two years or older, making this home-grown Covid-19 vaccine the country’s first to be ready for use in children below 12, Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech announced on Tuesday. The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has reviewed data from a clinical trial of Covaxin in children aged 2 to 18 years and approved the vaccine for use in this age group, the company said. It said it was now waiting for regulatory approval from the CDSCO to be able to market the vaccine for this age group. The SEC is a panel of medical experts that advises the CDSCO, the apex regulatory authority that has to grant the market authorisation. Covaxin is one of the two main vaccines used by India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign since its beginning in mid-January this year, but the vaccination policy makers will need to open the campaign for children before paediatric immunisation can begin. The CDSCO had in August this year approved another home-grown Covid-19 vaccine from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila for people aged 12 years or older, or adolescents and adults. For now, the vaccination campaign remains open only for people 18 years or older. A decision to vaccinate children between 2 and 18 years will add around 398 million potential recipients to the current estimated adult recipient population of 944 million. Senior health officials have said that while vaccinating all adults — who are at greater risk of severe Covid-19 — will remain the current priority, paediatric immunisation may be introduced for select sets of vulnerable children. Health officials have said that when paediatric immunisation opens, children with lung disease, kidney disease, malignancies or other chronic health disorders are likely to be prioritised for the vaccination. Covaxin’s paediatric clinical trial involved 525 children aged 2-18 years. It was conducted in July this year at the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in Delhi and Patna, and in one hospital each in Hyderabad, Kanpur, Nagpur, and Mysore. The clinical trial was designed to evaluate the vaccine’s safety and capacity to generate immune responses, including antibodies that block SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — in the paediatric population, experts familiar with the trial said. An earlier clinical trial of Covaxin on 25,800 adults had found nearly 78 per cent efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease. The vaccine uses inactivated (killed) virus to immunise people against Covid-19. India had till Tuesday morning administered nearly 964 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines — 690 million single doses and 274 million second doses. Only 29 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults have received the two doses required for full vaccination. Limited vaccine supplies had constrained the pace of India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign during its early months while the country waited for manufacturers to ramp up production. Although vaccine supplies have increased over the months, Health experts say the campaign’s current pace is unlikely to achieve full vaccination of all adults by December 31 — the goal set by the Centre. The immunisation campaign will need to administer 11.5 million doses daily over the next 80 days to meet that goal. But it crossed 10 million doses only on three days over the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Final prayers for slain farmers and journalist||The antim ardas or last prayer for the four farmers and one journalist mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri was held in front of a gurdwara at Tikunia village on Tuesday, with thousands of farmers arriving at the event from various states. Family members of the dead farmers — Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich, Nachhattar Singh and Lavpreet Singh of Kheri — and of slain journalist Raman Kashyap of Kheri sat on the dais holding their photographs. Urns containing the ashes of the five men were placed in front. The antim ardas began at 8am and ended at 3pm. The granthis read out passages from the holy scriptures as gurdwara members honoured the five families by giving them saffron saropas (scarves). The Samyukta Kisan Morcha gave them green scarves. The five men were returning from a farmers’ protest on October 3 when they were mowed down by a convoy of cars led by a Thar jeep belonging to local MP and Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son Ashis, who was allegedly in the Thar, is in police custody. (See Page 3) Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal Singh, who conducted the programme from the dais on behalf of the gurdwara, announced that urns containing the ashes of the dead had been given to a few select people who had arrived from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. “They will organise processions in their respective districts before immersing the ashes in rivers,” Pal said. He announced that the gurdwara committee had decided to build a memorial to the five men on land the committee owns in Tikunia. Morcha leaders Rakesh Tikait and Joginder Singh Ugrahan attended the event. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary were present too, but they were not on the dais.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
13-10-2021||India||Odisha officers protest against minister Bishweswar Tudu||The Odisha administrative service officers in Mayurbhanj district are protesting against Union minister of state for jal shakti and tribal affairs Bishweswar Tudu’s allegedly disrespectful remarks about them in Mayurbhanj recently. Tudu is the Lok Sabha member from Mayurbhanj district. The officers with black badges organised a silent protest on Monday evening on their office premises at Baripada (district headquarters of Mayurbhanj). They urged the minister to behave with the government officials in a “decent and dignified manner.” Additional district magistrate Rudra Naryan Mohanty told The Telegraph: “The minister’s official had called me to allot three rooms and accordingly three rooms were allotted, including a suite and a VIP cottage, for his visit to Mayurbhanj on October 9. The annual repair and maintenance work was going on in other parts of the building of the district circuit house. “On that day (October 9) at 4.26pm, the minister called and abused me and asked why repair work was on during his visit.” Mohanty said: “Though I tried to explain that it was an ongoing annual maintenance work, the minister was in no mood to listen. Suddenly the hon’ble minister started using abusive language and threatened physical assault in the event of a similar situation arising in future.” Another Odisha Administrative Service official, now a tehsildar in Mayurbhanj, said: “I was attending a review meeting in Baripada. When we pointed out our difficulties, the minister suddenly flew into a rage and started abusing us. He even threatened to physically assault us and beat us with slippers. This was one and a half months ago.” Repeated calls by this paper to Tudu’s mobile phone to seek his reaction went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
