14-10-2021||India||Centre plans to announce on flights, trains when 100cr Covid-19 jabs are administered||Announcements will be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations to mark the moment when India achieves the target of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday. The 100 crore doses target is expected to be achieved by October 18 or 19, he said while launching a coffee table book on Covid warriors. The total vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 97 crores on Thursday with 73 per cent of all adults having administered the first dose and 30 per cent having received both doses. "The nation is rapidly approaching the 100 crore vaccination mark! 97 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses administered to date. Keep it up India, let us fight corona," Mandaviya tweeted. "After 100 crore doses is achieved, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against COVID-19," he told reporters. Mandaviya said that Spicejet will wrap planes with posters of one billion vaccine with images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and healthcare workers on the day the target of 100 crore doses is achieved. He launched 13 videos on COVID-19 warriors and a coffee table, published by the health ministry, to pay tributes to them. From eight states, 13 Covid warriors, including doctors, ambulance drivers, volunteers and other healthcare staffers have been identified as 'Sentinels of the Soil'. The coffee table book pays tribute to the ambulance driver, who without waiting for the last rites of his loved ones to be completed, rushed to resume his duties. "As the vaccination drive picked up in India, the challenge was not only demographic but topographic too. The credit goes to the team of healthcare and frontline workers who took it upon themselves to ensure that everyone was covered. It was not an easy task as deep-rooted hesitancy had to be overcome and rampant myths about vaccination had to be countered," Mandaviya said. The book salutes the doctors and nurses in a remote tribal area, who worked tirelessly to overcome the entrenched hesitancy against vaccination in his community, so that science could prevail over superstition. The book celebrates the young volunteers, 'Sathiyas' (friends) of Rashtriya Kishor Swasthya Karyakram, for finding ingenious new ways to bust myths and for taking the lead in making their community understand the importance of vaccination in keeping them safe from COVID-19. One of the most critical aspects during the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive was to provide factual information on a real-time basis to people. Community radio stations played a significant role in disseminating correct information to people at a time when they were mostly confined to their homes. The book also pays tribute to some of these community radio station announcers who enthused communities to take the vaccine and walked the talk by being the first to do so themselves. On Biological E's vaccine, Mavdaviya said due to delay in receiving raw materials Biological E's vaccine got delayed but by November end the data would be submitted..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||India resumes Covid-19 vaccine supply, says MEA||Coronavirus vaccines have been sent to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran according to the government's decision to resume their supplies, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has decided to send the supplies to the neighbourhood initially. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of COVID-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi said recently at the UN General Assembly that India will resume supply of coronavirus vaccines. We have decided to start with the neighbourhood," Bagchi said. "As far as I know, vaccines have already gone to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran. We are constantly monitoring and reviewing the situation," he said. Bagchi said the decision on further supplies will be based on India's production and demand. "We will decide on further supplies based on our production and demand," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||BJP leader accuses Ajay Mishra Teni of being behind Lakhimpur violence||BJP leader Ram Iqbal Singh on Thursday accused Union minister Ajay Mishra of being behind the Lakhimpur violence and sought his sacking from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that questions are also being raised about the prime minister for not sacking the minister. Singh alleged that Mishra was behind the Lakhimpur violence. His "threatening statement" added fuel to the fire. "He should have apologised to farmers but he only tried to defend his son. He has not regretted the incident yet. This incident is a blot on humanity," Singh, BJP state executive member, told reporters. "His son crushed farmers to death under his car. He was arrested after the intervention of the Supreme Court, but even today the minister is sitting on the chair. In such a situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should sack him immediately," he said. In response to a question, Singh said that the image of the BJP government has been "tarnished" by the Lakhimpur incident and the Gorakhpur businessman murder case. He said that BJP workers have also been killed in the Lakhimpur incident and the government should also take care of them. "Activists across the state are angry due to the callousness of the government on this incident. Like the farmers, the government should also provide financial assistance to the relatives of the deceased workers and a job to their family members," he said. The former MLA claimed that the condition of dedicated party workers in the BJP has become like a "bonded labourer". The BJP leader has been criticising the government through his statements. He had earlier said that bureaucrats are running the government in the state and had also raised a question mark on handling of the second Covid wave by the Yogi Adityanath government. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Pragya Thakur, out on bail over health grounds, seen playing kabaddi||BJP leader and Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur, who was confined to a wheelchair for a long time and had obtained bail in the 2008 Malegaon blast case on medical grounds, is purportedly seen playing kabaddi in a viral video. Earlier, a video of her taking part in a Garba dance during the ongoing Navratri festival had also emerged. But her sister said her spine problem can give her trouble any time. A video which went viral on social media showed Thakur playing a game of kabaddi on the premises of a Kali temple on Wednesday. Another video had shown her dancing at a Garba program at the same venue during the ongoing Navratri, while an earlier clip had shown her shooting hoops on a basketball court. Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson Narendra Singh Saluja posted the latest videos on Twitter. "It is a matter of happiness to see you healthy. Today you were seen playing Garba. But whenever people are in distress and they are calling you, you are seen sick, on a wheelchair or walking with support. It really hurts. God should always keep you healthy, he tweeted. Defending the Bhopal MP, her elder sister Upma Thakur told PTI over phone that she suffers from a spine problem. "You never know at which moment it can create problems for her. There is a problem with her L4 and L5 bones (vertebrae) as they got dislocated because ATS Maharashtra (investigators) threw her on the floor. Whenever these problems occur, the lower portion (of her body) is left with no sensation....It can happen even when she sits or gets down from a vehicle, Upma said. MP Congress media department's vice president Bhupendra Gupta said, There are different faces of Bhopal MP. Sometimes she is seen in a wheelchair, sometime she plays Garba and kabaddi too. She has many faces. Her past claims of defeating coronavirus with cow urine are worth publishing in international journals, he said in another jibe. "People of Madhya Pradesh want to know which is her right face one playing garba or kabaddi or that of a wheelchair-bound person?" he asked. The 51-year-old BJP MP is out on bail in the Malegaon blast case on health grounds and had sought exemption from personal appearance in the trial court citing her physical condition. She was in prison for almost nine years and was granted bail in 2017. The case against her relates to bomb blasts at Malegaon in Maharashtra on September 29, 2008, in which at least six persons died. The case was probed by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took it over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Red-carpet arrest of Ashish Mishra has angered farmers: Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait expressed dissatisfaction over the ongoing investigation into the Lakhimpur violence case on Thursday and said the "red-carpet arrest" of MoS Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish has fuelled anger among protesting farmers. Demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra, Tikait said there cannot be a fair investigation in the case if the accused person's father continues to hold the chair. The minister's son Ashish Mishra, alleged to be in one of the cars that mowed down the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, was arrested after 12 hours of questioning last week. "The red carpet arrest of the minister's son who is the main accused in the incident has fuelled anger among the protesting farmers," the BKU leader told newspersons here. "The whole world understands that no justice can be given if the minister whose son is being investigated continues to hold his chair," Tikait said at a function in Tappal town. Expressing dissatisfaction over the ongoing probe, he claimed that the minister was influencing the SIT investigation. He reiterated that the protest against the Lakhimpur violence would intensify if Ajay Mishra was not removed from his post. The Bhartiya Kisan Union leader said 'rail roko' protest would be held for six hours on October 18. He said the BKU will hold a big kisan panchayat in Lucknow on October 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's bail plea to be heard on October 20||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was a regular consumer of drugs, the NCB on Thursday told a special NDPS court here while opposing his bail plea in a case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship. Aryan (23), arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, will have to remain in jail for at least six more days as the court, after hearing arguments, posted the matter for orders on October 20. Khan and two others -- Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha -- have sought bail from the court of V V Patil, special judge for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Appearing for the NCB, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh claimed that there was evidence to show that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the last few years. He also reiterated the charge of conspiracy against Aryan, based on his WhatsApp chats. Since his arrest, the NCB has maintained that though nothing was recovered from him personally, Aryan's WhatsApp chats revealed his links with drug peddlers. The ASG further contended that drugs were seized from Merchant at the docks, and they were meant for consumption by both Aryan and him. The NCB has also been claiming that Aryan was in contact with members of an international drug racket. The NCB was in touch with the External Affairs Ministry to identify them, the ASG said. Singh also cited a high court ruling in another case that if an accused is shown to be in touch with drug dealers, bail cannot be granted even though there is no drug recovery. Drug abuse is affecting youngsters, and being college-going boys should not be a consideration for bail, the NCB lawyer said, adding that the future of the country depends on this generation. "This is not what our freedom-fighters had in mind. This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Buddha. The investigation is at preliminary stage, this is not the stage for grant of bail," he added. Senior Advocate Amit Desai, representing Aryan Khan, said the NCB was pointing to international trafficking racket, but if the consumer states from where he procured drugs, then "the chain is complete". The NCB itself had alleged that Aryan disclosed the name of Achit Kumar, another arrested accused, he said. The agency can continue the probe, but the allegation of links to international racket against Aryan is "inherently absurd and false", he said. "I don't think there can be a debate that the entire world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom and we must protect it and save the younger generation from the drug menace," the lawyer said. On Aryan's WhatsApp chats, Desai said today's youth have different ways of expressing themselves which might be a "torture" for the older generation. The language could seem like something different than what ought to be (expected) in a court of law and might lead to suspicion, advocate Desai said. "These are private moments which are being investigated. You can go ahead and investigate...But it has nothing to do with illicit behaviour, illicit drug trafficking," he added. Aryan Khan had lived abroad for some time, and lot of things are "legitimate" in other countries, the lawyer added. Earlier, Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were among those arrested by the NCB on October 3, had been denied bail by a magistrate's court which said it can not hear the pleas in a case triable by a special NDPS court. While Aryan and Merchant are lodged at Arthur Road jail, Dhamecha is at Byculla women's prison in the city. Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on October 2 evening and allegedly seized drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Closure of coal mines, inundation led to crisis, says minister||Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said closure of some mines, and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the crisis but there is no need to panic as the situation is improving. Visiting the Ashoka mine of the Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) at Piparwar in Chatra district of Jharkhand, Joshi said the power plants in the country will continue to receive the required amount of coal. "We are witnessing an improvement now," he said, asked about the current situation. The minister held discussions with officials of CCL and Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) on the prevailing situation. "We can produce two million tonnes of coal per day," he said, asserting the need for producing more coal. Closure of some coal mines and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the hindrance in coal supply to power plants, Joshi told reporters. The minister also discussed the issue related to the availability of land for mining at the meeting. A solution will be found with the cooperation of all, including the district administration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||NCPCR seeks action against Delhi govt over Covid norm ad||Apex child rights body NCPCR on Thursday sought action against a promotional Delhi government video that purportedly shows a large gathering of schoolchildren shooting for an advertisement without wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also said that it is a violation of the Centre's COVID-19 protocols and also endangers the lives of schoolchildren. In a letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev, the commission said that it has received a complaint against a promotional video which features Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. "The said promotional video involves a large gathering of schoolchildren shooting for the advertisement without wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, amidst breakout of COVID-19 pandemic, which is violation of Covid protocols issued by the government of India and also endangering the lives of minor schoolchildren of Delhi," the NCPCR said. The commission said the video is in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and aguidelines issued by the Centre in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. "In view of the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that the matter may kindly be looked into for necessary remedial measures and an action taken report be shared with the commission within seven days," the letter issued on Thursday said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Purujit Singh India’s Youngest Entrepreneur & fashion organiser||Being successful is the desire of all of us residing over this lovely planet but Success doesn't comes handy, It has to be achieved. Purujit Singh born in 2000 & raised in Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh , India is one of the greatest example of Success. From his childhood he showed his interest in Music & Acting. In year 2013 , he was selected for India’s Best Dramebaaz ~ Zee TV show but hard time & family situation were the obstacles & he couldn’t make it. After getting such hit he continued to show his interest in Music & Acting. In 2014 he created his Youtube Chanel by the name of Big Projects & started uploading Guitar covers & after getting requests for Orginals he wrote his first song “ Tera Attitude mera Jutta “ & released it on 9th jan 2016 & got 18k hits. After receiving good response from Lucknow he got opportunities for Live shows & concerts. Purujit was not satisfied because of financial issues & fixing in competitions. So he took step to convert Big Projects Music label to Event Management & Advertising firm. Big Projects is surely creating a sensational buzz in the industry. The organisation is giving exposure to many young enthusiasts as well as famed talents of India. Relying on just one project is not a way of such brilliant minds. The same goes with our entrepreneur Purujit, and he is the proud owner of the prestigious International Film Making Institute that is located in the city of Nawab’s- Lucknow. In 2018 when he was just 18 years old he organised YouTube Talent Showcase Season 1 with Bollywood known Assitant Director Vibhas Joshi. & after that he did work with tons of artists & even produced his Music Video with Bollywood artists like Arham Abbasi & Zuber Hashmi. Purujit's aim was to become the person to give award via his hand , not to receive from other & he proved it in 2019 only. He organised Big Projects Title Talent Awards in which he gave award to Team Amit Badhana , Santosh Shukla , Nazia Hussain , Amandeep Singh Khayal & tons of known artists. After that success he did the biggest one of his career of 2019 with Rannvijay Singha & after that he got awarded by Priyank Sharma , Karan Kundra , Himanshi Khurana , Raju Srivastava , Parul Chauhan & tons of other celebrities from industry. Presently he is 21 years old & Nevertheless, he has over 200 accolades to his credit. Isn’t the numbers, Astonishing? Yes it is and still counting!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Opa themed nights brings something new for you every day ||The times of just dancing away the night are gone. Today people need new and different things to pass away their time, while they nimble on their favorite snacks. Keeping this in mind, Opa! Mondays at Opa! begin with the big guns. The best of board games are pulled out, as people drink the night away. Whether you’ve monopoly on the table, or you and your friends like to play Jenga. Everything is available at your beck and call. Talk about a round of Uno with some loaded fries and some freshly poured beer. The Tuesdays see equal times fun too. With ladies coming in for complimentary drinks - Opa! Becomes the talk of the town for all the glitz and glam. The cafe is known for throwing the craziest of parties. Wednesdays are strictly for the bar lovers, with exciting offers across the menu, both on food and drinks. Opa! provides for the perfect setting for mid-week breaks with your colleagues. Catch up in an informal setting with your coworkers as you listen to some great music, and feast on even greater food. Thursdays are the ones who like to keep it calm -  our acoustic guitar strums are paired with melifulous performers for the perfect evenings. Whether you like to sing along to bollywood music, or groove to Punjabi beats, we have got everything covered. With only one day short to the weekend, Fridays are brought in with style. Many famous DJs make trips to our dance floor, and get the party going. Themed nights like Arabian nights, for instance, have live belly dance performances. Opa! has hosted other parties like Error, One Night in Amsterdam, Who’s Your Daddy, and Marhaba Nights. Saturdays are sundowners at Opa! with our resident host DJ Rohit making you swing to his beats. Wash down your weekday blues with our upbeat music, mouth-watering food, and some amazing cocktails. For the last day of your week, Opa! has an elaborate brunch planned out for the party-goers. As you prepare for Mondays, you need to replenish yourself with the right kind of food, and fruity cocktails. Which is why Opa! chefs put on their best food forward while preparing a special spread for you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||How Nick Gomez Empowers People to Invest in Crypto Currency as a Public Speaker||Nick Gomez has developed a unique understanding of how to educate people on the fundamentals of cryptocurrencies.  As a renowned Speaker, Nick teaches people of all ages and backgrounds in the new age of digital currencies through myswipecoin. Banking on more than 7 years of being in the game, he mentors thousands of students worldwide to make money in the crypto space. Nick believes that helping people change their lives is the most noble thing he can do with his skillset, and has already helped thousands of people around the world change their situations for the better. Coming from humble beginnings, Nick learned to appreciate the value of money having grown up with it being a scarcity. He was raised by a single mother who worked very hard to provide for her family, which has further fueled his drive to succeed today. The moment he became versed in the nature of crypto and the power it holds, he developed his drive to help other people take advantage as well.. He became a Cryptocurrency Master Educator and Trader, running an educational app and website with over 40,000 students. In Nick's opinion, having a strong mindset will get you most of the way to your goals, but ultimately success is a never-ending process. Once you have reached a state where you can implement your idea, you are unaffected by the ups and downs. Nick stayed calm despite criticism from friends and family as he stepped into a new industry. As a young investor and trader, Nick felt compelled to teach others about crypto currencies as a Public Speaker. But he had to overcome mental barriers and lack of confidence as he began. According to Nick, the key is consistency and a genuine concern for the success of others. "Fear is the illusionary barrier that stands between you and your greatest accomplishments," he explains. Nick’s next venture will to grow a crypto hedge fund, as he still continues to travel the world and educating the masses on the crypto markets. You can follow Nick on Instagram @nickkgomez.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against accused||A Delhi court has framed charges of rioting and arson against nine accused in a February 2020 riots case, saying that it would be a miscarriage of justice to throw out the prosecution's case merely because the statements of the public witnesses were recorded after a delay. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat said that the delay in recording statements of the witnesses by the police was not deliberate or contumacious and was occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in Delhi's northeast area during and after the alleged rioting. The nine accused were allegedly part of the unlawful assembly and caused damage, looted properties worth crores of rupees, burnt a large number of houses, shops, schools, and vehicles on February 25, 2020, as per the police. It relied on the statements of four public witnesses. The judge took exception to the submission made by the defence counsel that the public witnesses were not trustworthy and were planted as their statements were recorded one month after the date of the alleged incident. The judge noted that there was an atmosphere of terror and trauma for several days even after these riots and the public witnesses were terrified and reluctant to present their version of the incident before the investigating agency. Keeping these circumstances in view, it would be a miscarriage of justice to disbelieve the statements of these witnesses at this very stage and throw out the prosecution case merely for the reason that their statements were recorded after about one month of the incident, ASJ Bhat stated in an order dated October 11. He added, In the opinion of this court, the delay in recording of the statements of witnesses does not appear to be deliberate or contumacious. It appears to have occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in the area during and after the incident of rioting and therefore, the accused cannot claim discharge in this case merely on this score. During the course of the hearing, Delhi Police apprised the court that the nine accused created disharmony in the society by threatening and terrorizing the public at large and that their action was not only anti national but also a challenge to Rules of Law in Delhi. The defence counsels, however, submitted that CCTV video footage which forms part of the charge sheet in the case pertains to the date February 24, whereas the incident admittedly took place on February 25, 2020. The counsels pointed out that there was no CCTV video footage on record which pertains to the date February 25, a fact not disputed by the senior public prosecutor, according to the court's order. However, the prosecutor said that they did not rely on the CCTV video footage and that their case is based on other evidence on record, including the ocular version of the witnesses. After considering the entire material on record, the judge said that it is prima facie evident that the charges under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 380 (theft), 427 (mischief), 436 (arson), 452 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code are liable to be framed against all the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SIT takes Ashish Mishra to recreate sequence of events||The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son and three others arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the incident in Uttar Pradesh's Tikonia village. Amid tight security, the three accused were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from district headquarters Lakhimpur city, police said. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to October 15. The other three -- Shekhar Bharti was arrested on October 12, and Ankit Das and Latif alias Kale were arrested on October 13. Ashish, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, was allegedly driving a Thar jeep at the head of a convoy of SUVs that had ploughed into protesting farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, killing four farmers and a journalist. “Monu (Ashish) has still not admitted committing the crime and is insisting he was in his village Banvirpur (4km from Tikunia), attending a wrestling programme,” a state home department official said, requesting anonymity. “He says his associates had gone to receive deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the chief guest at the event. But he has failed to explain why the Thar was travelling on that road (where the farmers were protesting) when it was public knowledge that Maurya’s route had already been changed.” Das, Latif and Bharti are in police custody from October 14 to October 17. On Thursday, investigators reached the district jail premises in the morning to take Das, Latif and Bharti into police custody. The trio were taken to the crime branch's office at the Reserve Police Lines, which is near the district jail where main accused Ashish Mishra is lodged. They were taken to Tikonia village by the special investigation team (SIT) amid heavy security for further investigations, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Narendra Desai, a lifestyle influencer who loves traveling to new places||Imagine waking up to the most scenic view and taking pleasure in every sip of your coffee while feeling the fresh ooze of winds and vibrant sunup on your face. Only picturing such words brings utter calmness to the mind, what if you could sense that in person? On the other hand, not everyone is fortunate enough to explore the world. Because of social media, the world now can be accessible with few clicks, but it cannot replace the notion of visiting physically places. Narendra Desai, a lifestyle influencer has made sure to achieve his bucket list by exploring the corners of the world. Such is his lifestyle that has motivated thousands of people to work hard and fulfil their dreams too. Mr. Desai is also a thriving entrepreneur and an automobile freak. His travel stories can be seen through his Instagram feed.  Along with touring around the world, he is also a very adventurous person. Horse riding, shooting, sky diving, swimming are some of the more vigorous activities that he is into. One should live a life in their own conditions and Mr. Desai seems to be a true follower of this sentence. He says, " When you take a tour to a country or city or a place, you are discovering a new culture, meeting new people and then you begin to find your inner peace at that very place." What further he believes in is, going local and trying toothsome dishes and interacting with the regional people, comprehending their lifestyle and colours altogether. Being an explorer not only introduces you to new realms but also opens your mind and make you feel fresh. So there is no chance you wish to withdraw from being a true wanderlust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Rajnath hails Indira Gandhi at Shanghai Cooperation Organisation's seminar||Former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, but she also did so during times of war, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday, in an apparent reference to her role in the 1971 war with Pakistan. In an address at a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) seminar on the role of women in the armed forces, the defence minister also talked about Rani Laxmi Bai and former president Pratibha Patil, and said India has a positive experience in harnessing women's power in national development. Singh said though it is justifiable to discuss the role of women in the armed forces, their wider contribution in all spheres of security and nation-building must also be recognised and reinforced. "There are a number of examples of women taking up arms to protect their country and the rights of the people through history. Rani Laxmi Bai is amongst the most revered and respected amongst them," he said. "India's former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, she also did so during the times of war. And more recently, Pratibha Patil was the president of India and the supreme commander of the Indian armed forces," the defence minister added. Under Indira Gandhi's prime ministership, India won the 1971 war against Pakistan that resulted in the birth of Bangladesh. Singh said the tradition of women as both caregivers and protectors has continued over the centuries and remains deeply embedded in the customs and traditions of the region. "If Saraswati is our goddess of knowledge, wisdom and learning, mother Durga remains associated with protection, strength, destruction and war," he said. Singh said India is amongst a very few countries that took an early initiative in terms of women's participation in the armed forces and that women are now being accepted for permanent commissioning and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future. "Women have been serving with pride in the Indian Military Nursing Service for over 100 years now. The Indian Army had commenced commissioning women officers in 1992. It has now moved to inducting women officers in most of the branches of the Army," he said. "Women are now being accepted for permanent commission and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future," he added. Singh said women will be able to join the premier tri-service pre-commissioning training institute, the National Defence Academy, from next year. Describing the induction of women in the military police in the Army as a major milestone, he said India's approach to their induction in the police, central police, paramilitary and armed forces has been progressive. "We have taken the evolutionary path of moving from support to combat support and thereafter, to combat arms within the armed forces," he said. "We have found that the process of induction, given its broad-based and progressive path, has also simultaneously prepared the society and the armed forces for this change. This is an important aspect to ensure a smooth and successful transition," the defence minister added. Referring to women's role in the Navy, he said from humble beginnings in the Air Traffic Control in 1993, the women officers graduated to being pilots of maritime reconnaissance aircraft in 2016 and are now being appointed onboard warships since last year. "The Indian Coast Guard has been employing women officers in combat roles, which include pilots, observers and aviation support services. In the Indian Air Force, women are inducted in all roles, including combat and support roles," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Chidambaram: Congress will win 2022 Goa polls, 2024 Lok Sabha elections||Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Thursday expressed confidence that his party will win the Goa Assembly elections due next year and also the next Lok Sabha polls in 2024. Chidambaram, who is the AICC Goa poll in-charge, was addressing party workers after inaugurating the state election campaign office in Panaji. "Let me say one thing from history...whoever wins Goa wins Delhi. In 2007 we won Goa...in 2009 we won Delhi. In 2012, we unfortunately lost Goa, in 2014 we lost Delhi. In 2017, you (referring to party workers) won Goa, but our legislators lost Goa," he said, while noting that the Congress was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The former Union minister said this time, his party is moving forward with courage and confidence and "will win Goa in 2022 and Delhi in 2024". In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But, the BJP at that time forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independent legislators to form government. The Congress currently has only four legislators in the state. Chidambaram said, "The history is ours...we are beginning today on an auspicious day and our office has been inaugurated by a valuable statesman and former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane." Addressing the Congress workers, he said they should remember the "golden years" when Goa moved forward, progressed and developed in the fields like industries, schools, colleges and roads. "We will bring back that golden age of Goa, beginning 2022. I wish you go forward with courage and confidence," he said to the Congress workers. Chidambaram also said Goa will not be colonised by "some political party". "Goa cannot become a political colony of any invader. Goa will be governed by Goans. Goa is of Goans, by Goans and for Goans. Goa will be ruled by Goans, he said, without naming any political outfit. Notably, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro quit the Congress last month and joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress. Chidambaram said the Congress has presented before the state the faces of its leaders. And in the days ahead, the party will come up with more young leaders, including from among women, Schedule Tribes, fishermen community and Dalits, to govern Goa, he said. Chidambaram also said he will be guiding the party workers on how to convert election offices into "vibrant election offices". Every block committee will have an office and every block committee office will function as the block election campaign office, he said. He also said that they had spent enough time on planning and discussions and now is the time to go out in the field and start the work. "Between now and 100 days from now, there will be elections. I don't know the date of elections, but let me count a 100 days from today. Everyday we must move forward, win more hearts and minds," he said. The Congress should win more votes and send a credible message to the whole of Goa and the country that the coastal state will see the Congress government in 2022, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Centre launches 'One Health' consortium to monitor viral, bacterial infections||The Department of Biotechnology has launched a 'One Health' consortium that envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens in the country. The project also looks into the use of existing diagnostic tests and the development of additional methodologies for the surveillance and understanding the spread of emerging diseases, the DBT said in a statement. Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, launched the First 'One Health' project of the DBT through video conferencing on Thursday. The consortium envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens. Noting that the COVID-19 pandemic showed the relevance of 'One Health' principles in the governance of infectious diseases, specially efforts to prevent and contain zoonotic diseases throughout the world, Swarup emphasised on a holistic approach to understand the health of human, animals and wildlife to minimise the damage caused by future pandemics. Swarup said the 'One Health Consortium consisting of 27 organisations led by DBT-National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad, is one of the biggest health programmes launched by the government in post-Covid times. The consortium consists of AIIMS, Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, IVRI, Bareilly, GADVASU, Ludhiana, TANUVAS, Chennai, MAFSU, Nagpur, Assam agricultural and veterinary university and many more ICAR, ICMR centres and wildlife agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Mermaid & The Ghostnet raises awareness about the plastic pollution||After producing 2 successful educational underwater shows - “The Mermaid Encounter” in early 2021 and late 2019, VGP Marine Kingdom presents “Mermaid & The Ghostnet: Taming the Silent Killer of the Ocean. An educational play to raise awareness about the great garbage patches around the world that are filled with large, small and micro plastics. Just like the previous parts, the show will feature a professional underwater performer from Europe playing a real life mermaid, telling a story about the perils of man-made pollution. This part has an emphasis about the damage to marine life caused by ghostnets. Ghost nets are fishing nets that have been abandoned, discarded or lost , at sea and on beaches. They are a major contributor to the bigger problem of ghost gear, which refers to all types of fishing gear, including nets, lines, traps, pots and fish aggregating devices, that are no longer actively managed by fisheries. Each year, ghost gear is responsible for trapping and killing a significant number of marine animals, such as sharks, rays, bony fish, sea turtles, dolphins, whales, crustaceans and sea birds. They can cause further destruction by smothering coral reefs, devastating shorelines, and damaging boats VGP Marine Kingdom will also host a Ghostnet Recycled Art Exhibition in association with The Tree Foundation, an conservation NGO whose primary mission is protecting the fragile marine ecosystem and the marine turtle population by developing education. Starting on the 14th of October on the auspicious day of Ayodhya Pooja, the stage is set within India’s first underwater tunnel aquarium, VGP Marine Kingdom containing over 3 million litres of saltwater. This walkthrough themed aquarium depicts the multiple ecosystems of our environment and is filled with over 1000 exotic fish, sharks and rays. Previous shows include Hydroman, Scuba Ganesha and Scuba Santa. The location has also been hired for many film shoots. If you are in Chennai or planning to visit in the coming week, Don’t miss the “Mermaid & The Ghostnet” Show. Catch this one-of-a-kind underwater educational show to raise awareness about plastic pollution between the 14th to 17th October, 2021. 4 Shows daily at 11:30AM, 3:30PM, 4:30PM & 5:30PM. Show is free with the entry ticket which costs Rs 600 for Adults and Rs 500 for Juniors (Between 90 to 125cm) Visit www.vgpmarinekingdom.in or call +918939932222 to learn more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||IMTS Institute Will Help You to Take the Step in The Right Direction, 16 Years Of Experience in Providing Quality Education||IMTS Institute is Known for its powerful distance learning program, IMTS Institute is a dream comes true for highly career-oriented students who want to leave their imprints on the world. 98% of students receive their diplomas on time. Furthermore, over 26,000 students have benefitted from the IMTS institution up till now. IMTS provides outstanding career counseling, with professionals advising students on a wide range of topics. IMTS Institute packs an adroit team of more than 350 teachers and career counselors that are incredibly committed to the success and well-being of their students. With more than 16 years of experience providing quality education, IMTS is on the fastest track to become India's topmost 'Distance Learning Institute.' History of IMTS Institute Back in 2005, IMTS’ founders recognized that the quickly changing business demanded that professionals constantly upskill themselves, as learning for professionals comes to a standstill once they enter a working environment. This was when IMTS was founded to make a difference in the lives of working professionals by assisting them in upskilling and learning while they work. The Institute continues to develop online learning in order to provide quality education to the future workforce through its UG and PG programs. By working with students all over the world, students of different races, genders, and colors, IMTS meets its objectives of global diversity as well. What has IMTS Institute got to offer? IMTS Institute provides students with the finest available assistance in order for them to enhance their professional and personal talents. 98% of students receive their Certificate on time. Furthermore, over 26,000 students have benefitted from the IMTS institution up till now. IMTS provides outstanding career counseling, with professionals advising students on a wide range of topics. After completing their Class 12 examinations, students can live a stress-free life as they hand over the responsibility of their careers at the Institute. IMTS Based on a student's ability, IMTS expert’s help students choose their field of studies and help them make the big decision. In addition to that, the Institute provides an excellent atmosphere for people who want to grow and succeed in their chosen field. Moreover, in the end, the Institute even promises ( as per exp.) to get its students a job in the MNC of their choice. Upskilling with IMTS Institute So, what exactly is upskilling, and how can it benefit your job prospects? It is the process of filling a skill gap by enrolling in a course from a reliable and trustworthy platform, such as IMTS, to assist your organization and you in succeeding now and in the future. Both the company and the employee benefit from this arrangement. IMTS Institute Promotes Diversity Through Its Distance Learning Nothing stops you from enrolling in the IMTS Institute, not even your geographical location; that's the beauty of IMTS' distance learning program. Students in India regard the Institute highly. As part of the distance learning program, 40% of students in IMTS are from the UAE, Oman, Kuwait, the United States, and the United Kingdom. In the past, out of this 40%, all students scored at least 60-70% marks in their examinations and are currently working at top MNCs. IMTS ASPIRES IMTS ASPIRES to Inspire its students to reach the pinnacle of their success. The Institute believes in: Insight into IMTS Institute IMTS allows you to connect with its alumni, who can help you take the step in the right direction. Yes, IMTS is backed by proper alumni support who are now working with the companies of their choice. From these alumni, you can get a first-hand insight into the Institute. The Institute also has a news section on its website that keeps its students always on board with the latest updates. Moreover, if you're still having your doubts, you can Google ‘IMTS Institute’ and see what the people have to say about the Institute through their heartwarming reviews. You won't regret your decision!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi shares clip of Vajpayee's speech in support of farmers||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted on Twitter a short clip of a speech of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 1980 in which he warns the then Indira Gandhi government against repressing farmers and extends his support to them. Gandhi tweeted, "Wise words from a big-hearted leader..." The BJP MP has been vocal in empathising with farmers agitating against the three agri laws enacted by the Modi government and sharing Vajpayee's speech is seen as his message to the central government. In the video clip, Vajpayee is heard telling a gathering that farmers cannot be scared. "If the government will suppress (farmers), misuse laws and repress a peaceful agitation, then we will not shy away from joining the farmers' struggle and standing with them," he is heard saying. Gandhi has also sought stringent action against those responsible for the death of four farmers after vehicles, allegedly linked to BJP leaders, ran over them in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. He was recently dropped from the BJP national executive in what was seen as an indication of the party leadership's unhappiness with the Pilibhit MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||NSHM Asha Jyoti Scholarship enters 11th year with 20 Crore scholarship aid||NSHM Knowledge Campus’s Asha Jyoti Scholarship has been founded to promote the idea of "Power of Education for All". Currently, in its 11th year, the CSR activity has extended learning opportunities to more than 3000 students since its inception, for scholarships worth INR20Crore.In 2020, scholarship worth INR 3.5 Crore was awarded to 499 students on the basis of merit across NSHM’s Durgapur and Kolkata campus. In today’s era when the world is discussing Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Data Science, India is still struggling to achieve basic education among the underprivileged segment.NSHM, through the Asha Jyoti Scholarship promises to bring the light of education to every household, which would make the society to grow at large. With the growth of education, a sustainable future can be created for the youth of our country. Mr. Cecil Antony, Chief Mentor & Managing Trustee, NSHM Knowledge Campus said,“We at NSHM Knowledge Campus not only believe in providing holistic education to our students but also aim to eradicate lack of education as a challenge from our country. Providing the light of education is a cause which all of us feel is our foremost responsibility, which can contribute to the growth of the nation. “Asha Jyoti Scholarship” is an initiative to extend learning opportunities to meritorious students, underprivileged and students coming from certain special backgrounds. Through this programme, we plan to build a vibrant economy that will be driven by educated and skilled individuals” The Asha Jyoti Scholarships are offered across four categories and the scholarship amount ranges between 25% to 100% of the course fees. Mayukh Mondal, a student, pursuing his Hotel Management course at NSHM Durgapur Campus is extremely happy since he has been able to follow his dream career. He comes from a very humble background and it was not possible for his parents to afford the college fee. However, at NSHM we feel that if there is a will, there is always a way. Mayukh is a proud recipient of Asha Jyoti Scholarship of 2020 batch. The institute always looks forward to having more such happy faces like Mayukh and extend learning opportunities to all. A pioneer of professional degree courses aligned to industry needs, NSHM Knowledge Campus is one of Eastern India's top educational institutions. From its inception in 1996, NSHM has provided quality education and training in West Bengal in the fields of Business & Management, Health Sciences, Computing & Analytics, Media & Communication, Design, Engineering & Technology, and Tourism & Hotel Management. With cutting-edge knowledge imparting techniques, lifestyle education, and exposure to multiple domains, NSHM is widely known for its world-class learning environment. Experience plays a major role in NSHM Knowledge Campus, where a friendly and open atmosphere fosters the free flow of information and ideas. It is a "Knowledge Hub of Global Excellence" in which students learn, share, learn from each other. To know more visit: NSHM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||JEE Main 2022 Preparation: Merits and Demerits of Online Preparation - EntranceZone||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main is India’s biggest engineering entrance exam in which lakhs of students appear for the exam. In order to crack the exam, candidates have to go through intense preparation. Candidates appearing for the exam must be well equipped with the syllabus, the preparation strategy like books, study materials. Often students get pressured with the topics in the subjects. In order to have smooth preparation candidates look for the study material online and offline. So a focused mind is required to prepare for the national level exam. Check the article for detailed information about the JEE Main 2022 Preparation.   Benefits of JEE Main Preparation Starting the preparation early is better for the candidates who are appearing for the exam. 1.   The earlier the preparation, the more timing is there to cover the topics and revise them. Candidates are not in a rush to complete the chapters. If someone hurries in preparation then most of the time they land in a confused state because the concept remains unclear. Hence each and every chapter requires time and practice with better understanding. 2.   Hold on to the Basics of the Topics. Clearing the national level exam is not an easy task where everyone dreams of admission to a prestigious college. With the correct concept of the basics, candidates have a great hold on the twisted questions. 3.   Making notes is very important while doing the preparation as it acts as revision material for the students in the end time. Have a separate note for all the subjects in order to not get confused. What Is The Mode To Prepare For The JEE Main Exam? There are mainly two-approach candidates can have in order to prepare for the exam i.e Online and Offline mode. Both modes have merit and demerits. Let’s check in detail. Merits and Demerits of the Online Preparation  Merits Demerits Merits and Demerits of the Offline Preparation Merits Demerits  Benefits Of The Four Times JEE Main Exam In A Year. In 2020, due to the COVID situation in the country, NTA decided to take the JEE exam four times a year. i.e February, March, April, and May.  How To Calculate The JEE Main Score? Candidates must be aware of some important terms in order to understand the calculative measure of the JEE Main 2022 NTA score = P Total Number of Students =N Percentage of students below or equal to your marks = P For example: if you have secured an 80 percentile in JEE Main, which means that 80% of the candidates who appeared for JEE Main are below or at the same level as you are Percentage of students above your marks = 100 - P Number of students above your marks = ((100 – P)/100)*N Hence the formula to know the estimated rank from the percentile is ((100 – P)/100)*N + 1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel price on Thursday was again hiked by 35 paise per litre, sending retail pump prices to their highest ever level across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.79 a litre and Rs 110.75 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.40 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.52. This is the 13th time that petrol price has been hiked in two weeks while diesel rates have gone up on 16 times in three weeks. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has jumped to near USD 84 per barrel for the first time in seven years. On September 13, Brent was trading at USD 73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.9 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 3.9. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Actor Nora Fatehi appears before ED in money laundering case||Actor Norah Fatehi on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here for recording her statement in connection with a money laundering case filed against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. Fatehi, 29, appeared before the investigating officer of the case at the agency office here. Sources said her statement is being recorded under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a money laundering case filed against Chandrashekar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency had earlier questioned actor Jacqueline Fernandes in this case. She is expected to depose again before the agency on Thursday. Both the actors are understood to be helping the agency in taking the probe forward as they themselves had been allegedly conned in the racket run by Chandrashekhar and his wife. The two were recently arrested by the ED while they were already lodged in jail after they were arrested by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating some people including some high-profile individuals including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxurious cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, the ED said. "He (with a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Kejriwal plea to LG to allow Chhath puja celebrations in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to LG Anil Baijal, urging him to allow Chhath puja celebrations as the Covid situation in Delhi is under control. He requested Baijal to call a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) as soon as possible to grant permission for Chhath celebrations. In its order on September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations at public places, including riverbanks, waterbodies, and temples, in view of the threat posed by COVID-19, leading to protests by the Delhi BJP. Kejriwal said the Covid situation in Delhi is under control for the last three months and he believed that the permission to celebrate Chhath should be given with protocols for the pandemic. He said other states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan, have allowed Chhath celebrations with reasonable restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in India lowest in 215 days||India logged 18,987 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,20,730 on Thursday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.07 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll climbed to 4,51,435 with 246 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 20 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 109 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,06,586, the lowest in 215 days, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 1067 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 13,01,083 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,76,64,525. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,62,709, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. Over 96.82 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 246 new fatalities include 123 from Kerala and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,51,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,670 from Maharashtra, 37,916 from Karnataka, 35,833 from Tamil Nadu, 26,571 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,935 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||PM Modi wishes Manmohan Singh speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished his predecessor Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS, a speedy recovery. The 89-year-old former prime minister was admitted to a private ward of the cardioneuro centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Wednesday and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik, the doctor said. Singh had a fever on Monday and had recovered, but turned weak and was on fluids. Modi tweeted, "I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji." Earlier, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS here after complaining of weakness following a fever, and enquired about his health. "Singh's condition is stable," a doctor at the hospital said. In a tweet in Hindi, Mandaviya said that he met former prime minister Manmohan Singh at AIIMS, New Delhi and enquired about his health. The health minister wished Singh a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Covid: Centre plans to light up monuments for 100 crore jabs||The Centre is planning to celebrate the feat of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by lighting up 100 monuments across the country in the colours of the national flag. Around 96.6 crore vaccine doses have been administered till Wednesday and the 100-crore mark is expected to be achieved on October 15 — on Dussehra. “Altogether 100 selected monuments across the country are going to be lit in the Tricolour to mark 100 crore Covid vaccine doses being administered in the country. We are working on it,” ASI director (monuments) N.K. Pathak told The Telegraph. Pathak, who is based in Delhi, said ASI media consultant Manu Sharma would give the details. Sharma said the monuments will be lit on the evening of October 14 and again on the day the 100-crore doses mark is achieved. “The monuments will be ready on October 14 and lit in the evening. They would be lit again on the day we are asked by the Union health ministry officials,” Sharma said. Asked about the expenditure for lighting the monuments, Sharma said he was not allowed to give out such information. The 100 monuments include 17 Unesco World Heritage Sites, including the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutub Minar in Delhi, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri in Uttar Pradesh, Konark Temple in Odisha, Mamallapuram Rath temples in Tamil Nadu, St Francis of Assisi Church in Goa, Khajuraho, the forts of Chittor and Kumbhalgarh in Rajasthan, the excavated ruins of the ancient Nalanda University in Bihar and Dholavira (recently accorded world heritage status) in Gujarat. Metcalfe Hall and Currency Building in Calcutta is also on the list. “We have been asked to light the excavated ruins of Nalanda Mahavihara, Sher Shah’s Tomb in Sasaram, and the ancestral house of the first President Rajendra Prasad,” ASI Patna circle superintending archaeologist Goutami Bhattacharya said. Other officials pointed out that the ASI was working on a shoestring budget of just Rs 1,043 crore during the current financial year 2021-22 and was still being made to indulge in such extravagance, which will cost a few crores of rupees. A senior official asked:   “Why is Covid vaccination being considered such a big deal in our country when it is being undertaken all over the world?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Three held in massacre case ||The police have arrested three more suspects in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, taking the number of arrests to six, with sources saying prime accused Ashis Mishra was still stonewalling questions two days into his police custody. Ashis, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, was allegedly driving a Thar jeep at the head of a convoy of SUVs that had ploughed into protesting farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, killing four farmers and a journalist. “Monu (Ashis) has still not admitted committing the crime and is insisting he was in his village Banvirpur (4km from Tikunia), attending a wrestling programme,” a state home department official said, requesting anonymity. “He says his associates had gone to receive deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the chief guest at the event. But he has failed to explain why the Thar was travelling on that road (where the farmers were protesting) when it was public knowledge that Maurya’s route had already been changed.” Ashis, in three days’ police custody from 10am on Tuesday, was to be taken to the massacre spot on Wednesday but this was not done. While Ashis and two associates, Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, had been arrested last week, the special investigation team (SIT) has now arrested Shekhar Dubey, Ankit Das and Mohammad Latif. All six are alleged to have been in the convoy and are being questioned, but separately, sources said. The SIT obtained three days’ custody of Pandey and Rana on Tuesday afternoon. Awadhesh Singh, one of the lawyers of Ashis, Rana and Pandey, told reporters at the gate of the district court in Lakhimpur Kheri: “We will oppose it if the SIT seeks extension of custody.” Shekhar, believed to have been driving a Fortuner that the police say followed the Thar in ploughing into the farmers, had surrendered on Tuesday. The SIT obtained three days’ custody of him on Wednesday. Ankit, the owner of the Fortuner and an associate of Teni, arrived at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri with Latif, his security guard, at 10am on Wednesday in answer to an SIT summons. After a few hours of questioning, they were arrested around 4pm. Special prosecution officer S.P. Yadav told reporters that Ankit and Latif would be in three days’ police custody from 10am on Thursday. Ankit’s lawyer Pawan Srivastava told reporters: “I think it’s unnecessary as my client has nothing to share with the SIT — he was not in the convoy that crushed people.” The home department source said Shekhar had turned out to be very useful. “Shekhar has confirmed that Monu was in the Thar along with Sumit Jaiswal Modi, a BJP councillor from Lakhimpur Kheri. They jumped off the jeep and escaped after crushing the farmers and the journalist,” he said. He expressed surprise that the SIT had so far not shown any interest in Sumit. “Das has denied being in the Fortuner and claimed that he was at the function in Banvirpur,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||AISA protests over ‘torture’ of students in Delhi||Several women activists and members of the All India Students Association, affiliated to the CPIML-Liberation, protested outside the Delhi police headquarters on Wednesday against the alleged torture of two AISA members during a protest against Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni on Monday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha — which is leading the movement against the new farm laws — also supported the demand of the students to remove a police officer who supervised the action against the protesters. In a memorandum to Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana, AISA and women activists Annie Raja of the CPI and Kavita Krishnan of CPIML-Liberation said: “Women personnel of the Delhi police lifted the clothes off one of the woman protester. They kicked another protester in her vagina while dragging her through road. After they were pushed inside the police bus for detention, and thus were already in custody, the police brutally and repeatedly kicked one of them in her private parts, telling them, ‘We will show you your place (sic)’.” Demanding regulations against such assault, the memorandum said: “We demand that ACP (assistant commissioner of police) Chanakyapuri, Pragya Anand, who clearly instructed the personnel on site to assault the women protesters, be sacked and all the personnel who carried out the sexual assault either as perpetrators or voyeurs be suspended and reprimanded.” On Monday, 12 AISA members were detained and held at Mandir Marg police station for about six hours, after they attempted to gather near Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Krishna Menon Marg to demand that he sack Teni, whose son was allegedly in an SUV that mowed down at least four protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The two AISA activists named in the memorandum — Shreya Kapoor Banerjee, 22, and Neha Tiwari, 25 — told this newspaper that they were beaten up first on the road, and then separately inside police buses by women personnel of the Delhi police. Banerjee has been prescribed medication for infection and pain in her private parts, and Tiwari is taking over-the-counter painkillers for blows on her chest, abdomen, back and left foot, which she said was trampled upon repeatedly by an officer, allegedly after Anand reprimanded the cops for struggling to contain the small protest. The police spokesman did not respond to queries from this newspaper on the allegations. Banerjee and Tiwari have not sought the registration of an FIR for fear of further legal action by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Nirmala Sitharaman breaks silence in US||The Narendra Modi government has broken its long silence on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, its first comment on the atrocity eventually coming in the US after a visiting Nirmala Sitharaman was asked a pointed question she could not have evaded. The Indian finance minister acknowledged that the incident —  five people being run over allegedly by a Union minister’ son — was “absolutely condemnable” but in the same breath claimed that such things happened also in states not ruled by the BJP. Sitharaman’s comments seemed in line with Prime Minister Modi’s fulminations on Tuesday against “selective outrage” over human rights violations, and appeared to bear out the questioner’s suggestion that India’s government reacted defensively to uncomfortable questions. “No absolutely not.... It’s nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us says that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern,” PTI quoted Sitharaman as telling a questioner at a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School, Boston, on Tuesday. “India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits us because it’s a state where BJP is in power.” It was unclear what Sitharaman meant by “issues of such nature”. In recent memory, there is no other instance in India of protesters being mowed down as happened in Lakhimpur. A Union minister’s jeep led the convoy that hit the farmers from behind and ploughed through them and his son is accused of having been in the vehicle. Days earlier, the same minister had warned protesting farmers that he could fix them in two minutes. The questioner had asked why the Prime Minister or any other senior minister had not spoken on the massacre, and why there was a defensive reaction from the government when asked about “such things”, PTI reported. “And it’s not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It’s being defensive about India. I will talk for India; I will talk for justice for the poor,” Sitharaman was quoted as saying. Modi had on Tuesday said that “selective outrage” at rights violations hurt the country’s image. Despite Sitharaman’s claim of being “defensive about India”, her contention that incidents like Lakhimpuri Kheri happen in “very many different parts of the country equally” would be unlikely to do much for that image. Former diplomat K.C. Singh had in a tweet on Tuesday cited Modi’s reference to “selective outrage” and said the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage was not comparable to other atrocities such as the lynching of a Dalit man in (Congress-ruled) Rajasthan. A mob beat a Dalit man to death in Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, on October 7 after accusing him of an illicit relationship with a married woman. Four people have been arrested. “PM Modi alleged opposition selective in picking up human rights issues. Condemnable as is dalit’s lynching in Rajasthan, does political guilt compare with #Lakhimpur massacre by BJP MOS (Home) son & gang using cars?” Singh asked. Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis is accused of driving his car through a peaceful farmers’ protest, killing four farmers and a journalist. Singh highlighted that Teni had still not been sacked. “In any case, arrests in Raj(asthan) made, while MOS still not sacked,” he added. In the US, Sitharaman said: “I will not be mocked at.” She added: “One of my cabinet colleagues’ son is probably in trouble, and also assume that it’s actually them who did it and not anybody else.... Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh's claim on Savarkar triggers outrage||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has claimed that Hindutva icon V.D. Savarkar had submitted a mercy petition to the British authorities on Mahatma Gandhi’s advice, triggering outrage, with the Opposition accusing the government of rewriting history. “A lot of falsehood has been spread against Savarkar. It was repeatedly said that he filed multiple mercy petitions before the British government. The truth is he did not file these petitions for his release,” Rajnath had said at the release of Uday Mahurkar and Chirayu Pandit’s book, Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition, on Tuesday. “Generally, prisoners have a right to file mercy petitions. Mahatma Gandhi had suggested that he file a mercy petition. It was on Gandhi’s suggestion that he filed a mercy petition. Mahatma Gandhi said the way we are carrying out the freedom struggle peacefully, so would Savarkar,” Rajnath added. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury described the minister’s claim as “preposterous rewriting of history”. “Savarkar’s mercy petitions are in 1911 & 1913. Gandhiji enters Indian freedom struggle in 1915. Such distortions cannot mislead. The fact is RSS was never part of the freedom struggle. Often collaborated with British,” he tweeted. Yechury also posted an image of Savarkar’s mercy petition of November 14, 1913, and quoted from it: “Therefore if the government in their manifold beneficence and mercy release me I for one cannot but be the staunchest advocate of constitutional progress & loyalty to the English government ....” The Congress wrote on Twitter in Hindi: “Fact: On August 29, 1911, Savarkar wrote his first mercy petition. On January 9, 1915, Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa.” The documents that Rajnath and others with a similar view rely on were a reply from Gandhi on January 25, 1920, to a message from Savarkar’s brother N.D. Savarkar, and an article titled “Savarkar Brothers” that Gandhi wrote for Young India four months later. Both these references were cited by Vikram Sampath, who has written a book on Savarkar, in a tweet that said: “For the doubting Toms & asinine commentators, asking source etc pls refer ‘Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi’ vol 19, pp 348 & Vol 20, pp 368-371 https://gandhiashramsevagram.org/gandhi-literature/collected-works-of-mahatma-gandhi-volume-1-to-98.php. I hope u don’t say Gandhi Ashram has doctored these letters.…” S.N. Sahu, officer on special duty to former President K.R. Narayanan and a keen student of Gandhi’s writings, told The Telegraph: “The truth is that when in 1920 a list was released by the British government that some prisoners would be released from the (Andaman) Cellular Jail because of clemency shown by the British authorities on them, Savarkar’s brother sent a telegram to Gandhi stating that his brothers’ names were not part of that list. “Savarkar’s brother sought Gandhi’s advice.... It is shocking that lies are being invented by top BJP ministers by invoking the name of Gandhi to cover up the truth that Savarkar submitted not one but six mercy petitions to the British authorities for his release from the Cellular Jail. “In fact, on 26th May 1920, Gandhi wrote an article, ‘Savarkar Brothers’, in Young India and referred to their written statement that they never wanted independence from British rule and so based on that statement Gandhi pleaded for their release.” In the Young India article, Gandhi wrote: “Both these brothers have declared their political opinions and both have stated that they do not entertain any revolutionary ideas and that if they were set free they would like to work under the Reforms Act…. “They both state unequivocally that they do not desire independence from the British connection. On the contrary, they feel that India’s destiny can be best worked out in association with the British. Nobody has questioned their honour or their honesty, and in my opinion the published expression of their views ought to be taken at its face value.” Although aware of the Right-wing ecosystem’s strategy of diverting attention from bread-and-butter issues by making controversial comments, Rajnath’s statement was not something the Opposition could have left unchallenged. “Rajnath Singh-ji is amongst the few sober & dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn’t seem to be free of RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar’s brother,” tweeted Jairam Ramesh of the Congress with an image of the January 25, 1920, document. BJP parliamentarian Rakesh Sinha tweeted: “Congress opposes Savarkar ji who never integrated with British administration and exhibited the highest sacrifice for the Mother land. However, some people had regular dining at Mountbatten’s home!” AIMIM parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi posted Gandhi’s reply to N.D. Savarkar and asked: “Sir @rajnathsingh you said that Savarkar’s grovelling mercy petitions were on Gandhi’s advise (sic). 1. Here’s the letter to Savarkar from Gandhi. No mention of petition to British begging for leniency, mercy & promising to be a faithful servant of the crown....” Later, Owaisi told news agency ANI: “They (BJP) are presenting distorted history. If this continues, they will remove Mahatma Gandhi and make Savarkar, who was accused of the murder of Mahatma Gandhi and was pronounced complicit in the inquiry of Justice Jeevan Lal Kapur, the Father of the Nation.” Savarkar’s grandson Ranjit Savarkar said a single person like Gandhi cannot be called the Father of the Nation. “Thousands of people have contributed towards the creation of this nation which has a history of more than 5,000 years. I don’t think Mahatma Gandhi is the Father of the Nation,” he told reporters in Mumbai, a PTI report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||BSF enters deeper into Bengal, Punjab and Assam||The Union home ministry has extended the areas over which the BSF has jurisdiction in Bengal, Punjab and Assam, giving it the powers of arrest, search and seizure in places up to 50km from the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders. Punjab’s Congress chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, condemned the decision as “a direct attack on federalism” and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa underlined that the Centre had not secured the state’s consent. The Bengal government had not reacted till late evening. Earlier in these states, the BSF had jurisdiction only over a 15km-wide belt inside the borders. This range was 80km from the border in Gujarat, which the Centre has now reduced to 50km in the BJP-ruled state. In Rajasthan, it stays 50km as before. In the northeastern states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Manipur, and the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the BSF has jurisdiction across their territories. Channi tweeted: “I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.” The Shiromani Akali Dal too slammed the move “to hand over almost half of the state to the BSF” as “the imposition of the President’s rule through the back door in nearly half of Punjab”. Senior home ministry officials declined comment on the reason behind the decision, conveyed in a notification on Monday. Sources said Section 139 of the Border Security Force Act, 1968, empowers the Centre to notify the area and extent of the border force’s operational mandate from time to time. “Revision of any order under Section 139 must be laid before each House of Parliament which can either modify or annul it,” a government official said. A senior BSF official said the latest notification was issued because of a rise in smuggling and drug trafficking in the border areas of Bengal, Assam and Punjab. “Now our personnel can carry out searches, seizures and arrests over a larger area in these three states,” the official said. Asked why the BSF’s jurisdiction had been reduced in BJP-ruled Gujarat, where 3,000kg of heroin was seized on September 15 from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Kutch, the official declined comment. Valued at Rs 21,000 crore, the drug haul has been described as the largest anywhere in the world in recent memory. The border force has the powers to search, seize and arrest under various laws such as the Passport (Entry into India) Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Customs Act, Foreigners Act and the Criminal Procedure Code. According to the home ministry notification, the “amendment... establishes uniformity in defining the area within which Border Security Force can operate”. Amarinder Singh, recently forced to resign as Punjab chief minister, supported the move. “We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger,” read a tweet by his media adviser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||India, China spar over Venkaiah Naidu's Arunachal visit||India and China on Wednesday verbally sparred after Beijing objected to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu visiting Arunachal Pradesh. India said that “objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people”. In Beijing, asked for a response to Naidu’s Arunachal visit, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “China’s position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear-cut. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’ established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side and firmly opposes the Indian leader’s visit to this above-mentioned area.” Reacting to this, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have noted the comments made today by the Chinese official spokesperson. We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. “Indian leaders routinely travel to the state of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other state of India.” On China’s effort to blame India afresh for the escalation of tensions across the Line of Actual Control, he said: “Further, as we have mentioned earlier, the current situation along the LAC in the western sector of the India-China border areas has been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements. “Therefore, we expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues.” The Chinese spokesperson had urged India “to earnestly respect China’s major concerns, stop taking any action that would complicate and expand the boundary issue, and refrain from undermining mutual trust and bilateral relations”. Further, China had said, India should take “real actions” to maintain peace and stability in the border areas and help bring bilateral relations back on the track of sound and steady development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Cong asks Kovind to intervene and ensure justice||A Congress delegation on Wednesday appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to intervene and ensure justice for the victims of Lakhimpur Kheri, contending a fair investigation was impossible as long as Ajay Mishra Teni remained part of the Union government. The delegation told the President the central and Uttar Pradesh governments were sympathetic to the accused and that the administration had refused to register an FIR until Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra mounted pressure by visiting the victims’ families. On October 3, a convoy led by a Thar jeep — Teni’s son Ashis Mishra was allegedly in the vehicle — had ploughed into protesting farmers in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four farmers and a journalist. Ashis was arrested on October 9. The Congress delegation told Kovind that Teni, Union minister of state for home, was himself an accused in an old murder case. For the past 10 days, the Congress has been pressuring the government on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, challenging the perception that the party is incapable of fighting a battle to the end and tends to cry off after creating an initial impact. Before taking the matter to the President, the party’s top leadership had visited the victims’ families in Lakhimpur. The party had organised a public rally in Varanasi to seek justice, and held a countrywide “maun vrat” (silent protest) against Teni’s continuance in the ministry. Priyanka had returned to Tikunia to attend the final prayers for the dead. Although Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have remained silent about the massacre, signs of unease have emerged within the BJP with the Congress pressure beginning to influence the climate of opinion. The President promised the Congress delegation that he would talk to the government on Wednesday itself. Apart from Rahul and Priyanka, the delegation included Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad and A.K. Antony. After the meeting, Rahul said: “The families had told us they want two things: the person who committed this crime should be punished and the central minister should be removed. (As long as) the person is in the ministry, justice is impossible. “We told the President that this is not the sentiment of only the families of those killed, this is the demand of every farmer of the country. This minister threatened the farmers a few days ago.... Now we want removal of this minister and a judicial probe by two sitting Supreme Court judges.” Priyanka too said that justice would be impossible if Mishra remained in the government. Priyanka said: “Every right-thinking citizen understands that the hope for justice should not be stamped out.” “What the government is doing today is sending a message that you won’t get justice. They are telling people that the law doesn’t apply to BJP ministers and leaders. We have full confidence that the President will do his best to ensure justice.” The letter they handed over to the President said: “We write to you on a matter of grave and urgent public interest. Like crores of other Indians, we are certain that you are also deeply affected by the unforgivable and merciless murder of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh. The incident has scarred the soul of India. “This deliberate act of murder, in broad daylight followed by the audacious reactions of the state and central governments, has completely eroded the people’s faith in those tasked with bringing these perpetrators to justice. “As Your Excellency is no doubt aware, lakhs of farmers have been protesting (against) the three ‘black farm laws’ at the doorstep of Delhi for close to a year now. They have braved extreme weather — rain, extreme heat and cold — yet their resolve remains undiminished. Close to a thousand farmers have lost their lives but their determination to seek justice in a Gandhian way remains firm. “The Modi government has refused to relent or have a meaningful conversation with them. Their policy appears to be ‘tire and retire’ the annadatas (food givers), a strategy doomed to failure.” The letter described the Lakhimpur carnage as “one of the most gruesome and premeditated acts of bone-chilling murder ever seen and caught on camera”. “Multiple eyewitnesses have confirmed that the minister’s son Ashish Misra was in the vehicle. Two of the vehicles involved were owned by the minister,” it said. The letter requested the President to ensure the minister’s removal for the sake of a fair investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Kanimozhi Karunanidhi meets Naveen Patnaik||DMK leader Kanimozhi Karunanidhi met Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik  here on Wednesday to hand over a letter of Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. Kanimozhi also explained the problems faced by the students from rural areas and poor households in clearing NEET. In his letter, Stalin has drawn the attention of Naveen to the problems faced by students of rural base in clearing NEET UG examination and the need to make the exam inclusive. Naveen had earlier raised this issue with the Centre and stressed the importance of making national exams inclusive and suggested the central Union government take steps in this regard. The two leaders are of the view that the NEET in its current form does not provide a level-playing for students across financial backgrounds and discriminates against the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
