15-10-2021||India||India's rank in Global Hunger Index shocking, wrong methodology used: Centre||The Centre on Friday said it was shocking that India's rank was lowered on the Global Hunger Index and it termed the methodology used for rankings "unscientific". India slipped to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th. It is now behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Reacting sharply to the report, the Women and Child Development Ministry said it is "shocking" to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population which is found to be "devoid of ground reality and facts, and suffers from serious methodological issues". "The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welt Hungerhilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report," the ministry said in a statement. The methodology used by FAO is "unscientific", the ministry claimed. "They have based their assessment on the results of a 'four question' opinion poll, which was conducted telephonically by Gallup. There is no scientific methodology to measure undernourishment like availability of food grains per capita during the period. The scientific measurement of undernourishment would require measurement of weight and height, whereas the methodology involved here is based on Gallup poll based on pure telephonic estimate of the population," it said. The ministry further said that the report "completely disregards the government's massive effort to ensure food security of the entire population during the COVID-19 period", verifiable data on which are available. "The opinion poll does not have a single question on whether the respondent received any food support from the government or other sources. The representativeness of even this opinion poll is doubtful for India and other countries," the ministry said. It said it is noted "with surprise, from the FAO report The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021', that other four countries of this region, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, have not been affected at all by pandemic induced loss of job/business and reduction in income levels". The ministry said that these countries were rather able to improve their position on the indicator 'proportion of undernourished population' by 4.3 per cent, 3.3 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 0.8 per cent points respectively during the period 2018-20 over 2017-19. According to this report, India's position on the first indicator, child mortality, has improved in 2021 compared with 2020. Position on two indicators, i.e., child wasting and child stunting, has remained unchanged in 2021 compared with 2020, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||One killed, 16 hurt as SUV rams into religious procession in Chhattisgarh||One person was killed and 16 others were injured when an SUV ran into a religious procession at Pathalgaon in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh on Friday afternoon, police said. The incident took place when residents of Bazarpara locality had taken out procession for the immersion of Goddess Durga idols, an official said. The deceased man was identified as Gaurav Agrawal (21). Two occupants of the vehicle, Bablu Vishwakarma (21) and Shishupal Sahu (26), natives of Singrauli in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, were later arrested from the outskirts of the town while the vehicle itself was found burning, he said. Locals claimed that the two were smuggling ganja and set the SUV on fire themselves to destroy evidence as they were being chased. Tension prevailed in the town and a large number of people gathered outside the Pathalgaon police station. Terming the incident as "sad and heart-wrenching", Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the accused were immediately arrested and action has also been taken against some police officers who were prima facie found at fault. "An inquiry has been ordered. No one will be spared. Justice will be done to all. May the departed soul rest in peace. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured, Baghel tweeted in Hindi. Senior BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the kin of the deceased. Singh tweeted a video of the incident and wrote, This video is very painful. In Chhattisgarh, the drug mafias have no fear of anyone. Will those taking out religious processions be crushed like this now? "Jashpur SP (Superintendent of Police) should be removed immediately. The kin of the deceased should be given Rs 50 lakh compensation and immediate arrangements should be made for the treatment of the injured, he demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Congress questions silence of govt over video showing Indian soldiers held captive in China||The Congress on Friday questioned the silence of the government on the veracity of a video which purportedly shows injured Indian soldiers in captivity of the Chinese and said if it is genuine, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi must ensure that China is held globally accountable for indulging in war crimes. Addressing a press conference here, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said what is very disturbing to every single Indian is the video of Galwan that was released by the Chinese which shows "our brave heart soldiers injured and in captivity of the Chinese". "The silence by our government on the veracity of this video is mind-boggling. If this video is genuine, then by all standards, this would fall within the category of war crimes for which China is definitely liable for prosecution under the International Criminal Court," he asserted. "Instead of patting each other's back, the Prime Minister and Home Minister of India should ensure that China is held globally accountable for indulging in war crimes against our brave hearts," he said. The government has so far not reacted to the video but BJP MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted, "If authenticated then it is a horrible sight and Modi government is heartless." "Why Modi government did not give any state honour ceremony to the Galwan battle dead? For Pulwana non battle deaths of CRPF jawans (the bus carrying them was blown up), there was nation wide mourning," Swamy said. Khera said China shamelessly objects to the Indian Vice President visiting Arunachal Pradesh, it enters 5 km into India's sovereign territory along Barahoti crossing the Tun Jun La pass in Uttarakhand and destroys our border - military infrastructure, before going back. Chinese incursions have been seen along the upper reaches of Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh, he said. Noting that the 13th round of Corps Commander Level Meeting was held between both the Indian and Chinese militaries and there was no agreement coming out of it, Khera said this added to the extensive infrastructural build up along the Hotsprings region including a logistical facility, artillery units and an air defence base among others, poses a potential threat to India's strategic interests in the northern sector. "The implications of the Chinese incursions are extremely critical, especially when the PLA isn't even open to discuss de-escalation in two extremely strategic and critical sectors for India -- Depsang and Daulat Beg Oldi," the Congress leader said. He said that instead of talking big like the home minister of India did yesterday, answers are expected from whoever is running this government. Posing questions to the government, he asked when will it respond to this verbal, geographic, military and strategic aggression of China. Why is it that on one hand China is brazenly entering into Indian territory, releasing videos of its own misdeeds, and yet our trade with China goes up by a whopping 62.7 per cent, Khera asked and wondered what kind of diplomacy, politics and governance is this. "You first ban some apps and then do business with the enemy? - Just this week a Chinese company was invited to invest Rs. 600 crores at the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (DMIC - IITGNL)," he alleged. He also questioned the government as to what actions it proposes to take against China in light of this horrific video released by the Chinese. "Why this business as usual approach towards an enemy? What are we doing to counter the threats to our country emanating from the recent developments in Afghanistan, in which the obvious gainers are Beijing and Islamabad," Khera said. "Why are you tolerating all-round aggression from China and doing absolutely nothing about it," he asked and added that the nation demands answers from this "weak government".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Amit Shah pays tribute to Savarkar at Andaman, attacks his critics||"Veer" Savarkar's patriotism and valour cannot be questioned, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Friday, as he hit back at those doubting the freedom fighter's commitment to India and its freedom struggle, and asked them to have "some shame". Shah's comments came against the backdrop of a massive row over Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's recent remark that V D Savarkar, a venerated Hindutva ideologue, had filed mercy petitions before the British at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi. "How can you doubt the life, the credentials of a man who was sentenced to two life imprisonments, made to sweat like a plodder bullock (kolhu ka bail) to extract oil at this prison. Have some shame," he told a gathering after garlanding the portrait of Savarkar at the cellular prison here where hundreds of freedom fighters were incarcerated during India's long freedom struggle. Shah said Savarkar had everything that he needed for a good life, but he chose the tough path, which indicated his unwavering commitment to the motherland. "There cannot be a greater pilgrimage than this cellular jail. This place is a 'mahatirth' where Savarkar experienced inhuman torture for 10 years but did not lose his courage, his bravery," Shah said, addressing an event as part of 75 years of India's Independence which the government is celebrating as "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". The minister said the sobriquet "veer" was bestowed on Savarkar not by any government but by the people of the country in endorsement of his indomitable spirit and courage. "This title fondly given to him by 130 crore people of India cannot be snatched away," he said. Shah also laid a wreath at a memorial to the martyrs of the freedom struggle. He said most people in today's India were born after Independence and so did not get an opportunity to "die for the country". "I urge the youth of today to live for this great nation," he said. A big row had recently erupted after Rajnath Singh targeted the critics of Savarkar, saying the freedom fighter was being defamed over the mercy petitions. "Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail...The truth is, he didn't file mercy petitions to get himself released. It is a regular practice for a [jailed] person to file mercy petitions. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions," Singh had said, drawing criticism from BJP's opponents who called it an "attempt to rewrite history".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Lucknow: Farmers' union members detained for trying to burn effigies of Modi, Shah||The Socialist Party (India) on Friday claimed some members of its farmers' wing were detained by police after they gathered here to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and MoS Home Ajay Mishra in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The members of the Socialist Kisan Sabha also carried placards demanding the resignation of Mishra, whose son Ashish is alleged to have been in one of the cars that ploughed into farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, leaving four of them dead. The Socialist Kisan Sabha is a constituent of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the stir against the Centre's three agri laws. Last week, the SKM had called on all its constituents to burn effigies of Modi, Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and others on the occasion of Dussehra on October 15. General secretary of Socialist Party (India) Sandeep Pandey, who was also part of the gathering, told PTI, "We were not allowed to burn the effigies. The effigies were taken away from us along with the placards. We had reached the Shaheed Smarak, and as soon as we started climbing the stairs, we were stopped by the police." Pandey said he and six workers of the Socialist Kisan Sabha were detained by the police. In a statement issued here earlier, the Socialist Kisan Sabha said, "On the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, effigies of Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and Ajay Mishra will be burnt on October 15, Friday, Dusshera day, at 2 pm at Shaheed Smarak, Lucknow to demand the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' for the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Besides the four farmers, a journalist and three BJP workers were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. MoS Home Mishra's son Ashish and five other people had been arrested in the case till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||RSS chief flags concern over 'unregulated' OTT content, Bitcoin and drug abuse||Flagging serious concerns over the "unregulated" content being shown on OTT platforms, "uncontrolled" Bitcoin currency that has potential to "destabilise economy of all countries" and use of narcotic drugs by all classes of the society, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday urged the government to take steps to address these issues. He was speaking during the annual Vijayadashmi rally held at Reshmibagh here. "What kind of things are being shown on OTT platforms. During the coronavius period, even the children have got access to mobiles and there is no control over what they watch. Similarly, there is no control on what is to be shown on OTT platforms," he said. "At present unregulated broadcast of varied material on OTT platforms are open for everyone's indiscriminate consumption. In the backdrop of the pandemic online education was to be introduced. School-going children are hooked on mobile phones as a rule. In the absence of prudence and a regulatory framework, it will become difficult to predict in which way and to what extent will this emerging phenomenon of contact with fair and unfair means sweep our society," he said. Bhagwat also spoke about the rampant use of drugs, saying it is prevalent in all classes of the society. "Narcotics are smuggled in the country and its consumption habit is increasing. How to stop it, we don't know. People from high class to the last man are dangerously engulfed in this habit. We all know money from this drug business is used for anti-national activities and nations bordering India promote it," he said. He added that the young generation must be taught at home that they must stay away from drugs. Talking about Bitcoins, he said, "No country has control over Bitcoin. A competition is coming up. Clandestine, uncontrolled currency like Bitcoin has the potential to destablise the economy of all countries and pose a serious challenge," he said. The government must immediately make efforts to regulate the OTT content, stop the use of Bitcoins and end the drugs menace completely, the RSS chief said. According to him, Indian economic ideology is based on 'giving back' and on nurturing the nature and not conquering it. He said that prevalent global economic paradigm is shaken by new challenges that are beyond the grasp of other nations. Mechanisation and the resultant rise in unemployment, ebb in the human value system due to unethical technology and the power without accountability are some examples, he added. The whole world is now looking at India, expecting and waiting for new parameters of economic system and development. "Human spirit has experienced pinnacles of freedom by pursuing progress and pleasure bound by the principle of dharma or righteousness, such economic model has been considered ideal in our civilisation. Our economic paradigm emphasises control over consumption," he said. Bhagwat stressed on forming an economic development model based on this vision, consolidating our learnings that are valuable from across the world, and combining it with our current national context is the need of the hour. "The manifestation of such new model of holistic and integrated progress is a natural outcome of independence; it is the long-awaited discovery of the 'swa' or the self," he said. Speaking about the pandemic, he said the country was set to combat the third wave of coronavirus. During the second wave of COVID-19, the society once again through its collective efforts exemplified resilience. The second wave was far more destructive and did not spare even many young people. Yet efforts of men and women who were selflessly dedicated in the service of humankind despite serious health hazards posed by the disease are praiseworthy, he said. "The danger continues to loom on our horizon. But we are more or less prepared to face the third wave. Vaccines have been administered en-masse and the vaccination process needs to be completed," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Govt augments coal supply by diverting output form captive mines amid crisis||The coal ministry on Friday said it has taken various measures, including diverting the output from captive coal mines, to augment fuel supply to the power sector. The development assumes significance in the wake of country's power plants grappling with coal shortages. "The ministry of coal has taken all efforts to augment coal supplies to the power sector and decided to divert and augment the supplies to power sector from captive coal blocks," the coal ministry said in statement. Captive mines are those that produce coal or mineral for exclusive use by the company that owns the blocks. The ministry offered coal supply from NLC India's Talabira II & III mines in Odisha to NTPC. In this connection, both the companies worked together to commence the supply of coal from Talabira II & III open cast project (OCP) to NTPC (Darlipali & Lara Power Plants). With timely support and necessary coal delivery permits from the department of mines, Goverment of Odisha, the coal delivery to the Darlipali power station has been commenced, within 24 hours from the directives from the Ministry of Coal. NLC India Limited, a navratna company under the administrative control of the Ministry of Coal is operating Talabira II & III coal mines having annual capacity of 20 million tonnes in in Odisha. Talabira II& III OCP has commenced production from the financial year 2020-21. State-owned NLC India this week said it is making efforts to ramp up coal output from one of its mines in Odisha to up to 10 million tonnes per annum this year. The company aims to increase coal production to up to 20 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) from next year onwards, according to a regulatory filing. NLC India had said it has taken steps to achieve the target of six MTPA, from its original schedule of four MTPA during the current year. Considering the high demand for coal, the company is making all-out efforts to augment the coal production of Talabira mine up to 10 MTPA for the current year and up to 20 MTPA from the next year onwards. This will not only provide fuel security to end-use plants but also make available coal in the market, it had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||AIIMS doctor allegedly raped by senior colleague inside campus||The Delhi Police has lodged a case after a doctor working at the All India Institute of Medical Science here alleged that she was raped by one of her senior colleagues during a birthday party inside the campus, officials said on Friday. The accused is at large and efforts are on to nab him, they said. The incident took place on September 26 during a birthday party of one of their colleagues, they said. The police received information about the incident on October 11 at the Hauz Khas police station, officials said, adding that the MLC (Medico Legal Case) was also done. According to the police, when their team reached the hospital and met the victim, she told them that on September 26, one of her senior colleagues allegedly raped her after she went to his room for the birthday celebration. Based on her statement, a case was registered under sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 377 (Unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code at the Hauz Khas police station, said Benita Mary Jaiker, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). "During investigation, the statement of the victim was recorded before a magistrate under section 164 CrPC, and raids are being conducted at some hideouts of the accused. Technical surveillance has also been mounted but the accused is still at large," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, improving||The condition of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is admitted to AIIMS, is stable and improving, a hospital official said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following fever. The 89-year-old former prime minister has been admitted to a private ward in the Cardio-Neuro Centre of the hospital and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik. "His condition is stable and improving," the AIIMS official said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Singh on Thursday evening to enquire about his health. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya also met Singh on Thursday and enquired about his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||More trust, transparency in defence sector than ever before, says PM||For the first time since Independence, many major reforms were rolled out in India's defence sector and it has more transparency and trust than ever before, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. After dedicating seven new state-run defence firms replacing the Ordnance Factory Board, the prime minister said a single-window system has been put in place instead of stagnant policies to develop India as a major producer of defence equipment. "Under the self-reliant India campaign, the country's goal is to make India the world's biggest military power on its own and development of modern military industry in India," Modi said. "In the last seven years, the country has worked to carry forward this resolve with the mantra of 'Make in India'," he added. In his video address at the event, Modi said that as India enters 75 years of Independence, projects are being completed that were stuck for a long time. "Today, there is more transparency, trust, and technology driven approach in the defence sector of the country than ever before. For the first time after Independence, so many major reforms are happening in our defence sector. Instead of stagnant policies, a single-window system has been put in place," Modi said. After Independence, there was need to upgrade ordnance factories, adopt new-age technologies, but it didn't get much attention, he said. The prime minister said that 41 Ordinance factories are being converted into seven corporate entities, as a measure to improve our self-reliance and defence preparedness. India is taking new resolutions to build a new future, he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and representatives from the defence industry associations were present on the occasion. The government had decided to replace the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board into seven fully entities to improve self-reliance in the country's defence preparedness. The seven new defence companies that have been incorporated are Munitions India Limited (MIL), Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWE India), Troop Comforts Limited (TCL), Yantra India Limited (YIL), India Optel Limited (IOL) and Gliders India Limited (GIL), the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||People gave me opportunity to serve despite my humble background, says Modi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that despite his common background and although he did not have any political, dynastic or caste backing, people gave him opportunity to serve them - first in Gujarat and then at the national level. He was speaking during his virtual address after laying the foundation stone of a boys' hostel here. "I come from very common background and did not have any political or dynastic background and did not have support of caste-based politics. Despite that, you gave your blessings and gave me the opportunity to serve Gujarat way back in 2001," he said. "And, such is the power of your blessings that even after 20 years, I am still serving. First I served the people of Gujarat and now the country," he added. In his address, he urged people to walk on the path as shown by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India's first home minister and also the deputy prime minister. "Sardar Patel had said that we should not let castes and religious faith turn into hindrance for us. We all are sons and daughters of India and we all should love our country. We all should love each other," Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Body of man with hand chopped off found near farmers' protest site in Haryana||barricade at a farmers' protest site at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border, a gruesome incident being blamed on a group of Nihangs. In a video clip on social media, some Nihangs are seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, said a group of Nihangs has claimed responsibility for the brutal killing after the man allegedly tried to desecrate the Sarbloh Granth. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI that the group was not part of the SKM's protests and urged strict action against the culprits. He claimed that the man was staying with the same Nihang group for some time. The victim, Lakhbir Singh, a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab's Tarn Taran and aged around 35 years, police said. His body was found tied to an overturned police barricade near a dais put up by the farmers protesting there for several months over the Centre agri-marketing laws. The Kundli police station received information at 5 am that a body was found near the farmers' protest site," a Sonipat police official said. A Haryana police spokesperson said in Chandigarh that when Sonipat police reached the spot the man had died. "Some people were standing there. When the police tried to take the body away, they protested. After some efforts, the body was brought to the civil hospital," the spokesperson said. Singh was found wearing only a pair of shorts. His hand was cut off at the wrist and a foot bore deep injuries. Altogether, there were over 10 injury marks inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. He was allegedly dragged by his assailants for a few metres before he was tied with ropes to the barricade. He is said to have bled to death. "We have registered a case and further investigations are on," Additional Director General of Police, Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar told PTI over the phone. Khirwar, who later visited Kundli, told reporters that police hoped to make arrests very soon. We have the names of some suspects and the investigations are on. I am hopeful that we should be able to make headway very soon, as we have some leads in the case, he said. Back in Tarn Taran village, Lakhbir Singh's family was in shock and said he could never desecrate a holy book. Some villagers told reporters that his parents died a few years ago and his wife and three children stayed with some relatives. Singh was said to be staying with his sister. The Sonipat police said some people initially resisted their entry into the area where his body was strung to the barricade, and were not cooperating with them. The video clip shows the Nihang group asking the man badly injured man where had he come from and who sent him to commit the sacrilege . He is heard pleading with the group in Punjabi. One of the Nihangs says the man is a "Punjabi" and not an outsider, and it should not be made into a Hindu-Sikh issue. Another raises a religious chant. The Nihangs are a Sikh order, distinguished by their blue robes and often seen carrying spears. Last year, a Punjab policeman's hand was chopped off with a sword and six colleagues injured in an attack allegedly by a group of Nihangs at a village market in Patiala when the accused were asked to produce curfew passes. The policeman's hand was later reattached after a surgery at the PGIMER in Chandigarh. A case of murder has been registered at the Kundli police station in Sonipat against unidentified people, police said.A board of doctors conducted the post-mortem at the Sonipat civil hospital. At least five video clips connected with the murder have surfaced on social media. In a statement, the SKM said it wanted to make it clear that "both the parties to the incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person, have no relation with the Morcha. The peaceful and democratic movement of the farmers is opposed to violence in any form, it added. The SKM said it is against the desecration of any religious text or symbol, but that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands. "A Nihang group at the scene has claimed responsibility, saying the incident took place because of the deceased's attempt to commit sacrilege with regard to the Sarbloh Granth," the farmers' body said. It demanded that the culprits be punished in accordance with law after investigating the allegation of murder and conspiracy behind sacrilege. "As always, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will cooperate with the police and the administration in any lawful action," it added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for months, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Sitharaman hails India's handling of Covid pandemic||India has not only faced the COVID-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude but has also played a major role and "walked the talk" on the global fight against the pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, highlighting that the measures taken by the government have set a strong foundation of the country's sustained economic growth. Pointing out the fast recovery of India's economy, Sitharaman in her address to the Development Committee of the World Bank said the Modi Government, besides taking economic relief measures, has also undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. The measures undertaken by the government have set a strong foundation for India's sustained economic growth, she said. India has also played a major role and truly walked the talk' on the global COVID-19 effort. India's massive Vaccine Maitri programme, under which more than 66.3 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines were exported to 95 countries worldwide bears special mention. India is all set to resume vaccine export in October 2021, she said. According to the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook, India is estimated to be the fastest-growing major economy in 2021, projected to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022. Observing that despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of USD 82.0 billion in fiscal 2020-21, the finance minister said this trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors. Addressing the Development Committee meeting, Sitharaman said India has faced the COVID-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude. The country's pandemic response has focused on the twin goals of saving both the lives and livelihoods, she said. "When faced with the second wave of infections, India again mounted a carefully calibrated and dynamic response to the evolving situation. Given that the second wave was asynchronous in its onset across states and wider in its spread, only localised lockdowns were imposed during the second wave," she said. This approach aided reduction in cases in the COVID-19 hotspots without dampening economic activity in regions with fewer cases, she said. Despite a more brutal second wave, India's GDP grew at 20.1 per cent YoY during the April-June quarter of 2021, recovering more than 90 per cent of the corresponding pre-pandemic output levels of 2019, she added. The broad-based and swift recovery of both the demand and supply-side components reaffirms India's resilient recovery and strong macroeconomic fundamentals. "With the easing of the COVID-19 restrictions, GST collections for July, August and September 2021 have crossed the INR 1 trillion mark, which testifies to the fact that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are expected to continue in the coming months too as the economic recovery gathers momentum," the finance minister said. India, she said, is one of the frontrunners in the global vaccine deployment race with the second-highest total number of COVID-19 vaccines administered all over the world. As of September 30, India has administered 951.35 million doses, covering 72.8 per cent of the 18 years (as on August 10, 2021) and above population with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccination exercise continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level and the successful rollout of vaccinations is a testimony to the effort and dedication of all stakeholders, she said. "India also made its digital platform for COVID-19 vaccination, CoWIN, an open-source for all countries to access, adapt and use. India is also at the forefront of multilateral efforts, including the Quad plan for the production of one billion vaccines to be offered to South-East Asian countries, she added. She said that the Indian government adopted a slew of measures to provide relief to diverse sectors affected by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 17 measures amounting to Rs 6,290 billion were adopted. Sitharaman said in addition to economic relief measures, India has undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. These reforms across diverse areas include agriculture and food processing, commercial coal mining, financial support to MSMEs and change in definition with increased thresholds, production linked incentive schemes to boost manufacturing, privatisation of PSUs and asset monetisation, increased FDI limit in defence and insurance are amongst the most notable reforms and have set a strong foundation for India's post-COVID economic growth, she said. Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes have been introduced across key sectors to create national manufacturing champions and generate employment opportunities for the country's youth. The objective is to make India a bigger and more important part of the global economy by pursuing policies that are efficient, competitive and resilient, she said. "The incentives under the package are intended to not just give a boost to domestic manufacturing but also ease the high concentration risks across global supply chains. The minimum production in India as a result of PLI Schemes is expected to be over USD 500 billion in 5 years," she said. Observing that Infrastructure development has assumed a major focus in strengthening India's economic recovery, the finance minister said that India has a robust National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) which is a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise to provide world-class infrastructure. Measures have been undertaken to promote ease of doing business with rational tax systems, simple and clear laws, reducing compliance burden and leveraging technology for better compliance, she said. As a recent major initiative, the government has taken steps to scrap the retrospective tax law which would help resolve tax disputes and boost investor confidence, she added. Despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of USD 82.0 billion in FY 2020-21. The trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors, said the finance minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices rally to highest ever levels||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday rallied to their highest ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.14 a litre and Rs 111.09 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.78 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.87. This is the second straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 14th increase in petrol price and the 17th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.61 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.25 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.25. Before that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 216 days||India logged 16,862 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,37,592, while the active cases declined to 2,03,678, the lowest in 216 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,51,814 with 379 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 21 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 110 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.60 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,908 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,80,148 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,88,44,673. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 46 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 112 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,82,100, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97.14 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 379 new fatalities include 174 from Haryana, 96 from Kerala and 35 from Maharashtra. Haryana added the death figures after the report of the State Death Audit Committee, the ministry said. A total of 4,51,814 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,705 from Maharashtra, 37,922 from Karnataka, 35,853 from Tamil Nadu, 26,667 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,945 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to former president APJ Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to former president A P J Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary on Friday, saying he dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable, and will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country. "Tributes to former president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam ji, known as the 'Missile Man', on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable. He will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. Kalam served as the 11th president of India from 2002 to 2007 and earned the respect and admiration of people and political parties across the spectrum for his simple living and non-partisan conduct. He is also credited with opening the doors of the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the masses and came to be affectionately called the "People's President". Kalam, who passed away in 2015, also earned the sobriquet "Missile Man of India" for his role in the development of the country's missile programmes. Modi also wished his ministerial colleagues Mahendra Nath Pandey and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on their birthday, and lauded their work in the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Terrorists resorting to targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir, says Mohan Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said terrorists were resorting to targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir to instil fear. Addressing the annual Vijayadashmi rally at Reshimbagh ground here, Bhagwat said military preparedness on borders needs to be increased. He also expressed concern over Bitcoin and OTT platforms and asked the government to take efforts to regulate these things. "Terrorists are resorting to targeted violence in Jammu and Kashmir to instil fear," he said. On October 12, five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed in an encounter in Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote area of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir. On August 19, a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district. Bhagwat said societal consciousness is still skewed with caste-based sentiments and the RSS is working to address it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi uploads old video of Vajpayee warning the govt against intimidating farmers||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Thursday uploaded on social media an old video of Atal Bihari Vajpayee warning the government against intimidating farmers or trying to crush their peaceful protest, sending a message to his party and the Narendra Modi regime. Varun, who has been seeking justice for the farmers mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri by a Union minister’s jeep in which his son was allegedly present, and persistently raising the larger issue of the peasants’ movement against the farm laws, prefaced the video with the tweet: “Wise words from a big-hearted leader.” Vajpayee was the BJP’s first Prime Minister and the party’s biggest leader before Modi. In the short clip, from 1980 according to the video, Vajpayee says: “I want to warn the government against intimidating farmers. Don’t try to scare, these farmers are not going to be scared. We don’t want to use the farmers’ movement for politics.” Indira Gandhi, Varun’s grandmother, was Prime Minister in 1980. Vajpayee continues: “We support their (farmers’) genuine demands. If the government tries to suppress them, misuse laws or repress the peaceful movement of the farmers, we will join the protests.” The Modi government has been accused of using every trick to suppress the farmers’ peaceful movement against the three laws. It has termed the protest politically motivated and tried to defame the farmers. Sections of BJP leaders have been particularly targeting the Sikhs who are leading the protest from the front, branding them Khalistanis. For 10 months, thousands of farmers have braved extreme weather and camped on the highways outside Delhi but Modi has not met them to hear their grievances about laws that affect their lives and livelihood. The brutality reached a crescendo when four farmers and a journalist returning from a protest were crushed under the wheels of a Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The jeep hit the farmers from behind and ploughed through them. The minister’s son Ashis Mishra, alleged to have been in the vehicle, was arrested after six days. Teni, who had earlier publicly warned the farmers he would fix them in two minutes, remains Modi’s minister of state for home. The government did not condemn the murders, choosing silence till finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was confronted with questions on a visit to the US on Tuesday. Ten days after the crime, Sitharaman acknowledged it was “absolutely condemnable”. Varun has been publicly supporting the farmers’ movement since the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat of the protesters last month. He had tweeted that the lakhs of farmers who had gathered were “our own flesh and blood” and stressed the need for “understanding their pain”. The MP has sought justice for those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. “The video is crystal clear. Protesters cannot be silenced through murder...,” Varun had tweeted, sharing a video of the farmers being run over by the Thar jeep and saying “justice must be delivered”. Soon after, the BJP dropped Varun and his mother Maneka Gandhi, also an MP, from the party’s national executive committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||India silent on Bhutan-China MoU on boundary settlement||India on Thursday sidestepped questions on whether Bhutan had informed New Delhi about its decision to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with China for a three-step road map to expedite a boundary settlement between the two countries, including at Doklam — the site of the face-off between Indian and Chinese armies in 2017. The Bhutanese foreign ministry had earlier in the day announced the signing of the MoU to provide a “fresh impetus to the boundary talks” that have been going on since 1984. The process had got stalled after the Doklam face-off. In April this year, an expert group met for the first time since the Doklam incident and agreed to sign the MoU. According to the Bhutanese foreign ministry, the negotiations have been guided by the 1988 Joint Communiqué on the Guiding Principles for the Settlement of the Boundary and the 1998 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace, Tranquillity and Status Quo in the Bhutan-China Border Areas. Asked  about the announcement, Indian external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said: “We have noted the signing of the MoU. You are aware that they have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984.” He did not respond to questions on whether Bhutan had informed India about the decision, whether New Delhi considered this a major development and if it was concerned that the boundary agreement could result in China controlling Doklam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Tuberculosis killed 504,000 people in India in 2020: WHO||Tuberculosis killed 504,000 people in India in 2020, a 13 per cent increase over the previous year, the World Health Organisation said in a report released on Thursday, flagging a global reversal of progress on TB. India accounted for about 34 per cent of the estimated global 1.5 million tuberculosis deaths in 2020, the health agency said in its annual global TB report that has outlined how Covid-19 disrupted access to TB services in countries around the world. “This report confirms our fears that the disruption of essential health services due to the pandemic could start to unravel years of progress against tuberculosis,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement. The number of people expected to develop and die from TB during 2021 and 2022 is expected to be even higher, the WHO said, citing model-based forecasts of how disruptions in diagnostic and treatment services in 2020 could impact future counts. Twelve countries accounted for 93 per cent of the global reduction in registered TB cases between 2019 and 2020 with India making up 41 per cent of the global drop in notifications followed by Indonesia (14 per cent), the Philippines (12 per cent) and China (8 per cent). The WHO report said the number of people worldwide treated for drug-resistant TB fell by 15 per cent from 177,000 in 2019 to 150,000 in 2020, or equivalent to only one in three of those in need of treatment. In India, 42,505 drug-resistant TB patients were started on treatment during 2020, although it is estimated that around 124,000 patients were diagnosed as drug-resistant in the country during 2019. Health experts say the difference between those numbers — the estimated drug-resistant patients diagnosed in 2019 and those who actually received treatment in 2020 — exposes the gaps in treatment services available to patients in India. The WHO report calls on countries to put in place urgent measures to restore access to essential TB services, double investments in research and innovation and address social and economic factors that influence tuberculosis and its consequences. Lucica Ditiu, executive director of Stop TB Partnership, an international organisation, said: “The Covid-19 pandemic combined with low political will and appallingly low levels of funding have reversed hard-fought gains in the fight against this age-old disease.” “People are dying because we are failing to empower and support them and failing to ensure they have access to preventive therapy, diagnosis tools and treatments they need,” she said in a statement. “We are running out of time… we need speed, money, commitment today if we want to make a dent in the TB epidemic.” An already under-funded TB response saw a dramatic fall in domestic funding across low- and middle-income countries during 2020 with less than half of the global target of $13 billion annual funding by 2022 available, Stop TB Partnership said in a statement. Pulmonary medicine specialists in India have cautioned over the past year that Covid-19 is likely to derail India’s efforts to eliminate TB by 2025. The TB elimination target seeks to reduce India’s tuberculosis deaths from 32 per 100,000 people in 2015 to below 3 by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||CBSE exams for Class X and Class XII to be held offline in two parts||The CBSE exams for Class X and Class XII will be held offline in two parts this term because of the pandemic, with the first in November-December 2021 and the second in March-April 2022. The date sheet for the major papers will be announced on October 18, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Thursday. The exams will start at 11.30am instead of the usual 10.30am in view of the winter and the duration of each test will be 90 minutes. The first-term exams will have only multiple-choice questions and the results will be declared. The format of the second-term exams will be decided on the basis of the pandemic situation. The final results will be the combination of the marks received over both terms. “After the conduct of the term-1 exams, the results in the form of the marks scored will be declared. No student will be placed in the pass, compartment or essential repeat categories after the first term. The final results will be announced after the first- and second-term examinations,” CBSE examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. “Practical exams or internal assessment will be completed in schools before the first-term exams are over. The marks allotted will be 50 per cent of the total and mentioned in the syllabus. The schools will be informed separately about the full scheme so that they can make the necessary preparations,” he added. To conduct the exams smoothly, the subjects have been segregated into major and minor categories. For the minor papers, mostly regional languages, the exams will be held by clubbing schools offering common subjects so that the exam duration can be shortened by covering multiple subjects in a day. These exams will be held before those on the major papers. The CBSE offers 114 subjects in Class XII and 75 subjects in Class X. There are nine major subjects in Class X and 19 in Class XII. “The CBSE has to conduct the examinations for a total of 189 subjects. If tests are conducted for all the subjects, the entire duration of the exams will be 40-45 days. Therefore, to avoid learning loss of students, the CBSE has decided that the subjects offered by it will be divided into two parts — major subjects and minor subjects,” Bhardwaj said. “As the major subjects are offered by almost all the affiliated schools, the exams for these will be conducted by fixing a date sheet, as done earlier. Regarding the minor subjects, the CBSE will make groups of schools offering these subjects and thus, more than one paper would be conducted by the board in the schools on a day,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Schools told to own responsibility for self-prescribed textbooks||Schools prescribing textbooks not recommended by the government or the examination boards should publicly declare that the contents do not promote discrimination based on caste, class, religion, gender, ethnicity or language. The education ministry has issued “Guidelines on School Safety and Security” covering various aspects of the curriculum. According to the guidelines issued on October 1, the schools should thoroughly scrutinise the textbooks that are not prescribed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) or the state councils of educational research and training (SCERTs) or the exam boards. The new guidelines, applicable for both private and government schools, have been circulated among states for implementation. The schools must upload a written declaration on their websites, jointly signed by the manager and the principal in case of private schools and by the principal or the school head in case of government institutions, “to the effect that the school owns the responsibility of having thoroughly checked and having gone through the contents of the books prescribed by the school”. The schools must ensure that the books prescribed by them do not promote any kind of discrimination based on caste, class, religion, gender, ethnicity or language. The schools must also see to it that the textbooks prescribed by them promote sensitivity towards environmental protection, gender parity, inclusion and ethical behaviour, according to the education ministry. The books should promote healthy habits of eating, cleanliness and sanitation, reading, working together, helping each other and collaborating instead of indulging competition, the guidelines say. Prof. Anup Kumar Rajput, a faculty member of the NCERT, said many schools, particularly private, prescribe books of private publishers. “Very often we get complaints about objectionable content in certain books. These books are mainly brought out by private publishers. If the new guidelines are followed, the problem with respect to content will be addressed,” Rajput said. He said there was no official agency to certify standards with respect to educational content for schools, like the ISI for industrial products or the FSSAI for food items. “There is a need for an agency to examine the books as per national standards. Some agency should examine and certify educational instruction materials, including textbooks, videos and audios, before they are prescribed to students,” Rajput said. A teacher of a private school in New Delhi said private schools often receive money from private publishers to prescribe their textbooks. “Some principals do deal with publishers for prescribing their books in exchange for some benefits. Sometimes, schools have an open policy on allowing books for benefits,” the teacher said, preferring anonymity. The education ministry guidelines say the school timetables should have ample time for dialogue, reflection and discussion on school safety, on-road safety, healthy and nutritious food and adolescence issues. Time should also be allotted for training and drills on disaster management. Classroom learning should take place in an environment where no student feels that he or she is not respected by the teacher or peers on the grounds of language, socio-economic background, caste, creed, gender or abilities, the guidelines say. As online classes have become the new normal due to the pandemic, the guidelines have cautioned against cyber bullying. Schools should guide students on dos and don’ts and the consequences of engaging in cyber bullying and violence, according to the education ministry. Each school should set up a safety committee comprising the principal or headmaster, student safety officer, and representatives of teachers, other staff members, parents, students and alumni. The committees will be expected to undertake an inspection of the entire school premises once every quarter to ensure compliance with standard safety measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Hindutva groups in north India accused of forcing meat shops to shut during Navratri||Hindutva groups in parts of north India have been accused of forcing meat sellers to shut shop during Navratri, leaving the mostly impoverished traders with no source of income for nine days and too fearful of seeking redress in a communally charged atmosphere. Many Hindus in the north abstain from non-vegetarian food during Navratri, which reduces demand for meat. But growing activism of Hindutva groups has led to the closure of meat shops, including those selling chicken, in several Hindi-speaking states every Navratri over the past decade or so. There have been videos this year on social media of meat shops being picketed and sellers bullied. In the National Capital Region, incidents of mob-led closure of shops have been reported from Haryana’s Gurgaon, Faridabad and Palwal, and Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Meerut and Sikandrabad. Groups such as Gurgaon’s Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, factions of the Bajrang Dal, the Delhi-based Hindu Sena, the Hindu Mahasabha and the Hindu Jagran Manch have petitioned district administrations in the region to order the closure of shops and restaurants selling meat, poultry and fish during Navratri. In Sikandrabad, the police have ordered shops to close during the nine-day festivities. In most cases, sellers have preferred to shut shop rather than file FIRs. Although no large-scale protests against non-vegetarian food have taken place in Delhi this year, meat sellers say they have been forced to close in parts of North and East Delhi. Arshad Habib Qureshi, president of the Delhi Meat Merchants Association (DMMA), told The Telegraph: “Many people don’t eat meat during this time and some shops close for a few days. But even those who want to eat meat are unable to do so because many sellers are forced to shut by some groups and local residents, particularly over the last decade. Most sellers lead a hand-to-mouth existence and can’t afford to close for nine days. It affects our right to livelihood as well as the freedom of people to eat what they want. We want the government to take responsibility and initiate action.” The DMMA represents the bulk of the approximately 6,000 meat sellers who have licences from any of Delhi’s five municipal bodies — three run by the BJP and two controlled by the Centre where the BJP is in power. Qureshi said they had not complained to the police but were meeting municipal officials in areas where they face harassment. “When there is communal tension, it is better to keep quiet and try to build better relations. That is the only way one can do business, especially in residential areas. Forced closure despite us complying with licence conditions is wrong,” he said. Vegetarian activism in the name of Hinduism is not new to Delhi. In 1970, the Delhi Meat Control Bill of the Jan Sangh-led Delhi Municipal Council had sought to criminalise the slaughter, sale and consumption of buffalo meat during 70 Hindu festivals a year, said Nazima Parveen, the author of Contested Homelands: Politics of Space and Identity. She explained: “Since the late 90s, (BJP MP) Maneka Gandhi’s NGO (People For Animals) has been stopping transporters for alleged violations of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The seized animals are held by the police and released only if the seller or transporter is acquitted and pays a fee for maintenance of the animals during that time. Very often, the owners don’t claim the animals as they can’t afford to pay. While this has nothing to do with Hindutva, vigilante groups have exploited this to claim the victory of Hindus over Muslims.” Online retail has filled the supply gap. Mathew Joseph, chief operating officer of FreshToHome, a Bangalore-based online retailer of meat, poultry and seafood, said: “We do see a slight dip in sales during Navratri in north India. But since many of our customers are Malayalis spread across India, this does not affect us very much. When we started in 2015, some of our delivery people did face trouble during this time, but for the last two years they have not had any problems.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra and lawyers at crime site||The Uttar Pradesh police special task force on Thursday took Ashis “Monu” Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, and his three associates to Tikunia village in Lakhimpur Kheri district to recreate the scene of the massacre of farmers on October 3. According to eyewitnesses, Ashis was in a Mahindra Thar jeep belonging to his father when it mowed down the farmers. The Thar was leading the convoy that crushed to death four farmers and one journalist, hitting them from behind and ploughing through them as they were walking back after a protest. Ashis denies he was at the spot. Ashis’s three associates who were taken to the crime scene were Shekhar Bharati, Ankit Das and Mohammad Latif. Ankit, an aide of Ashis, Ankit’s driver Shekhar and personal security guard Latif were allegedly in a Toyota Fortuner that was tailing the Thar. A farmer who was present at Tikunia when the SIT reached with Ashis and the other accused on Thursday told The Telegraph: “The SIT had brought three effigies made of straw and covered in black cloth to denote some of the farmers whom the Thar allegedly crushed under its wheels. A police jeep was used to denote the Thar while two SUVs were used to represent the Fortuner and a Scorpio.” A policeman was quoted as telling a journalist after the SIT left the spot: “The recreation of the crime scene was conducted from noon to 4pm. Upendra Agrawal, the DIG of the SIT, led a team of over a dozen officers.” “What was interesting was the presence of five lawyers representing Monu along with the SIT. It was difficult to figure out who were SIT members and who were lawyers,” the officer added. The court while granting the SIT custody of Ashis had said his lawyers could be present only at a distance. DIG Agrawal refused comment when journalists asked why Ashis’s lawyers continued to be among the SIT officers when the crime scene was being reconstructed at the Tikunia curve. Awadesh Singh, a counsel for Ashis who was present at the spot during the crime scene reconstruction, said the exercise was conducted to “find out the truth”. “We were there and found that the SIT was doing its job honestly,” Singh said. The police officer said a forensic team measured the distance between the point where the Thar mowed down the farmers and where it stopped before its occupants tried to flee. From there the SIT took the four accused to a petrol pump half a kilometre away in the direction of Banvirpur, Teni’s village. The forensics team measured the distance with the help of a tape. There have been reports that the Scorpio had refuelled at the pump after the farmers were run over. “Then the SIT took all four to the wrestling ground at Banvirpur and asked each of them about details of the tournament they claim they were attending at the time the vehicles crushed the farmers,” a local journalist said. The farmers had gathered at Tikunia to protest threats issued by Teni, the Union minister of state for home, to those opposing the Narendra Modi government’s controversial farm laws. Teni had from a public stage warned the farmers that he would fix them in two minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Congress raises finger at Amarinder over extension of BSF jurisdiction||Congress leaders on Thursday attacked former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for supporting the BJP-led NDA government’s alleged designs to encroach upon the state’s powers a day after his successor Charanjit Singh Channi condemned the decision to unilaterally extend the areas over which the Border Security Force has jurisdiction. Punjab cabinet minister Pargat Singh suspected Amarinder’s hand in the Centre’s move, saying: “What is Captain sahib trying to prove? I always said he is with the BJP. Earlier, when he went to Delhi and met Union home minister Amit Shah, paddy procurement was delayed by 10 days and now when he has gone to Delhi again, BSF’s jurisdiction has been increased.” Channi, who has firmly criticised the Centre’s decision, met his predecessor along with his family for a courtesy call on Thursday, but didn’t comment on the BSF order. On the other hand, Pargat said: “Captain sahib, please do not do this. We respect you a lot. But do not go down this road. Do not get all this done after mixing up with the BJP. The saffron party should also understand that they cannot let Punjab become a disturbed state. It seems they want to impose governor’s rule in the state. I want to tell them that we will not allow the BJP to be successful in its designs.” He continued: “The Government of India’s decision on the BSF is akin to taking over half of Punjab. It is a sample of the BJP’s polarisation policy. I want to remind them that Punjab follows Guru Nanak Dev’s ideology and teachings. The BJP wants to divide people on communal lines but Punjab has never fallen prey to such designs of rulers.” Interestingly, Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari, who is considered close to Amarinder, tweeted: “MHA (ministry of home affairs) notification enhancing operational mandate of BSF, 15 to 50km in Punjab, West Bengal & Assam transgresses upon Constitutional Public order & Policing remit of States. Half of Punjab will now fall under BSF jurisdiction. Charanjit Singh Channi must oppose it.” Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also launched a veiled attack on Amarinder in a series of tweets: “We are proud of our security forces which are meant to secure our borders and protect India from foreign aggressors. Using them to cover up the failures & to clean up the mess created by leaders and governments is very alarming. It not only denigrates our brave forces but also adversely affects their morale, discipline & preparedness. It’s this use of our forces as political tool which should be avoided. No one knows it better than Amarinder Singh.” Amarinder had on Wednesday supported the central government’s decision saying: “Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics. Partisan considerations can’t & shouldn’t dictate our stand on issues of national security. I’d said that at the time of the 2016 surgical strikes & am saying it again. We’ve to rise above politics when India’s security is at stake, as it is now.” Channi had on Wednesday asked Shah to review the decision. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa also attacked the Centre, saying that the reasons to unilaterally change the existing arrangements by the Government of India with regards to the BSF cannot be justified. He alleged that the decision had been taken to weaken the state government and the spirit of federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
15-10-2021||India||Ambassador of Japan inaugurates Japanese language Centre at KIIT||Ambassador of Japan to India, Satoshi Suzuki, on Thursday inaugurated a centre for Japanese language, Centre of Excellence, Internship and the Mitsubishi Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme for Sports at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology here. This will be a one-of-its-kind facility in Odisha, officials said. The Japanese language centre will promote understanding and appreciation of Japanese language and culture, particularly among students, and contribute to further strengthen people-to-people ties between the two countries, KIIT officials said. Under the internship arrangements, Mitsubishi Group, a 150-year-old multinational company, will accept meritorious KIIT students, who have achieved a certain level of proficiency in Japanese language, as interns. The Mitsubishi Group will also extend support to KISS (Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences) students as part of its CSR activities. “The initiative of the embassy of Japan, Mitsubishi Group of Companies, KIIT and KISS will provide a new impetus to the people-to-people exchanges between Japan and India, as the two countries are set to celebrate the start of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations,” said Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Yoji Taguchi, chairman and managing director, Mitsubishi Corporation India Private Ltd, and Shusuke Suto, managing director, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd, were present. Senior officials of the Japanese embassy, ministry of external affairs and Mitsubishi Group, Prof. Hrusikesh Mohanty, vice-chancellor, KIIT deemed to be university, pro-VC Sasmita Samanta, Jnyana Ranjan Mohanty, registrar, KIIT, and others attended the inaugural ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
