17-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi will be face of Congress in UP election campaign: Punia||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, party's newly-appointed campaign committee chief P L Punia said on Sunday, asserting the AICC general secretary is the most popular political figure in the state at present.  Punia, who on Friday was named as the head of the key 20-member election campaign committee of the Congress for the UP polls next year, noted that very rarely has the Congress announced a chief ministerial face and said that not having declared one till now will not hamper the party's chances as it already has a personality like Priyanka Gandhi to lead the charge against the BJP.  It is a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP in the UP polls as both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have "fallen behind" and were "not in the fight anymore", Punia told PTI in an interview.  Punia said Priyanka Gandhi has fought for truth on all issues and when the Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened, she immediately left to meet the family of the victims, and was detained in Sitapur, but remained determined in her quest for justice.  He said she was "successful" in her struggle and went to Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich to met the families of the victims.  Punia said earlier also -- be it Sonbhadra, Unnao or Hathras incidents -- Priyanka Gandhi had fought for justice.  "So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time," he said.  There are always demands from other states for Priyanka Gandhi to campaign and hold one or two meetings, but in UP she is available 24X7, Punia said.  "Priyanka Gandhi ji hi humara ek chehra hongi jinke ird-gird poora election campaign chalega (the election campaign will be revolve around Priyanka Gandhi)," he said.  Punia also said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and justice for farmers would be important issues in the elections, asserting that the way the farmers were "trampled upon", was a condemnable incident.  "What was more appalling was that those in power gave protection to the perpetrators (of the crime). Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said no one will be arrested without evidence which was an indication that seeking arrest of the Union minister's son is wrong ," Punia said.  Chief Minister Adityanath and Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra were both "guilty" of protecting the accused in the case, he alleged.  Punia said "real justice" will be done when the minister is removed and pointed out that a high level delegation under Rahul Gandhi has also met President Ram Nath Kovind to press for this demand.  Asked if having not declared a CM face till now would hamper the Congress' chances in the UP polls, Punia said the Congress rarely declares a CM face whether it is Uttar Pradesh or other states.  "People talk about a CM face as votes are sought on that face, for us the biggest face is that of Priyanka Gandhi and the affection that people have for her cannot be matched by any person who is declared a CM face. So for us we have such a personality who will be helpful for us in polls in every way," he asserted.  Punia also accused the BJP of indulging in communal polarisation to divert attention from real issues such as farmers' "plight", price rise and the state of law and order.  "It is always the case with BJP-RSS people that when they see that they are losing on issues such as governance, law and order situation, the state is no. 1 in terms of crime, in terms of crimes against women, in crimes and atrocities against scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, so to save themselves from the anger of the people, they resort to polarisation," he alleged.  "They raise mandir construction, create Hindu-Muslim divide, project themselves as the sole well wishers of Hindus. They will try all this but this has become a dated strategy, people are concerned about issues such as price rise and development and will not fall for Yogi Adityanath's polarisation plank," the Congress leader said.  On whether votes will get divided with the Opposition unity missing, Punia said the SP and BSP have "fallen behind".  "Earlier people thought that they were in fight but it is not so anymore. The Congress is in the fight and only the Congress an upstage the BJP. The Congress and the BJP are in a direct fight," he said.  The BJP is feeling "threatened" by the Congress and that is why their leadership attacks the Congress, not the SP and BSP, Punia claimed.  The Congress on Friday constituted different panels for the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with Punia being named head of the crucial campaign committee.  Priyanka Gandhi has been constantly taking up issues of the people and will keep doing so, Punia said.  He said people realise that she has been fighting for justice and these sentiments are bound to translate into votes. "So, definitely the Congress has an upper hand in polls," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||PM Modi speaks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss situation in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in the state.  The toll from disastrous flooding caused by heavy rains and landslides in hilly areas of two central Kerala districts rose to 18 as rescue workers recovered more bodies from the rubbles on Sunday.  "Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected," Modi tweeted.  "I pray for everyone's safety and well-being," he said. "It is saddening that some people have lost their lives due to heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Condolences to the bereaved families," Modi said in another tweet.  State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies from the debris and slush of the landslides that had hit various places of Idukki and Kottayam districts on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: All 3 accused sent to police remand, 2 SITs conducting probe||Three people allegedly involved in the lynching of a labourer at the farmers' protest site at Singhu border were remanded to six days in police custody as the Haryana Police set up two Special Investigation Teams to probe the incident.  Narain Singh, a member of the Sikh order of Nihang, was arrested on Saturday from near Amritsar.  Two more Nihangs, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh, from Fatehgarh Sahib had "surrendered" before the Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching.  All three were produced before a court in Sonipat, which remanded them to six days in police custody.  The police sought remand of the accused on the ground that they have to reconstruct the scene of the crime, recover clothes which the accused wore at the time of incident, besides interrogating them in depth about the entire incident.  The SIT headed by IPS officer Mayank Gupta, who is Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, Sonipat, will investigate the videos of the incident which were circulating on various social media platforms.  The other led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sonipat, Virender Singh will carry out the overall probe into the incident.  The body of Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.  In a video clip that surfaced on social media, some Nihangs were seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group was heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book.  However, the victim's family has questioned the attackers' claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe.  The mortal remains of Lakhbir Singh were cremated at his native village in Punjab's Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his family members on Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu writes to Sonia Gandhi listing 13 major issues, seeks meeting with her||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi, flagging in his letter issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption".  In the letter to the Congress president on October 15, a day after he had meetings with senior party leaders in Delhi, Sidhu pitched for a "Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections".  Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu had on October 15 said his concerns have been resolved and the party asserted that he will continue as the head of the state unit. The resolution came after the cricketer-turned-politician met Rahul Gandhi and raised his concerns.  The letter to Sonia Gandhi reminded her of the party's 18-point agenda "given to the last chief minister" of Punjab and said that those were "equally relevant today".  "Today, I write to your esteemed self with priority areas among the 18-point agenda of the 2017 campaign and the manifesto promises which the state government must deliver upon."  Sidhu then said the people of Punjab demand justice for the 2015 police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in Faridkot following the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib during the previous SAD-BJP regime.  On the drugs issue, the Punjab Congress chief said, "The big fish mentioned in the STF report must be immediately arrested and given exemplary punishment."  He also wrote that the state government must reject the "three black farm laws" of the Centre "by announcing that they will not be implemented in Punjab at any cost".  The state government must release a white paper on power purchase agreements and cancellation of "all faulty PPAs as promised by us", Sidhu said in the letter.  "It might be the last damage-control exercise or else, mafia-raj ruling the state patronized by the Badals will take the state to the extent of financial emergency, corruption and agrarian crisis from which there will be no return.  "Thus, I request you kindly consider these points and give your august direction to the state government to act in the best interests of the people of Punjab immediately," he wrote.  In the letter, Sidhu sought a meeting with Sonia Gandhi to present to her a "Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections".  The Punjab Congress chief described the "13-point agenda" as separate from the manifesto by "means of its long-term vision to be implemented over a longer period, crafted through years of consultations with academics, civil society, party workers and feedback from the people of Punjab".  Sidhu had posted his resignation as state unit chief on Twitter on September 28. He was not happy with the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general, besides some portfolio allocations to ministers after the new cabinet formation.  During the meeting with Congress senior leaders K C Venugopal and Rawat, the Punjab Congress leader had raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken up by the leadership on which actions are pending.  These included action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Goa Forward Party leader compares Mamata Banerjee to 'Durga', BJP govt to 'Bhasmasur'||A Goa Forward Party (GFP) leader has kicked up a row by comparing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to Goddess Durga who he said would eliminate the "Bhasmasur" BJP government in the coastal state, inviting a rebuke from Chief Minister Pramod Sawant.  GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar on Saturday said that Goa needs to bring "Durga" from West Bengal who would eliminate this Bhasmasur BJP government.  He had also admitted that the GFP was in talks with the Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) to ally for the next year's Goa Assembly elections.  People of Goa will never tolerate such a comparison. You cannot compare Goddess Shantadurga with a human being...someone who committed atrocities on women after West Bengal election results," the chief minister told reporters.  Without taking Banerjee's name, Sawant said the people have seen how that person and that party (TMC) "butchered people after the West Bengal polls".  The CM said the BJP has kept its doors open for the like-minded parties for a tie-up to keep at bay "the new political parties with anti-social agenda which wanted to enter Goa through the upcoming elections".  The TMC had last month announced that it would contest the Goa Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India|| J&K: 3 detained for questioning as search operations enter day 7 in Poonch-Rajouri forests||Three persons, including a mother-son duo, were detained for questioning during an ongoing search operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Rajouri border districts where nine soldiers were killed in two separate gunfights with terrorists over the past week, officials said on Sunday.  Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest on Monday. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Mendhar sector on Thursday evening.  A man along with a 45-year-old woman and her son, all residents of Bhatta Durrian forest, were taken into custody for questioning on the suspicion of giving logistic support to terrorists, the officials said.  It was a matter of investigation whether they provided food and shelter to the terrorists voluntarily or at gunpoint, they said.  The officials underlined that the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous.  So far, contact with hiding terrorists was established thrice -- first on October 11 in Poonch's Surankote which was followed by another exchange of fire between the security forces and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district the same day but the ultras managed their escape in both the encounters.  The third encounter took place in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening.  "The presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri was observed two-and-a-half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down," Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said on Saturday.  "A joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time depending on the topography of the area. Contact with the terrorists was established thrice this week based on intelligence inputs," the officer said.  The terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion, he added.  Officials said the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet.  The Army has deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area for surveillance on Saturday.  Officials said the traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the third day on Sunday in the wake of the ongoing operation.  Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year. Nine terrorists have been killed in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Amit Shah assures Centre's assistance to flood-hit Kerala||The Centre will provide all possible assistance to the people of Kerala who have been affected by heavy rains and resulting floods, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday.  He said in a tweet that the government was "continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding."  "The Central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety," Shah said.  The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 11 teams for search, rescue and relief operations in the state where the death toll from heavy rains and landslide rose to eight on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||Business||Petrol and diesel price increased again; cost 30% more than ATF||Petrol and diesel price on Sunday was hiked again by 35 paise a litre and the auto fuels now cost a third more than the rate at which ATF is sold to airlines.  The fourth straight day of 35 paise per litre hike sent petrol and diesel rates to record highs across the country.  The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.84 a litre and Rs 111.77 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.  In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.52 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.57.  With this rise, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals while diesel has touched the 100-mark in over a dozen states. Diesel crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Bengaluru, Daman and Silvassa.  Petrol used in two-wheelers and cars now costs 33 per cent more than the price at which aviation turbine fuel (ATF) is sold to airlines. ATF in Delhi costs Rs 79,020.16 per kilolitre or Rs 79 per litre.  The costliest fuel is in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 117.86 a litre and diesel for Rs 105.95.  Since ending of a three-week long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 16th increase in petrol price and the 19th time that diesel rates have gone up.  While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in over a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Ladakh.  Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.  Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers.  This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.8 per barrel for the first time in seven years.  A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.51.  Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices.  The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel.  Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.95 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.65.  Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Death toll rises to 21 after rain triggers landslides in Kerala||The death toll from disastrous flooding caused by heavy rains and landslides in hilly areas of two central Kerala districts rose to 21 as rescue workers recovered more bodies from the rubbles on Sunday, reports NDTV.  State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies from the debris and slush of the landslides that had hit various places of Idukki and Kottayam districts on Saturday. Twelve people are reported missing in Kottayam. The bad weather condition at Kottayam is delaying the rescue operation by the defence personnel, reports NDTV. "The rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies till now. This includes 12 bodies from Koottickal in Kottayam, one body from Peerumedu and two which were recovered yesterday from Kanjar in Idukki district," Rajan told PTI. Idukki District Collector Sheeba George said three bodies were recovered from Kokkayar in Idukki district today, a hilly region which was heavily hit by yesterday's devastating landslides. "The search is on for five missing persons," she told PTI. Officials said the bodies of three children buried under slush were recovered after an intense rescue efforts. The children, aged eight, seven and four, were found holding to each other, officials said. Kerala Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan, who visited Kokkayar and Koottickal alleged that the state government failed to launch rescue operations in time in the affected areas. At Koottickal in Kottayam district, a family of six including a 40-year-old man, his 75-year-old mother, 35-year-old wife and three girl children aged 14, 12 and 10 were killed as their house was swept away in the landslide. Bodies of three were recovered yesterday and remaining bodies were found by the rescuers during their efforts today. Meanwhile, the heavy rains subdued a day after it wreaked havoc in the state. In its forecast, India Meteorological Department said yesterday's Low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala has become less Marked and now seen as a trough from south Interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu at lower levels. "Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Kerala and Mahe on 17th October 2021 and significant reduction thereafter," it said. Thereafter, a fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to affect south Peninsular India from October 20 and cause fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely over Kerala from October 20 and likely to continue for subsequent 3-4 days, it added. Before leaving for Kokkayar in Idukki to coordinate rescue mission, Minister Rajan said the rescue operations are going on at various places as the rains have subdued in the state. Earlier, an Army team had arrived at the tragedy hit sites and launched a search operation for the missing persons. "Few people are still stranded as per local sources. Presently no rains however heavily overcast. Madras Regiment from Pangode Military Station commenced the rescue operation at Kavali Village 4 km away from Koottickal, Kottayam District," a Defence spokesperson said. A Navy chopper reached the affected areas with relief materials. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday urged the people of the state to exercise extreme caution even as the weatherman has withdrawn Red and Orange alerts for the south-central districts of the state and asked the public to follow the instructions of the authorities. "The weatherman has warned about strong wind and lightning till today evening. Currently, the depression, formed in the Arabian sea, has weakened. However, there are chances that it will rain till evening. Yellow Alert has been issued by the IMD for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode," Vijayan said in a Facebook post. He also informed that across the state 105 relief camps have been opened and more camps will be set up if needed. "NDRF teams have been deployed to Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Directions have been issued to deploy five additional teams to Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad districts. Two choppers of the Air Force from Coimbatore have reached Thiruvananthapuram," Vijayan said. The Navy helicopter has been deployed to distribute food kits and other essential materials in areas of Koottickal and Kokkayar where landslides have occured. The higher secondary exams which were scheduled to begin from October 18 has been postponed. The government is yet to announce the new date. In an early morning operation, NDRF teams have rescued nearly 80 people who were stranded in waterlogged areas of Pathanamthitta district. Weather officials had said Peerumedu in the hill district of Idukki received 24 cm rains till 5.30 PM on Saturday. Automatic weather stations in North Paravur reported 38mm rains, Muvattupuzha (89.5mm), Palluruthy (34 mm) and Neeleswaram in Northern Kerala district had received 125.5mm of rain till 8.30 PM on Saturday, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Speeding car rams into Durga procession in MP, 4 injured||A speeding car rammed into a Durga idol immersion procession in the Madhya Pradesh capital, leaving four persons, including a head constable, injured, police said on Sunday.  Police have arrested the driver and seized the car, a senior officer said.  The incident occurred on the road outside the Bhopal railway station on late Saturday night when the procession was moving forward, Bajaria police station in-charge Umesh Yadav told PTI.  Three persons were injured and one of them sustained serious injuries and undergoing treatment at a hospital, he said.  The car also hit an on-duty police head constable, who sustained minor injuries to his leg, he said.  Yadav said after the car rammed into the procession people started shouting to get hold of the car driver, who panicked and fled by reversing the car speedily.  He said a case was registered.  Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Irshad Wali told reporters on Sunday afternoon that the car involved in the incident was seized and its driver arrested.  The driver's interrogation is underway, he said but refused to elaborate.  Wali said the injured person, undergoing treatment at a hospital, is out of danger and stable. He sustained injuries that are not serious, Wali said citing a hospital doctor.  Meanwhile, a video of the incident shows a car is being reversed speedily while the people are seen trying to save themselves by moving away from the path of the vehicle.  One of the injured persons, Chaturanan Sahu (26), said a grey car crashed into the procession of the Chandbarh Durga Utsav when it reached near Gupta tea stall outside the Bhopal railway station.  "Two persons were travelling in that car which crashed into the procession and again hit the people while reversing," he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Unorganised workers' registration on e-Shram portal crosses 4 crore||The Ministry of Labour and Employment on Sunday said the number registrations has crossed 4-crore mark on e-Shram portal in less than two months of its launch.  According to a labour ministry statement, workers in diverse occupations such as construction, apparel manufacturing, fishing, gig and platform work, street vending, domestic work, agriculture and allied, transport sector have registered on the portal.  In some of these sectors, an overwhelming proportion of migrant workers are also engaged, it stated.  All workers in the unorganised sector, including migrant ones, can now take the benefits of various social security and employment-based schemes through registration on the e-Shram portal.  As per latest data, 4.09 crore workers have registered on the portal. Of these, around 50.02 per cent beneficiaries are female and 49.98 per cent are male.  It is encouraging that equivalent proportion of men and women have been part of this drive, it stated.  There has been weekly improvement in the registrations by gender, with men and women workers registering at comparable proportions.  As per the data, the states of Odisha, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are at the fore front of this initiative with highest number of registrations.  However, putting this number into perspective must be with caution. Smaller states and union territories (UTs) understandably have lesser number of registered workforce, it explained.  Also, this drive needs to gain momentum in states and UTs such as Meghalaya, Manipur, Goa and Chandigarh.  This registration would facilitate delivery and accessibility to crucial welfare programmes and various entitlements meant for the workers in the unorganised sector and employment. For online registrations, individual workers can use e-Shram's mobile application or the website.  They can also visit the Common Service Centres (CSCs), State Seva Kendra, Labour Facilitation Centres, select post offices of the Department of Posts, Digital Seva Kendras, to register themselves.  After registration at e-SHRAM Portal, the unorganised workers shall receive a digital e-SHRAM card and they can update their profiles/ particulars through portal or mobile app.  They will have a Universal Account Number (on eSHRAM Card) that will be acceptable across the country and now they will not be required to register at different places for obtaining social security benefits.  If a worker is registered at the e-Shram portal and meets with an accident, he/she will be eligible for Rs 2 lakh on death or permanent disability and Rs one lakh on partial disability.  The largest number of workers registered is from agriculture and construction, given the sheer volume of these two sectors in employment generation in India.  Besides, workers from diverse and different occupations like domestic and household workers, apparel sector workers, automobile and transport sector workers, electronics and hard wareworkers, capital goods workers, education, healthcare, retail, tourism and hospitality, food industry and many more have registered at this portal.  Around 65.68 per cent of these registered workers are in the age group of 16-40 years and 34.32 per cent are in the age group of 40 years and above.  The social compositions of these workers include Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and General Castes with almost 43 per cent and 27 per cent, respectively from these categories and 23 per cent and 27 per cent being from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.  A substantial proportion of registration has been facilitated by the CSC as depicted in the graph above. Interestingly, in certain states like Kerala and Goa and in North-East India, Meghalaya and Manipur a greater proportion of individuals have self-registered in the portal.  Similar is the case with most Union Territories like Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Andaman & Nicobar and Ladakh, it added.  This could be attributed to higher levels of literacy and technology usage in these states. However, according to the latest updates an overwhelming proportion of workers (77 per cent) have registered themselves through CSCs, the ministry said.  There has been a week on week improvement in the outreach of the CSCs as indicated by the figure above.  Therefore, outreach of the CSCs emerges to be a crucial factor in lesser facilitated areas. Workers are encouraged to visit their nearest CSCs to register themselves at the portal and take advantage of this exercise which would lead to greater portability and last mile delivery of various welfare programmes.  Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav and other officials are holding several interactions with the unorganised sector workers and leaders of trade union and media, to sensitise them about the features and benefits of the e-SHRAM portal, so as to encourage the workers to register themselves through available modes and take the benefits of several social security and welfare schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||India logs 14,146 fresh Covid-19 cases, 144 new deaths||India recorded 14,146 fresh COVID-19 infections in a day, the lowest daily rise in 229 days, while active cases dropped to 1,95,846, the lowest in 220 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,52,124 with 144 more fatalities. The country has so far reported 3,40,67,719 Covid cases, it said.  In a day, active cases declined by 5,786 and currently comprise 0.57 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid recovery rate was 98.10 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.  A total of 11,00,123 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,09,35,381.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,19,749, while the case fatality rate was 1.33 per cent, the ministry said.  The weekly positivity rate (1.42 per cent), has been less than 3 per cent for the last 114 days and the daily positivity rate (1.29 per cent) has been less than 3 per cent for 48 days.  Over 97.65 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country under the nationwide vaccination drive.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June.  The 144 new fatalities include 57 from Kerala, 26 from Maharashtra and 15 from Tamil Nadu.  Of the total Covid deaths reported in the country, 1,39,760 are from Maharashtra, 37,937 from Karnataka, 35,884 from Tamil Nadu, 26,791 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,963 from West Bengal.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||CWC announces schedule for organisational elections||The Congress Working Committee on Saturday announced the schedule for organisational elections, which are to be completed by September-October 2022, indicating Sonia Gandhi is likely to remain party president till then. The process will start on November 1 this year with a membership drive. The elections to the primary committees will be held in April-May next year. The state unit chiefs will be elected in July-August while the election for the Congress president will be held sometime between August 21 and September 20. The plenary will be held in October where the new CWC will be elected. This means the party doesn’t want to elect a new president during Sonia’s current term, which ends early next year. Although some leaders expect Rahul Gandhi to withdraw his resignation and take over immediately after he promised to give serious thought to such a request made at Saturday’s CWC meeting, it’s unlikely he will take over amid an electoral process. Several CWC members, including party chief ministers, requested Rahul to return as Congress president, saying the party needed his leadership. Rahul thanked the CWC for the sentiment and said he would think about it. While there’s no clarity on Rahul’s next move, Saturday’s meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body settled several vital issues. While the G-23 (group of dissenters) storm blew over, with both Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma getting on board after the announcement of organisational elections, any doubts about Rahul’s stature as the supreme leader of the party also got extinguished. Rahul made it clear that organisational issues and personal positions were irrelevant to the larger ideological battle for India’s future. He stressed that the challenges India was grappling with were exceptional and demanded ideological purity. “It was a powerful speech; all other issues got dwarfed by his explanation of the nature of the challenges,” a senior leader told The Telegraph. “We hope the doubts about his leadership got buried right there and we indeed saw a resolve to work with a unity of purpose.” Sonia had sent out a firm message to the dissenters, known as G-23, at the outset, asking them not to talk to her through the media. “I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she said. She declared: “I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands-on Congress president.” This was Sonia’s way of confronting those who have been arguing that the party lacks a full-fledged president and that the leadership crisis has hurt oppositional politics. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, asserted that every single decision had been taken by Sonia as Congress president --- an apparent rebuttal to senior leader and G-23 member Kapil Sibal who had asked at a news conference who was taking decisions in the party. Neither Azad nor Sharma raised any discordant note at the CWC meeting. Sonia took care to emphasise that the Congress was proactively discharging its duty as the primary Opposition party. “In the last two years, a large number of our colleagues, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people --whether it be the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector,” she said. “Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed.” Sonia stressed the need for discipline, self-control, unity and the commitment to keeping the party’s interests paramount. Most of the leaders insisted after the meeting that there were no factions and that the party would put up a united front from now on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Karnataka legislative committee orders survey of churches||A Karnataka legislative committee dominated by the ruling BJP has ordered a survey on churches and the functioning of Christian missionaries, prompting the archbishop of Bangalore to express concern as well as anguish. The survey comes against the backdrop of heightened rhetoric about forced religious conversions, triggering fears that it would be used as an excuse to harass the minority community. The Karnataka Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare issued instructions to district authorities on Wednesday to conduct the survey, ignoring objections raised by members of the Opposition. BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar, a strong advocate of an anti-conversion law, chaired the meeting in the absence of his party colleague and chairman Dinakar Keshav Shetty. Shekhar  directed district authorities to find out how many of the 1,700-odd churches and prayer halls in the state were legal. In the recent Assembly session in September, Shekar had alleged that a large number of Hindus, including his mother Ratnamma, had been forcibly converted to Christianity. He had later organised a ritual at a temple in Hosadurga on October 10 to convert his mother and eight others back to Hinduism. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai of the BJP has also been underscoring the need for a strong anti-conversion law. Congress member of the Legislative Council, P.R. Ramesh, who is part of the 20-member committee, told The Telegraph on Saturday that the BJP members had disregarded pleas against such a report. “We had vehemently opposed the move since it is unconstitutional and dangerous for communal amity. But the BJP members refused to heed our opinion and ordered officials to conduct a survey on churches and missionaries and submit a report on their activities,” Ramesh said. Another member of the Upper House, B.M. Farooq of the Janata Dal Secular, was the only other Opposition member among the nine lawmakers who attended the meeting whose original agenda was development issues concerning backward classes and minorities. “Our Constitution allows religious conversion based on one’s free will. I had asked them what right do they have to stop someone from converting on his or her own will,” Ramesh said. There may have been stray instances of conversions through allurements, but most of those who have taken up Christianity have done so to escape the repressive caste system, sources said. According to the 2011 census, Christians make up 1.87 per cent of Karnataka’s population. “Since they were bent on proceeding with the plan, I told the meeting to examine all conversions to Hinduism through the BJP’s ghar wapsi drive,” the Congress’s Ramesh said. But the BJP-dominated committee limited the scope of the report to conversions to Christianity. “They are targeting Christians and this survey will only increase the harassment of Christian missionaries who are doing a great service in education, health care and women’s empowerment,” Ramesh said. Bangalore archbishop Peter Machado said in a statement: “In fact, against the background of the conversion bogey and anti-religious feelings that are being whipped up, it’s dangerous to conduct such surveys. With this, our community places of worship, as also pastors and sisters, will be identified and may be unfairly targeted. We are already hearing of such sporadic incidents in the north and in Karnataka.” “We are always against forceful, fraudulent and incentivised conversions and we repeat that we are lawfully abiding by the prescriptions of the Constitution of India, which for us is supreme and sacred,” the archbishop noted. Archbishop Machado had recently led a delegation of bishops to Bommai to express their concerns after the chief minister iterated the need for an anti-conversion law. “Does not the Constitution in Article 25 (also 26, 29 and 30) ensure the freedom of every citizen to profess, practise and propagate his/her religion without fear or force? Why do we need any anti-conversion laws when there are enough safeguards enshrined in the Constitution and the legal system of the country to punish the guilty?” the archbishop said in the statement. He added that such laws would end up being “tools in the hands of a few to hound and persecute the innocent”. Archbishop Machado expressed sadness at the chief minister “succumbing” to pressure from “fundamentalist groups”. “We are sad that the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Shri Basavaraj Bommai, whom we regard highly as a broad-minded and enlightened person, succumbs to the pressures from fundamentalist groups, who wish to indulge in disturbing the peace, harmony and peaceful co-existence in the society,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Protests against Friday prayers by Muslims resumes in Gurgaon||Protests against open-air Friday prayers by Muslims have resumed in a part of Gurgaon over the past month, three years after disruptions of the Jumma namaz by Hindutva groups had led to the gatherings being restricted to designated spots. Jumma namaz at a ground in Sector 47 has continued under police guard with Hindu residents of the area chanting slogans and playing devotional songs over loudspeakers at the barricades. Muslims have refused to shift the prayers from this spot, one of 34 public grounds designated by the administration in the city, as they continue to hold talks involving local representatives, police and the sub-divisional magistrate. “Residents want a market set up on this land, which was earmarked for building one. They don’t want namaz offered here,” local BJP councillor Kuldeep Yadav told The Telegraph. “The administration has not taken any decision on this and we are demanding they set up the market as planned. I suggested another place for namaz (in Sector 37), a little over a kilometre from the current spot but the Muslims have not accepted it.” He added: “Residents have a problem as the crime rate has increased and young boys loiter here after the Friday namaz and misbehave…. Have you ever heard of police admitting that crime is rising?” On Friday, a police officer supervising the arrangements denied Yadav’s charge. Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar) Aman Yadav told reporters: “It’s a false allegation to spoil the atmosphere…. Neither last Friday nor before that was any information of harassment of women received, nor has any complaint been made.” Unlike 2018, when the agitation was led by fringe Hindutva groups, this time the local Residents Welfare Associations are organising the protests and at least half the protesters are women. The Muslims say the current protest was incited by the leader of a group called the Bharat Mata Vahini who they allege has a criminal record. Besides the 22 mosques in the city with an estimated Muslim population of more than 4 lakh, Friday prayers used to be offered at 106 open-air sites before the 2018 protests. The Muslims say conducting Friday prayers on open ground is necessary because of a paucity of mosques. The process of allotting land for religious places in Gurgaon has dragged on for years. Altaf Ahmad, who represents the Muslims in talks with the administration, said: “In March, Dinesh Bharti who claims to be the head of a group called Bharat Mata Vahini… along with a few more men began targeting and disrupting these remaining 34 Jumma sites where the administration had promised to provide security and ensure Jumma namaz happens peacefully every Friday afternoon. “Intimidation, provocation and incitement to violence have been systematically used by this group to terrorise those congregating to offer namaz. “He succeeded in stopping the Jumma namaz at Sectors 39, 40 and 43 during March and April of this year. The community did register an FIR against Dinesh Bharti on April 16…. Now, once again since September 17, Dinesh Bharti and his group are disturbing Jumma namaz and the communal harmony of this city.” Bharti was arrested in March and April, and obtained bail on both occasions. Last week too he was taken into preventive detention, and was released on bail on Tuesday. Ahmad said: “Residents and the councillor (Kuldeep Yadav) came up with an absolutely ridiculous suggestion (during talks on Wednesday) of shifting namaz to Sector 37 as there is plenty of government land in a non-residential area. We rejected the idea there and then.... However, on a request from the SDM we agreed to get back with the exact distance and all the challenges because of which shifting is not possible.” Administrative officials in Gurgaon did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper asking for details of how they intended to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Nine elephants spread panic, spoil Dussehra festivities in Bihar||A herd of nine elephants went on a rampage in Nawada district of Bihar spreading panic among the people and spoiling the Dussehra festivities. The herd sneaked into Rajauli block, around 150km south of Patna, from the contiguous forest area in Jharkhand on Friday and moved towards the villages, destroying plants and agricultural crops on the way. As the pachyderm herd consisting of males, females and calves came closer to human habitation, the villagers alerted the police, forest department and district administration officials. The villagers also made noise by beating drums and utensils to shoo away the tuskers but did not meet with success. By evening, the herd had reached inhabited areas of Chitarkoli panchayat and damaged a few pucca buildings in and around Ratanpur village. The elephants are right now moving in a haphazard manner across the farms and nearby forest areas. However, no person has been killed or injured by the elephants so far. “This is a herd of nine elephants which digressed into our area from Jharkhand on Friday. They have damaged a few houses here, but have not killed or injured any person,” Nawada divisional forest officer Awadhesh Kumar Ojha told The Telegraph. Ojha said the elephants were mostly moving in the jungle areas and forest department officials were keeping a tab on their movement, but it was difficult to keep a watch on them at night. To make matters more problematic, Bihar has no specialists to chase away the pachyderms that transgress its borders from Nepal, Jharkhand and Bengal several times every year. “We have requisitioned a team of elephant experts from Bankura in Bengal to chase this herd back to Jharkhand. It is arriving today (Saturday) and will help drive the elephants back towards their habitat,” Ojha said. Though Bihar has forests in a few districts bordering Nepal and Jharkhand, there are no wild elephants in the state. Wild elephants from neighbouring states and Nepal at times come either in search of food or after being vanquished in mating battles with other tuskers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Flight services from Bhubaneswar to Jaipur to begin from November 2||Flight services from Bhubaneswar to Jaipur in Rajasthan will commence from November 2. In a letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, Union minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya M. Scindia said IndiGo would connect these two cities and operate three flights a week. “I hope that the connectivity between temple city Bhubanewsar and Pink City Jaipur would not only enhance tourist footfall but also provide a boost to economic activities in both the states,” Scindia wrote. The Odisha government has also extended initial incentive to IndiGo for commencement of the flight on the Bhubaneswar-Jaipur route. Air connectivity between these two cities is likely to attract international tourists to Odisha, said a senior official of the state government. Pradhan had earlier on September 17 raised the demand for introduction of a flight between Jaipur and Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Congress blasts Modi govt over  economy, ‘brutality’ on farmers||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday blasted the Narendra Modi government for the “catastrophic consequences” of its economic mismanagement, flawed foreign policy, brutality against farmers, savage increase in prices of essential commodities and timidity in dealing with China. Sonia Gandhi set the tone for deliberations by explaining how the government pushed the three farm laws by bulldozing parliamentary scrutiny and said: “Farmers began their protests immediately and have suffered much since then. The shocking incidents at Lakhimpur Kheri recently betrays the mindset of the BJP, how it perceives the Kisan Andolan, how it has been dealing with this determined struggle by kisans to protect their lives and livelihoods.” The CWC passed a resolution on the government’s anti-farmer attitude, recalling how the project started with dilution of the Land Acquisition Act. The resolution wondered how justice would be delivered if the minister of state for home is protected by the Prime Minister despite his vehicles being used to mow down farmers and his son being involved. It recalled how the minister himself threatened the farmers. The resolution said: “The agitation by farmers against the three black laws on agriculture continues after 10 months. A government imbued with arrogance has refused to engage the farmers in talks and has stood as a mere bystander, while the police and rogue elements in the BJP have unleashed violence upon them. The tragic incident at Lakhimpur Kheri is a clear example of official support to the attempt to suppress the voice of the farmers. The refusal of the Prime Minister to condemn the brutal murder of the farmers and to sack the minister of state for home affairs have shocked the conscience of the country.” Referring to the glut of problems caused by governance failures, Sonia said: “The economy continues to be a cause for great concern in spite of the government propaganda to make us believe that it is not. As we all know, the only answer the government seems to have for economic recovery is selling off national assets built with great effort over the decades. The public sector has had not just strategic and economic objectives — it has had social goals as well, as, for instance, empowerment of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and development of backward areas. But all this is in jeopardy with the Modi government’s single-point agenda of becho, becho, becho.” Arguing that there has always been a broad consensus on foreign policy, she said: “That consensus has been damaged because of the Prime Minister’s continued reluctance to take the Opposition into confidence in any meaningful manner. Foreign policy has become a diabolical instrument of electoral mobilisation and polarisation. We face serious challenges on our borders and on other fronts.  The Prime Minister telling the Opposition leaders last year that there had not been any occupation of our territory by China and his silence ever since is costing our nation dearly.” The resolution also said: “The CWC is alarmed by the rapid deterioration in the security of the country — both external and internal. Nearly 18 months after the clashes in Ladakh in which 20 soldiers lost their lives, Chinese troops continue to be in occupation of Indian territory. Despite multiple rounds of talks, China has not vacated Indian territory; nor have we been able to recover our old positions. After the change in regime in Afghanistan and the takeover by the Taliban, the situation is even graver, but the government remains oblivious or in deep slumber.” The resolution said drug trafficking had assumed monstrous proportions, adding: “The seizure of 3,000kg of heroin at Adani Port, Gujarat, following reports of another large consignment that was successfully ‘imported’ into India, gives an indication of the huge dimensions of the illegal trade that seems to have flourished under the watch of the Modi government.” It also promised to consult all stakeholders to confront the government’s attack on federalism by giving additional powers to central forces. The CWC decided to launch a countrywide awareness (Jan Jagran) programme on mishandling of economy and rising prices from November 14. The party has also decided to initiate regular training programmes for workers and leaders at all levels to prepare the rank and file to counter the BJP propaganda on ideology and their achievements. Central leaders will train state leaders at a special four-day workshop at Sevagram in Wardha from November 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Six people dead, 12 missing as heavy rain batters Kerala||At least six people died and 12 were missing as heavy rain battered Kerala on Saturday. Four people, including a child, died in a landslide at Kuttikkal in Kottayam district where four others were missing. A few houses were washed away. Three of the deceased were identified as Claramma Joseph, Sona and her mother Sini, minister for cooperation V.N. Vasavan told reporters in Kottayam. The fourth person has not been identified. A young woman and a man drowned after their car was washed away at Thodupuzha in Idukki district. Locals who joined the rescue work told reporters that a man identified as Nikhil, a native of Koothattukulam in Ernakulam district, was driving the car. The woman has not been identified. A migrant worker from Jharkhand, Nehardeep Kumar, was reported missing in a canal in Kannammoola in Thiruvananthapuram. Scuba divers have been engaged to search for him. The India Meteorological Department has sounded a red alert for Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts while orange alert has been issued for six other districts. Revenue minister K. Rajan cited the weather forecast to inform that the red alert was likely to be lifted in all the six districts on Sunday. A 33-member team of army personnel from Thiruvananthapuram left for Kanjirapally in Kottayam, one of the worst-affected areas where a large number of people have already been evacuated. A major disaster was averted in Poonjar in Kottayam where a state road transport bus got stranded in floodwaters on its way to Eratupetta. Local people rescued the passengers and the crew. Vasavan said several small landslips had been reported in the rain-affected districts. “The air force is sending two helicopters while the National Disaster Response Force teams will be arriving soon to join the rescue operation currently undertaken by the police and fire service,” the minister said. He said water levels were receding in the worst-hit areas in Kottayam and Idukki although more rains were forecast later in the night. Water resources minister Roshi Augustin urged people to cooperate with the rescue workers and be ready to be evacuated. “There is a possibility of flash floods in several areas where water rises rapidly. This could happen overnight. So people living in the affected areas should cooperate with the emergency services and be ready to be evacuated to safer areas immediately,” Augustin told reporters while supervising the rescue work in Kottayam. Transport minister Anthony Raju told a channel that all bus services in the affected areas had been stopped. “The extra buses are ready to be despatched for emergency services, including evacuation of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||IAF chief V.R. Chaudhari visits forward areas in Ladakh ||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Saturday arrived in Ladakh to visit forward areas and review the operational preparedness of troops, amid the Chinese army’s massive build-up across the Line of Actual Control in the region and its unwillingness to disengage from Indian territory. The IAF chief’s visit comes against the backdrop of the 13th round of military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies on Sunday that failed to achieve any breakthrough. In separate statements, both sides had blamed each other for the failure of the talks. Sources in the defence ministry said the IAF chief would during his stay in Ladakh review the security situation and operational readiness along the China frontier. “He will visit some forward areas and will be briefed by senior IAF officials and commanders on the ground situation at the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese army has been occupying Indian territories since last year,” a defence ministry official said. A day after the military talks, India’s defence ministry had in a statement said the Chinese army was “not agreeable” to withdrawing from India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. The ministry said the Indian side had “made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas”. The Chinese military had hit out at India for making “unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations”. India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple points in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last year. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. So far, the Chinese have disengaged “partially” from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra while remaining well within India-claimed lines, but have refused to leave the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. Earlier this month, Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane had sounded an alert on heavy Chinese troop build-up across the eastern Ladakh border, including in forward areas. Days later, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari had said China had deployed its air force in three Tibetan bases across the LAC from Ladakh but added that the IAF was fully prepared for any eventuality. Sources in the security establishment said the Chinese army appeared “adamant” about not restoring the status quo of April 2020 during the latest round of military talks. A security official said India’s military preparedness along the China frontier was being reviewed regularly. India has carried out mirror deployment at the LAC to match the Chinese, moving in additional troops, artillery and infantry combat vehicles, and is conducting regular aerial surveillance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SIT inquiry is mere eyewash, says journalist's uncle ||The special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre sent Union minister’s son and prime accused Ashis Mishra back to jail custody on Thursday evening although his police remand expired only on Friday morning. “We know we shall never get justice,” said Ashok Kashyap, uncle of journalist Raman Kashyap who was killed with four farmers on October 3 when a Thar jeep, allegedly driven by Ashis, ploughed into a farmers’ protest at Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri. “The SIT inquiry is mere eyewash. The government is buying time so that people forget about the incident,” Ashok added. A local court had given the SIT custody of Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, for three days from 10am Tuesday. The SIT, which had demanded 14 days’ custody, was widely expected to seek an extension of the three-day remand. Instead, it gave up custody of Ashis prematurely. While in SIT custody, Ashis, also known as Monu, persistently denied being in the Thar, police sources said. His judicial (jail) remand expires on October 23. A police source in Lucknow, however, said: “One of Monu’s associates in police custody has already said the minister’s son was driving the Thar. The SIT didn’t need to keep Monu after the reconstruction of the scene on Thursday.” On Saturday, Teni made his first public appearance in Lakhimpur Kheri after the massacre, attending a government programme at the district hospital to celebrate the installation of new medical equipment. Lens on councillor The SIT visited the home of Lakhimpur Kheri BJP councillor Sumit Jaiswal Modi, a suspect, on Saturday — 13 days after the massacre. But Sumit was not at home. For five days after the carnage, Sumit had freely given interviews to news channels and newspapers. He had claimed Ashis was not in the Thar but he himself was in the car, sitting beside the driver. A video had surfaced a day after the incident showing a man in a sky blue kurta and white pyjamas stepping out of the Thar and running away. Sumit later told the media he was the man seen fleeing. “I ran away to save my life as the farmers would have killed me,” he had said. He had claimed the farmers had attacked the jeep, causing it to run over some people accidentally. Two days after the carnage, Sumit had registered an FIR against unidentified farmers for lynching the minister’s driver Hari Om and two BJP workers who were in the convoy. It’s not clear why the SIT had not shown any interest in Sumit till now. The Lucknow source declined to say whether Sumit had gone into hiding. “He was not at home. The SIT will send him a summons soon,” he said. So far, the SIT has arrested Ashis, his associates Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, his friend Ankit Das (owner of a Fortuner that was behind the Thar and allegedly ran over some people), Shekhar Bharati (Ankit’s friend who was allegedly driving the Fortuner) and Mohammad Latif (Ankit’s personal security officer). On Friday, the SIT had taken Ankit to a Lucknow hotel where police say he had put up for a day after allegedly fleeing the massacre spot. He had then allegedly sneaked into Nepal. Police sources said Ankit’s licensed gun and pistol were recovered from the hotel. Ankit had reported at the SIT office in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 13 and was arrested after daylong interrogation. “Ankit was taken to a hotel in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar locality to verify whether he was speaking the truth and find out who were with him. We believe the inquiry is going in the right direction,” the Lucknow officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
17-10-2021||India||Pragya Singh Thakur cries Ravana after kabaddi clip||BJP parliamentarian Pragya Singh Thakur, wheelchair-bound and an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case who obtained bail on medical grounds, has described as “Ravana” the man who shot a video of her playing kabaddi with agility. Pragya said: “I went to offer aarti two days ago when some sportsmen playing on a ground requested me to conduct a (kabaddi) raid. A small clip of this was captured and shown in the media. “If someone fretted and fumed, it was the Ravana among you…. I am telling the person, whose sanskaras have got spoiled, to mend them. If you don’t, your old age and next birth will also get spoiled….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
