18-10-2021||India||Three dead as incessant rains lash Uttarakhand||Three labourers from Nepal died and two were injured with incessant rains lashing Uttarakhand for the second consecutive day on Monday as the authorities advised Chardham pilgrims not to proceed to the Himalayan temples till the weather improves. The labourers were staying in a tent at Samkhal near Lansdowne in Pauri district when rubble flowing down from a field above due to the rains buried them alive, District Magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said. They had been engaged in a hotel construction work in the area. The injured were admitted to the Kotdwar base hospital, he said. Meanwhile, Chardham pilgrims who arrived in Haridwar and Rishikesh by Sunday have been asked not to proceed further till the weather improves, while operation of vehicles for the Himalayan temples has been suspended temporarily. Passenger vehicles are not being allowed to cross the Chandrabhaga bridge, Tapovan, Lakshman Jhoola and Muni-ki-Reti Bhadrakali barriers in Rishikesh. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited the state disaster control room at the secretariat here to take weather updates and know the conditions of roads and highways. He appealed to the pilgrims to defer their journey for two days until the weather normalises. They are staying in safe locations spread across Haridwar, Rishikesh, Shrinagar, Tehri, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Guptkashi, Ukhimath, Karnaprayag, Joshimath and Pandukeshwar. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Dhami on the phone to get an update on precautionary steps being taken by the state government in view of the heavy rain alert and assured him of all possible help. It has been raining in Kedarnath since Sunday night but the Mandakini river is flowing at its normal level. A Devasthanam Board official said regular prayers at the four Himalayan temples are continuing and pilgrims staying there are safe. Pilgrims headed for Yamunotri have been asked to stay in Badkot and Jankichatti, whereas those en route to Gangotri have been asked to stay in Harsil, Bhatwari and Maneri, Uttarkashi District Magistrate Mayur Dikshit told PTI. Kedarnath and Badrinath-bound pilgrims have also been requested not to proceed on their journey till the weather clears. Most of the pilgrims on way to Badrinath are staying in Joshimath and Chamoli, Chamoli district disaster management officer N K Joshi said. Around 4,000 yatris out of a total of 6,000 in Kedarnath on Sunday have returned while the rest are lodged in safe locations. Many of them have been stopped in Linchauli and Bhimbali as a precautionary measure, Rudraprayag disaster management officer N S Singh said. The Chardham Devasthanam Board said the yatra has been temporarily halted for the sake of safety of pilgrims in view of the heavy rain alert issued by the Uttarakhand meteorological department for October 17-19. The peaks beyond Badrinath and Kedarnath received light snowfall, whereas the lower areas in Chamoli district were lashed by continuous showers. Rain continued in Uttarkashi and Dehradun as well. Dhami has asked the district administrations to provide hourly updates on the weather and the condition of roads. He also asked them to keep a minimum response time in case of a disaster. Most educational institutions across Uttarakhand remained closed on Monday, while a ban was imposed on trekking, mountaineering and camping activities in the high altitude areas of the state, including the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve and various forest divisions, till Tuesday as a precautionary measure. The district-level Khel Mahakumbh events to be held at parade and pavilion grounds in Dehradun on October 18-19 have been cancelled. They have now been rescheduled for October 24 and 25. Heavy to very heavy rains, lightning, hail storms and high speed winds (60-70 kmph) have been predicted by the Met department for all 13 districts of Uttarakhand between October 17 and 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||BJP slams Congress for 'vilification' of Vallabhbhai Patel at CWC meeting||The BJP on Monday accused the Congress of committing a "sin" over reports that a leader at the recent CWC meeting made critical remarks about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and asked if the party leadership will take action against him. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited reports that Tariq Hameed Karra, a Kashmiri leader and a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee, had credited Jawaharlal Nehru for Jammu and Kashmir's integration with India and had alleged that Patel wanted to keep the Valley out. Patra asked whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi objected when Karra "vilified" Patel and presented India's first home minister as a "villain" while praising Nehru. "Was Karra reprimanded? Will he be axed from the CWC," Patra asked, accusing the Congress of constantly insulting leaders like Subhas Chandra Bose, Patel and Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar. The Congress, he alleged, is reduced to being a party of a family and works to advance the family's rule. "What sort of mindset is this that one family has done everything and others have done nothing. What the CWC has done is a sin," he said. He noted that Karra also batted for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the Congress chief while lauding the contribution of the Nehru-Gandhi family and criticising Patel. "This is the height of sycophancy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Lawyer shot dead in Shahjahanpur district court||A lawyer died of a gunshot wound to the head at the Shahjahanpur district court here on Monday afternoon and police are trying to ascertain if it is a case of suicide or murder. Superintendent of Police (SP) S Anand said advocate Bhupendra Singh (38) of Jalalabad tehsil had gone to the third-floor office of ACJM-I of the district court to meet a clerk in connection with some case when a gunshot was heard and he was found dead. Quoting the clerk Singh had gone to meet, the SP said an illegal 315 bore pistol was also found lying near the body. Since no one else was present on the spot, it is not immediately known if it was a murder or suicide, SP Anand said, adding that senior officials and investigating teams are on the spot. Advocates in the district, meanwhile, launched an indefinite strike, demanding the killer's immediate arrest. Political parties like the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) attacked the state government over the incident. BSP president Mayawati said it exposed the BJP government's tall claims over law and order in the state. "The murder of a lawyer on the court premises of Shahjahanpur district of UP in broad daylight is very sad and shameful. It exposes the law and order situation under the BJP government and its claims in this regard. The question arises as to who is safe in UP. The government should pay proper attention to this," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Central Bar Association president Anant Kumar Singh told PTI that the advocates have stopped all work and started a 'dharna' at the Khirni Bagh intersection of Shahjahanpur. "District Magistrate Inder Vikram Singh and SP Anand came to the protest site and we expressed our surprise as to how an illegal firearm reached the court premises even though there is police force deployed at each gate of the complex," he said. Until the killers are arrested, all advocates will remain on strike, the bar association president said. Protesting lawyers have also demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore to the family of the deceased, and an investigation of the case by a senior official, he said. The SP said a panel of doctors has been formed to conduct the post-mortem examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Kerala rains: Dalai Lama expresses sadness over loss of lives||The Dalai Lama on Monday expressed sadness over the loss of lives and property due to the heavy rains and landslides in Kerala and offered financial assistance for the relief and rescue work there. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Tibetian spiritual leader said, I offer my condolences to you, to the families who have lost loved ones and to all affected by the devastation. "I understand that the state government and concerned authorities are making every effort to provide help to those in need and that relief efforts are well underway. As a token of my sympathy, I would like to make a donation from the Dalai Lama Trust towards the rescue and relief efforts," he wrote. The death toll in incidents related to heavy rains, including landslides and flash floods, rose to 22 on Sunday. The casualties occurred on Saturday due to landslides and flash floods in the hilly areas of Kottayam and Idukki districts following heavy rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Jacqueline Fernandez skips third ED summons in money laundering case||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez again skipped on Monday her appearance before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in connection with a probe into an over Rs 200 crore money-laundering case against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. She is understood to have cited professional engagements as the reason for her absence. The probe agency may issue her a fresh date. This was the third time that she skipped the ED notice. Fernandez, 36, has appeared before the federal agency once in August and recorded her statement in this case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). It is understood that the agency wants to confront her with the main accused in the case involving Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency wants to understand some trail of funds and transactions allegedly linked to Fernandez in this case, officials said. Actor and dancer Nora Fatehi, 29, recorded her statement with the ED on Thursday in this case. Fatehi's representative had said that she has been the victim in the case and being a witness, she is co-operating and helping the officers in the investigation. Chandrashekhar and Paul were recently placed under arrest by the ED while they were already lodged in jail after being held by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating high-profile individuals, including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxurious cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in jail, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, it said. "He (with a cellphone procured illegally from within the prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers." "While speaking (from the prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||'Rail roko' organised by farmers affect 130 locations in Northern Railway zone||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest on Monday over the Lakhimpur violence affected 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone and hindered the running of 50 trains, said its chief public relation officer (CPRO). In the North Western Railway (NWR), rail traffic was affected in some sections in Rajasthan and Haryana with two trains cancelled, 13 partially cancelled and one diverted due to the protest. The trains that have been affected in the Northern Railway zone include the Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express. Its scheduled departure from Ludhiana was 7 am, but has been stranded there due to a blockade in the Ferozpur-Ludhiana section, the official said. The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station as protesters blocked railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura. "So far, 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone have been affected and operations of 50 trains hindered," the Northern Railway CPRO said. In Rajasthan, the agitation affected train movement in Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar of the Bikaner division. An NWR spokesperson said rail traffic on Bhiwani-Rewari, Sirsa-Rewari, Loharu-Hisar, Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Rohtak-Bhiwani, Rewari-Sadulpur, Hisar-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Sadulpur and Sri Ganganagar-Rewari sections was affected due to the agitation. The Bathinda-Rewari Special train and the Sirsa-Ludhiana Special train will remain cancelled on Monday, he said, adding the route of Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special train has also been changed. The train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday will run on the changed route via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra, he said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. All train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday during the 'rail roko' protest over the demand of the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri case, the SKM had said. Four of the eight people who died in the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||India's Covid vaccination campaign slows down despite record production||India's vaccination campaign has slowed despite amassing record stockpiles of vaccine, health ministry data showed on Monday, as authorities maintain a wider-than-usual gap between doses in a strategy that has boosted coverage. Domestic production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which accounts for nearly 90% of administered doses, has more than tripled since May, when a supply shortage prompted India to double the period between doses to between 12 and 16 weeks. That gap, exceeding the 8 to 12 weeks recommended by the World Health Organization, has allowed India to give at least one vaccine dose to 74% of its 944 million adults, with just 30% getting the full complement of two. The AstraZeneca vaccine, known as Covishield, accounts for 861 million doses of India's total injected figure of 977.6 million, while its other main vaccine, Covaxin has a dose interval of four to six weeks. Over the last few days, daily stocks of all COVID-19 vaccines have exceeded 100 million doses, the health ministry figures show, for states and federally controlled territories taken together. In contrast, daily vaccinations have dropped to an average of 5 million doses this month and even less in the past week, off a daily peak of 25 million last month. The ministry said it followed recommendations from a group of experts in making any changes to dosage, arrived at by weighing up "scientific and empirical" evidence. "NTAGI is actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses," its spokesperson told Reuters, referring to the ministry's National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). However, vaccine supply alone should not determine the gap, said Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician and epidemiologist in the capital, New Delhi. "There is no scientific rationale for reducing the gap," he added. "In fact, retaining this gap has the possibility of giving stronger protection and longer-lasting immunity." Government officials have said they are trying to encourage more of those who are still unvaccinated to get inoculated. A 12-week gap was more logical and scientific for vaccinations drives such as those in India, where some studies have shown many people already had antibodies against COVID-19, Lahariya said. In July, the studies estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had COVID-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. Monday's 13,596 new cases were India's lowest rise in 230 days, taking its tally of infections past 34 million. Deaths rose by 166 to stand at 452,290.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Fire in Surat packaging unit kills two||Two workers died after a massive fire broke out in a five-storey packaging unit in Gujarat's Surat district early Monday morning, officials said. Around 145 others were rescued from the unit located in Kadodara industrial area, and many of them received injuries during the rescue operation, they said. The blaze erupted in the basement of the Viva Packaging unit at around 4.30 am, officials said. Workers who were on the top floor of the unit panicked after the fire broke out and several of them tried to escape through the windows and pipes of the building, Kadodara police station's inspector Hemant Patel said. "A worker died after falling from the building's third floor while trying to climb down a pipe to escape the blaze. The body of another worker was found in the basement of the building. He died of suffocation caused by the smoke. Around 145 people were rescued," he said. All the people rescued from the building were taken to different hospitals for treatment as many of them received injuries during the rescue process, the official said. Eighteen fire tenders and two hydraulic cranes were rushed to the spot to douse the flames and rescue people trapped in the building, Surat Municipal Corporation's in-charge chief fire officer Basant Pareek said. It took around five hours to bring the blaze under control, the official said. "The five-storey building also has a basement from where the fire started and the flames went up to the third floor. The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||WHO to meet next week to consider emergency use listing of India's Covaxin||The WHO's technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the emergency use listing of India's Covaxin which is being used in the country's nationwide anti-COVID-19 vaccination programme, according to the global health agency's chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the World Health Organisation on April 19 for its vaccine. Swaminathan, the WHO's Chief Scientist, said on Twitter on Sunday that the technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for Covaxin. @WHO has been working closely with @BharatBiotech to complete the dossier. Our goal is to have a broad portfolio of vaccines approved for emergency use and to expand access to populations everywhere," she said in the tweet. Earlier this month, the WHO said that Bharat Biotech has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO's request on September 27. The WHO experts are currently reviewing this information and if it addresses all questions raised, the WHO assessment will be finalised next week." The Geneva-based WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions for pre-qualification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on the data meeting the WHO's criteria, according to the agency. The indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) and is being used in the nationwide anti-COVID-19 inoculation programme along with Covishield and Sputnik V. Bharat Biotech recently said it has submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for the EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled and available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech had tweeted last month. "We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest, the company had said on Tuesday. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of COVID-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. According to Johns Hopkins University, the coronavirus has claimed 4,897,386 lives along with 240,559,605 confirmed cases across the world so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Water levels rising in Kerala dams, CM chairing meet ||With water levels rising in various dams due to heavy rains in catchment areas and eastern hilly regions of the state, the Kerala government on Monday issued alerts to the public that shutters of certain dams will be raised, resulting in increase in water levels of rivers in south and central Kerala. With water level in the Idukki reservoir, one of the highest arch dams in Asia, having risen to 2,396.96 feet Monday, an Orange alert has been sounded. The full reservoir level of Idukki dam is 2,403 feet. As the water level at various dams including Sholayar, Pamba, Kakki and Idamalayar are rising, the state government has called a meeting which will be chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take stock of the situation. An Orange alert has been issued for the Pamba dam and the Kakki dam will be opened before afternoon on Monday, state health minister Veena George, who is in charge of Pathanamthitta district, has said. The low-lying areas of Cherickal, Poozhikadu, Mudiyoorkonam and Kurambala regions near Pandalam, along the banks of Achankovil river, have been flooded. As the water level in the Achankovil has been rising, alert has been sounded along the banks near regions of Aranmula, Kidangannur and Omalloor. People have been shifted to various relief camps opened in Pathanamthitta district. The state government has appointed ADGP Vijay Sakhare as the nodal officer to coordinate the rescue and relief operations. Thrissur District Collector Haritha V Kumar has asked the public residing along the banks of Chalakudi river to remain vigilant as water level may rise as Sholayar dam may open soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Farmers block train traffic in Punjab as part of 'rail roko' stir over Lakhimpur incident||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana squatted on rail tracks on Monday morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest demanding the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The stir disrupted the movement of trains in both the states, causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for long hours with their baggage. Protests were held at many places, including Punjab's Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Moga, Patiala and Ferozepur and Haryana's Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal and Hisar. Protesting farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led government and demanded the arrest of Ajay Mishra. Security was deployed at railway stations in the wake of the 'rail roko' protest. Farmers sat on rail tracks in several sections including the Ferozepur-Fazilka section in Ferozepur city and the Ferozepur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal in Moga, officials said. In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. During the 'rail roko' protest, all train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday, the SKM had said. "To press for its demand for MoS Home Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko programme. "SKM put out a call to its constituents to stop rail traffic for six hours on October 18 between 10 am and 4 pm. The SKM asks for this action to be taken up peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property," it had said. At Ludhiana railway station -- one of the busiest in Punjab -- a person headed for Jodhpur rued that he came to know about the protest after reaching the station. He appealed to farmer leaders to lay siege to the residences of politicians rather than harassing the common man. "They should think about the public." A man waiting for his train at Ludhiana station with his family said they have to rush for Gonda in Uttar Pradesh as one of their relatives has died. At Patiala railway station, Dinesh Joshi searched frantically for milk and hot water for his child as the train he was travelling in had stopped due to farmers' protest. A group of protests put up a banner with 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' written on it in front of a train forced to stop at Moga. They also carried photos of four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur violence. Demanding the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher on Monday said the KMSC will hold protests at 20 places in 11 districts of Punjab. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases lowest in 221 days||India added 13,596 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,81,315, while the active cases declined to 1,89,694, the lowest in 221 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,290 with 166 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 24 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 113 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.56 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.12 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,152 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 9,89,493 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,19,24,874. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 49 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.37 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 115 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,39,331, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97.79 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 166 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 29 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,789 from Maharashtra, 37,941 from Karnataka, 35,899 from Tamil Nadu, 26,865 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,977 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Two Bihari labourers killed in suspected militant attack||A suspected militant attack killed two Bihari labourers and injured a third victim in Kulgam on Sunday evening, escalating what has emerged as the biggest challenge to the security establishment here since the 2019 revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The killings, coming a day after a Bihari golgappa vendor and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were killed in two attacks in the Valley, have terrorised the thousands of non-local people in Kashmir, forcing most of them off the streets. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1 in the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One of the 12 civilians killed was a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Makhan Lal Bindroo. Dozens of Pandits have fled the Valley following these killings, prompting many to compare the situation with 1990 when thousands of Pandits had migrated following the outbreak of militancy. Thousands of security force personnel are guarding the streets but the attacks are showing no sign of abating. Officials said militants fired indiscriminately on migrant labourers in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam, killing two Biharis and injuring a third labourer. Police and security forces have cordoned the area off to hunt for the assailants. Mohammed Zulfiqar, an outstation labourer, said the workers were sitting in their rented rooms in a tenement when they were shot at by gunmen. Zulfiqar told reporters as he accompanied an injured labourer to hospital: “We were sitting inside rooms. They came and shot at three people.” Police sources identified the two dead labourers as Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev, both from Bihar. On Saturday evening, militants had killed Arvind Kumar Sah, a golgappa seller from Bihar, and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, in back-to-back attacks in Srinagar and Pulwama. Of the 12 civilians killed in October, 11 are believed to have been slain by militants and one by the security forces. Nine soldiers and 13 militants have been killed during the month. These nine soldiers, among them two junior commissioned officers, died during a prolonged gunfight with militants in Jammu’s Pir Panjal region that entered its seventh day on Sunday. Former chief minister and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah on Sunday claimed that Kashmiris were not involved in the recent killings of civilians. He alleged these attacks reflected a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris and disrupt the “peaceful atmosphere” in the Union Territory. “These killings are unfortunate and were done under a conspiracy. Kashmiris are not involved in these killings. It is an attempt to defame Kashmiris,” Farooq told reporters. The attacks on non-Kashmiris began soon after Delhi scrapped the state’s special status, but they have risen sharply this month. Many in Kashmir believe that Article 370 was diluted to change the region’s Muslim-majority character, and the attacks appear to be a desperate militant effort to force non-Kashmiris out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Panel proposes replacing Non-NET fellowship with NET-II fellowship||A government-appointed panel has recommended replacing the Non-NET (National Eligibility Test) fellowship offered to research students at central universities with an NET-linked fellowship, dismaying academics who say this would hurt students from disadvantaged groups. Currently, PhD and MPhil students at central universities are eligible for the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF), Non-NET fellowship and a few other minor scholarships. Some 8,000 are given the JRF (Rs 31,000 a month for two years and Rs 35,000 a month for the next three years) on the basis of their NET ranks. The rest are eligible for the Non-NET fellowship, given to about 30,000 research scholars (Rs 8,000 a month for PhD students and Rs 5,000 a month for the soon-to-be-history MPhil students). Now a panel has suggested replacing the Non-NET fellowship with a “NET-II fellowship”, thus tying all research scholarships at the central universities with securing pass marks in the NET, sources in the education ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC) confirmed independently. Academics said that if the recommendation is accepted, it will hurt poor and rural students who cannot afford or access coaching, which increases one’s chances of cracking the multiple-choice-based NET. In contrast, research scholars take subjective-type entrance tests to gain admission to central universities, thus qualifying automatically for the Non-NET fellowship. The entrance tests are conducted individually by some of the universities and as a group by the rest. The UGC had first decided to scrap the Non-NET fellowship in October 2015, citing a lack of funds. However, faced with student protests, the education (then HRD) ministry put the decision on hold and set up an expert committee under a professor, Gautam Barua, to suggest better selection guidelines. The committee was also asked to suggest whether such scholarships could be extended to state universities. However, a ministry official said the government was keen on reducing the expenditure on scholarships and therefore unofficially asked the Barua panel — which had been set a deadline of three months — to take its time. The panel took more than five years and handed in its report in June this year. It recommended the NET-II fellowship stipend be half that of the JRF, and that it be denied to MPhil students since the programme is on its way to abolition. The UGC considered the report on July 1 but did not take any decision. “The commission deferred this item with the remark that financial implication as well as the number of slots for NET-II fellowships be worked out and placed before the commission,” the minutes of the July 1 meeting say. Officials said the Barua recommendations allowed the government and the UGC the scope to work out a strict NET score cut-off for the NET-II and restrict the number of fellowships. However, they added, the government was unhappy about the proposed enhancement of the stipend. Former UGC chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat, on whose watch the Non-NET fellowship was started in 2008, said the fellowship should continue without being linked to the NET. He said that “all those getting into PhD courses” should continue to get a fellowship — a trend threatened by the Barua proposal. Besides, he said, the entrance test that research scholars at central universities crack is “more rigorous” than the NET, so the Non-NET does not necessarily mark a concession for poor-quality students. N. Sai Balaji, a research scholar at JNU, said students from disadvantaged groups “bring with them their diverse experiences that help them come up with innovative research ideas, but now that opportunity will end”. Former UGC secretary R.K. Chauhan said: “It seems the government doesn’t want to spend on research. By linking fellowships to the NET, the number may be reduced. The UGC will be free to decide the pass criterion, which will have a bearing on the number that gets the (NET-II) fellowship.” A professor at the Jamia Millia Islamia said that higher education in general seemed not to be a priority with the Centre. “When the government is charging all kinds of taxes and cess, the expectation is that it should spend on spheres of the public good like education and health. But higher education and research are gradually getting out of reach for ordinary students,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||King cobra set to be sorted into four distinct species||The king cobra, regarded for nearly two centuries as a single species found across South and Southeast Asia, is set to be sorted into four distinct species native to specific geographical regions. Indian scientists and their collaborators have identified four independently evolving, geographically separated king cobra species they have named the Western Ghats lineage, the Indo-Chinese lineage, the Indo-Malayan lineage and the Luzon Island lineage, found in the Philippines. Their research provides the first evidence of multiple, unrecognised species of the Ophiophagus hannah, the zoological name of the king cobra. The snake was first described in 1836 by the Danish zoologist Theodore Cantor who examined three specimens caught in the Sunderbans and one caught in a jungle near Calcutta. Cantor had described the snake as a “hooded serpent with fangs and maxillar teeth” that was known locally as “sunkr choar” (shonkhochur) and frightened native snake-catchers more than the cobra. “The existence of multiple species of the king cobra is surprising because they look similar, share similar habitats, display similar behaviour,” said Kartik Shanker, an evolutionary biologist at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and a team member. The team led by Shankar included Priyanka Swamy, S.R. Ganesh, Gunanidhi Sahoo, S.P. Vijaykumar, Shanker and Sushil Dutta from academic institutions across India and collaborators in Sweden, Malaysia and the UK. In their study, the researchers from India and their foreign collaborators analysed key genetic markers that indicated proximity or distance among 62 king cobra specimens collected from across the snake’s geographical range. They used for their genetic analyses scales from wild or captive specimens; shed skin from private breeders; liver, muscle tissue, rib bones and scales from preserved specimens at a natural history museum in France; and freshly dead specimens — road kills or snakes killed by people. Their study, published in the journal Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution, has suggested four candidate species: CS1 in the Western Ghats; CS2 (Indo-Chinese lineage) north of the Isthmus of Kra, the Eastern Ghats, the Eastern Himalayas, southern China, Vietnam, Thailand and the Andaman Islands; CS3 in the Indo-Malayan region south of the Isthmus of Kra, peninsular Malaysia, Borneo, Bali, Sumatra, Java and Mindoro; and CS4 in the Philippines’ Luzon Islands. “The overlap of genetic diversity with separate geographic regions suggests the species have been evolving separately without any gene flow between them,” said P. Gowri Shankar, the study’s lead researcher. “The findings have implications for the conservation of these species.” An abundance of earlier evidence from the plant and animal kingdoms across the world had established that geographic separation can drive speciation or the emergence of distinct species. The Western Ghats lineage, or CS1, is spatially separated from its geographically and genetically closest relative, the Indo-Chinese lineage, or CS2, by the arid regions of peninsular India. The researchers believe the king cobra dispersed across the Southeast Asian islands during glacial periods when natural land bridges connected the islands. Similar studies over the past two decades by independent research groups had identified the West African forest elephant, a kiwi species in New Zealand, the Sunda clouded leopard in Indonesia, an Orangutan in Sumatra and the Indus river dolphin as new species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Bullets end fifteen years of trust||Golgappa seller Arvind Kumar Sah, 30, who was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar on Saturday evening, had been running his trade in the Valley for 15 years and never thought he was in danger, his father said on Sunday. “Arvind used to praise the nature of the Kashmiri people. I think terrorists sent by Pakistan killed him,” his father Devendra Sah, a man in his 60s, said from the family’s home at Parghari village in Bihar’s Banka district. “I can’t help thinking that had we not been so poor, he would not have needed to go to Srinagar and get killed.” The wish to provide his family with a better life had taken a teenaged Arvind to Kashmir, where he ran his business from a thela — a four-wheel wooden pushcart. His family said he had never faced any problems before. But they now regret allowing him to return to Srinagar around three months ago. People gathered outside the Sah home on Sunday to express sympathy and support as wails broke out inside from time to time. Arvind’s eldest brother, a mason, had died earlier this year. With the latest death, the family has lost its two main breadwinners. Arvind had come home to participate in his brother’s last rites. He returned to Srinagar after the second wave of the pandemic subsided. “I never wanted him to go so far away to work. I would hear people talk about terrorists and would ask him not to go,” a weeping Sunaina Devi, Arvind’s mother, said. “But he would say it was necessary for the family’s betterment. He had started working for our sake at the age of 15.” Devendra was a day labourer and still does odd jobs in the village, earning paltry sums. Arvind’s three surviving brothers too are day labourers, but work has dried up because of Covid. The family has 13 mouths to feed. “He (Arvind) was fourth among my five sons. He used to send us money which helped us survive,” Devendra said. “What will we do now?” Chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh. BJP Rajya Sabha member and former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said he had spoken about the killing to Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. Sushil said the Union Territory administration would provide Rs 11 lakh to Arvind’s family. “Sinha has assured me that arrangements are being made to send Arvind’s body back,” he added. The family said it was in the dark about this. Arvind’s elder brother Mantu Sah, who had left for Srinagar to bring the body back, said he had no idea whether Kashmir officials were arranging for sending the body home. “Nobody from the government has contacted us to say when or whether they would send the body back. I have reached Delhi and will head to Srinagar,” Mantu told The Telegraph over the phone. “We are grieving. The least the government can do is smoothen the process (for the body’s return to Bihar). It failed to save my brother; it should at least make arrangements so he is cremated with dignity at our village.” Arvind is the second golgappa seller from Bihar killed in Srinagar. Earlier this month, Virendra Paswan of Bhagalpur was shot dead in a militant attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Death toll in rain-battered Kerala rise to 23 ||The death toll in rain-battered Kerala rose to 23 as rescue workers retrieved the bodies of more victims of landslides on Sunday in Kottayam and Idukki, two of the worst-affected districts where about half a dozen people are still missing. While four people, including a child, were confirmed dead at Kuttikkal in Kottayam district on Saturday, rescue workers unearthed more bodies on Sunday when it was confirmed that six members of a family were among those dead in a massive landslide that washed away several houses in the area. The members of the family were identified as Claramma Joseph, 65, her son Martin, 48, his wife, Sini, 37, and their daughters Sona, 11, Sneha, 13, and Sandra, 9. The bodies of Claramma, Sini and Sona were dug out on Saturday before heavy rain and darkness hindered the operation. At least four more people who lived in three houses next to Martin’s are yet to be accounted for. Four bodies were recovered on Sunday from Plapilly, adjacent to Kuttikkal, which witnessed a massive landslide on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sony, 45, her son Alan, 8, Sarasamma, 58, and Roshni, 50. Six bodies were retrieved at Kokkayar in Idukki where a landslide washed away several houses. They have been identified as Fauzia, 28, her children Amin, 7, Amna, 6, children from their neighbouring family identified as Afzan, 8, and Ahiyan, 4, and a man named Shaji, 55. The body of a person identified as Joy, 44, was found floating in a nearby river earlier in the day. Local people had rescued 17 from the spot soon after a  landslide on Saturday. A man named Nikhil and his colleague Nima had drowned at Thodupuzha in Idukki on Saturday as their car was washed away after they accidentally drove off a bridge into a swollen river. In a big relief to the rescue work, the rain has abated and no district is under red alert. Six districts — Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta — were put on red alert on Saturday as heavy rain triggered flash floods and landslides along the Western Ghats. The India Meteorological Department placed Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Malappuram on yellow alert for Sunday as more rain are forecast in these districts. The weather update on Sunday evening predicted more rain from Wednesday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan cautioned people against venturing out unnecessarily as strong winds, thunder and lightning were predicted. He said in a statement that over 2,000 residents of the worst-hit areas had been moved to 105 shelters that started functioning on Sunday. They have been instructed to follow Covid protocols as the state was still grappling with the second wave. The chief minister said National Disaster Response Force teams had been deployed in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Instructions have been issued to deploy five more teams in the affected areas. Two teams of the Indian Army, two from the Defence Security Corps, the state fire service, police and other volunteers have also been engaged in rescue and relief missions. However, rescue work remained arduous as roads to many affected areas were damaged while swollen rivers endangered small bridges and culverts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Odisha excluded from Centre’s 'Buddhist circuit' to boost tourism||Odisha, which is rich in Buddhist culture and history, has been excluded from the Centre’s “Buddhist circuit” to boost tourism, prompting a minister in the Narendra Modi government to call the move “unfortunate” and seek redress. Odisha is the site of the Kalinga war, which was fought on the banks of the Daya river on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar and which transformed King Ashoka into an apostle of peace and a preacher of Buddhism who spread the religion across ancient Asia. The Buddhist circuit under the “Swadesh Darshan” scheme plans to showcase India as the land of the Buddha and attract followers from all over the world to India in a bid to boost tourism. Union minister of education, skill development and entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, has written to culture minister G. Kishan Reddy, explaining the importance of the state in Buddhist history and culture. Pradhan’s letter says: “It is learnt that under the Swadesh Darshan scheme, the tourism ministry sanctioned five projects of Rs 325.53 crore for Buddhist circuit development in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. It is unfortunate that Odisha, even with extremely rich Buddhist traditions and shrines, has not been included in the ‘Buddhist Circuit’, nor any projects under the Scheme has been allocated to Buddhist Shrines in Odisha.” Pradhan pointed to how during the 8th to 10th century AD under the rule of the Bhaumakara dynasty, Buddhism was considered as the state religion of Odisha. “In fact, it’s believed that the first disciples of Lord Buddha were Tapasu and Bhallika who hailed from the modern-day city of Jajpur (in Odisha). Though Buddhism entered Odisha long before the Kalinga war, it took wings in the region under the patronage of Emperor Ashoka.” The minister also referred to Odisha’s most famous poet Jayadeva describing Lord Buddha as one of the incarnations of Lord Vishnu. Pradhan mentioned that the writings of Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang had references to Odisha’s Buddhist past. “The influence of Buddhism can be found in the socio-cultural life of the people of Odisha and the rich depository of history is reflected in the Buddhist monuments of the state. Various Buddhist sites and shrines in Odisha such as Dhauligiri, Lalitgiri, Udayagiri, Ratnagiri and Jirang drew huge number of international tourists, especially from East and South-East Asia. and national tourists from the Northeast, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh etc,” Pradhan wrote. He said tourist facilities at Odisha’s Buddhist sites lacked good connectivity, accommodation and utilities. “Keeping in mind the massive potential for increasing development of tourism at these holy Buddhist places, and increasing tourist footfalls to the state, thereby increasing livelihood of the Odia people, I seek your personal intervention for inclusion of Odisha in the proposed Buddhist circuit under the Swadesh Darshan scheme,” Pradhan wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Ram skit at AIIMS triggers anger on social media, students apologize||A skit performed by undergraduate students at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, that claimed to give a modern and comic spin to Ramleela has triggered anger on social media, prompting the students to apologise. The AIIMS Student Association issued an apology on Sunday after video clips of the skit performed in the hostel quadrangle on the occasion of Dusshera drew widespread social media condemnation for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. “On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which was not meant to hurt anyone’s sentiments,” the association tweeted. “We will ensure that no such activity takes place in the future.” A postgraduate doctor and senior resident at AIIMS said the skit was only an amateur effort by undergraduate students to have some fun on the occasion of Dusshera through what they believed was comedy. “It was enacted within the hostel premises and was never intended for public dissemination,” the senior resident said. “But someone posted it on social media and what happened thereafter reflects the times we are living in.” Many attacked the students via social media. One person tweeted that the AIIMS students had made fun of the Ramayan in a “brutal way”. Another tweeted: “Getting ranks and joining (a) reputed institute is just evidence you are studious and not evidence for your culture, upbringing…”Taking note of the matter, the AIIMS administration held a discussion with the students, an official said. “The students realised the sensitivity of the issue and apologised through a tweet. They have assured that such an incident won’t recur,” the official said. He said the skit was not part of any official activity or event of AIIMS and the students had organised it on their own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Odisha vigilance carries out raids at fifteen places||The Odisha vigilance on Sunday carried out raids at 15 places in connection with its probe into disproportionate assets case against Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy. The agency has so far found disproportionate assets worth Rs 5.05 crore belonging to the MLA who was expelled by the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) following allegations of corruption against him and anti-people activities. Panigrahy was once the blue-eyed boy of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and also played an important role in the politics of Ganjam, the home district of Naveen. He also took care of Naveen’s constituency — Hinjili. However, he fell out of favour following his subtle criticism of secretary to the chief minister V.K. Pandian and the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation and constant criticism of the state bureaucracy. In December 2020, he was arrested by the state crime branch on the charges of impersonation, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy for collecting money from people on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak (son of a former Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak) on the false promise of providing them jobs in the Tata Company. Tata has a project (industrial park) in his area in Gopalpur. Panigrahy was sent to jail and is now out on bail. “On the allegation of possession of disproportionate assets by Panigrahy, a secret verification was conducted by the Odisha Vigilance. On completion of the secret verification, as material was found regarding possession of disproportionate assets by Panigrahy, a complaint was filed before the Hon’ble Lokayukta, Odisha, Bhubaneswar on 9.12.2020. Finding material in the said complaint that Panigrahy had amassed assets disproportionate to known sources of income by resorting to corrupt practices, the Lokayukta, Odisha, Bhubaneswar vide order dated 11.12.2020 directed the Odisha Vigilance to conduct an inquiry against Panigrahy,” the Odisha vigilance said in a press release. The release said that inquiry has revealed that Panigrahy had “intentionally enriched himself illicitly during his incumbency as a public servant from 24.05.2009 to 30.11.2020 and was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 5,05,04,656. The project report was submitted to Lokayukta, Odisha on May 28, 2021.” The Lokayukta, after examining the report and reply filed by Panigrahy, found that there existed a prima facie case against Panigrahy for an offence under different section of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and directed the vigilance to carry out further investigation into the matter, officials said. “Accordingly, the vigilance has registered a case on October 4, 2021, for detailed investigation. The Lokayukta has authorised the vigilance to conduct searches in the case,” the vigilance release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
