19-10-2021||India||Anti-terror operation enters day nine in Poonch-Rajouri forest||As the counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the ninth day on Tuesday, public announcements were made in Mendhar asking local residents to stay indoors for their safety, officials said. The people were alerted through the public address system in local mosques in Bhatta Durrian and adjoining areas as the security forces were preparing a final assault against the terrorists believed to be hiding in the forest area of Mendhar in Poonch district, the officials said. They said the people were asked not to venture into the forest area and also keep their livestock at their homes in view of the ongoing operation. Those who have gone outside were asked to return to their homes along with their animals, the officials said. While a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and four other security personnel laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during the start of the counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest of Poonch on October 11, four other soldiers including another JCO lost their lives in another encounter in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar on Thursday evening after the security forces extended the cordon and search operation. An encounter was on in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district on October 11 when the security forces confronted the fleeing militants who, however, managed to escape. The entire forest belt is still under tight security cordon to neutralise the terrorists, the officials said, adding the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, making the operation difficult and dangerous. Eight suspected persons including a mother-son duo were detained for questioning from Bhatta Durrian in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists. However, it is to be seen whether the support was given voluntarily or under duress, the officials said. Earlier on Saturday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said the presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri has observed two and a half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down. The joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time, depending on the topography of the area. The contact with the terrorists was established on three occasions during the start of the operation, based on the intelligence inputs, the officer had said, adding the terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion. The army has already deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area on Saturday for surveillance. The traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the fifth day on Tuesday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Keep your Family Protected for the Future with Life Insurance Policy||In the event of the demise of a family member, the last thing on your mind is money. However, a solid life insurance policy is an undeniable financial tool that can help his or her loved ones get some monetary aid to move on with their lives free of undue financial burden. Buying a life insurance policy is a smart choice but also an emotional one as one is preparing to protect their loved ones after their death while they are alive. There are many types of life insurance policies that provide a large number of benefits that act as money cover and both an investment and insurance. Have an in-depth look at how you can buy one along with features to be able to make an affirmed decision on which is the best for you and your loved ones. What is a Life Insurance Policy? A life insurance policy is a financial tool that gives you a combination of savings and advantages under the same plan. A practically mandatory purchase, a life insurance policy helps provide financial help to the beneficiaries of that policy, a fool-proof plan to ensure the well-being of family members one has left behind. While it does require a payment to be made, you can get one that allows you to invest in market-linked funds and other investment opportunities. Often, in case the policyholder outlives the time of his policy's date, the final amount that he/she gets back is much higher than what was paid, acting as a good kitty for your golden years. Features of a Life Insurance Policy Mentioned below are key features of a life insurance policy in India Benefits of a Life Insurance Policy Have a look at a few main advantages that a life insurance policy will give you. How Does a Life Insurance Policy Protect Family Members While we have covered a generic idea of how a life insurance policy helps protect the financial interests of family members, the below-stated points of how it does so will help give a clearer idea. 1. Offering Financial Stability In case the policyholder is also the breadwinner of the family, his death can cause more emotional turmoil than a normal person. Family members are distraught at the loss of a loved one and are barely able to come to terms with this loss, and additional financial burden can cause further chaos. When the deceased person has a solid life insurance policy, he/she can ensure that his/her family will get paid the promised amount by the company so that they will be able to live a comfortable life – one they are accustomed to. 2. Monetary Aid for Crucial Costs One of the most prolific advantages of a life insurance policy is that it provides life coverage and offers great returns at crucial stages of life, if any. Certain plans offer a lump sum payment at the time of retirement, so you can use it when you need it the most. Others offer large payments for times of need, such as your children's educational expenses and so on. 3. Help During Difficult Times Many life insurance policies are designed to provide monetary aid during difficult times that generate undue expenses such as hospitalization due to an illness, accident, medical expenses, legal charges in case of some legal issues, funeral charges in case of death, etc. Such times are tough on family members as liquidity of funds is not easy. A life insurance policy that helps cover such expenses is a boon in disguise. 4. Loan Cover Benefits Taking loans is a common occurrence among people. There are home loans, business loans, personal loans, and so on. In case a loan borrower dies unexpectedly, the burden of repaying the loan falls on to his or her dependents. This can add to a lot of undue pressure on them. In case the borrower has a foolproof life insurance policy against his/her name, the insurer ends up paying the sum assured to his/her beneficiaries. The amount can be used to repay the borrowed loan. Anyone taking loans should keep this in mind before he/she does so. 5. Leaving an Inheritance When you name a beneficiary to your life insurance policy as an heir, that person shall receive the sum assured on the policyholder's death. In case the beneficiary does not need the money, he/she can donate it to charity. This can be done by naming the charity after you, which typically means that you will be the owner of that charity and have access to its funds along with its cash value while you are alive. You will also be eligible for charity tax deductions. In case of death, this tax exemption will not be applicable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||aLL Plus Size Store Launches Their Fabulously Festive “Limited Edition” Collection||The festive season is the best time to bring out the fashion fever in you. In a time marred by pandemic, the festive spirit helps celebrate good times with friends and family, and this needs a new wardrobe. To ensure style and fashion is curated to everyone this festive season aLL THE PLUS SIZE STORE presents the fabulous, majestic and exquisite festive collection. The stunning new festive collection for plus size men and women have a wide range for all occasions. Ladies flaunt your curves in gorgeous Zari embroidered kurtas or Royal foil print flowy dresses and much more. And for men we have colourful kurtas, jackets, shirts and more in a mix of bright & warm hues that sets the tone for the festivities. Be it a festive lunch or a family dinner – aLL HAS IT All. The campaign has two body-positive influencers revelling in the festive glory. Being a limited edition collection, customers can immediately shop the look worn looks by shopping from aLLonlinestore.in or buy from any of the 81 aLL stores Pan India. Talking about aLL’s Fabulously Festive collection: Pawan Sarda, Group CMO- Digital, Marketing & E-commerce, Future Group said “Festive period for all of us is the time to celebrate fashion and flaunt it in style so why should the plus size not join the party. Our continuous endeavour is to romanticize the plus size fashion with unapologetic swag and be fashion first not limited to any body type. We believe all body types are beautiful and it’s time for everyone to get their fashion game on and be fabulously festive” Rajeev Singh business head, aLL: The Plus Size Store said “aLL has always believed that fashion is for everyone & beauty can never be limited to a body type. And festive period is the best time to bring your best fashion game and celebrate the true you. This season we’ve curated a festive collection that’s majestic & regal with a fun and quirk quotient ensuring our customers step out in style, all the time. To men and women in the country of all sizes, celebrate yourself every day because you are worth it. If you have got it, flaunt it and be fabulously festive. About aLL The Plus Size Store Fashion is beyond boundaries and agnostic of gender and size. With this philosophy, aLL – the plus size store was conceptualized in 2005. aLL is a dedicated plus size fashion store which gives an opportunity to every plus size individual to flaunt themselves with confidence, without any inhibitions. aLL is a one stop destination for Plus size fashion in India as it endeavors to offer the latest trends with new cuts, styles and silhouettes so that our customers always feel fashion forward. To ensure that we always serve fresh fashion, we launch a wide range of stylish collection - from classic styles to unconventional designs in casual wear, western & ethnic wear, evening & party wear, winter wear and many more! It is the largest Plus Size fashion retail brand in the country with a PAN India network of 81 Exclusive Brand Stores & serving 17,000+ pin codes through the online store - www.allonlinestore.in & mobile app. Our customers can shop from us anywhere, anytime, for any occasion! Website - https://www.allonlinestore.in/ Instagram - @allplussize Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/alltheplussizestore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Avani Soni opens up about her take on Social Media and Digital Auditions||Casting director Avani Soni is stepped into the entertainment industry at the mild age of 20. She has worked with three hundred plus artists since then and has done the casting for several successful Dhollywood films in her career spanning more than a decade. Some of her notable works include Luv Ni Luv Storys, Chhuti Jashe Chakka, Tamburo, and many more. She is known for introducing new talents in the industry. Avani Soni mentions that she always looks out for raw talents and never misses an opportunity to find out the "true artist". Avani recently took it to Instagram to post about the current scenario of entertainment industry. In an exclusive interview, she highlighted the points mentioned in the post about how Covid has fostered the greater use of social media and has helped attain universality. She said "Social Media has always been one of the most powerful weapons in today's age. However, Covid has made the entertainment industry use it in a more impactful manner. The increasing social media auditions over various digital platforms after physical auditions became obsolete is the first example. Actors can now audition anywhere anytime and reach the directors. They can audition for national or even international events just in the comfort of their homes. Even social media has helped to discover so many hidden talents. The followers never matter to the casting agencies but the content does. There is no substitute to Hardwork, Dedication and Perseverance." Elaborating her post, she urged the artists to connect online and never miss an opportunity to showcase their talent. "We live in a digital era, thus why not grab all the opportunities available in the digital platform? Keep in touch with Casting Agencies and keep giving auditions from home. All the best to everyone. " she concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Trak Only wishes to bring revolution in every field of sports||Trak-Only is a Kolkata-based company, co-founded by Mr. Arobinda Biswas and Mr. Debabrata Sarkar in 2008. They gradually gained popularity amongst the players from Kolkata Premier League and expanded their services to many other states and cities. Tollygunge Aggrami, F.C.I., Rainbow Sporting Club, United Sports, Southern Samity, Metro Railway, South Eastern Railway, Ordanance Factory, Peerless, Bhawanipore Football Club and the list went on. They are the offical kit sponsor of Mohammedan Sporting Club and Aryan Club. In 2017-2018, Trak Only had influenced their presence in 2 states, 12 districts, 26 outlets with only 85 staff members and now the account has come to 6 states, 30 districts, 70 outlets and 210 staff members. They are consistantly upgrading themselves while keeping booming economy and changing lifestyle in mind. They believe in enhancing true spirit of sports in every field. Recently Trak-Only have got associated with the Tamil Thalaivas, a Tamil Nadu-based top team in Pro Kabbadi League. It is indeed a new feather to the crown. "We're very excited and elated being on board with the Tamil Thalaivas, a Tamil Nadu-based top team in Pro Kabbadi League. With each passing moment, we are taking a step forward to our dreams and aspirations. These milestones assure us that we are in the correct direction and also motivate us to work harder. We wish the team all the very best for the upcoming events and we're hoping for an enthusiastic season!" said Arobinda Biswas and Debabrata Sarkar, Co-owners of Trak-Only. As a new entrant to the Pro Kabaddi League, this Kolkata-based company is committed in providing quality and comfortable sportswear for the team this year. Nikhil Bhardwaj, Director, Tamil Thalaivas and Kerala Blasters FC also said that they recognize a great cultural fit with their new partner and their fans are excited with the jersey and merchandise plans for the season. During this pre Puja celebration phase, Trak Only has emerged as the kitting partner of IFA. They will be providing sports kits to the Bengal team for next two years. They will leave no stone unturned to meet the need of the Bengal players as football is an emotion here running through the veins of sportslovers. Joydeep Mukherjee, the general secretary of IFA said ,"Bengal team will get everything when they will be on the field. They will be shinning like warriors in their armours." Mr. Arobinda Biswas, the co owner conveyed his heart-felt gratitude to  Joydeep Mukherjee for giving them the opportunity to provides kits to men's and women's team of Bengal. "We are elated to get this opportunity and we are looking forward to provide kits of international level." Trak Only has not fulfilled their dream but has also kept up to their social responsibility. After the Amphan, they stood by several families of footballers to recover their homes. They stood by cancer patients by helping them with financial aid. Trak Only stood by the players whose houses had faced the wrath of Amphan and supported them during their hard times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||FabIndia withdraws Jashn-e-Riwaaz promo after right-wing backlash||Clothing brand FabIndia has removed a promotional capsule about its new festive line after a backlash from right-wing groups. While the brand was accused of "defacing" the Hindu festival of Diwali by naming its festive collection as Jashn-e-Riwaaz (celebration of tradition), the company insisted that it is not a Diwali collection, which will be soon launched under 'Jhilmil si Diwali' promo. FabIndia was trolled on social media for what some said was unnecessarily uplifting secularism and Muslim ideologies in a Hindu festival, saying it hurt their religious sentiments. After it put on Twitter the Jashn-e-Riwaaz collection on October 9, some social media users called for a boycott of the brand, making their campaign one of the top trends. "We at FabIndia have always stood for the celebration of India with its myriad traditions in all hues," a company spokesperson said. "Our current capsule of products under the name Jashn-e-Riwaaz is a celebration of Indian traditions. The phrase means that, literally. The capsule is not our Diwali Collection of products. Our Diwali collection is called 'Jhilmil si Diwali' is yet to be launched." Jashn-e-Riwaaz is a phrase in Urdu, a language that was born in India. The tweet, which went viral on Monday, said: "As we welcome the festival of love and light, Jashn-e-Riwaaz by Fabindia is a collection that beautifully pays homage to Indian culture". This was deleted after the backlash. BJP Yuva Morcha President Tejasvi Surya was among those who slammed the ad in a post on Twitter. "Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @fabindiaNews must face economic cost for such deliberate misadventures," he said on Monday afternoon. Noted Author Shefali Vaidy also slammed FabIndia for 'de-Hinduising' festivals. "Wow @FabindiaNews great job at de-Hinduising Deepawali! Call it a 'festival of love and light', title the collection 'Jashn-e-Riwaaz', take Bindis off foreheads of models but expect Hindus to buy your overpriced, mass-produced products in the name of 'homage to Indian culture'!" she tweeted. Soon hashtag #BoycottFabindia began trending. FabIndia did not say why it removed the tweet. The ethnic retail behemoth is not the first brand to face right-wing attacks and buckle under pressure. Tata Group's jewellery brand Tanishq was forced to withdraw an advertisement that showed an interfaith couple at a baby shower organised for the Hindu bride by her Muslim in-laws. It withdrew the advertisement after trolling soon spread to physical threats to company employees and stores. Clothing brand Manyavar too was at the receiving end when its advertisement featuring Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt in wedding attire, appeared to question an old tradition. Established in 1960, FabIndia sources its products from villages helping to provide and sustain rural employment in India. According to reports, the products are currently produced by over 40,000 artisans and craftspeople across India. In 2019, a Holi ad by Surf Excel had received similar flak by certain groups, as it showed children of two different religions celebrating the festival of colours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Incessant rain claims 11 more lives in Uttarakhand||Eleven more deaths were reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday as incessant rains continued to lash various parts of the state, especially Kumaon region, razing houses to the ground and leaving many trapped in the debris. Nainital was cut off from the rest of the state with three roads leading to the popular tourist spot blocked due to a series of landslides. Eleven deaths in rain related-incidents were reported on Tuesday, while many people are feared trapped in rubble following cloudbursts and landslides, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami told reporters in Dehradun. This takes the toll in rain-related incidents across Uttarakhand to 16, with five deaths reported on Monday, he said. Dhami assured that three Army helicopters will soon arrive to assist in relief and rescue operations underway in the state. Two of these helicopters will be sent to Nainital and one to the Garhwal region to rescue people stranded at different points, he said. The CM, however, asked people not to panic, saying all necessary steps are being taken to evacuate them to safety. He also reiterated his appeal to Chardham yatris to stay where they are and not to resume their journeys before the weather improved. The damage caused by the rains is being assessed, Dhami noted, admitting that farmers had been hit hard by the incessant showers. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to him on the phone to take stock of the situation and assured him of all necessary help. The Mall Road in Nainital and Naina Devi temple located along the banks of Naini lake have been flooded, while a hostel building has been damaged due to landslides. The district administration is trying its best to help tourists stranded in the town, the police has been deployed to warn incoming and outgoing traffic, asking them to stay put until the wet spell is over, a report from Nainital said. Landslides have blocked the exits in the town. Around 100 people got stuck at Lemon Tree resort on Ramnagar-Ranikhet route, with water from swollen Kosi river entering the resort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Army chief visits forward areas along LoC in Jammu||Army chief General M M Naravane visited forward areas along the LoC in Jammu region on Tuesday and was briefed on the ground situation in the region and ongoing counter-infiltration operations, officials said here. Naravane arrived in Jammu on a two-day visit on Monday amid a spurt in targeted attacks on civilians by terrorists in the Valley and an ongoing counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of the twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri, where nine soldiers have laid down their lives over the past week. "General MM Naravane #COAS (Chief of Army Staff) visited forward areas of #WhiteKnight Corps & undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. #COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations," the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army tweeted. Eleven people have lost their lives in targeted attacks by terrorists in different parts of the Kashmir valley this month. The count includes five non-local labourers, two teachers belonging to minority communities and a renowned pharmacist. Amid the spate of civilian killings, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday vowed to avenge every drop of bloodshed by hunting down the terrorists and their sympathisers. The officials said the Army chief visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where a massive operation to track down terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi has been going on since October 11. While five Army personnel were killed in an attack by terrorists in the forest area of Surankote on October 11, another four soldiers laid down their lives in a gunfight with the ultras in Mendhar last Thursday. The operation to neutralise the terrorists entered its ninth day on Tuesday. So far, eight people, including a mother-son duo, have been detained for questioning in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Increasing activities by China in depth areas of eastern sector, says Army Commander||China has increased the intensity of carrying out military drills and deployment in its depth areas opposite the Arunachal Pradesh sector and India has correspondingly readied contingency plans to deal with any security challenges in the region, Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Manoj Pande said on Tuesday. Giving an account of India's overall military modernisation, Lt Gen Pande also said that an in-principle approval has been given to new combat formations called the Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) which can mobilise fast with a more effective approach. The IBGs will comprise a mix of infantry, artillery, air defence, tanks and logistics units and the new set up is expected to revamp the Army's warfighting capabilities, particularly along the borders with China and Pakistan. Lt Gen Pande added that the plan to operationalise the 17 Mountain Corp has been implemented in sync with a plan finalised in 2014. "The annual training exercise that the PLA carries out there has seen some increase in the level of activities in the depth areas. Some of the reserve formations which the PLA mobilised continue to remain in their training areas that are in the operational depth areas," he said. "Both sides are attempting to develop infrastructure closer to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that create certain issues at times," he said, adding there has been an increase in deployment of troops following the development of new infrastructure. The commander said India has taken a number of steps and the foremost among them is enhancing surveillance both close to the LAC and the depth areas by synergising all surveillance resources right from the strategic level to the tactical level. "We have adequate forces that are available in each sector to deal with any contingency that may arise. We are practising and rehearsing various contingencies that may arise," he said. Asked about the recent agreement between China and Bhutan to resolve their decades-old boundary dispute and whether it will impact India's strategic interests in the areas around Doklam tri-junction, the Army Commander did not give a direct reply but said authorities concerned in the government must have taken note of the pact. On China violating various border agreements and protocols, Lt Gen Pande indicated that the issue is being discussed at a higher level. "In terms of our larger guidance, strategic guidance in terms of dealing with situation on the LAC is to respect the mutually agreed protocols and agreements, and that has been our effort, notwithstanding what has been the action or response from the other side," he said. "Consequent to what happened and what we need to do in the future, is something I reckon is being looked into at the larger level," he said. A fourth hotline between the two sides has been activated recently, he added. As tensions increased following the eastern Ladakh row last year, India ramped up overall deployment of troops along the nearly 3,400 km LAC besides speeding up infrastructure development to gain tactical advantage. The Army is also cranking up its day and night surveillance over the LAC in the region using a fleet of remotely piloted aircraft. A sizeable fleet of Israeli-made Heron medium-altitude long-endurance drone is carrying out round-the-clock surveillance over the LAC in the mountainous terrain and sending crucial data and images to command and control centres. Along with the drones, the Indian Army's aviation wing has also been deploying the Weapon System Integrated (WSI) variant of the Advanced Light Helicopter Rudra in the region adding more teeth to its tactical missions in the region, they said. The government is also working on connecting Tawang with a railway network as part of the decision to enhance infrastructure in the region. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The tension escalated following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in stalemate following which both sides blamed each other for the impasse. In a strong statement after the 13th round of talks, the Indian Army said the "constructive suggestions" made by it at the negotiations were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor Beijing could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 231 days||India logged 13,058 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 231 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,94,373, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,454 with 164 fresh fatalities, while the active cases declined to 1,83,118, the lowest in 227 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 25 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 114 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.54 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.14 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,576 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,81,314 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,31,06,188. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 50 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.36 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 116 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,58,801, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 98.67 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 164 new fatalities include 60 from Kerala and 27 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,454 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,816 from Maharashtra, 37,953 from Karnataka, 35,912 from Tamil Nadu, 26,925 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,989 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Oxygen plant at Odisha railway hospital||The East Coast Railway general manager, Vidya Bhushan, on Monday inaugurated a 600 litre capacity oxygen generation plant at the Railway Central Hospital at Mancheswar in Bhubaneswar. Divisional railway manager Khurda Road Rinkesh Ray and principal heads of the departments of ECoR and other senior officials were present on the occasion. This oxygen generation plant will make East Coast Railway Central Hospital self-sufficient for oxygen supply, required for Covid and other serious patients requiring oxygen supplement, EcoR said in a press release. Bhushan also dedicated 24 oxygen concentrators to be used at Mancheswar Central Hospital and Divisional Railway Hospitals at Khurda Road, Waltair and Sambalpur. A shortfall of medical oxygen was a major issue faced by various locations in the country during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Keeping in view of this, oxygen generation plant has been established for self sufficiency of oxygen in railway hospitals, the press release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Covid: One crore twin jabs in Odisha||The Odisha health department announced on Monday that over one crore people in the state have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19. “Happy to share that Odisha has achieved another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination with over one crore citizens fully vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccines,” the health department said in a tweet. According to official data, 24,306,314 people have taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines. Bijay Mohapatra, director, health services, said all beneficiaries in Bhubaneswar and Berhampur cities have got the first shot. “All the 3.1 crore eligible beneficiaries will receive the first shot of the vaccine by December-end,” he said. The development comes at a time when senior IAS officer and agriculture production commissioner R.K. Sharma has been asked by the government to keep additional charge of the health and family welfare department. Sharma replaced health secretary P.K. Mohapatra who was transferred and appointed as chairman of the Odisha Forest Development Corporation (OFDC) on October 16. Health secretary Mohapatra was transferred following the high court’s critical observations about the state’s Covid management in September. The court had also expressed dissatisfaction over the affidavit filed by the health department on Covid-related deaths in the state. Later, he was asked to go on leave. After he joined duty on October 16, the government appointed him as the OFDC chairman. Though the Covid case graph has shown a consistent downward trend for the past few months, the state government is taking all possible precautions in view of the festive season. The government remains particularly worried about the situation in major cities like Bhubaneswar and Cuttack where people have been thronging markets with many of them without face masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav slams Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over Kashmir killings||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday after two more workers from Bihar were shot dead by militants in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday evening, the latest in a series of attacks on non-locals in the Union Territory. Raja Rishideo and Yogendra Rishideo, hailing from Araria district of Bihar, were killed in Kulgam on Sunday. Another labourer from the state, Chunchun Rishideo, was seriously injured in the incident. The killings came a day after a Bihari golgappa vendor and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were killed in two separate attacks in the Valley. Four people from Bihar have been killed in Kashmir since October 5, and the Opposition and the ruling alliance leaders fired salvos at each other over the worrisome development. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wrote a scathing letter to Nitish on Monday, blaming him and his government squarely for the killings. “You and your incapable government are responsible for the killing of all these people of Bihar. Crores of people from the state would not have been forced to migrate had your government seriously done something to create employment in the last 16 years according to the claims of ‘good governance’…,” the RJD leader said in his letter. Tejashwi, also the leader of the Opposition in the state, suggested that the Nitish government should not only pray with folded hands before the families of the deceased workers for forgiveness, but also provide a government job and compensation of Rs 1 crore to the kin of the victims. “You and your double-engine troublemaker government are responsible for the killing of innocent Biharis by terrorists. Your government had claimed that repealing Article 370 was a historic decision that would end terrorism and supported it. May be such baseless claims influenced the labourers to go to Jammu and Kashmir,” Tejashwi wrote. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad later stressed in a post on social media that people are not able to get employment in Bihar and are killed if they go outside the state. Tejashwi also questioned the state government’s decision to give Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the families of the victims at a time when the kin of people dying from snakebites and lightning were being given Rs 4 lakh. Chief minister Nitish expressed grief and concern over the attack that could lead to an exodus of a large number of people from Bihar working in Kashmir. He also pointed out that people have the right to go and work anywhere in the country. “This is one nation. Kashmir is also a part of it. Everybody has a right to work anywhere in the country. We have been trying to ensure that people of the state stay here and work, but nobody can impose a ban on anyone so that he cannot go to any other part of the country. It is his right and he cannot be deprived of it,” Nitish said while alluding to Article 19 of the Constitution, which allows citizens to move freely throughout the territory of India and to practise any profession or to carry any occupation, trade or business, among other freedoms. Nitish said that he had called up Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha after getting information about the death of the two workers from the state. “He (Sinha) also seemed to be worried. I expressed my concerns because three such incidents happened with the people of Bihar in Kashmir. Sinha asserted that he was seeing over everything,” Nitish added. The chief minister sought action over the incidents and said: “We hope they (Jammu and Kashmir government) will stay alert and make arrangements for their security. It seems somebody is doing this to deliberately chase them (labourers) away.” Nitish also asserted that the government in Kashmir “will have to work more strongly so that nobody is able to do such things. The people and political parties there have also expressed worry over the incidents”. Senior Bihar officials are in touch with their counterparts in Jammu and Kashmir over the emerging situation. Meanwhile, Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular founder and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who claims to be the leader of Dalits in the state, expressed grief over the incident. “I am pained over the continuous killing of our unarmed brothers from Bihar in Kashmir. I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah that if the situation is not improving then give the responsibility of Kashmir to the people of Bihar. We will improve it in 15 days,” Manjhi said. A pall of gloom has descended at Dah Tola under Baunsi police station and Khairuganj under Nagar police station, the native villages of Raja and Yogendra, respectively. The family members of the two slain workers were inconsolable. Officials from the local administration have informed the family members about the efforts to bring back their bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Hero's welcome for Haryana man deported from Australia||A 24-year-old native of Kurukshetra in Haryana who was deported from Australia after pleading guilty to assaults on Sikhs in Sydney received a hero’s welcome on reaching home on Sunday. After Vishal Jood was deported on Saturday, Australia’s minister for immigration, citizenship, migrant services and multicultural affairs, Alex Hawke, tweeted: “Attempts to undermine Australia’s social cohesion will not be tolerated. I thank community leaders who have worked to build cross-community unity and resilience against attempts by a small minority to incite discord and disharmony, demonstrating the importance and benefit of our nation’s strong social cohesion.” Back home, a road show was organised for Jood with him standing in an open-top vehicle holding the national flag. The Right-wing ecosystem shared a video from earlier this year, showing Jood holding the Tricolour among a group of people protesting in Australia against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the farm laws and the effort to discredit the farmers’ protest. The contention was that Jood was opposing the protesters and he had been framed by Khalistanis. Sharing a video of the road show, Ashwani Mahajan, co-convener of RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch, tweeted: “An Indian student #ViahalJood (sic) who was arrested after being falsely implicated by Khalistanis, was deported. Was given overwhelming welcome in India.” According to Indian diaspora newspapers in Australia, Jood was arrested by New South Wales police in April after an investigation revealed his alleged connection to a series of targeted attacks on Sikhs. “A number of charges were levelled against him but in a plea bargain, NSW’s department of public prosecutors dropped eight charges that included racial hate crime, while Jood pleaded guilty to three charges for which he was sentenced to six months in jail,” IndianLink News said. NRI Affairs, another news portal run by the diaspora, called Jood a “Tiranga warrior” and said he had “pleaded guilty to three of the charges, including ‘assault’, ‘occasioning actual bodily harm in company of others’ and ‘armed with intention to commit indictable offence’, while the other charges were dropped by the Crown”. Jood became eligible for parole on October 15 after completing six months in jail, and was deported from Australia on the first flight out. In June, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had sought the intervention of external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for Jood’s release. Khattar had described Jood as innocent and alleged he had been arrested as part of a conspiracy by anti-national forces. Khattar had sought Jaishankar’s intervention following protests by Rors – the community Jood belongs to – seeking his return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Karnataka cops turn out in saffron on Vijaya Dashami||Pictures of cops dressed in saffron for Vijaya Dashami at police stations have emerged in Karnataka, which has in recent months witnessed a surge in Sangh parivar activities. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran P.C. Siddaramaiah has tweeted the pictures of personnel clad in white and saffron civil attire at the Bijapur and Kaup police stations on Vijaya Dashami, which fell on Friday. Policemen at the Bijapur police station wore the white kurta-pyjamas traditional to north Karnataka, with saffron scarves around their necks or shoulders. Their counterparts at Kaup police station in Udupi, coastal Karnataka, wore white dhotis and saffron shirts, while the policewomen wore saffron saris. Siddaramaiah attacked chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in a series of tweets, suggesting the saffron clothes worn by the police had sent out a wrong message to the public. “Why did you change only their uniforms @CMofKarnataka? Give them the trishul. That way you can realise your dream of a jungle Raj,” the former chief minister tweeted in Kannada. “@BSBommai, please resign and go if you can’t govern according to the Constitution. Save Democracy,” Siddaramaiah tweeted. Siddaramaiah alleged that Sangh parivar activists and the police were engaging in moral policing by harassing couples in the name of tradition and religion, and BJP lawmakers were supporting the perpetrators. “On the one hand, there is police brutality against innocent young men and women. Then, lawmakers release the accused from the police station. And then there is the call for violence by distributing trishuls,” he tweeted. A sub-inspector from Kaup police station, Raghavendra, told reporters he had organised a similar puja last year at the Brahmavar police station, 10km away, where he was posted then. “There is nothing unusual in this (wearing saffron). It was only a Vijaya Dashami gathering of all the police station personnel, who work like a family,” he said. Udupi MLA Ragupathi Bhat of the BJP directed a question at Siddaramaiah while talking to reporters in Udupi: “Why are you scared of the saffron colour, which we have worshipped since time immemorial?” He added: “Siddaramaiah is saying all this to appease minorities and to link the colour saffron to violence. Siddaramaiah wore Tipu Sultan’s crown and wielded a sword (both replicas), and is now criticising the police for wearing saffron at a puja.” A ruling party MLA, Umanath Kotian, recently got two parivar activists released on bail from a police station in Mangalore after they were arrested for harassing young men and women from the Hindu and Muslim faiths for travelling together in a car. Last week, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had distributed trishuls among new Bajrang Dal recruits at events held in Mangalore and Udupi. While they had justified it as “trishul deekshe (initiation)”, the development had drawn flak from Opposition parties. Karnataka, the BJP’s gateway to the south, has long been a hub of Sangh parivar outfits that engage in moral policing and attack cattle traders and transporters in the name of “gau raksha”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Centre stalls Calcutta HC judges' appointments||The Centre has approved 70-odd candidates for appointment as judges to the various high courts since September, acting at a frenetic pace to clear the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendations, but seems to have made an exception for Calcutta High Court. It has been sitting on all the 16 names proposed by the collegium for elevation to Calcutta High Court — eight of them recommended as far back as February and the remaining eight since September 1. Calcutta High Court — the country’s fourth largest after the High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay and Madras — now has 36 judges against a sanctioned strength of 72. Among those recommended but not cleared for Calcutta High Court is senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee, son of the former Supreme Court judge, Justice U.C. Banerjee, who headed the one-man commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy behind the 2002 Sabaramati Express fire that killed 59 kar sevaks. Another is Sakya Sen, son of former Allahabad High Court Chief Justice Shyamal Sen. The apex court collegium of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar has since September recommended 106 judges for elevation to the various high courts. Prodded by Justice Ramana, the government has acted with uncharacteristic speed to clear appointments to the High Courts of Karnataka (16 new judges), Gujarat (7), Allahabad (9), Bombay (2), Patna (5), Telangana (7), Orissa (3), Kerala (6), Gauhati (8), Madras (4), Jharkhand (4), Chhattisgarh (1) and Madhya Pradesh (1). Besides Amitesh Banerjee, the collegium had on September 1 reiterated for Calcutta High Court the names of advocates Jaytosh Majumdar, Raja Basu Chowdhury and Lapita Banerji. All four had been recommended in July 2019 but the Centre had raised objections at the time. On September 1, the collegium also recommended elevating advocates R. Krishna Rao and Koyeli Bhattacharyya as judges of Calcutta High Court. On October 8, the collegium iterated the candidature of Calcutta advocate Sakya Sen, rejecting for the third time the Centre’s objections. At the same meeting, the collegium also proposed the elevation of Soubhik Mitter, advocate, as a Calcutta High Court judge. Even a September 16 recommendation by the collegium for the re-transfer of Justice Joymalya Bagchi to Calcutta High Court has not yet been approved by the government. Justice Bagchi had been transferred from Calcutta to Andhra Pradesh High Court on December 31 last year. On February 4 this year, the collegium had recommended elevating eight district judges to Calcutta High Court: Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Ananya Bandyopadhyay, Rai Chattopadhyay, Bivas Pattanayak, Subhendu Samanta and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. None has been cleared by the government. All that Calcutta High Court has witnessed is a couple of transfers and an additional judge being made permanent. Justice Prakash Shrivastava of Madhya Pradesh High Court was recently appointed chief justice of Calcutta High Court in place of the then acting chief justice, Justice Rajesh Bindal, who has been made chief justice of Allahabad High Court. Justice T.S. Sivagnanam of Madras High Court was transferred to Calcutta High Court on October 11, while the additional judge, Justice Kausik Chanda, was made permanent on September 3. The collegium had earlier made it clear to the government that vacancies ought to be filled at the earliest. It had rejected the Centre’s objections to elevate nine new judges to the Supreme Court last month. The country’s 25 high courts have 1,098 sanctioned posts of judges, of which only 627 are occupied and 471 (nearly 43 per cent) are vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||5-year jail for BJP MLA for 32-year-old forgery case||A court in Ayodhya on Monday sentenced a BJP legislator and two of his friends to five years in jail in a 32-year-old cheating and forgery case. Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Khabbu, who was elected from Gosainganj Assembly seat of Faizabad-Ayodhya in 2017, and his friends Kripa Nidhan Tiwari and Phulchand Yadav were alleged to have submitted fake Intermediate marksheets to get admission in BSc in Saket Degree College, Ayodhya, in 1988. Yaduvansh Ram Tripathi, the then principal of the college, had registered an FIR against the trio in 1989 and they were booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating), 468, (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (fraud). Tripathi is no more but the college continued pursuing the case. The MP-MLA special court of judge Puja Singh in Ayodhya found all three guilty and sentenced them to five years in jail. The police took them to the Faizabad district jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||WHO awaits Covaxin data for Emergency Use Listing||The World Health Organisation said on Monday it expects Bharat Biotech to provide more information on its Covid-19 vaccine in a further setback to the company’s hopes of getting an emergency-use listing for the shot. Without WHO’s nod, the two-dose Covaxin is unlikely to be accepted as a valid Covid-19 vaccine around the world. Bharat Biotech has been pursuing a WHO emergency-use listing for several months, having submitted data on a rolling basis since July. “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for (Bharat Biotech’s) Covaxin to be included in the #COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners,” WHO said on Twitter. Bharat Biotech did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. Covaxin is one of the three approved vaccines that have been used in India for the country’s vaccination drive for adults. Around 30 per cent of about 944 million eligible adults have been fully vaccinated so far, which includes the administration of more than 112 million doses of Covaxin. “Bharat Biotech... has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and WHO experts have reviewed these data. WHO is expecting one additional piece of information from the company today,” the global health agency said on Twitter. WHO’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Sunday the agency’s technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the listing for Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Kerala death toll 27, more rain forecast||Kerala is bracing for more heavy rains from Wednesday even as rescue workers retrieved more bodies of landslide victims in Kottayam and Idukki, taking the official death toll to 27. Although many affected areas experienced some sunshine on Monday, the weather forecast for the next few days caused concern for people living in the high ranges that bore the brunt of the landslides triggered by cloudbursts. With the rain forecast adding to the worries of swollen rivers and dams, the state government empowered an expert committee to take the final call on releasing excess water from fast-filling dams. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state disaster management authority called by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. Although the current situation is nowhere close to the 2018 floods that devastated the state and claimed around 480 lives, the government is cautious about releasing water as low-lying areas will get inundated. As the impact of the rain misery unfolded, hundreds of families were moved to shelters in areas where a large number of houses were washed away in landslides and flash floods. The chief minister instructed the authorities to ensure adequate facilities at the 185 shelters operational as on Monday evening. An expert committee decided to release water from Idukki dam hours after energy minister K. Krishnankutty told reporters that the authorities would be forced to do so if rain persisted. Idukki collector Sheeba George said two shutters would be lifted 50cm each at 11am on Tuesday. The authorities sounded a red alert in Idukki dam starting 6pm on Monday as water levels continued to rise. The collector said the water level could touch the upper rule level mark of 2398.86 feet by 7am on Tuesday making the opening of shutter inevitable. Ernakulam collector Jafar Malik said two shutters of the Idamalayar dam would also be opened by 80cm each at 6am on Tuesday. Although it is unlikely to flood the banks of the Periyar river in the district as the outflow would be regulated at 100 cubic metre per second, the officer urged caution. By the end of Monday, the authorities issued red alert at 9 of the 17 dams operated by the Kerala State Electricity Board and two of the 20 dams operated by the state irrigation department considering the rising water storage levels. Fisheries minister Saji Cherian told reporters that water levels would rise in Kuttanad region of Alappuzha district by Monday night. “There is no doubt water levels are going to rise in Kuttanad. So residents must move to shelters and carry all their valuables and documents,” said Cherian, whose constituency Chengannur was among the worst-hit in the 2018 floods. Sections of the Chalakudy river in Thrissur district was in spate and threatened to inundate low-lying areas as outflow from Sholayar and Peringalkuthu dams increased on Monday afternoon. This was mainly due to the water being released from Parambikulam dam in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Chalakudy MLA Saneesh Kumar Joseph said there was already much concern about the inflow into the river. “There is a possibility that low-lying areas would get inundated once more water flows in later today. To avoid any danger, we have already moved people in those areas to shelters,” he said. He said while the situation was not comparable to the 2018 floods when large swathes of both banks of the river were flooded, the authorities did not want to take any chances. “We are urging people to cooperate with the district authorities and emergency teams and move to safer areas,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||BJP protests in bid to milk Bangla unrest, Suvendu meets envoy||The Bengal BJP’s desperation to politically exploit the clashes in Bangladesh during Durga Puja was evident on Monday as party MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari led a delegation of MLAs to the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office in Calcutta to express concern over the attacks. “We have won (the Assembly seats) with votes of Sanatanis. Nobody else voted for us. We are responsible for the Hindus,” Suvendu told the media after the meeting. “With all due respect towards India’s foreign policies, the Bangladesh PM (Sheikh Hasina) isn’t dealing with the situation with a tough hand,” Suvendu said in contrast to Narendra Modi government’s acknowledgement that the Hasina government had acted promptly to control the situation. A source in the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office confirmed Suvendu met deputy high commissioner Toufique Hasan and handed over a memorandum. “Suvendu’s decision to meet Hasan was his way of sending a message ahead of the October 30 bypolls that the party was concerned about the plight of Hindus in India and outside,” said a party leader. Suvendu also visited the Dhakeshwari temple in Kumartuli where, according to BJP’s media cell, he prayed “for the safety of the oppressed Hindu minority of Bangladesh”. SFI, the students’ wing of the CPM, organised demonstrations across the state to condemn the attack on minorities in Bangladesh and in several parts of India. “From Babri to Comilla, majoritarian extremist atrocities are the same. These extremists nurture each other. This is why the likes of Suvendu Adhikari eye electoral gains when the Jamaat creates unrest beyond the borders. There is no difference between the RSS and the Jamaat. It is our duty to shun all forms of communalism and stand up for humanity,” said SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. Echoing the same spirit, members of the Bengal intelligentsia have issued a letter of protest condemning the attacks on the minorities in Bangladesh and sought immediate redressal from the Sheikh Hasina government. In Nadia’s Mayapur, monks and devotees of the Iskcon organised a congregation at its headquarters on Monday evening to condemn the alleged atrocities on its devotees in Bangladesh. They also demanded “tangible action” against them at the earliest to ensure the safety of minorities in Bangladesh. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Rare blood clot tied to Covishield||A private hospital has confirmed the incidence of a rare but potentially life-threatening, vaccine-induced blood clotting disorder among some Covishield recipients in India through what doctors have described as a “gold-standard” confirmatory test. The findings corroborate observations from other countries that vaccine-induced thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (VITT) is an extremely rare adverse event, but underline the need for national guidelines to raise awareness on diagnosis and treatment, the doctors said. Doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, diagnosed VITT through an initial test that detects antibodies against a substance called platelet factor 4 (PF4), and then a confirmatory test that observes how normal platelets respond to the patient’s serum. The first patient that the SGRH doctors diagnosed as suffering from VITT was an 18-year-old boy brought to the Army Hospital, New Delhi, from Mathura in June, 17 days after he had received his first dose of Covishield. The boy, who had a persistent headache and recurrent vomiting, died in hospital. Doctors believe the boy died because of a late transfer to Delhi after seven days in hospital. Since June, the SGRH haematology department — which has set up India’s first lab to provide the confirmatory test for VITT — has received 14 additional samples among which six have tested positive for VITT, one from Delhi and five from Kerala. All six patients have survived after appropriate treatment. A vaccine policy adviser said India had administered over 868 million doses of Covishield but documented only “a few” cases of VITT, the extremely rare incidence establishing the benefits of the vaccine over the risk. The World Health Organisation had in April this year flagged reports of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in blood vessels) and thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts) as a rare adverse event following vaccination with Vazeria and Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccines produced by AstraZeneca and the Serum Institute of India, respectively. Doctors said the incidence of VITT in other countries suggested it occurred in one in 100,000 to one in 127,000 vaccine doses, making it extremely rare. But professional medical organisations in Canada, Germany and the UK have issued diagnostic and treatment guidelines. “Awareness is the key tool that will expedite diagnosis, guide treatment, and help save patients,” said Jyoti Kotwal, chair of the haematology department at SGRH. “But we’ve got six samples from Kerala and very few from north India. We need more awareness in medical circles and among vaccine recipients.” Kotwal added: “Why are we getting more from Kerala? Possibly because of greater awareness among medical professionals there. We need more awareness elsewhere too.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign guidelines urge recipients to look out for any unusual symptoms — including headache, vision changes, nausea or vomiting, seizures, abdominal pain, chest pain, shortness of breath or blood in stool — after receiving the doses. A senior medical adviser to the vaccination campaign told The Telegraph that thrombosis along with low platelet counts and a raised value of a blood parameter called d-dimer are sufficient for a reliable diagnosis of VITT. But, Kotwal said, this triad — thrombosis, low platelet count, and raised d-dimer — is at best only “presumptive diagnosis and not confirmed diagnosis”. While doctors may start treatment on the basis of a presumptive diagnosis, Kotwal said, they need a confirmed diagnosis to continue with appropriate treatment and for the epidemiological purpose of determining the incidence of VITT in the population. “Many western countries have referral labs doing the gold-standard platelet aggregation test to confirm all suspected cases of VITT and give the correct incidence of this adverse event,” she told this newspaper. “We now have such a lab in our hospital.” The standard treatment for VITT involves the use of an intravenous immunoglobulin concentrate that blocks the antibodies against PF4, blood thinners to treat clots and prevent new clots, and other lines of therapy. “The gold standard confirmatory diagnosis will guide appropriate treatment, especially in early cases that have thrombocytopenia with increased d-dimer but have not yet developed a clot that can be picked up by imaging,” Kotwal said. Senior health officials had asserted earlier this year that India had a robust mechanism for tracking adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), and that analyses of serious AEFIs had established that the benefits of vaccines far outweighed any extremely rare risks. Some doctors and patients’ rights advocates had earlier this year urged the Union health ministry to thoroughly investigate all cases of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, expressing concern that not all reported cases were being adequately investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Amit Shah holds meet on Kashmir security and other states||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday chaired a meeting with police chiefs of all states and directors-general of the central paramilitary forces. Sources in the security establishment said the minister reviewed the security situation across the country, including the recent killings of civilians by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, during the closed-door meeting. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1 in the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One of the 12 civilians killed was a Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Makhan Lal Bindroo. National security adviser Ajit Doval and Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar also attended the meeting besides directors-general of the BSF and ITBP. “The security situation in the wake of the latest civilian killings in Kashmir was discussed threadbare during the meeting. The situation in the Valley is very challenging,” a security official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Migrants jittery in Kashmir after spate of killings||A Bihar mason currently working at a construction site on Srinagar’s outskirts never thought of leaving Kashmir in the past 15 years, even during the mayhem that accompanied the three mass summer agitations this period witnessed. Not even in 2019, when a brutal clampdown following the dilution of Article 370 paralysed life for months. But a spate of killings of migrant workers over the past fortnight has left him and his colleagues jittery. Hundreds of migrant workers have been shifted to army camps overnight for their safety while hundreds others have left the Valley. The vast majority including the Bihar mason have, however, stayed back, still banking on Kashmiri hospitality. But they have their fingers crossed. “I’m praying the situation eases but we are receiving frantic calls from our families asking us to return. We got such calls in the past too but this time things here look different,” the man in his 30s told The Telegraph. His identity is being withheld for his safety. “Our hosts keep reassuring us but you naturally feel afraid when you see pictures of the slain men all over (social media). There were some killings (of non-Kashmiris) in 2019 too, but this time there’s been one attack after another. People have lost their lives even in Srinagar.” Two Bihari labourers were killed and a third worker was injured in a suspected militant attack in Kulgam on Sunday evening. A day earlier, a golgappa vendor from Bihar and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh had been killed in Srinagar and Pulwama. Eleven civilians, including five migrant workers, have been murdered and nine soldiers killed in a gunfight in Poonch in what is being seen as the biggest militant challenge facing the security establishment since the 2019 scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. With seven of the slain civilians being non-Muslim, the killings are being construed as a militant design to force religious minorities out of the Valley. The killings have been widely condemned in the Valley, but they followed months of what many say were “not-so-cordial relations” between local people and non-Kashmiris. The Bihar mason said non-Kashmiris were seldom attacked in the past but he could smell a change after the 2019 amendment to Article 370. “Apart from earning good money, we were treated well. But something big happened in 2019,” he said. “It’s not that we were humiliated, but we could see people starting to suspect us, thinking we were up to something. We are poor and have nothing to do with politics.” Many here believe that Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped so that hordes of outsiders could be brought in to reduce Muslims to a minority in the Vally. A local engineer, who heads a construction company and employs some 150 migrant workers, said the non-local employees occasionally asked why the Kashmiris had turned a little indifferent to them. “They would complain that the old warmth in relations was missing; rather, the local people seemed to expect them to mind their own business,” he said. “Fortunately, nobody in my team has left. But around 50 of them are sitting idle and some might prefer leaving. Otherwise, too, winter has set in early and this is the time they start leaving.” The militants and their handlers across the frontier are trying to exploit the fault-lines. At Srinagar’s Tourist Reception Centre, migrant labourers were seen trickling out in groups. But most were careful not to link their departure to the killings. “We were working in the Kulan area of Ganderbal. It was getting very cold there, so we decided to return,” a group of workers from Bettiah in Bihar said. Some others said they were leaving to celebrate Diwali with their families. Pramod Gupta, a carpenter from Khushi Nagar in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, said he wouldn’t leave. He said he had never faced any problems in the past or felt scared. “I never heard about any Kashmiri killing any outsider before. I don’t know what has happened now — something has happened this time,” he said. “I was here in 2008, 2016 and 2019. I never fled.” A new pro-independence agitation had begun in 2008 after the government decided to hand over a tract of land to the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, which many claimed was a move to settle outsiders. In 2016, the Valley was rocked by a month’s agitation over the encounter killing of Hizb poster boy Burhan Wani. Labour commissioner Abdul Rashid War said that migrant workers had traditionally been treated well in Kashmir. “In March last year, when the pandemic broke out, we had some 50,000 (non-local) workers here, of whom just 2,700 wanted to return home,” he said. “The rest stayed on and weathered the lockdown with help from the government and local people.” Lakhs of migrant workers come to Kashmir every year, forming the backbone of its construction industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||BJP looks up to Modi for 'leadership and guidance' during state polls||The BJP on Monday sought to project the “leadership and guidance” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the principal pitch for the upcoming Assembly polls in five states, signalling its deepening dependence on one supreme leader to win elections. The party held a daylong meeting of national office-bearers to take stock of preparations for the state polls. At the end of the meeting, the BJP heaped praise on Modi for providing “leadership and guidance” for not only the growth and rise of the country but also party-ruled states. The meeting was held also to prepare for the national executive meeting early next month, the first since J.P. Nadda took over as BJP president from Amit Shah in January 2020. “Entire world is now praising India. Only yesterday, IMF lauded India’s battle against Covid. Other world institutions too have said that India’s economy was rising very fast,” BJP vice-president Baijayant Jay Panda said told reporters. “In the five states, we will go to the people under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state leadership and pitch the BJP’s aim of giving growth and development with a double-engine government,” Panda added, speaking after the meeting. The “double-engine government” refers to having the BJP in power at the Centre and also in the states. The party uses it to try and sway the voters, stressing that the one-party government at the top and elsewhere can usher in better development. This pitch had failed in Bengal and some other states too but the party still feels that it is the best strategy. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emerged as our tallest and most popular leader. We have seen that even in state polls he is the biggest vote-catcher,” one BJP leader said. Of the five states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur — going to polls early next year, the BJP heads the government in four, barring Punjab, which is ruled by the Congress. Though Uttar Pradesh would be the focus, the party wants to retain power in three other states too, to underline that Modi and the BJP’s popularity was intact despite Covid mismanagement, price rise and economic distress. After Monday’s meeting, the party sought to drum-beat the “records and milestones” being achieved by the Covid vaccination drive, seeking to bury the mess created during the second Covid wave. “Soon we will achieve the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations. It looks like a miracle given the way some people in the country and the world were saying that India won’t be able to manage the pandemic,” Panda said, crediting Prime Minister Modi. The government and the BJP have planned a big show to announce the achievement of 100 crore vaccinations, hoping it would have a favourable impact on the voters. Barring Uttar Pradesh, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath has risen as the face of the party, in all other states it would be left to Modi to sway the voters. In Uttar Pradesh, too, party insiders said, the idea was to showcase Modi as the mascot and Yogi as his follower, to ensure that a chunk of the credit goes to the Prime Minister, if the BJP manages to script a history of sorts by retaining power in the politically crucial state. The prolonged farmers’ protest and its impact on the state polls, particularly Uttar Pradesh, was also discussed at the meeting, sources said. Party leaders said measures to ensure that the protest doesn’t cast much of an impact on the polls was discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Four more arrests in Lakhimpur Kheri massacre case||Four persons were arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on Monday evening in connection with the October 3 massacre at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri. The arrested include Sumit Jaiswal Modi, photographed escaping from the Thar jeep that was leading the convoy that crushed to death four farmers and a journalist. Sumit is a councillor of Shivpuri ward in Lakhimpur Kheri and an associate of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, who owns the Thar jeep. The other three arrested and sent to judicial remand for 14 days are Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam of Kaushambi district, Nandan Bisht and Shishu Pal, both from Lucknow, according to a media release issued by the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre. Besides the Thar, which was allegedly driven by Teni’s son Ashis, there was a Toyota Fortuner and a Mahindra Scorpio in the convoy, which were seen in several video clips, running at full speed on the road where the peasants had gathered. The Thar hit the farmers from behind, ploughed through them and sped off. Meanwhile, the SIT also summoned 10 farmers to the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday to interrogate them. Sumit had registered an FIR against 20 unidentified farmers for allegedly lynching the minister’s driver and two BJP workers who were in the convoy. Mohammad Amaan, a counsel for the farmers, said: “The SIT will have to summon 20 farmers. It called 10 of them at its office on Monday to interrogate them and the remaining would be called in the next two days.” Police sources said that Shekhar Bharti, driver of Ankit Das, an associate of Teni and owner of the Fortuner, had claimed that Satyam was driving his SUV on October 3. Nandan was also in the Fortuner, they said. Pal was driving the Scorpio, they added. Ashis, Ankit, Shekhar and three others are already lodged in jail in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Congress attacks Centre for oil price ‘extortion’ ||The Congress on Monday described the savage increase in prices of petroleum products as “extortion” by the Narendra Modi government, with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the public has been betrayed because the intention was to help crony capitalists. Running a campaign under the hashtag “TaxExtortion” on social media, the Congress attacked Prime Minister Modi for selling diesel which is used by the farmers in tractors at a much higher price than aviation fuel used in aircraft. Rahul tweeted: “This is a very serious issue. People’s ordinary needs are more important than politics and vote. Their needs are not fulfilled these days. I stand with the people who have been betrayed by Modi to help his capitalist friends.” Describing petrol-diesel prices as “extortion”, Rahul had tweeted on Sunday: “Sabka vinash, mehngai ka vikas (Destruction of everyone, development of price rise).” Party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The government was expected to fight rising prices and it started filling coffers by increasing prices. For how long will this loot continue?” The Congress has alleged that the Modi government earned Rs 23 lakh crore by taxing petroleum products alone. Party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi also tweeted: “This blatant extortionism by the #BJP must stop. After fifth consecutive hike, now common man’s fuel, #Diesel, has touched (Rs) 100 mark. This unprecedented robbery should be discontinued if we want to project ourselves as a ‘Welfare State’ by any means.” Prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have continued to rise while crude oil prices in international markets have crashed to historic low. While the average crude price during the Manmohan Singh government was $115 per barrel, Modi had the good fortune of a much cheaper rate during the bulk of his tenure, even lower than $50 per barrel. The Congress has decided to launch an awareness campaign throughout the country from November 14 to 29 to educate people how Modi used petrol-diesel-LPG to loot them and didn’t care for prices of other essential commodities as well. Marches will be taken out in every district to highlight the scourge of surging inflation. Apart from petroleum products which kept getting costlier without a break, even prices of edible oils have reached unprecedented levels, going far beyond the reach of the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
