20-10-2021||India||India signs agreements for mutual recognition of vaccines with 11 nations||The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that India has signed agreements for mutual recognition of nationally or WHO recognised Covid-19 vaccines with 11 countries including the UK, France and Germany and fully vaccinated travellers coming from these countries shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing.  Revised guidelines for international arrivals were released on Wednesday. These fresh rules supersede all guidelines issued on the subject on and after February 17, 2021, the ministry said.  The list of countries with which the government has agreement for mutual recognition vaccination certificate for individuals fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised COVID-19 vaccine and those exempting Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally or WHO recognised vaccines are the UK, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia.  "If travellers fully vaccinated and coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved COVID-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing," said the revised guidelines. They will, however, need to produce a negative RT-PCR report.  "They shall self monitor their health for 14 days post arrival," according to the revised guidelines.  If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures which includes submission of sample for post-arrival COVID-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further selfmonitor of their health for next seven days.  The list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing (countries at-risk) are South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and countries in Europe including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon likely to withdraw from country by October 26||The southwest monsoon will withdraw completely from the entire country around October 26, paving the way for the commencement of the northeast monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. After its late withdrawal from northwest India, the southwest monsoon remains active over some parts of the country. The southwest monsoon withdrawal line currently passes through Kohima, Silchar, Krishnanagar, Baripada, Malkangiri, Nalgonda, Bagalkote, and Vengurla. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from remaining parts of northeast India, the entire north Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of West Bengal and Odisha, some parts of the central Bay of Bengal, parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, entire Goa, some more parts of Karnataka and some more parts of central Arabian Sea around October 23, the IMD said. With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the Southwest Monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around 26th October 2021. Simultaneously, the Northeast Monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Southeast Peninsular India from around 26th October 2021, the Met department said. The northeast monsoon brings rains over Tamil Nadu, parts of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India commenced on October 6. The retreat was the second-most delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon since 1975. The southwest monsoon withdrawal from northwest India in 2019 started on October 9. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins on September 17. However, the southwest monsoon remains active over several parts of the country. The IMD said a cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar and neighbouring areas. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread, light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy fall and thunderstorms and lightning is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on October 20 and 21 and over Gangetic West Bengal and Bihar on October 20 and (it will) reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over the sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim on October 20 and very heavy falls over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on the same day, it added. There will be rainfall activity over Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka during October 20-24, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Special court refuses bail to Aryan Khan||A special court here on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in connection with the case of seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Special Judge V V Patil, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. They will now have to approach the Bombay High Court for bail. When the matter was called out for order in the afternoon, special judge Patil said, "Rejected." The trio was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs. Aryan Khan and the others have been booked for offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act. The trio is presently in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison here. Aryan Khan had in his bail plea said the NCB's contention that he was involved in conspiracy and illicit drug trafficking was absurd, and pointed out that there was no recovery of drugs made from him. The NCB, however, opposed the bail plea and said Aryan Khan had been consuming drugs for a few years now and was in touch with some persons who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. The agency was relying on WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, which they claim point towards procurement of bulk quantities of drugs. The NCB had argued that although there was no recovery from Aryan Khan, the recovery of six grams of Charas from his friend Arbaaz Merchant points to conscious possession by Aryan Khan. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday were again hiked by 35 paise per litre each, pushing rates to new highs across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.19 a litre and Rs 112.11 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.89 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.92. The rate hike comes after two days of no changes. Prior to that, for four straight days prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each. With this rise, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals while diesel has touched the level in over a dozen states. Diesel crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Panaji and Ranchi. The costliest fuel is in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 118.23 a litre and diesel for Rs 109.04. Since ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 17th increase in petrol price and the 20th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in over a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Goa and Ladakh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. International benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.43 per barrel on Wednesday for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.92. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rate revision on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rate has gone up by Rs 6.50 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 5. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SC asks Uttar Pradesh govt to record statements of remaining witnesses||The Supreme Court on Wednesday came down hard on the Uttar Pradesh government for its ongoing probe into the sensational Lakhimpur Kheri case, saying it thought police are dragging feet and they are required to dispel that impression and ensure recording of statements of witnesses before magistrates and their protection. "We think you are dragging your feet, please dispel that impression," observed the top court, adding that the probe should not be an unending story and red-flagged the issue of non-recording of statements of nearly 40 prosecution witnesses, of the total 44, before judicial magistrates under section 164 of the CrPC. "Please ask them to immediately take steps to record section 164 statements. That is the most important thing...protection to the victims as well as the witnesses," said the bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Statements under section 164 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) are recorded before a judicial magistrate and they have evidentiary value. The apex court, hearing a matter about the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest, was told by the state government that statements of four out of the 44 witnesses have been recorded by the judicial magistrate. Ten people, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in connection with the case. The bench raised the issue of filing of status report on the day of hearing with the CJI observing, "We waited till 1 AM last night for any filing. But we received nothing ." Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared along with advocate Garima Prasad for the state government, said the status report has been filed in a sealed cover on Wednesday because of the impression that it was for the perusal of the court only. "No that was not required and we have just received it now...we never said anything about sealed covers," the bench said while declining the request to hear the matter on Friday. It listed the next hearing on October 26. "Mr Salve, you said that you (police) have examined 44 witnesses and out of them, four witnesses' statements have been recorded under section 164 (before a judicial magistrate) of CrPC. Why have you not recorded the statements of other witnesses under 164?" It asked. "It is going on. The process is going on my Lordships," Salve said, adding that earlier the concern was that it appeared that police were going a little soft on the accused and now they all have been arrested and now everybody is in jail. He said there were two crimes and in the first one, the accused drove into the farmers and in the second FIR, three of the accused, who drove into the farmers, were lynched. In the lynching case, the probe is little difficult as who did what is difficult to ascertain given the big crowd of farmers, he said. The bench said it was asking questions about the first FIR and sought to know the number of accused and their status in the probe. "Today, how many of them are in judicial custody and how many of them are in police custody... Because, until or unless they are interrogated you may not get any information," the bench asked. :Total 10 accused have been arrested and out of them, four are in police custody and the remaining six have been sent to jail in judicial custody," the lawyer said. "What happened to the remaining six accused? Did you apply to seek their police custody or they were straightway sent to judicial custody?" the court asked. "They were in police custody and as you did not seek their police remand so they were sent to judicial custody. What is the situation in this case? We just want the facts to be clarified. There are situations where the police demand the custody of the accused and the court declines and send the accused to judicial custody and there are cases in which police says that the accused is no longer required in police custody and therefore, the court has no choice but to send the accused to police custody. What is the situation in this case," it said. The state counsel said that the accused were interrogated in police custody for three days before being sent to jail. "I am given to understand that the statements have been recorded and a lot of videos have been received and they all have been sent to forensic labs and once they (reports) come, it will be pretty clear. They may not be needed for interrogation here," Salve said. "Mr Salve, This should not be the unending story, the bench said and raised the issue of witness protection saying that the SIT is best suited to identify those who are the most vulnerable witnesses or who can be browbeaten tomorrow...influenced." On the recording of statements, Salve said they were being recorded and would begin as the courts have reopened after vacation. Criminal courts closed for Dussehra vacations, the bench said. On being told that police reconstructed the crime scene, it said, it was something different and the recording of statements under section 164 was different and such statements have the evidentiary value unlike the statements given to police as they will not lead anywhere . "I have seen the areas of concern of my lords and please have it next week. Your lordship will see where we are, Salve said, adding that the state will make a proper witness protection programme in this case and present them before the court," Salve said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Ensure no safe havens anywhere for those who betray India, PM tells CVC, CBI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday directed officials of the Central Vigilance Commission and the Central Bureau of Investigation to ensure there are no safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country. Virtually addressing a joint conference of the CVC and the CBI at Kevadia in Gujarat, Modi said no matter how powerful a person may be, stern action should be taken against those who work against the interest of the nation or its people. The statement comes at a time when the central government is engaged in legal proceedings to bring back alleged economic offenders like Vijjay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Chowksi, who have taken refuge in foreign countries. "You have to remember that your partnership is with this 'mitti' (soil), with Maa Bharti (Mother India). There should not be any safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country or its people," the PM said addressing the conference. However powerful one may be, stern action should be taken against those who work contrary to the national interest or of our people. We should continue our work in the national interest, he said. Modi said due to the hard work of his government in the last six-seven years, a faith has been established among people that corruption can be stopped. "In the last six-seven years, we have been able to establish a faith among people that it is possible to stop corruption in the country. People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any give and take or without any middlemen, he said. "Corruption, big or small, takes away the rights of common people. It is a hindrance in the progress of the country and affects our collective energy," he added. Modi said the previous government lacked the will to control corruption. "The way the earlier government functioned, it lacked the political and administrative will to fight corruption. Today, there is a political will and administrative reforms are also being carried out to achieve the goal," he said. He said after independence, the mindset of the governments was to keep everything under their control. Those governments kept maximum control with themselves and due to it, the system witnessed many wrong practices, he said. "Maximum control, be it at home, in family or in the country, causes maximum damage, Modi said. We started as a mission to simplify the life of people by reducing controls, we believe in minimum government and maximum governance, he said. The prime minister listed various initiatives taken by his government to curb corruption in the last seven years by using technology and trusting people. You all are witnessing how we used trust and technology to make people free which has stopped corruption in many ways, he said. Modi asked officials to work to prevent corruption, instead of just focusing on ways to detect crime after a fraud takes place. He also asked officials of the CBI and CVC to brainstorm on how to find ways to save people from cyber frauds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Two LeT militants killed in encounter in JK's Shopian||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants were killed and three security personnel injured in an encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said. One of the slain ultras has been identified as Adil Wani, who was involved in the killing of a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur, three days back, IGP, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar, said. Officials said security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Dragad area of Shopian district following information about presence of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces who retaliated. The officials said two ultras of The Resistance Front (TRF) , a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba, have been killed. Three security force personnel sustained injuries in the operation, the officials said. In a tweet, the IGP said, "One of the killed #terrorists has been #identified as Adil Ah Wani, active since 7/2020... So far, 15 terrorists have been #neutralised in 2 weeks". "Killed #terrorist Adil Wani was #involved in #killing of a poor carpenter namely Sakir Ah Wani S/O Gulam Kadir Wani R/O Saharanpur UP. Adil Wani was District Commander Shopian of proscribed #terror outfit LeT(TRF)," Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates Kushinagar international airport in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated a new international airport at Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh and said his government has taken a number of steps to instil new energy in the aviation sector. Kushinagar is the final resting place of Gautama Buddha where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death and is among the most important pilgrim spots for Buddhists. The new airport, built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore, is part of the government's endeavour to connect Buddhist pilgrimage sites around the world. After inaugurating the airport, Modi said it will boost connectivity and tourism, while also helping develop an entire economic ecosystem in the region and create new job opportunities. He said the government's special attention to the development of places associated with Lord Buddha and developing Kushinagar are among the top priority areas for the UP and central governments. Referring to the recent decision to privatise Air India, Modi said the country has taken a big step related to Air India so that its aviation sector should run professionally, and convenience and safety should be given priority. "This step will give new energy to the aviation sector of India," the prime minister said and also referred to the reforms related to the opening of defence airspace for civil use. On the newly launched 'PM Gatishakti- National Master Plan', Modi said this will not only improve the governance, but it will also be ensured that whether it is road, rail, or plane, they support each other and increase each other's capacity. On the UDAN scheme, he said more than 900 new routes have been approved in the last few years, out of which air service has started on more than 350. Besides, more than 50 new airports or those which were not in service earlier have been made operational, he added. The new Kushinagar airport's terminal building is spread across 3,600 square metres. It has been developed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in association with the Uttar Pradesh government. The new terminal can handle 300 passengers during peak hours. The airport will help in attracting more followers of Buddhism from home and abroad to Kushinagar and will enhance the development of a Buddhist theme-based circuit, according to the aviation ministry. "Journey of Lumbini, Bodhgaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar, Shravasti, Rajgir, Sankisa and Vaishali of Buddhist circuit will be covered in lesser time," the civil aviation ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 229 days||India logged 14,623 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,41,08,996, while the active cases declined to 1,78,098, the lowest in 229 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,651 with 197 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 26 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 115 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.52 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,020 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,23,702 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,44,29,890. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 51 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 117 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,78,247, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 99.12 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 197 new fatalities include 77 from Kerala and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,651 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,865 from Maharashtra, 37,967 from Karnataka, 35,928 from Tamil Nadu, 27,002 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,998 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Priyanka proposes 40% seats for women||Ten women attended the fourth session of the Congress in Bombay in 1889. Since then, the rise in women’s participation in politics has been progressing at a glacial pace with barely 10-15 per cent presence in Parliament, much less in Assemblies, even though India had a woman Prime Minister, a woman President and several women chief ministers. Of the 10 in 1889, the majority were from Bengal, including Swarnakumari Devi, the poet and Rabindranath Tagore’s sister, and Kadambini Ganguly, one of the first two women graduates from Calcutta University and the first woman doctor of Bengal. Annie Besant became the first woman Congress president in 1917, followed by Sarojini Naidu in 1925, and Mahatma Gandhi later revolutionised mass movements by encouraging the participation of women. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra introduced the big idea of giving 40 per cent tickets to women in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Political scientist Zoya Hasan told The Telegraph: “This is an innovative, radical idea whose time has come. Giving tickets to woman candidates is one way of increasing representation of women in the political process.” Hasan, however, did not shy away from pointing out that “I am not sure if this wonderful idea will work. The caste and community issues are so deep-rooted in Uttar Pradesh that introducing gender at this late stage may be a risky gamble. But there should be no dispute on the need for drastically increasing women’s participation in politics.” Willy-nilly, Priyanka’s move brings back into focus the freedom movement’s glorious legacy of supporting the concept of gender equality — and the dismal picture in contemporary India. In 1920, Sarojini Naidu led a delegation of the Women’s India Association to England to lobby for voting rights for women. In 1931, at the Karachi session, the Congress passed a resolution to formally grant equal rights to women in all aspects as the stalwarts of the freedom movement felt that women should not suffer any legal infirmity that a man does not face. India’s Constitution gave women the right to vote at the very outset; women were allowed to vote in America only after a struggle of over 100 years. Given the sound footing that India started on, the progress has been pathetic. In 2019, a report placed India towards the bottom of the chart in terms of percentage of women members in Parliament. While Rwanda topped the table with 61 per cent, followed by Mexico (48.2 per cent), Sweden (47.3 per cent) and the US (23.6 per cent), India was behind Pakistan (20.2 per cent) with barely 12.6 per cent members. The maximum number of women till now (78) was elected in the 2019 parliamentary election. Even now, Priyanka’s bold decision was received with dismay by many Congress leaders. They privately argued that there are not many woman candidates and such gambles should not be undertaken without sufficient preparation. Nobody wanted to speak on record but the majority of these Congress leaders felt that the decision would create space for the party in the public discourse and invent a powerful narrative like the Nyay scheme did in 2019, but may not yield immediate electoral dividends. Preventing women from contesting elections only on the yardstick of perceived “winnability” (as men are more entrenched with money and muscle power) has only strengthened the traditional hierarchies. But some leaders do believe this move will shake up the electoral pot and seriously challenge the presumption that men are better placed to win. “Right kind of messaging can trigger unexpected reactions from a society which has faced horrors like Unnao and Hathras,” contended Congress Rajya Sabha MP Kumar Ketkar, insisting that all the big ideas witnessed by the Indian polity have been the product of the Congress mind. Ketkar reeled off a list. “It began with the Avadi resolution piloted by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1955, which gave a decisive socialist turn to Indian politics. Land reforms were badly needed at that time. The dowry prohibition act in 1961, then Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalisation, abolition of the privy purse…. “In 1971, she legalised abortion when it was blasphemy to talk about it in America. In 1972, at the Stockholm earth conference, she made a radical proposal for environmental protection. The Tiger project was entirely her idea. The linguistic reorganisation of states, panchayati raj, economic liberalisation, telecom revolution… the Congress continued to change India.” Ketkar added: “Don’t forget the historic rights-based legislations by the UPA. Could the Narendra Modi government have brought in the RTI? They are killing the RTI Act. The women’s reservation bill, MGNREGA, the Food Security Act, Right to Education, the Land Acquisition Act… and now 40 per cent reservation for women in tickets. This will change India’s political landscape.” If the Congress sticks to the plan irrespective of abnormal pressure of realpolitik, a new beginning may indeed be made with far-reaching consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Govt entity, and patients’ rights group oppose Covid drug patent||An Indian government entity and a patients’ rights group have independently opposed a patent application in India by the US company Merck for molnupiravir, the first oral antiviral agent shown to reduce by 50 per cent Covid hospitalisation or death. The Entrepreneurship Development Centre (EDC), a unit of the Union science ministry’s department of scientific and industrial research, and the Cancer Patients’ Aid Association (CPAA), have both argued that molnupiravir lacks novelty and inventive features and thus does not qualify for a patent. Indian law allows pre-grant opposition against patent applications. Health activists say the pre-grant oppositions — four so far — to Merck’s patent plea in India have raised hopes that inexpensive generic versions of the drug will be available to middle-income countries. The activists say that several middle-income countries have been left out of a Merck production pact with five Indian manufacturers. “The opposition, especially from a government agency, is encouraging — we anticipate a large global demand best met through inexpensive generic versions,” said Leena Menghaney, a lawyer focused on access to medicines with the international humanitarian agency Medicins Sans Frontieres. The US drug regulatory authority is currently evaluating an emergency use authorisation application for molnupiravir. Clinical trials have found that 7.3 per cent of Covid-19 patients who received molnupiravir were hospitalised compared with 14.1 per cent patients on placebo who were hospitalised or who died. A Reuters report had earlier this month quoted Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Centre for Health Security in the US, as saying that an oral antiviral that can impact hospitalisation risk to such a degree “would be game-changing”. Merck, which has said it expects to produce 10 million courses of treatment by the end of 2021, had in April this year announced voluntary licensing pacts with five Indian drug makers to allow them to make molnupiravir for India and over 100 low- and middle-income countries. A query sent by this newspaper to one of the partner drug makers asking about the status of molnupiravir in India, planned production and the likely cost in the country has not evoked a response. A Merck spokesperson was not immediately available for a response. Reuters reported earlier this month that the US government is buying 1.7 million courses of treatment at $700 per course, but health activists believe the drug’s generic versions from Merck’s Indian partners will be priced at or below $20 (Rs 1,502) per course. But Menghaney and others believe that Merck’s voluntary licences with Indian drug makers will be insufficient to meet the anticipated global demand. Under the pact, the Indian partners — Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Hetero Labs and Sun Pharmaceuticals — can supply the drug to 104 countries. Brook Baker, professor of law at Northeastern University in the US and policy analyst with Health Gap, an international advocacy organisation ensuring access to life-saving medicines, said middle-income countries excluded from the licensing pact had 30 million infections in the first half of 2021. “Even if the Indian generics make it to market and can satisfy this demand in (their) licensed territories, Merck will be unable to meet the remaining 70 per cent of global need,” Baker wrote earlier this month in a Health Gap report analysing the challenges for global supply of molnupiravir. Argentina, Brazil, central Asian countries and eastern Europe are not covered by the licences. “This is why the opposition to the patent in India becomes critical,” Menghaney said. “Plus, the opposition is in line with the Indian government’s own submission to the World Trade Organisation seeking waiver of intellectual property on Covid-19-related diagnostics, treatment and vaccines.” Health activists believe the opposition to the molnupiravir patent will encourage other Indian generic producers to make their own versions of the medicine for India and other countries. The Entrepreneurship Development Centre in its opposition has said it serves as a “nerve centre” supporting the activities of an Indian government task force for repurposing drugs for Covid-19 created by the principal scientific adviser to the Centre. The Cancer Patients’ Aid Association had eight years ago successfully challenged a Novartis patent on a drug used in the treatment of blood cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Fake videos being used to create communal tension: Bangladesh home minister||Bangladesh home minister Asaduzzaman Khan on Tuesday said that a group with “vested interests” was circulating fake videos on social media to create communal tension in the country following the attacks on Hindus during Durga Puja. Khan cited the example of a video showing a gruesome murder in Dhaka being projected as footage of the killing of Jatan Kumar Saha in Noakhali during last week’s communal clashes. The minister, who was interacting with reporters at a programme titled “Technological Modernisation of Rab (Rapid Action Battalion)”, confined his comments to how the misleading video had gone viral in Bangladesh. Across the border, a strikingly similar video clip was doing the rounds in Bengal. The clip has a tagline saying how Jatan Saha, a Hindu Grand Alliance activist, was murdered in a temple at Noakhali. Several BJP leaders, such as Debdas Mondal, general secretary, Bongaon Organisational district of the party, shared the video on Monday, seeking justice for the deceased. In Bangladesh, minister Khan explained that the 30-second clip he was referring to was of a May 16 incident in Dhaka’s Pallabi area over a property dispute. “But a group with vested interests is circulating it, calling it the footage of the killing of Jatan Kumar Saha in Noakhali, who died in the recent clashes.… This is being done with the intention of creating communal tension. We condemn such actions,” Khan said. Biplob Borua, office secretary of the Bangladesh Awami League and a special assistant to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, said the footage showed the murder of one Shahin, in his forties, who was hacked to death by a machete-wielding duo over the property dispute. Borua said: “This video had gone viral even when the incident had taken place.… The law-enforcement agencies had arrested the people involved in the murder and all of them are still behind bars. The attempt to pass off the same video as that of a killing inside a temple is nothing but a sinister plan to create communal disharmony,” Borua said. In Calcutta, Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of the state BJP, was asked to comment on the veracity of the video that some party leaders had been sharing on social media. Bhattacharya said: “This is one of the dark sides of social media. It wasn’t shared to propagate hate. People here are scared and hence must have shared this video, which anyway has originated from Bangladesh. However, one must be very cautious and careful about sharing such videos.” According to Borua, the investigative agencies have begun a probe to find out the people who had brought out the old video and circulated it in Bangladesh. Police sources in Dhaka said the preliminary investigations by Rab indicated the involvement of some IDs in Calcutta. “We are trying to trace the Bangladeshis who made the video go viral after it was uploaded by some people in Calcutta,” said a source. The situation in Bangladesh remained calm on Tuesday as no major incident of attack on minorities was reported. Prime Minister Hasina took stock of the situation at a cabinet meeting and asserted that the people behind the attacks on the minorities would not be spared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Maha minister urges CJI for judicial probe into Aryan Khan drug case||A Maharashtra minister has urged the Chief Justice of India to order a judicial probe into the manner in which a narcotics officer has been functioning and has levelled explosive charges against the backdrop of the arrest of Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in a drugs case. In a letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Kishor Tiwari has alleged that the unnamed NCB officer had been acting against filmstars and models because the investigator’s wife “is in direct competition” with them. Tiwari has urged Justice Ramana to protect the fundamental rights of Aryan, who has been in custody since October 2. Aryan’s lawyers have repeatedly said that no drugs had been found on him. Aryan was among 20 people arrested from a rave party on a cruise ship bound for Goa on October 2 by an undercover NCB team. Tiwari wrote: “I most respectfully pray to take suo motu cognisance on top priority to protect the fundamental human rights of Mr Aryan Shah Rukh Khan, an accused under the crime registered by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Mumbai, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India, New Delhi, and also order judicial enquiry and investigation into the mala fide role and vendetta-style of working of NCB officer whose wife is in competition with other film celebrity/ model against whom NDPS Act action (has been) taken by this biased NCB officer.” “It is painful to note that it’s incredible that someone remains inside (jail) for so many days without seizure of drugs or any other proof. No medical report of consumption, so no consumption. I am very much surprised that how can Aryan be held in custody, when the maximum sentence would be one year, even assuming that he has taken drugs, but his fundamental rights… are to be protected till his conviction…,” Tiwari added. Tiwari said the detention of Aryan, 23, was contrary to Supreme Court judgments that “bail is a right and jail an exception”. “The mala fide, autocratic style, approach & dirty vendetta affairs of NCB officer at Mumbai, targeting select film celebrity & a few models since last two years is also a matter of big concern, given the fact that the officer’s wife at Mumbai is also a film celebrity having direct competition with the models & film celebrities against whom her husband NCB official is taking action under the NDPS Act,” Tiwari alleged in the letter. “… I would like to request your honour to institute a special judicial investigation & enquiry to unearth the role of the NCB official whose wife is said to be instrumental in crafting cases against competitor film celebrity,” the letter added. Last year, the NCB had summoned several actors in connection with a drugs probe in the aftermath of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sushant’s friend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, had been arrested against the backdrop of an unprecedented smear campaign. Tiwari has raised the following issues for the consideration of the CJI: ⚫ The NCB officer whom Tiwari has not named is acting out of vendetta against select film celebrities and models. ⚫ The officer’s wife is a Marathi actress, who apparently has not been able to make it big in Bollywood. So, the ongoing probe seems guided by personal vendetta. ⚫In the past 15-18 months, why have only film personalities and their families, national and international models, producers and directors been targeted? ⚫ The alleged NCB seizures from the cruise ship are “miniscule” compared to the seizure of 3,000kg of contraband from the Mundra port in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Supreme Court set to resume physical hearings on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is set to resume physical hearings on Wednesday, over a year and a half after the Covid lockdown forced its closure in March 2020, with the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and the Pegasus snooping cases attracting attention. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident where a car owned by a Union minister and with his son allegedly in it mowed down four farmers and a journalist on October 3, is among the cases that is scheduled to be taken up for physical hearing on Wednesday. As many as 14 benches will hear various cases on the opening day. A record 33 judges — the entire strength — will be simultaneously in action in the apex court on Wednesday. However, physical hearings will be held only on Wednesdays and Thursdays. A mix of offline and online hearings will be conducted on Tuesdays. On Mondays and Fridays the apex court will continue to hold virtual hearings. The quality of hearings had been significantly affected because of patchy Internet connectivity disturbing the proceedings, court sources said. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had pulled up the court registry several times over inconsistent Net connectivity. Online hearings had also given an undue advantage to senior and prominent lawyers who have been appearing in several cases across the country virtually from one location, affecting the incomes of local lawyers, the sources said. The physical hearings will be held adhering to Covid protocol. All entries will be closely monitored and visitors, including lawyers and journalists, will have to undergo thermal screening and wear masks. The court halls will be sanitised between hearings. The decision to resume physical hearings on at least three days a week was taken by CJI Ramana following representations from various lawyers’ associations, including Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh. Lakhimpur massacre A bench of CJI Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will hear the Lakhimpur case in person on Wednesday. The bench had earlier expressed its displeasure at the tardy handling of the matter by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. After sustained grilling by the CJI, the Adityanath government arrested Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, seven days after a Thar jeep ploughed through protesting farmers. At the last hearing on October 8, the Supreme Court had come down heavily on the state government for failing to arrest Ashis, with CJI Ramana wondering if similar privileges would be extended to all other murder accused in the country. Expressing dissatisfaction with the investigation conducted by the Adityanath government, the court had said the police officers involved should no longer be associated with the probe and that the court would explore the possibility of constituting an independent team as even the CBI could not be relied on in this case. Senior advocate Harish Salve had assured the court that he would convey its anguish and suggestions to the government. On Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh government is expected to inform the court about whether it would set up an independent special investigation team, and its composition and other details, failing which the court could pass orders. Pegasus snooping During the course of the week, the CJI is expected to constitute an independent team to investigate the allegations that the Centre had used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on judges, journalists, activists, politicians and others. Several petitions have been filed by members of the civil society alleging violation of the fundamental right to privacy. Justice Ramana is said to be in the process of eliciting the consent of certain independent personalities, some of whom had expressed their inability to be part of an SIT proposed by the apex court citing “personal reasons”. The court had earlier decided to set up the SIT after the Narendra Modi government refused to either admit or deny the espionage charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||India, Israel, US and UAE to set up forum for economic cooperation||India, Israel, the US and the UAE on Monday decided to set up an international forum for economic cooperation with special attention to joint infrastructure projects and maritime security during their first meeting in this Jerusalem-initiated process that is being billed by some observers as another Quad. The meeting was held in the virtual format and coincided with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s ongoing visit to Israel. While Jaishankar and his host, Israeli Alternate Prime Minister and foreign minister Yair Lapid, sat in on the meeting together, US secretary of state Antony Blinken and UAE’s foreign minister Abdullah bin Zayed joined through video link. The meeting comes at a time when Israel and the UAE — both long-standing allies of the US — have deepened their engagement with China. This quadrilateral format for cooperation between the four like-minded countries was proposed by Lapid during his recent visit to Washington to mark the first anniversary of the Abraham Accords along with his UAE counterpart. The Accords — seen by some foreign policy experts as an effort by the US to break the momentum of the growing partnership between Israel and China under former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s watch — normalised diplomatic relations between Israel and the UAE, and paved the way for Emirati capital to enter Israel. In a readout on the meeting, the Israeli foreign ministry quoted Lapid as saying: “Around this virtual table — there is a unique set of capabilities, knowledge, and experience that can be used to create the network that we all want to see created. I think the word we’re looking for here is synergy, because this is what we’re going to try and create starting with this meeting. Synergy that will help us work together on infrastructure, digital infrastructure, transport, maritime security and other things that preoccupy us all.” Elaborating on what he has in mind, Lapid said: “The key to success is how quickly can we move from ‘government-to-government’ to ‘business-to-business’. How quickly can we turn this into a working process that will put boots on the ground, changing infrastructure around the world.”  During the meeting, the four ministers — who plan to hold an in-person meeting during the ongoing Dubai Expo — explored possibilities for joint infrastructure projects in the fields of transportation, technology, maritime security, and economics and trade. They agreed to appoint senior-level professionals to a joint working group that will formulate options for cooperation in the shortlisted areas. In a separate readout, US state department spokesman Ned Price said the four ministers discussed expanding economic and political cooperation in West Asia and rest of Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security. Also on the table are people-to-people ties in technology and science, and how to support global public health in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic. There was no Indian readout on the meeting. The only official word came from Jaishankar through a tweet: “A fruitful first meeting with Israeli APM and FM @YairLapid, UAE FM @ABZayed and US Secretary of State @SecBlinken this evening. Discussed working together more closely on economic growth and global issues. Agreed on expeditious follow-up.’’  While none of the official readouts mentioned China, the plan to have joint infrastructure projects and cooperate on maritime security indicate an effort to pool resources and counter the growing Chinese footprint in West Asia and rest of the continent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Priyanka to field 40 per cent women candidates||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said the decision to field 40 per cent women candidates in the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh is for “every woman who wants to bring change and expects justice and unity”. “We have decided that the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh will give 40 per cent tickets to women in the coming Assembly election,” Priyanka, who is the Congress in-charge of the state, said at a news conference in Lucknow. Replying to a question whether the Congress would give tickets to women from families of its own leaders, she said: “I don’t see anything wrong in doing so. The women grow after joining politics.” “We pledge that women would participate well in the politics of Uttar Pradesh,” she added. Explaining why the party took this decision, she said: “Some girl students of Allahabad University had met me when I had come to Uttar Pradesh to campaign in the (Lok Sabha) election in 2019 and they told me how the rules of the university and the hostels were different for them and the male students. This decision is for them.” “I have taken this decision for the woman who during the Ganga Yatra (March 2019) told me that while she wanted to educate her children, there was no school in her village. “This decision is for Paro, a girl of Prayagraj (Allahabad) who held my hand and said that she wants to be a leader,” the Congress leader said. Priyanka said the decision was for the Unnao rape survivor, the mother of the Hathras gang rape and murder victim, and for Vaishnavi, the daughter of journalist Raman Kashyap who was killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage on October 3, who told her she “wants to be a doctor”. “Another girl I met in Lakhimpur Kheri (last week) told me she wants to become the Prime Minister,” the Congress leader said. “This decision is also for the women constables Madhu and Puja who took me to the PAC guesthouse in Sitapur (when she was arrested on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri on October 7 to meet the families of the massacre victims) and were on duty at 4am.” Priyanka said that while she had wished to reserve 50 per cent tickets for women in Uttar Pradesh, she went by the decision of the state Congress committee. “The Congress units of other states may follow this if they wish,” she said. “Women have to come forward if we want to pull the country out from the politics of religion and caste and take it on the path of politics of development, equality and participation.” Priyanka said the party has sought applications from women candidates in every Assembly constituency till November 15 and called them to come forward. With this decision, the Congress is expected to give 160 tickets to women out of the total 403 Assembly seats. Observers believe it would be a difficult decision for the party to follow as Priyanka has already said in the past that she was not averse to an alliance with anti-BJP outfits. In that case, practical coordination in each seat wouldn’t be easy. Priu Priyanka side-stepped a question whether she would be the chief ministerial candidate of the party in the Assembly election and said it will be announced at an appropriate time. Asked how she would deal with family politics within the Congress, she said: “It is true that people put forward their wives, daughters in election but there is nothing wrong in it. They become efficient after joining politics. I remember there was a pradhan (village chief) in a committee who fielded his wife (in the panchayat poll). After a few years, he came to me and complained that she takes her own decisions and doesn’t listen to him. It is the beginning of a process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||VHP activists barge into all-faith prayer hall run by a Lingayat man||Activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad allegedly barged into an all-faith prayer hall run by a Lingayat man in central Karnataka who believes in Jesus Christ and sang bhajans after accusing him of being a pastor engaged in forced conversions. Somu Avaradhi, who runs the Prayer House for All People’s Church in Hubli, 400km from Bangalore, has been arrested after a local lodged a police complaint accusing him of trying to forcibly convert him. No action has, however, been taken against the VHP activists who forcibly entered the prayer hall on Sunday and were also accused of roughing up some people. In a video clip that has been widely shared on social media, the VHP activists can be seen chanting “Shri Ram, Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram”. Hubli deputy commissioner of police K. Ramarajan told The Telegraph on Tuesday that Avaradhi has been booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “He is accused of speaking ill of Scheduled Caste people,” the officer said. Asked if the VHP members would be arrested for trespass and creating communal tension, Ramarajan said: “There is no complaint (against the activists), but we are investigating the matter.” In a video clip that emerged on Tuesday, Avaradhi is seen telling the VHP activists that he had neither embraced Christianity nor had he been instrumental in converting anyone. “I did not change my name, caste or religion. Even today my certificate shows I am a Lingayat,” he said, responding to the allegation that he was a pastor. While government records describe the Lingayats as a community within the fold of Hinduism, it was formed as a separate religion by the 12th-century social reformer Basaveshwara. A sizeable chunk of the community still considers themselves as members of a separate religion. “A pastor gave me a copy of the Bible when I was battling for my life in 2000. Since then I became a follower of Jesus Christ and have been praying at my home,” Avaradhi is seen telling the VHP activists in the video. It is not clear what had happened to him two decades ago. A local man who regularly prays at the hall said VHP activists rushed in chanting Jai Shri Ram and began singing bhajans. The man, who declined to be named, said Vishwanath, who has accused Avaradhi of trying to convert him, had never been seen at the prayer hall. The man said the VHP activists assaulted some of those at the prayer hall. He alleged that the local police station did not accept his complaint on the ground that the inspector was not available. Karnataka VHP convener Raghu Sakleshpura claimed before reporters that Avaradhi was a pastor and had tried to convert Vishwanath, a Dalit, to Christianity. “We went to protest after Vishwanath complained against the pastor for trying to convert him. We only sang bhajans and did not do anything wrong,” Sakleshpura said. Some Christians in Hubli met Congress leader P.C. Siddaramaiah late on Monday in the city to apprise him about the incident. They plan to hold a protest in case the police fail to act against the VHP activists. BJP-ruled Karnataka has been witnessing a surge in communal incidents in the past few months. The Sangh parivar wields considerable influence in the southern state. Last week, a Karnataka legislative committee dominated by the BJP ordered a survey on churches and the functioning of Christian missionaries, triggering fears that it would be used as an excuse to harass the minority community. Bangalore South Lok Sabha member and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya had on Monday sparked off a boycott call against apparel retailer Fabindia for its Deepavali-themed advertisement with a Urdu catchphrase. “Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz,” he had tweeted, misspelling Jashn-E-Riwaaz that had been used in the Fabindia ad. “This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out,” Surya had tweeted, instantly triggering a social media outrage against the company that eventually pulled down the ad. In a video that has been circulating on social media, Sree Ram Sene chief Pramod Muthalik is seen exhorting his followers to start an Ayodhya-style agitation against the Juma Masjid in Gadag, north Karnataka, on Sunday. “We had to fight for 72 years to get the Ram temple (in Ayodhya). After 72 years, the dream of a Ram temple has been fulfilled by demolishing the Babri Masjid. In the same way, the Juma Masjid in Gadag is Venkateshwara devasthana (temple), and I am saying with full confidence that it should be razed,” Muthalik is seen telling a Sene meeting in Kannada. He went on to assert that he had proof to substantiate his claim. “There is proof that the Babri Masjid was built over a temple. We have proof that the Venkateshwara temple was demolished during Tipu Sultan’s rule and the Juma Masjid was built there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Indian Army chief visits Line of Control with Pakistan||Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Tuesday visited some forward areas along the Line of Control with Pakistan in the Jammu region amid the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One was a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Indian Army to deploy additional cameras on LAC in Arunachal||The Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor “aggressive” Chinese troops deployment along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector following the latest transgression in Arunachal Pradesh earlier in October, sources in India’s defence ministry said. “Additional digital cameras have been installed and satellite imagery is being used to watch Chinese movements along the LAC in the eastern sector. Recently, we have noticed aggressive patrolling by the Chinese troops in the eastern sector,” a ministry official told The Telegraph. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The eastern army commander, Lt Gen. Manoj Pande, said on Tuesday that there had been “marginal increase” in Chinese patrols in the eastern sector. Talking to reporters in Arunachal Pradesh, he said China had deployed a large number of reserve troops along the LAC in the eastern sector and also ramped up military exercises in the aftermath of the border standoff with India in eastern Ladakh since last May. Lt Gen. Pande said both India and China were trying to develop infrastructure closer to the LAC. Underlining that the presence of additional troops in Chinese operational depth areas was a matter of concern, he said India had also heightened its capacity. He said some of the reserve formations mobilised by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) also continued to remain in the depth areas. “As far as activities on the other side of the LAC are concerned, there has been some increase in the level of activity in the depth areas along the LAC by the PLA, especially during their annual training exercises,” Pande said. Lt Gen. Pande is the senior-most officer who is in line to take over as the next army chief after the incumbent Gen. M.M. Naravane retires in April next year. Pande said the Eastern Command had beefed up deployment in certain vulnerable areas along the LAC. According to him, the Eastern Command was trying to maximise technology for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Explaining the measures taken by the army to deal with the situation along the LAC, Lt Gen. Pande said the first step was to increase surveillance both close to the LAC and in the depth areas. Earlier this month Indian and Chinese troops had been locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 soldiers from the neighbouring country crossed over, sources in the defence ministry had said. The latest incursion took place a month after about 100 Chinese soldiers had transgressed 5km across the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a wooden bridge before retreating. Neither India’s defence ministry nor its army has yet made any official disclosure about the Uttarakhand and Arunachal transgressions, prompting veterans to suggest that silence may now be the official policy. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. The comment prompted Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held within India-claimed lines. In eastern Ladakh, the Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Kerala braces for another heavy downpour along with strong winds||The brief respite in rain in Kerala is set to give way to another heavy downpour accompanied by strong winds for four days from Wednesday, while the state government released excess water from its dams in central and southern districts. The Indian Meteorological Department sounded an orange alert for 11 of the 14 districts for Wednesday and 12 districts for Thursday when heavy to extremely heavy rain is expected. While Kasaragod, Kollam and Alappuzha have been put on yellow alert for Wednesday, all other districts will be under orange alert. Only Kannur and Kasaragod will be under yellow alert on Thursday leaving all other districts under orange alert. While a red alert is for extremely heavy rainfall of 200mm in 24 hours, orange alert denotes very heavy rain between 60mm and 200mm in 24hours, and yellow alert indicates 60mm to 110mm of rainfall. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said that 38 people had died in rain-related incidents between October 12 and 18. While 24 of them died in landslides in Kottayam and Idukki, most of the other people drowned. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged immense caution in high ranges and low-lying areas due to the adverse weather forecast from October 20 to 23. “There are possibilities of landslides and overflowing rivers. There is also the possibility of flash floods due to very heavy rains,” he said, urging people to heed the instructions of emergency services. He also urged the people and officials not to be overconfident due to the brief spells of good weather. “Just because there is a respite in rain during the day time, neither the people nor officials should be overconfident. There could be changes or even mistakes in the weather forecast. So everyone must follow the instructions until the disaster management authority withdraws them,” he added. Shutters of Idukki, Idamalayar, Kakki and Pampa dams were opened on Tuesday to release excess water considering the weather forecast that predicted more rain and the possibility of increased storage. The catchment areas of the dams had received abundant rainfall in the last few days. With lakhs of litres being released every second from each of the dams, the authorities had evacuated more than 200 people from 64 families residing along the banks of the Periyar river as a safety measure. Fishermen rushed to Aluva in Ernakulam with their boats to join the rescue mission in case the water flowing from the Idukki reservoir causes flooding like 2018 when the state faced one of the worst floods in a century that killed around 480 people. They had rescued thousands of people, their livestock and pets from the flooded areas three years ago. This was only the fourth time the shutters were opened at the Idukki dam that was commissioned in 1973, the three shutters being opened one by one at an interval of 30 minutes starting 11am. The shutters were last opened in 2018. Irrigation minister Roshi Augustine said the regulated opening of dam shutters was part of the management of water storage in the reservoirs considering the weather forecast. “The most important thing is to regulate the water levels in the dams. What is being done is a water storage management to avoid any emergency even in case we experience heavy rainfall in the next few days as enough water is being let out,” said Augustine. But unlike 2018, the authorities have already said there was no major risk of the Periyar or any other river breaking banks due to the outflow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Telangana to buy 125kg gold for Yadadri temple||The Telangana government will buy 125kg  gold from the Reserve Bank of India for gold-plating the “Vimana Gopuram” (temple tower) of Yadadri, the upcoming integrated temple city, chief minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after visiting the temple town, Rao said the government needs Rs 60-65 crore to buy the gold and the temple authorities are in touch with the experts who carried out a similar task at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam to execute the job. “We will complete the fund raising and buy the gold from the RBI so that we get pure gold,” Rao said. He said as the first donor he will donate an amount for 1.16kg of gold on his family’s behalf and similarly several ministers and MLAs have come forward to take part in the effort. As part of the Yadadri tour, the chief minister went around the Giri Pradhakshina steps road, construction taking place at the temple tower (gopuram) and gave suggestions and changes to the final works, a media release from the chief minister’s office said. He later inspected the works of integrated temple city construction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India||42 die in a day as rain batters Uttarakhand||At least 42 people were killed in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region on Tuesday as several houses collapsed following incessant downpour, taking the toll due to rain-related incidents in the state to 47. With 42 new fatalities, the toll in the disaster has risen to 47 as five deaths were reported on Monday. “The number of casualties in the Kumaon region alone has crossed 40,” deputy inspector-general of police Nilesh Anand Bharne told PTI. Twenty-eight people were killed in Nainital district, six each in Almora and Champawat, and one each in Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts, he said. Connectivity to Nainital, cut off from the rest of the state for the second day, was restored in the evening, officials said. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami undertook an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas and also interacted with the affected people. DIG Bharne said despite bad weather and continuing showers, the blocked roads in Nainital were cleared of rubble and connectivity to the tourist spot was restored. Around 100 people stranded at the Lemon Tree resort on the Ramnagar-Ranikhet route after water from a swollen Kosi river entered the resort were evacuated to safety. Dhami said the meteorological department has predicted an improvement in weather conditions from Tuesday evening onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India|| Covid test mandatory for visitors during Diwali and Chhath festivals||The Bihar government has made Covid-19 test mandatory for those coming from other states during Diwali and Chhath festivals, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday.  Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme 'Janata Ke Durbar Mein Mukhyamantri', Kumar said, health department officials will maintain special vigil on people arriving from other states at all railway stations, bus stands and interstate border check posts, and also make necessary arrangements for Covid-19 test at all these places. If people reaching Bihar are not found vaccinated, the government will make arrangements for their inoculation, he said, underscoring the need to be more vigilant during the festival season.  The state police force has also been directed to remain alert, he said. "Security forces as well as the people of the state must remain vigilant during the ongoing festival season to prevent anti-national forces from succeeding in their nefarious designs. I have also been taking regular review meetings for better coordination between the civil administration and police," he said. When asked about the implementation of the Crime and Criminal Tracking Networks and Systems (CCTNS), the chief minister said, the project aimed at comprehensive policing is being executed very effectively. The CCTNS is a Government of India project for creating a comprehensive and integrated system for effective policing through e-governance. The project is being executed by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). It seeks to integrate all data and records of crime into a Core Application Software (CAS), covering all states and union territories.  A total of 894 police stations in Bihar have already been brought under CCTNS and around 202 more will be covered by the end of this year, a senior state police official said. The project was launched after the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India||Cry to sack Odisha minister ||Odisha Congress workers on Tuesday hurled eggs at the official residence of the state’s minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shanakar Mishra and burnt his effigies, alleging that one of his close associates was involved in the murder of a lady schoolteacher in Kalahandi district. The minister hails from Kalahandi. Police on Tuesday also recovered a half charred decomposed body from an under-construction stadium in Kalahandi. Though locals and relatives pointed out that the body was that of the missing schoolteacher after seeing the gold chain and pair of anklets recovered from the spot, police are yet to make an official declaration and sent the remnants of the body to a lab for DNA test. The official announcement will be made after the DNA report is available with the police, officials said. It was alleged that Captain Mishra’s close associate, the president of the school management committee, Gobinda Sahu, where the teacher 24-year-old Mamita Meher was working (Sunshine English Medium School at Mahaling under Golamunda block), had perpetrated the crime. Sahu has been arrested. It was alleged that Mamita was kidnapped by the president and later murdered. The family members alleged that Mamita had got specific proof on how a sex racket was going on the school premises at the behest of the president and even had threatened to reveal it. Sahu’s school ran classes from one to 12 and also had a college on its campus. Though the police had taken main suspect Sahu into custody four days ago, he had managed to flee from the police barack on Sunday night. A video has gone viral in which Mishra was seen praising Sahu at a recent function. The Opposition alleged that the escape drama was enacted to give Mishra a clean chit. As pressure mounted following the Opposition hitting the street, police on Tuesday morning announced Rs 1 lakh for any one who gave any clue on Sahu’s whereabouts. It has also put posters on various places in Kalahandi and adjoining Bolangir. Sahu was finally arrested on Tuesday. Both the Opposition Congress and the BJP upped the ante and demanded the immediate resignation of the minister. The Congress workers too organised a demonstration at Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi, burnt the effigies of Capt Mishra and chief minister Naveen Patnaik and demanded the immediate resignation of the minister. The family members of Mamita said she was asked by Sahu on October 8 to come to school for some work. Mamita, who hails from Turekela of Bolangir, the neighbouring district, took a bus to reach the school. But on the way, she was kidnapped and has been missing since then. “The police had assured us to bring our daughter back alive. We suspect some heinous crime was done. We want our daughter back. The president of the school management committee Gobinda Sahu should be immediately arrested,” said missing girl’s uncle Kaushik Meher. Demanding a CBI probe, senior Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja: “A sex racket was going on the school premises. The minister used to visit the school premises and we do have proof. It was the minister who was giving patronage to the school management committee’s president.” The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra said: “Just levelling allegations won’t prove one guilty. Law will follow its own course. Culprit will be definitely punished.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
