21-10-2021||India||Actor Ananya Panday appears before NCB to record statement||Actor Ananya Panday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Thursday after the central agency allegedly came across WhatsApp chats during its investigation against Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in a drugs case, sources said. Ananya's father Chunky Panday accompanied her to the NCB office located at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, where they reached around 4 pm. The NCB's Mumbai zonal unit, which is probing the cruise drugs seizure case, in which Aryan Khan has been arrested, visited Ananya Panday's residence in Bandra this morning and summoned her to record her statement later in the day, the sources said. Ananya's name cropped up in the case after certain WhatsApp chats between her and Aryan Khan were allegedly found in the latter's mobile phone, the sources said, adding that earlier in the day, the NCB officials had seized her mobile and laptop. Ananya was asked to appear before the NCB in the afternoon. Accordingly, she along with her father Chunky Panday appeared before the NCB officials, the sources said. The NCB officials, however, are yet to clarify her role, if any, in the case. There was heavy deployment of police outside the NCB office and a large number of media persons were also present there. Aryan Khan was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the NCB raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. An NCB team visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra this afternoon for seeking from him certain material related to the investigation into the case, an official said. On Thursday morning, Shah Rukh Khan met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following his arrest in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Mandaviya launches song, film from Red Fort to mark India's Covid milestone||As the cumulative vaccine doses administered in India surpassed the 100-crore mark, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday launched a song and a film describing the efforts that went behind the launch of the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The Union Health minister launched the song and the film at the iconic Red Fort where the country's largest khadi tricolour, weighing around 1,400 kg, has been displayed. The same tricolour (225 feet by 150 feet) was unfurled on Gandhi Jayanti at Leh. "Today India created history. It's a story of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Sankalp'. 100 crore vaccine is a story of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Mandaviya said at the event. The song has been sung by singer Kailash Kher. The audio-visual film is about how the entire process of vaccination was initiated and what efforts it took to launch the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The film also thanks doctors, nurses and everyone else who contributed in the largest vaccination drive and made it a success. The flag was displayed at a raised slant platform at the lawn right in front of the ramparts of the Red Fort. Over 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while over 31 percent have been administered both the doses, according to Unon health ministry officials. To mark the milestone on the COVID-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have also been lined up. The Archaeological Survey of India will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the milestone which will be a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, officials said on Thursday. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. "After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go on a mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against COVID-19," Mandaviya had earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Kerala, true to form, is still the outlier in Covid-19 pandemic ||Kerala has been the odd man out in India’s fearsome Covid-19 pandemic. Now a government report shows the state’s playing true to form again with 82.6 per cent of the population having Covid-19 antibodies but the number of daily new cases coming down much more slowly than might have been expected. The government’s detailed seropositivity study which looks at how many people have Covid-19 antibodies studied different groups like tribals, antenatal women, children and also people living on the coast. It found that more than 80 per cent of each group had high seropositivity levels. People show Covid-19 antibodies when they have either had the illness or been vaccinated against it. Crucially, the study says that unvaccinated people had 70 per cent seropositivity, indicating the widespread nature of the infections in the state even before the vaccinations had reached a high level. Natural immunity is considered stronger protection than that afforded by vaccinations. Kerala reported over 11,000 new cases daily on Wednesday after falling to around 7,000 for a few days. Test positivity ratios are also at around 10 per cent, which is still quite high. About 94 per cent of the adult population has received one Covid-19 vaccination and 48 per cent has received two jabs. By contrast, Delhi, which according to one study had seropositivity levels of 86 per cent two months ago, reported only 35 new cases on Monday. Virologists and other medical researchers have been puzzled why Kerala with similarly high seropositivity levels is still having a large number of new cases daily. A second Death Analysis Report by the Kerala Government shows that out of 9,195 deaths between June 18, 2021, and September 3, 52.52 per cent had either hypertension or diabetes mellitus or both. Also, 12 per cent of people who died suffered from coronary artery disease and another 8.19 per cent had chronic kidney disease. First of a kind survey The Seropositivity report by the Kerala Government Department of Health and Family Welfare looked at six different segments including children between the ages of five and 17. The report says: “This survey is perhaps the first of its kind in India which also focuses on specific vulnerable populations like the Antenatal women, Tribal, coastal and urban slum populations.” This is the third seroepidemiological study carried out in Kerala since the pandemic began. The first report for the period May-June 2020 found there was not much community transmission. The second in February 2021 found “overall seroprevalence in the community” was at 10.76 per cent. An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) report in May 2021 found that Kerala seroprevalence estimates were around 44.4 per cent. This was at a time when the national seroprevalence was at 67.6 per cent. Children not showing symptoms Significantly, the study of children between five and 17 found that 40.2 per cent of them had SARS CoV-2 IgG antibodies. In the state’s Kasargod district which was one of the earliest to be badly hit by the pandemic, 63.3 per cent of children showed seropositivity. Similarly, Alappuzha district had 55 per cent seropositivity and Malappuram 50.9 per cent. In the thinly populated Wayanad district, only 7.9 per cent of the children showed seropositivity. The study on children assumes importance because the Kerala government is planning to open schools on November 1. However, this may not happen because of the severe floods in the state, says a state government official. The report also points out that children often do not show symptoms or have only mild symptoms so are often not tested for Covid-19. It says: “Infections among children are not adequately captured in our routine testing data. Estimation of infection rate among children thus becomes an important epidemiological exercise, especially in the context of relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions.” Children who lived in urban areas had higher seropositivity than youngsters from rural areas. Also, children who had been in contact with Covid-19 patients had higher levels of seropositivity. Vaccinations crucial In a warning to people resisting the vaccinations, the death report says that 90 per cent of the deaths were of people who had not been vaccinated. In sharp contrast, only 3 per cent of the deaths were people who had had both jabs. Kerala has earned itself the reputation as the state where the medical system was never overwhelmed by the case numbers and around 80 per cent of the people who were fatally afflicted, died in ICUs. A huge 92.82 per cent of people died in hospitals and only 5.59 per cent at home. The remainder appears to have died in transit. The greater burden of the pandemic was taken by the government hospitals so 62.68 per cent of the deaths took place in these institutions. The private hospitals had 36.33 per cent of the deaths. Kerala has a densely populated coastline of over 500km and it’s perhaps not surprising that the people tested from these areas had seropositivity levels of 87.7 per cent. Similarly, out of the urban slum-dwellers tested, 85.3 per cent had antibodies. At a slightly lower level, the tribals, many of whom live in relatively remote areas, showed seropositivity levels of 78.2 per cent. New study offers hope A study in the scientific journal Current Issues in Molecular Biology may suggest some clues to the nature of the deaths noted in the second Kerala report. Researchers have discovered the infection of cells with the Covid-causing coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 leads to increased levels of a “don’t destroy me” protein called CD47 on cell surfaces. The data suggested high virus-induced CD47 levels and age contributed to severe Covid-19 by preventing the immune system from mounting a strong defence and increasing disease-associated organ damage. Crucially, high CD47 levels are linked with diabetes and also contribute to high blood pressure, a big risk for Covid-19 complications like heart attacks, stroke and kidney disease. The good news is that since medicines targeting the reduction of CD47 levels are being developed, the discovery by the researchers at the University of Kent's School of Biosciences and the Institute of Medical Virology at Goethe-University may result in better treatments. “We may have identified a major factor associated with severe COVID-19. This is a huge step in combating the disease and we can now look forward to further progress in the design of therapeutics,” said Professor Martin Michaelis at the University of Kent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Woman of 'easy virtue' no reason to absolve rapist, says Kerala High Court ||A woman or girl being of easy virtue or habituated to sexual intercourse cannot be reasons to absolve someone of rape, especially a father who is expected to be the "fortress and refuge" of his daughter, the Kerala High Court said while convicting a man for repeatedly raping his daughter which also resulted in her becoming pregnant. The high court noted that when a father rapes his daughter, it was worse than a gamekeeper becoming a poacher or a treasury guard becoming a robber. The observations by Justice R Narayana Pisharadi came after the victim's father claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case as his daughter has admitted that she had sexual relations with another person. Rejecting his claims of innocence, the high court further said that DNA analysis of the baby, born in May 2013 as a result of the sexual assault, reveals that the victim's father was the biological father of the infant also. The high court said, "Even in a case where it is shown that the victim is a girl of easy virtue or a girl habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve the accused from the charge of rape. Even assuming that the victim is previously accustomed to sexual intercourse, that is not a decisive question." "On the contrary, the question which is required to be adjudicated is, did the accused commit rape on the victim on the occasion complained of. It is the accused who is on trial and not the victim." The high court further said that the father "was duty-bound to provide the victim girl protection and support." "But, he perpetrated sexual assault and rape on her. One cannot even imagine the trauma the victim would have suffered. The indelible imprint which the incestuous act has left in her mind cannot be ignored. She may feel the mental agony and pain for years to come," it said. The high court also observed, "There can never be graver and heinous crime than the father committing rape on his own daughter. The protector then becomes the predator. The father is the fortress and refuge of his daughter. "Charged of raping his own daughter under his refuge and fortress is worst than the gamekeeper becoming a poacher and treasury guard becoming a robber." In the instant case, the high court also noted that due to the rape committed by her father, the victim delivered a male child and therefore, the sufferings endured by her "would be beyond imagination". "In such circumstances, the accused is not entitled to any leniency in the matter of punishment," it added. The high court while convicting the man for rape and sentencing him to 12 years in jail, set aside the trial court's decision to sentence him to 14 years imprisonment under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on the ground that the prosecution was unable to prove the victim was a minor when the rapes occurred between June 2012-January 2013. The high court also set aside the man's conviction and sentence for criminal intimidation of the victim, saying the prosecution has not proved that she was being threatened with dire consequences by her father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Farmers have right to protest but they can't block roads indefinitely, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely even as the farmer unions and government embroiled themselves in a blame game. While the farmers' unions alleged that the police were responsible for the blockade as it suits them to allow a feeling in the minds of the citizens that farmers are blocking the road, the Centre said there was an oblique purpose behind the protests. During the hearing, a bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said it was not against the right to protest even when the legal challenge is pending but ultimately some solution has to be found. "Farmers have the right to protest but they cannot keep roads blocked indefinitely. You may have a right to agitate in any manner but roads should not be blocked like this. People have the right to go on roads but it cannot be blocked," the bench also comprising Justice M M Sundresh said. The top court asked the farmer unions to respond within three weeks on the issue and posted the matter for hearing on December 7. The bench noted that only four respondents have appeared before it in pursuance of its earlier direction. The apex court said the issue is limited here, "So far as the road is concerned, can the road be blocked? "We are only concerned with the issue that the roads are not blocked. Law is laid down (Shaheen Bagh protests case). You have a right to agitate but you cannot block roads. People also have right on the roads," the bench said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing farmers' associations, said the right to protest is a fundamental right. He said a large number of similar matters are pending before another bench of the apex court and this case should also be tagged along and be heard by the same bench. The senior advocate further alleged that roads were being blocked by the police and not farmers and said he has travelled six times on those roads. Dave said the simple solution to remove the blockade is that the police should allow farmers at Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. "Roads are blocked by the police. After stopping us, the BJP had a rally at Ramlila Maidan (over the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh) where more than five lakh people came. Why should they be selective? Why don't the lordship take cognisance of that? This is the double standard" Dave said. The solution is allow us to agitate at Jantar Mantar... he said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, submitted that there was an oblique purpose behind the protests and "sometimes it is felt the farmers' protest is not for the cause but for something else." Last time they came (on Republic Day), it became a serious issue... something much more than a serious issue, the Solicitor General submitted. Responding to his submission, Dave, however, said an independent investigation will show that the serious issue was engineered and the people have been given bail who allegedly insulted this country by climbing on Red Fort. On Mehta's submission that there was an oblique purpose behind the protests, Dave said he can't put allegations on bonafides of farmers. "We all know that passing of the farm laws was for an oblique purpose. It is to help corporate houses," he said. The bench asked Dave, "Is it your contention that roads can be occupied, or is it your contention that roads have been blocked by police." Dave submitted that the roads have been blocked due to improper arrangements by the Delhi police. "It suits them to allow a feeling that farmers are blocking the road. Let us come to Ramlila Maidan," Dave said. Mehta said that for some people Ramlila Maidan should be the residence as they survive on Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. Addressing the bench, Dave said judicial discipline demands that this matter be transferred to a three-judge bench. Reacting strongly to Dave's submission, the Solicitor General said, "We will not succumb to this browbeating." The apex court noted Dave's submission that he does not want this bench to hear the matter and the case be sent to another bench for hearing. The apex court had earlier wondered how can highways be blocked perpetually, while referring to road blockades by farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed last year, and said it is the executive's duty to implement the law laid down by the court. The top court had allowed the Centre to file a formal application to make farmer unions party to the plea seeking opening of road blockade at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at UP Gate here. The top court was hearing a plea of a NOIDA resident Monicca Agrawaal, who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protests. The farmers are protesting against the passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||NCB detectives visit homes of actors Shah Rukh Khan, Ananya Pandey||Officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) visited the residence of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday in connection with their investigation into a cruise drugs party case, sources said. The actor's son, Aryan Khan, was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the NCB raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. The NCB team, led by senior officials of the agency, visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra in the afternoon for some paperwork, sources said. Another team of the NCB also visited actor Ananya Pandey's residence in Bandra, they said. Pandey has been asked to appear before the NCB on Thursday to record her statement, the sources said. Earlier in the day, Shah Rukh Khan met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following arrest in a case of seizure of drugs on board the cruise ship off the city coast. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. He met his son for about 10 minutes, according to sources. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when the actor arrived. Heavy police security was also deployed outside the jail premises. A special court here on Wednesday denied bail to Aryan Khan, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan subsequently moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order. The HC on Thursday said it would hear his bail plea on October 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||100 heritage monuments to be lit in colours of Indian flag to mark 100 cr Covid vaccination feat||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the 100 crore COVID-19 vaccination milestone achieved in the country, officials said on Thursday. Seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites including the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun Tomb, Tughlaqabad Fort, Purana Qila, Fatehpur Sikri Agra, Ramappa Temple, Hampi, Dholavira (Gujarat), ancient Leh Palace; Currency Building and Metcalf Hall in Kolkata; Khajuraho temples (MP), and Golconda Fort in Hyderabad are among the 100 monuments which will be illuminated in tricolour, the officials said. This will be a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, they said. The officials said it is part of the activities planned to celebrate the vaccination milestone across the country. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore milestone on Thursday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to official sources, around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Country now has strong 'protective shield' of 100 crore vaccine doses, says PM||The country now has a strong "protective shield" of 100 crore vaccine doses to combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Speaking via video conferencing after inaugurating the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) on the Jhajjar Campus of New Delhi AIIMS, Modi said, "This day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. India has crossed the 100 crore vaccine doses mark sometime back." "To combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, the country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India, every citizen of India," the prime minister said. Modi also expressed gratitude to all the vaccine manufacturing companies of the country, workers engaged in vaccine transportation and health sector professionals engaged in administering the vaccines. On the inauguration of the Vishram Sadan, Modi said the Infosys Foundation has constructed the building of Vishram Sadan, while the cost of land and electricity and water has been provided by AIIMS Jhajjar. "I express my gratitude to AIIMS Management and Sudha Murthy ji's team for this service," he said. India's corporate sector, private sector, and social organisations have continuously contributed in strengthening the health services of the country, the prime minister noted. Private sector will have a key role in our efforts to have at least one medical college in every district, Modi said. The 806-bed Vishram Sadan has been constructed by the Infosys Foundation as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. It is aimed at providing air-conditioned accommodation to the attendants of cancer patients, who often have to stay in hospitals for a long duration, the PMO had said in a statement. Built at the cost of about Rs 93 crore, it is located in close proximity to the hospital and OPD Blocks of the NCI. Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murthy attended the inauguration, conducted via video conferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||IAF plane crashes at Bhind in Madhya Pradesh||An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane crashed in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district on Thursday morning, officials said. "An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," the IAF said in a tweet. The pilot ejected safely before the aircraft crashed in Mankabagh village of the district, Bhind Superintendent of Police Manoj Kumar Singh told PTI. The plane caught fire after the crash, he said, adding that the pilot was rescued. The aircraft had taken off from the Maharajpura airbase at Gwalior in the morning, the official said. Bhind district administration and IAF officials reached the spot soon after getting information about the crash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would hear on October 26 the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in connection with a case of seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, seeking urgent hearing on Friday. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), however, sought time till next week. Justice Sambre then posted the plea for hearing on October 26. On that day, the HC will also hear the bail plea filed by co-accused Munmun Dhamecha. Aryan Khan (23) moved the HC on Wednesday evening after a special NDPS court here rejected his bail plea in the afternoon. The special court, while refusing bail, had observed that Aryan Khan was involved in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis" and had a nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers. The lower court had also rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The three were arrested on October 3 by the NCB after it raided the Goa-bound ship and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. They are now in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison in the city. The trio and others were held in the case for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||India sees over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 160 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 18,454 fresh cases pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 3,41,27,450, while the number of active infections rose to 1,78,831, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,52,811 with 160 new fatalities, showing the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 27 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 116 consecutive days now. The number of active cases has increased to 1,78,831, comprising 0.52 per cent of the total infections -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. An increase of 733 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,47,506 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,57,42,218. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 52 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 118 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,95,808, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore novel coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 160 new fatalities include 82 from Kerala, 21 from Maharashtra and 20 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,52,811 coronavirus-linked deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,886 from Maharashtra, 37,976 from Karnataka, 35,948 from Tamil Nadu, 27,084 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,007 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Total Covid vaccine doses administered in India crosses 100-crore milestone||India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Hailing the vaccination milestone as a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country has scripted history. The prime minister also visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here after the milestone was achieved and interacted with hospital officials. He was accompanied by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. In a tweet, Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Modi, whom he described as a visionary. Congratulating the country for the vaccination landmark, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO, South-East Asia, said it was not possible without strong political leadership. "Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone- a billion COVID-19 vaccine doses administered. This extraordinary feat in a short span was not possible without strong leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce and the people themselves," she said. India's progress must be viewed in the context of the country's commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally, she said. According to official sources, over 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country took 24 days to reach the 40-crore mark from 30-crore doses and then 20 more days to surpass the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6.It then took 76 days to go past the 100-crore mark. The top five states which have administered the highest number of doses are Uttar Pradesh followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. To mark the completion of administering of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, the largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, will be displayed at the Red Fort on Thursday, official sources said. The same tricolour with dimensions 225 feet by 150 feet was unfurled on October 2 Gandhi Jayanti in Leh, they said. Mandaviya had on Wednesday appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated without delay and contribute to the historic vaccination journey of India. To mark the milestone on the COVID-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have been lined up. Mandaviya will launch a song by singer Kailash Kher and an audio-visual film at the Red Fort. "The country is close to making a vaccine century. To be a part of this golden opportunity, I appeal to the citizens who are yet to be vaccinated to contribute to this historic golden vaccination journey of India by getting vaccinated immediately," he had said in a tweet in Hindi. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. The health minister, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh will be present on the occasion. Speaking about the flag, a source said, The same 1,400-kg handwoven khadi tricolour, the largest in the country, which was unfurled in Leh to mark Mahatma Gandhi's 152nd birth anniversary and the 75th year of Independence will also be displayed at the Red Fort to mark the occasion (100 crore doses). The flag is the largest handwoven and handspun cotton khadi flag ever manufactured in India and it measures 225 feet by 150 feet, the source said. Mandaviya had earlier said that announcements will be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations when India achieves its target of administering 100 crore doses. Celebrations will also be held at central government hospitals in the city to mark the occasion. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Shah Rukh Khan meets son Aryan in Mumbai jail||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following arrest in a case of seizure of drugs on board a cruise ship off the city coast, an official said. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. He met his son for about 10 minutes, according to sources. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when the actor arrived. Heavy police security was also deployed outside the jail premises. So far, family members of the prisoners were not being allowed to visit the jail in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The prison authorities started allowing the family members of prisoners to visit them from Thursday morning, the official said. Aryan Khan (23) was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. A special court here on Wednesday denied bail to Aryan Khan, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan has now moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Tesla requests tax cut on electric vehicles from Modi: Report||Tesla Inc has urged Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office to slash import taxes on electric vehicles before it enters the market, four sources told Reuters, ratcheting up demands that faced objections from some Indian automakers. Tesla wants to begin selling imported cars in India this year but says taxes in the country are among the highest in the world. Its request for tax cuts - first reported by Reuters in July - prompted objections from several local players, who say such a move would deter investment in domestic manufacturing. Tesla executives, including its head of policy in India, Manuj Khurana, took the company's demands to Modi's officials last month in a closed-door meeting, arguing that the taxes were too high, four sources familiar with the discussions said. During the meeting at Modi's office, Tesla said that India's duty structure would not make its business in the country a "viable proposition", according to one of the sources. India levies an import duty of 60% on electric vehicles that cost $40,000 or less, and 100% duty on those priced over $40,000. Analysts have said that at these rates Tesla cars would become far too costly for buyers and could limit their sales. Tesla has separately also put in a request for a meeting between its Chief Executive Elon Musk and Modi, three of the sources said. Modi's office and Tesla, as well as its executive Khurana, did not respond to a request for comment. It is not clear what Modi's office specifically told Tesla in response, but the four sources told Reuters government officials are divided over the U.S. automaker's demands. Some officials want the company to commit to local manufacturing before considering any import tax breaks. Concern about the impact on the local auto industry is also weighing on the government, the sources added. Indian companies such as Tata Motors, which recently raised $1 billion from investors including TPG to boost EV production locally, has said giving Tesla concessions would be contrary to India's plans to boost domestic EV manufacturing. One of the sources, who has direct knowledge of the government's thinking, said: "If Tesla was the only EV maker, decreasing duties would have worked. But there are others." The transport minister said this month Tesla should not sell made-in-China cars in India and should manufacture locally instead, but Tesla has indicated it first wants to experiment with imports. Musk said on Twitter in July that "if Tesla is able to succeed with imported vehicles, then a factory in India is quite likely." The Indian market for premium EVs is still in its infancy and charging infrastructure is scarce. Just 5,000 of the 2.4 million cars sold in India last year were electric. One government official said lowering duties for a limited period to pave the way for Tesla's entry could "boost India's investor friendly image and green credentials" while also attracting more investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC chastises Yogi govt for lackadaisical probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday again chastised the Yogi Adityanath government over a perception that it was dragging its feet on the Lakhimpur Kheri probe, frowned at its delayed filing of the status report and asked it to ensure protection of the witnesses. “We get the impression that you are dragging your feet. Please do the needful to dispel…,” Justice Hima Kohli, sitting on a bench with Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant, told Uttar Pradesh additional advocate-general Garima Parshad. Four farmers and a journalist were killed on October 3 when a convoy led by a Thar jeep, belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra and with his son Ashis allegedly seated in it, ploughed into farmers returning from a protest in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri. The court’s comments came after it had gone through the status report and found that the statements of only four of the 44 witnesses had been recorded before a judicial magistrate. Justice Ramana also expressed dismay that the state had chosen to file the status report just before the proceedings started instead of two to three days in advance, as convention demanded. “We were waiting till 1am last night, but we received nothing,” Justice Ramana said. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the state government, suggested the court adjourn the matter till Friday to go through the status report but the Chief Justice rejected the plea. Instead, the bench read the report in court and sought clarifications on various gaps in the investigations. It remained unimpressed by Parshad’s plea that the delay in getting witness statements recorded stemmed from the special investigation team (SIT) conducting a reconstruction of the crime, and Salve’s interjection that the courts had been closed for Dussehra. The bench underlined that criminal courts do not normally close during the vacation, and that statements recorded before a judicial magistrate had more evidentiary value. The court also rebuffed Salve’s claim that the delay in filing the status report resulted from the bench seeking it in a sealed cover. “No, no, that was not required (sealed cover report),” Justice Ramana said. Justice Kant added: “We never said anything about sealed covers.” Custody query When Parshad said the SIT had obtained custody of six accused for three days, Justice Ramana wondered why an extension of police custody was not sought. The police can seek a suspect’s custody for up to 15 days. Ashis, however, has been sent back to judicial custody from police custody. “You know that until and unless they are interrogated by police, you won’t be able to find out the truth,” Justice Ramana remarked. Salve argued that more than interrogation, video footage and forensic evidence would bolster the investigators’ case. “We feel that if the forensic report comes out, there may not be need for further questioning,” he said. Justice Ramana said Salve must ensure that the state took adequate steps to protect all the vulnerable witnesses. The next hearing has been fixed for October 26. At the last hearing on October 8, Justice Ramana had castigated the state government for failing to arrest Ashis. The next day, the SIT interrogated and arrested the minister’s son. The court had earlier converted into a public interest plea a letter from two advocates seeking an independent probe into the massacre, and sought a detailed status report. The bench had indicated it might constitute an independent team of investigators if it found the ongoing probe lax or biased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Police stops Priyanka from visiting family of a Dalit youth in Agra||Uttar Pradesh police stopped Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a highway for over two hours on Wednesday afternoon while she was travelling to Agra to meet the family of a Dalit youth who had died in police custody on Tuesday night. “What is the Uttar Pradesh government afraid of? Why are they stopping me?” the Congress general secretary, detained earlier this month on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, tweeted while arguing with the police on the highway. Stopped around 3pm on Lucknow’s fringes, at the entrance to the expressway to Agra, Priyanka was eventually allowed to resume her journey at 5.40pm. She was expected to reach her destination, 360km from here, at night. Mystery surrounds the death of Arun Valmiki, a sweeper in his 20s, who was detained for alleged theft but never produced in court during two days in custody. A Congress leader has alleged his body bore injury marks. A video circulated by Congress leaders shows Priyanka asking a police officer to furnish the magistrate’s order that says she should be stopped. The officer shows her something — presumably the order — on his mobile, which she takes from his hand and reads. Priyanka then demands the reason she is being stopped. “Has Section 144 (prohibition on the assembly of five or more people) been imposed on the highway?” she asks. “Yes, madam,” the officer replies. “Let me travel with three people,” Priyanka says. The officer refuses. A male voice similar to state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu’s is heard from the background, saying: “Did you impose Section 144 in Kushinagar where the Prime Minister has gathered people and is delivering a speech?” Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated an international airport on Wednesday — which marked the holy Buddhist occasion of Abhidhamma Divas — at the Buddhist pilgrimage centre of Kushinagar, eastern Uttar Pradesh. Eventually, the police accepted Priyanka’s logic and allowed her to leave with three others: the driver, Lallu and a party worker. On October 7, Priyanka had been stopped in Sitapur on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of four farmers and a journalist mowed down by a Thar, driven allegedly by Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashis Mishra. She was allowed to resume her journey two days later after the Congress launched a state-wide agitation and her brother Rahul Gandhi arrived in Lucknow intending to intensify the protests. Priyanka’s tweet from the highway on Wednesday said: “Arun Valmiki died in police custody. His family is demanding justice. I want to go to meet the family.” After asking what the state government was afraid of, she added: “Today is Bhagwan Valmiki’s Jayanti (birth anniversary). The Prime Minister talked big about Mahatma Buddha but has been assaulting his ideas.” Valmiki, considered the writer of the Ramayan, is a Dalit icon. Police sources have said that Arun, a sweeper at Jagdishpura police station in Agra, was detained on Sunday on the charge of stealing Rs 25 lakh from the locker room. The police say the money had been seized from criminals. Arun is said to have fallen unconscious on Tuesday night. He was declared dead on arrival at the district hospital. District Congress chief Raghvendra Singh Minu, who had visited the hospital, alleged there were injury marks all over Arun’s body. The post-mortem report has not been submitted yet. “We have suspended five policemen, including an inspector. We have also registered a murder case against unidentified people. Further action will be initiated after an inquiry,” Agra senior superintendent of police Muniraj G said. Muniraj had earlier said the police had taken Arun to his home to recover the money and that he fell ill there. Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav alleged the police had stolen the money and implicated Arun. “The police are committing crimes in Uttar Pradesh and the government is protecting the criminal cops,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Taliban claim engagement with Indian official at Moscow||The Taliban on Wednesday night claimed to have engaged with the Indian official attending the Moscow format meeting on Afghanistan, suggesting the two sides had emphasised the need to expand diplomatic and economic ties. There was no official confirmation from India on such a bilateral engagement though the joint secretary in the external affairs ministry, J.P. Singh, is in Russia to participate in the Moscow format meeting. The meeting advocated taking into account the new reality in Afghanistan irrespective of recognition of the new government in Kabul by the international community. “The delegation of the Islamic Emirate met with the Special Representative of India for Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan,” the official spokesperson for the Afghanistan government, Zabihullah Mujahid, tweeted late on Wednesday night. According to Mujahid, a high-level delegation led by Afghanistan’s deputy Prime Minister, Maulvi Abdul Salam Hanafi, met Singh and the rest of the Indian delegation on the sidelines of the Moscow format meeting. Mujahid said both sides considered it necessary to take into account each other’s concerns and improve diplomatic and economic relations. The Indian side, he added, expressed readiness to provide extensive humanitarian assistance to the Afghans. The joint statement issued at the end of the meeting of the Moscow format said: “Further practical engagement with Afghanistan needed to take into account the new reality, that is the Taliban coming to power in the country, irrespective of the official recognition of the new Afghan government by the international community.” Besides reaffirming the need for the new government to be inclusive and representative of all the “ethno-political forces in the country”, the statement said all sides had proposed to launch a collective initiative to convene a broad-based international donor conference under the auspices of the United Nations as soon as possible. This would be done with the understanding that the core burden of the post-conflict economic and financial reconstruction and development of Afghanistan must be shouldered by troop-based actors that were in the country for the past 20 years. The Moscow format saw India sit at the same table as the Taliban government for the first time. Besides India, hosts Russia and Afghanistan, seven other countries including Pakistan and China attended the meeting. Before this, there had been only one other officially acknowledged contact with the Taliban — in Doha on August 31 when India announced that senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai had met the Indian ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the embassy. The Taliban have till now not talked about this meeting, which took place a fortnight after the group overran Kabul but before it formally formed the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||House panel to look into Bengal, Assam and Punjab BSF widening||The parliamentary standing committee on home is learnt to have decided to take up border management for closer scrutiny in light of the Narendra Modi government’s recent decision to widen the jurisdictional area of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Bengal, Assam and Punjab. This was agreed at the meeting of the committee on Wednesday after the Trinamul Congress flagged the issue and underscored that the Union government’s decision went against the spirit of federalism as now the BSF had the powers to conduct searches and make seizures and arrests without informing the local police within 50km of the international border. On October 11, the Union home ministry had issued a notification amending the BSF Act, 1968, to extend the “arrest, search and seize” powers of the central paramilitary force up to 50km from the international boundary in Assam, Bengal and Punjab. In Gujarat, the limit was reduced from 80km to 50km. Prior to this amendment, the BSF’s writ in Bengal, Assam and Punjab extended only 15km from the international border. The Centre contends that the amendment was done to bring uniformity across the states where the BSF guards the borders. The BJP ecosystem has been underlining that the change was suggested by the Congress too when it was in office about a decade ago. However, the Opposition contends that the move is yet another effort by the Modi government to erode the federal structure, and has highlighted that unlike the UPA, the current dispensation had not consulted the state governments before bringing out the notification. Since the standing committee is already discussing coastal security, chairperson and Congress veteran Anand Sharma is learnt to have agreed to club border management with this issue. State governments are now likely to be asked to weigh in on the issue whenever coastal security and border management are slated for detailed discussions. The issue is also likely to generate heat in the next session of Parliament when the government is mandated to table the notification in both Houses. There is also talk in Opposition quarters of bringing in a statutory resolution opposing the move even if the numbers are stacked in favour of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Required daily jab rate climbs from 8.9 in mid-July to 12.3 million now||India on Wednesday approached a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered, but the daily targets required to fully vaccinate all adults by December 31 have increased from 8.9 million in mid-July to 12.3 million now. Health experts say the increase in the target daily dose probably reflects gaps between the volume of doses the Centre had expected to be available and what has actually been available up to the eve of the milestone one billionth dose. India needs 1,888 million doses to inoculate all its estimated 944 million adults with the two doses required for full vaccination. The CoWIN digital platform that helps manage the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Wednesday displayed a counter with the title “India counting to 1 billion doses”, showing the country at 5.40pm was 4,637,186 doses away from its one billionth dose. The campaign had by Wednesday evening administered nearly 996 million doses and would need to administer 892 million doses over the remaining 72 days of the year to meet the projected goal of vaccinating all adult Indians by the end of the year. The Union minister of state for health, Bharati Pravin Pawar, on Wednesday reaffirmed the Centre’s goal of vaccinating all adults by December 31. “More than 99 crore (990 million) doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country and the government has set a target of vaccinating the country’s entire adult population by the end of the year,” Pawar told a healthcare event organised by the Federation of the Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The campaign will have to administer around 12.3 million doses daily on an average to complete full adult vaccination by December 31, an increase from the calculated daily target dose of 9.8 million on August 19 and 10.5 million on September 20. Health experts say the campaign’s pace in October has been less than half what it should have been to complete full vaccination by December 31. The average daily doses administered rose from 4.3 million in July to 5.9 million in August to 7.8 million in September, but have been less than 6 million during October so far. The Union health ministry had in June projected an anticipated availability of 1,350 million vaccine doses — 500 million Covishield, 400 million Covaxin, 100 million Sputnik, 50 million doses of a Zydus Cadila vaccine and 300 million doses of a vaccine from Bio E. But the campaign has even until mid-October remained almost entirely dependent on Covishield and Covaxin. Among the nearly 996 million doses administered until Wednesday evening, Sputnik V accounted for only around 1 million. The health ministry is yet to introduce the Zydus Cadila vaccine into the campaign and India’s drug regulatory authority is yet to approve Bio E’s vaccine. A Bio E spokesperson contacted by this newspaper declined to discuss the current regulatory status of the company’s vaccine. Health experts say this puts a question mark on the 300 million doses of the Bio E vaccine which the health ministry had factored in to calculate the figure of 1,350 million doses. Some public health experts had earlier this year predicted that vaccine hesitancy or difficulties in accessing vaccines for certain sections of the population could at some point begin to limit the uptake of doses. But the nationwide counts of first doses still remain similar to the numbers of second doses. For instance, on Wednesday, the campaign administered over 3.7 million first doses and nearly 2.9 million second doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Supreme Court lawyers split over decision to resume physical hearing||Supreme Court lawyers are split over the decision to resume physical hearings, with some senior lawyers preferring a hybrid mode while many others hit hard financially by the pandemic wanting a return to the old format. A group of senior lawyers on Wednesday urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to adopt a hybrid model of hearing instead of making physical presence of advocates mandatory, on a day the Supreme Court resumed physical hearings after a Covid-induced hiatus of one and a half years. Under the hybrid mode, it will be up to the lawyer to decide whether he or she wants to be present during physical hearings or appear online. According to the apex court’s decision, physical hearings will be held on Wednesdays and Thursdays. A mix of offline and online hearings will be conducted on Tuesdays. On Mondays and Fridays the court will continue to hold virtual hearings. CJI Ramana had earlier issued a directive that advocates must appear physically in the apex court during the in-person hearings. Senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mukul Rohatgi on Wednesday pleaded for hybrid hearing. Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh, however, stoutly opposed the appeal and defended the resumption of physical hearings. Singh suggested that if necessary senior lawyers, including himself, should take a break for a year or six months to enable struggling lawyers to appear in physical hearings. The pandemic has drastically brought down the incomes of most lawyers. Some senior lawyers, however, have seen their earnings rise on account of virtual hearings, which has allowed them to attend multiple proceedings across the country on a day from one location. Sibal took the matter of hybrid hearings up on behalf of a group of senior lawyers during the mentioning time. Referring to CJI Ramana’s decision to resume physical hearings mandatorily every Wednesday and Thursday, Sibal pleaded that there should not be any such hard and fast rule. His argument was that in certain cases like those under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, a large volume of files make it difficult to carry them to and from court. In such cases the lawyers should be allowed to argue online, Sibal said. He, however, clarified that the senior lawyers were not opposed to physical hearings and were willing to appear in certain cases. He pointed out that most high courts had adopted hybrid hearings. SCBA president Singh opposed the senior lawyers’ plea for hybrid hearings. “I am opposing the plea. I want physical hearings to in fact start on all days. The senior lawyers who have difficulty can afford to take a break for six months or even one year, but junior lawyers cannot afford to do that. They are literally starving. Even I can take a break. Let us all take a break,” Singh submitted. Justice Ramana said that since the decision to resume physical hearings had been taken by a committee of judges, he would have to consult his colleagues before taking a call. The CJI, heading a bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, told Sibal that the decision to restore physical hearings was taken following multiple representations from the Bar. Wednesdays and Thursdays, or the days earmarked for physical hearings, are listed as non-miscellaneous days during which mostly old or part-heard matters are taken up. Mondays and Fridays, when the virtual mode will be opted for, are treated as miscellaneous days when new cases are heard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Rahul accuses Modi government of attacking poor and Dalits||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government was attacking the poor and the Dalits as it was committed to serving the interest of merely 10-15 industrialists in the country. Speaking on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti, Rahul said: “The poor and Dalits are under attack. The entire country knows it. The government was busy serving the interests of 10-15 industrialists while crores of others were being attacked, silenced. But the Congress party will fight this attack. We will stop this. They will break the society, we will unite and harmonise the society.” The Congress leader added: “Valmiki showed the path of love and brotherhood. His message is similar to what the Constitution of India says. The message of equality and brotherhood. And that’s why the Constitution is being attacked today. Valmiki said what India’s true culture is. The Congress follows that path. I want to tell my Dalit brothers there is no need to panic. We will resist this attack together.” Shah silence on J&K The Congress on Wednesday attacked home minister Amit Shah for his silence on the alarming situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “We don’t know what the home minister invests his time in. Twenty-five people have been killed in Kashmir, outsiders are being targeted and a massive exodus has begun, but the home minister has not spoken a word. He had said Kashmir would become normal while removing Article 370 but the situation has worsened. Unemployment in J&K is maximum today.” Vallabh demanded full restoration of statehood and immediate election in the Union Territory. He also demanded job opportunities and compensation for those who had to flee Kashmir because of targeted killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Garland and scissors jab at Modi for UP airport inauguration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated an international airport at Uttar Pradesh’s Kushinagar and hailed it as the “fulfilment of a commitment” in the election-bound state, but was soon reminded that his government had not laid “even one brick” for it. The airport, built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore, had been a work in progress since 1946. Kushinagar is the final resting place of Lord Buddha. “Kushinagar airport is the result of decades of hope and expectations of the people…. It is time for the fulfilment of a commitment. India is laying special focus on better connectivity and building better infrastructure for the comfort of the devotees,” the Prime Minister said after inaugurating the airport. “The development of Kushinagar is one of the key priorities of the UP and central governments,” Modi added. However, Samajwadi Party leader and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav told reporters in Lucknow that the Modi government had no role in the airport coming up. “These people didn’t lay even one brick to build the airport. They only keep coming with scissors, tape, garlands and sweets at those places where work had been done by my government (from 2012 to 2017),” Akhilesh said. “The BJP government shouldn’t forget that the runway on which they landed in Kushinagar today was made by the SP government,” he added. An aerodrome was built at Bhaluhi Madaripatti village in Kushinagar in 1946, a year before independence. A large number of Buddhist tourists had landed there during an international summit in 1954. The aerodrome had not been used thereafter. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati had as chief minister ordered extensive construction work in 1995 and proposed to make it a full-fledged airport. The plan was approved by the Congress-led UPA government and flagged off by Ghulam Nabi Azad, the then aviation minister. After a period of development and then falling dormant, it was planned during Mayawati’s last stint as chief minister in 2008 that the facility would be upgraded to an international airport. The Congress government at the Centre gave the go-ahead but the extension of the airstrips and other construction work were started in 2012, when the Samajwadis came to power with Akhilesh as chief minister. Around 9am on Wednesday, a Sri Lankan Airlines flight carrying Buddhist monks and dignitaries from the island nation touched down at Kushinagar airport. The Lankan delegation was led by cabinet minister Namal Rajapaksa, son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. Diplomats from a dozen countries — Mongolia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Lao PDR, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, South Korea, Nepal, Japan and Singapore — were present at the inaugural ceremony of the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Oxford & Pfizer jabs prevent death from Delta variant: Research||The Covid-19 vaccines from Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech offer strong protection against death from the Delta variant of the coronavirus, researchers said on Wednesday reporting the first full-country data on mortality from Scotland. The researchers who analysed the outcomes of over 114,000 Covid-19 patients have found that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is 91 per cent effective and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is 90 per cent effective in preventing deaths in double vaccinated people. Multiple earlier studies have already suggested that Covid-19 vaccines are able to protect people from severe disease and death even though the highly contagious Delta variant — that emerged in India and fuelled the country’s second wave — can also cause infections in vaccinated people. The new study from Scotland is the first to measure across an entire country vaccine effectiveness in preventing deaths from the Delta variant that has spread worldwide and accounted for 99.5 per cent of the infections in Scotland. The researchers at the University of Edinburgh and collaborating institutions analysed vaccination status and survival in 114,706 who tested positive for Covid-19 between April 1 and August 16 this year among 5.4 million people in Scotland. Among the 204 casualties, they found no deaths among fully vaccinated people aged between 16 and 39 years, but 17 deaths among unvaccinated people in this age group. In people 40 years or older, they recorded an overall vaccine effectiveness of 91 per cent for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and 90 per cent for the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine. “It is reassuring to see that vaccination offers such high protection from death very shortly after the second dose,” Aziz Sheikh, a respiratory medicine specialist and director of the University of Edinburgh’s Usher Institute. Sheikh and his collaborators have described their results in a paper in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India and produced by the Serum Institute of India, is one of the two main vaccines used in the country’s vaccination campaign. Over 876 million Covishield doses have been administered in India among a total of 995 million. The Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier this year initiated a similar study across hospitals in 11 cities to determine real-world vaccine effectiveness. The results are expected to emerge within the next two weeks, a researcher associated with the Indian study said. Health researchers say the findings from Scotland reinforce the urgency to complete full vaccination of the population through double doses, as already underlined by multiple earlier studies from India and other countries. Nearly 74 per cent of India’s estimated 944 million adults had received one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by Wednesday afternoon, but only around 292 million (30 per cent) people are fully vaccinated with two doses. A hospital-based study in Delhi had earlier this year indicated that a single Covid-19 vaccine dose does not protect people from severe disease, highlighting the need to accelerate second doses. But limited vaccine supplies, which health experts have attributed to poor advance planning and investments by the Centre, have not allowed India’s vaccination campaign to adopt a pace that the country’s vaccine delivery infrastructure could support. A medical adviser to the vaccination campaign had said earlier this year that the available vaccine delivery infrastructure could easily have supported the administration of 10 million doses per day. But the campaign has administered on an average less than 6 million doses daily through October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Covid: India releases new rules for international travellers ||India on Wednesday released new guidelines for international travellers entering the country that require all to show they were Covid-19 negative before boarding flights and impose additional restrictions on visitors from “countries at risk”. The guidelines released by the Union health ministry require travellers — whether fully, partially, or not vaccinated — from the “countries at risk” to home quarantine for seven days, take a post-arrival Covid-19 test and a re-test on day eight. The guidelines also list a set of so-called “Category A” countries that have established reciprocal arrangements with India for mutual acceptance of Covid-19 vaccines. Fully vaccinated travellers from Category A countries will only need to self monitor their health for 14 days. The countries at risk include nations in Europe — including the UK — Bangladesh, China, Brazil, Botswana, Mauritius, New Zealand, South Africa and Zimbabwe. The Category A countries include the UK, Armenia, Belarus, Belgium, France, Germany, Hungary, Lebanon, Nepal, Serbia and Ukraine, which have signed pacts with India for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates and exempt Indian citizens fully immunised with nationally approved or World Health Organisation recognised jabs. But travellers from Category A countries who are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated would need to take a post-arrival test, home quarantine for seven days and go for a retest on the eighth day. The guidelines require airlines to ensure that all travellers have Covid-19 negative test reports before they board flights. Any traveller who is found symptomatic during screening on arrival will be isolated, taken to a medical facility and tested for Covid-19. For anyone who tests positive, the co-passengers in the same row, three rows in front and three rows in the rear of the aircraft, and the cabin crew will be considered contacts and will also be asked to quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Yediyurappa swims against abuse tide||Former Karnataka chief minister and BJP veteran B.S. Yediyurappa has called for respecting political rivals after state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel called Rahul Gandhi a “drug addict and peddler”. “There was no need to say such a thing, if he (Kateel) has said so,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Hanagal, where he was campaigning for an Assembly by-election. “Whether it is Rahul Gandhi or some other leader, they are respected. I feel no one should speak in a disrespectful manner against them.” State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar too asked politicians to be “civil and respectful, even to our opponents”. Kateel had made the remark on Tuesday, a day after the state Congress Twitter handle posted and then removed a tweet that had referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an illiterate. “Rahul Gandhi is a drug addict and peddler. I’m not the one saying this; it has been reported,” Kateel said without revealing his source. A party hardliner, Kateel has never been close to Yediyurappa, who has always followed a soft line towards minorities. Kateel’s statement came as the Congress-BJP rivalry took an ugly turn amid the campaign for the October 30 by-elections to the Hanagal and Sindagi Assembly seats. Hundreds of Youth Congress workers laid siege on Wednesday to the state BJP office, where a large posse of policemen stood guard after removing the protesters. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress said: “He (Kateel) speaks like a mad man although he is president of a political party. It appears he has lost his mental balance…. I urge (BJP national president) J.P. Nadda to get him hospitalised.” Shivakumar told reporters in Hanagal that BJP leaders were making such comments to divert attention from the real problems. He had earlier posted a tweet seeking an apology from the BJP for Kateel’s comment. “Yesterday I said that I believe we should be civil and respectful in politics, even to our opponents. I hope the BJP agrees with me, and will apologise for their state president’s abusive and un-parliamentary remarks against Shri Rahul Gandhi,” he wrote. Shivakumar had on Tuesday apologised for the offensive tweet against Modi and blamed it on a rookie social media manager. The now-deleted tweet had targeted Modi for not attending schools built by the Congress. “Can’t even speak without a teleprompter. Can’t deal with foreign affairs without translators. The man who quit education and went to beg doesn’t understand even the basics of economics,” the tweet said in Kannada. “His only assets are his clothing, undue publicity and speeches packed with lies #hebbettugirakimodi (illiterate Modi).” Former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal Secular too criticised Kateel. “If I reveal the history of their (BJP) president who called Rahul Gandhi a peddler… (but) I don’t want to say anything,” he said. “His history is being discussed in Mangalore where he destroyed the family of an RSS worker.” Kumaraswamy seemed to be alluding to a police complaint registered in 2014 by an RSS worker who accused Kateel of having an illicit relationship with his wife and trying to have him (the complainant) murdered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Soldier and two militants die in gunfight in Shopian||A soldier and two militants, including the alleged killer of a non-local carpenter, died in a gunfight in Shopian on Wednesday, in continuance of violence that has marked this October out as Kashmir’s bloodiest month in over two years. In Kulgam, also in south Kashmir, two more militants were killed in an encounter with the security forces. One of them was identified by police as Gulzar Ahamad Reshi, who was suspected to be involved in the killing of two migrant labourers from Bihar on October 17. Police said three soldiers were injured in a gunfight with militants in the Dragad area of south Kashmir’s Shopian, with one of them succumbing later. The soldier was identified as Sepoy Karamveer Singh. A dozen civilians, 10 soldiers and 15 militants have died in the first three weeks of October, the spurt in violence emerging as the biggest challenge for the security establishment in the Valley after the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit the Union Territory in the last week of October to review the security situation and inaugurate development projects. Congress veteran and former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday linked the blood-letting to the dilution of Article 370. A police officer said two militants were killed in the Dragad operation. One of them was identified as Adil Wani, the Shopian chief of the Lashkar-e-Toiba. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said Wani was involved in the killing of “a poor labourer at the Litter area of Pulwama”, referring to the death of Uttar Pradesh carpenter Sageer Ahmad. Ahmad is among the dozen civilians killed this month. Seven of them were non-Muslim, mostly migrant workers. It is widely believed the militants targeted these people to drive non-locals out of the Valley and scuttle the purported plan of the central government plan to facilitate the settlement of outsiders in Kashmir. Ahmad was killed on a day Arvind Kumar Sah, 30, who hailed from Banka in Bihar, was murdered in Srinagar. Labourers Raja Rishideo and Yogendra Rishideo from Bihar were shot dead at Wanpoh in Kulgam district a day later on Sunday. The Valley is on the edge following these killings. The authorities have arrested hundreds on the mere suspicion of involvement in the murders. Hundreds of two-wheelers belonging to ordinary citizens have been confiscated over the past few days after reports emerged that the suspected militants targeting non-locals were using motorcycles. The residents have complained their bikes and scooters are being seized without any reason, preventing them from attending to daily chores. People have been queuing up outside police stations seeking the return of their vehicles. In Jammu’s Poonch and Rajouri districts, security forces on Wednesday continued searches in a vast forest area for the 10th day for militants involved in the killing of nine soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers. Officials said the last contact with militants took place on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Leadership is about action, says Narayana Murthy||Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy on Wednesday exhorted students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar, to try to excel in whatever they do and not to consider anything small. “You must need to change yourself if you want to see change in the world. Look at every lacuna as an opportunity for change. You are the leader to bring about the change,” Narayana Murthy said while addressing students at the 10th convocation of IIT Bhubaneswar. Addressing students through the virtual mode, he urged them to develop entrepreneurship attitude and show the character of a leader. “Leadership is about action and not about rhetoric,” Narayana Murthy said. Urging students to be good citizens, he said that everybody needs to work to develop a society where every citizen gets equal opportunities and every child gets food. “We have to build a society which is based on performance and not empty slogans. We need to put the country’s interests, society’s interests and the company’s interests where you are working above the individual’s interest,” he said. Recalling Mahatma Gandhi’s statement that his mission was “to wipe every tear from every eye”, Narayana Murthy said: “Our country has been successful in sending rockets, satellites, building big dams, bridges, a good education system, globally competitive software industry. But on the other hand, we are far from the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Rajen(dra Prasad) babu of creating India where every Indian would be provided the wherewithal to develop and rise to his/her fullest stature, and where poverty, ill health, and ignorance would have vanished.” Urging the students to demonstrate excellence in whatever they do, Narayana Murthy said: “The only way to solve poverty is to create more and more jobs with better and better income. This requires entrepreneurship. We have too much underemployment in the agriculture sector. Hence, we must create jobs in the manufacturing and service sectors,” he said, adding that the best way to escape from a problem is to solve it. Stressing the need to explore the world, he said one needs to go outside the government set-up where lies great opportunity and also great challenges. He also stressed on the need for a good English education system. “Please remember that English is the only window to the modern world for Indians to access knowledge to achieve progress in science, technology, medicine and economy for India,” Narayana Murthy said. Rajendra Prasad Singh, chairman, board of governors, urged the students to promote technology based on culture and not to forget the fundamentals of life. “We have not delivered what we should have — roti, kapda and makan.” IIT director R.V. Raja Kumar narrated the institute’s journey of 10 years. “The convocation is a celebration of the graduation of students who earned their degrees with important learning during their peak youthhood and the institute is keen on their live participation. Therefore, the institute has come up with this very unique and innovative form of holding convocation during the last convocation itself and the same is being adopted this time too due to the continuation of pandemic.” The IIT conferred degrees upon 559 students, including 35 PhD, 153 MTech, 79 MSc, 256 BTech and 36 dual degrees. The President of India Gold Medal awarded to Dinesh Mohanty of the computer science and engineering stream for the best academic performance among the entire outgoing BTech batch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Alok Tandon inaugurates Nalco’s Lean Slurry Project at Angul||Ministry of mines secretary Alok Tandon on Wednesday inaugurated the National Aluminium Company Ltd’s Lean Slurry Project at Angul, marking a significant milestone in the navratna company’s journey for business excellence and adopting outstanding practices in environmental management. Completion of the Lean Slurry Project by the company will ensure 100 per cent utilisation of the ash generated at the company’s Captive Power Plant (CPP) and marks a big step forward in its commitment towards environment-friendly and sustainable operations, said a media release issued by Nalco. Tandon, accompanied by chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Nalco, Sridhar Patra, visited the Smelter and Captive Power Plants of Nalco at Angul and appreciated its  efforts in achieving the targets and scaling new heights of success amid challenging business environment. The mines secretary also interacted with officials and employees, and motivated them to maintain the tempo of production and productivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
