22-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister's son remanded in police custody again||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, arrested for his alleged role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was on Friday remanded in police custody for two days. It was for the second time that he was remanded in police custody by Lakhimpur Kheri's Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram. Besides, Mishra, CJM Ram also sent three other accused in the case -- Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif to police custody, acceding the prosecution's request for their police remand. The two-day police remand for the four, starting from 5 PM on Friday, will end at the same time on Sunday. After his arrest on October 9, the son of Union MoS (Home) was first remanded to police custody on October 11 with the remand period starting on October 12 and ending on October 15. After the expiry of his first remand period, he was sent back to the Lakhimpur Jail under judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
22-10-2021||India||TMC MP Sushmita Dev's car vandalised in Tripura||Trinamul Congress MP Sushmita Dev's car was vandalised by some people in Tripura today, according to NDTV.com. Some employees of a private firm that is helping TMC in political campaigns were injured in the attack. Sushmita Dev, who is overseeing the Trinamool Congress's activities in Tripura, alleged the BJP was behind the attack. Dev was with employees of Indian Political Action Committee or I-PAC, a political public relations and consultancy firm, when the attack happened. Political strategist Prashant Kishor and I-PAC had worked with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's party for the West Bengal assembly election earlier this year. Visuals show a blue SUV with the Trinamool Congress's election symbol and loudspeakers on the roof dented with multiple hits. “Today, when we just sat in our campaign car, four to five men suddenly came from behind, wearing Tilaks on their foreheads. They attacked our workers from behind," Dev was quoted as saying by news18.com after the incident. “The way they attacked us; it was clear that they were backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the Police. They are scared, that’s why they are doing this. Police personnel were standing nearby and did nothing to avert the incident," she said. Abhishek Banerjee also attacked the saffron party in a tweet, saying “under @BjpBiplab’s #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records!" “Physically manhandling a sitting female Rajya Sabha MP, @SushmitaDevAITC is BEYOND SHAMEFUL & POLITICAL TERRORISM by @BJP4Tripura goons!" he said, adding that the people of Tripura would answer, as the “time was near". However, the BJP rubbished the reports. “Sushmita Dev is seeing the BJP attack everywhere. They do all these things in Bengal," said Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh. The TMC is set to contest the upcoming civic body elections in Tripura. Dev is overseeing the party activities in the state, and had said on Thursday that a final strategy will be formulated once the elections are declared. Dev had announced that the party would on Friday launch a campaign — “Tripurar Jonno Trinamool" (TMC for Tripura) — to reach out to the people of the state. “The campaign will continue for 10-12 days, covering all 60 assembly constituencies in 58 blocks of eight districts. We will go to the people, interact with them and listen to their problems. Three teams have been formed for the campaign," she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Harish Chaudhary appointed new AICC in-charge for Punjab||The Congress on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as the AICC in-charge for party affairs in Punjab relieving Harish Rawat. Chaudhary, who was the AICC secretary for Punjab, has also been made the in-charge for Chandigarh. The decision comes after Rawat had urged the party high-command to relieve him as general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand. "Congress president has appointed Harish Chaudhary as AICC in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect.Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh," an official party statement said. Rawat shall, however, continue to be a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision making body of the party. "The party appreciates his contribution as general secretary," the statement further said. Rawat played a key role in bringing in Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from then chief minister Amarinder Singh. He later played a key role in replacing Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned alleging humiliation at the hands of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||What is 'conscious possession' of drugs, based on which Aryan was denied bail?  ||Senior lawyers have hit out at the government’s claim that Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan had “conscious possession” of drugs because his friend, Arbaaz Merchant, was carrying a small quantity with him when they were arrested. "What is conscious possession? There is nothing like that. This is all a play of words,” says senior well-known defence lawyer Rebecca Mammen John. The two friends were arrested at a terminal when they were about to go on a cruise ship party. Khan, Merchant, and several others were detained under laws “related to possession, consumption and sale of illegal substances.” The charges against Khan include purchase, possession and use of banned substances, the Narcotics Control Board (NCB) has said. A special court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected Khan’s bail application after the NCB argued before the court that he was in “conscious possession” of illegal drugs, despite the fact that he had nothing on him when he was arrested. The NCB built its case on the fact that Merchant had charas in his shoe and that the accused allegedly admitted to investigators that they intended to use the drug for “consumption and enjoyment.” “There is no such thing as a vicarious liability in criminal law,” adds another lawyer, pointing out that the government would have to add the charge of criminal conspiracy under Section 120 of the Indian Penal Code. “Even for conspiracy, the law in India is that it must be based on verifiable, cogent evidence. You can’t have a fairytale and say, ‘This is a conspiracy,’” says John. “Although no possession is found from the accused number 1, 6gm of charas was found from accused number 2 (Merchant) of which Aryan had the knowledge and thus it can be said that it was in conscious possession of both the accused,” the judge said in a detailed order. The court also took note of WhatsApp messages between Khan and Merchant and said: “Perusal of Whatsapp chats reveals that there are chats of accused number 1 (Khan) about drugs with unknown persons.” The court extended the judicial custody of Khan, Merchant and another friend, Munmun Dhamecha, till October 30. The case was heard before the special court of sessions under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Act (NDPS Act). Aryan’s appeal to the Bombay High Court is scheduled to be heard on October 26. Earlier, the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R. M. Nerlikar had rejected the bail application by the three on the grounds that only the NDPS special court was authorised to hear the plea. The amount of charas allegedly involved is of a “minuscule quantity''. The Bombay High Court has just released somebody on bail who was in possession of something like 400gm. That is a reported judgement,” said Dushyant Dave, a senior lawyer. Normally any quantity of charas below 100 gm is considered a small quantity, lawyers said. “A grave injustice is being done,” Dave said. “You’re taking away this young boy’s liberty for the last 18 days for no reason whatsoever. Who can compensate for it?  How is his mind? How is his psyche? It’s really wrong. I really feel this is not the way we should function. Every constitutional right of this young man has been violated by the state,” he said. The lawyers said text messages may be considered as evidence during a trial but not in a bail hearing. “While opposing bail they have improved their story again and again. That’s not permissible,” one lawyer noted. “On the first day, the question is whether his arrest was legal or not. On the day he was arrested October 2, the arrest was absolutely unconstitutional, forget illegal,” the lawyer said. “Your liberty can be deprived under Article 21 only by following the procedure established by law. You can’t just pick up people. The magistrate the day he was produced should have released him straight away,” the lawyer said.  The magistrate should have said, “‘What is this? There is nothing on him. And he is not a criminal. He has never been involved in criminal activity in the past.’” the lawyer said. Khan’s lawyer noted in the initial bail application that the punishment for possession of such a small quantity of charas would be a maximum six months imprisonment or fine, and that section 64A of NDPS Act allows for immunity from prosecution and bail ought to be granted. The court on Wednesday said there was preliminary evidence to suggest that Khan was part of a “larger network” involving foreign nationals and drug dealers who appeared to be part of an international drug network and that granting bail would hamper the investigation. A team from the NCB went to Shah Rukh Khan’s Mumbai house on Thursday for what they told reporters was “paperwork”. The team told reporters their visit was “not a search or a raid”. Crucially, there’s no concept of ‘conscious possession’ in criminal law and even the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act) under which the case is being tried, does not mention it. But the courts have, in different judgements, in India found it necessary to look at the circumstances of each case, to figure out whether, if two or more people are together, a case of ‘conscious possession’ can be made out. For instance, if two or more people are in a car carrying a large quantity of drugs can all the people be said to have “conscious possession” of the narcotics or can only one person be charged? Section 35 of the NDPS Act says there can be a presumption of a “culpable mental state”. That then pushes the onus of proving his or her innocence onto the accused person. Crucially, however, Section 35 (2) adds firmly that, “A fact is said to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond a reasonable doubt.” It adds firmly: “And not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.” In other words, the court can make a presumption but it must be shown to be backed by extremely strong evidence, “beyond a reasonable doubt”. “Although no possession is found from the accused number 1 (Khan), six gm of charas was found from accused number 2 (Merchant) of which Aryan had the knowledge and thus it can be said that it was in conscious possession of both the accused,” the judge said in the detailed order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday appears before NCB for second day||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Friday to record statement in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in a drugs case, sources said on Friday. This is for the second day in a row that Ananya appeared before the central agency. Her actor-father Chunky Panday accompanied her to the NCB office as he had done on Thursday. The father-daughter duo arrived at the anti-drug agency's office located at Ballard Estate in South Mumbai in a car around 2.20 pm, the sources said. There was heavy deployment of police personnel at the office and barricades were put up there as large number of media persons gathered outside. The NCB is probing the cruise ship drugs case, in which Aryan Khan is arrested along with 19 others. During the investigation the NCB had found some WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Ananya Panday, the sources said. The NCB officials want to get some more information about the chats, following which she was summoned to the office on Thursday. She was questioned by the agency officials for around two hours on Thursday, they said. The NCB had seized Ananya's laptop and mobile phone on Thursday. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old drug peddler was brought to the NCB office for questioning in the early hours of Friday, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Leenalove - a Musical Artist Who Has Honed Her Life With a Lot of Talents||Music is like a God. It gives a soul to the universe while giving wings to the mind. Meanwhile, singers are like an angel who sends the God's messages. So, today we will talk with an angel. What does it mean? As a music lover, this is the great time I have ever had. Because there is one of my favorite music artists in front of me, she is a popular and multitalented artist LeenaLove. Can you imagine how I feel? However, my happy celebration aside, I have to be mindful to do my job. Oh! Here we go. So, Leena Pedraza known as LeenaLove, according to the world, you are a talented music artist. But your fans like to know more than that. However, I know only you, and God knows who you are. Actually, what kind of person is LeenaLove? What kind of talents do you have? I am a simple girl. But I like to be my own boss and chase my dreams through learning and hardworking. I love music, so I am a music artist. Similarly, I am an entrepreneur and content writer. Not only that, you think I am crazy. But I am the one who always likes to do what I love. I loved posing in front of the camera. So, I started modeling for fun. But now I have learned it. Now I take my own modeling images using a tripod and self-timer. Also, I am a makeup artist. If I feel I have the talent, why am I hiring in other people's services? Basically, the smell is motivated us to buy the perfume. Similarly, we all need inspiration to do anything. It is the nature of human beings. So, what inspired you to do what you are doing now? I like to do anything that I love. How did I do this? I love to learn. I always learn, learn and learn. So, through this, I identify the things that I can do better. It inspires me to create new art with my work. Usually, a person is more talented for only one thing. But you are one of the persons who challenge the creation of God. Actually, you are multitalented. Can you reveal the future plans of your businesses? I like to tell; social media is the best platform for people who are passionate about success in any field. I have lots of fans who know me and my music via social media. So, I hope to enhance my fan base through my new creations, and then l plan to start my online business. I need to introduce original stylish T-shirts with my modeling image brand because I love to add more color to people's lives to be beautiful. The whole world will accept without a doubt that LeenaLove is a very talented music artist. So, I would like to know what your most remarkable achievement is in other fields? Yes. I won many awards. The award is like the heart of all souls who love to chase their dreams. So, those awards have been precious for my whole life. When I fall down due to any trouble, beautiful memories that come with these awards give energy to me to run for life. \ However, Prototype Magazine 2018, B.A.D.D. Magazine 2018, FaceFirst Magazine 2018, and B.A.D.D. Magazine 2020 is the greatest gift for my life. Finally, what do you tell for our future entrepreneurs? Always keep a positive mindset with a target goal. Face all "no," "thanks," rejections, failures, and heartbreaks with a smile, and this is ok. All ups and downs develop our lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Mandeep Singh And Mohammad Salman Khan Told Us What Helped Them To Succeed In The Acting World||Amongst the many things that have turned people’s heads and attention the most in the world, the rise of certain young professionals, as entrepreneurs, artists, musicians, singers, actors etc., have made the most headlines. People today are intrigued by the real success stories that youngsters have created all on their own. They want to know more about them, their journeys, struggles and what they aim to do in life to draw more inspiration from them. Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan are two names that have made a lot of buzz as one such acting talent and now is stopping for none to get nearer his definition of success in the industry. Having a positive mindset: Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan says that the journey in acting can test a person’s patience and pose many hurdles in the form of growing competition. However, he stayed calm throughout, focusing only on enhancing his acting talents with a positive mindset, which helped him achieve the momentum he enjoys today in the industry. Being passionate: Acting was the thing that always made him feel the most passionate. Following his passion, Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan made incessant efforts to learn many new skills in acting, which helped increase his expertise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Being a catalyst of change in society- meet humanitarian Raunak Singh||Raunak Singh's organization "Sikh Aid" has now become a national organization, serving all those in need across different Indian cities. There are too many success stories in this world, who in ways, more than one go ahead in instilling more hope, positivity, and motivation in others through their work across industries. However, a few of them go ahead in inspiring young minds and others and igniting the fire in them to do the good and spread the good amongst others in society. These individuals work with a bigger aim in life, and that is to impact the lives of people and serve humankind, rising as humanitarians. We came across one such man, who has surrendered himself to the people in need and has emerged as a selfless soul; he is Raunak Singh. From a very early age, Raunak Singh confesses that he was fascinated by the idea of helping others in need and serving society as a whole. Hence, he jumped into doing "Seva" and now has been serving people all over India. Raunak Singh also helms his small initiative of service "Sikh Aid" to be of service to those in need, which has turned into a national organization. His NGO Sikh Aid has now been recognized as the national NGO, which has crossed boundaries in various humanitarian works aiding in disaster areas and civil conflict zones around India. Raunak Singh highlights that his organization is based on the Sikh principle of "Naam Japo, Kirat Karo, Vandh Chakho". He further says that the aim of Sikh Aid is to show the world that Sikhs are humanitarians, that they are driven by humanity and are what the Sikh means. From early 2020 to now, Sikh Aid, under the visions and passion of Raunak Singh, has become a national organization with chapters in Pune, Odisha, Kolkata, Mumbai, Punjab and Delhi. Amidst the trying times, Raunak Singh reveals how the team couldn't travel, but fortunately, the local voluntary groups and volunteers spread across various cities took forward their activities and carried on with Sikh Aid projects, constantly walking on their path to serving humanity. Raunak Singh and his NGO Sikh Aid have truly earned massive recognition and respect from people all over the country for the kind of work they have been doing and the commitment they have been showing to make a positive difference in the lives of others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Delhi court denies bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in 2019 Jamia rioting case||A Delhi court on Friday denied bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in connection with allegedly giving an inflammatory speech and inciting violence in 2019, saying that the speech was on communal lines and its content "tend to have a debilitating effect on the peace and harmony." According to police, Imam allegedly delivered a provocative speech on December 13, 2019, which resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area. Denying bail to him, Additional Sessions Judge Anuj Agrawal said that cursory and plain reading of the speech showed that it was clearly on communal lines. "The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquility, peace, and harmony of the society," he added. The judge, however, noted that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy. Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Wish to make it big on social media as an influencer? Abram Puttan explains how||It is amazing to see the growth of certain industries and fields, especially from the last few years, which prove how the digital wave immersed almost all of them. Experts had hinted at this growth and development before, but back then, they did not know that a certain pandemic would also trigger the adoption of digitalization and increased use of social media platforms. These developments today are a result of the modern-day strategies and ideas of youngsters and other passionate professionals and influencers who have completely changed the game of the digital space. Many new influencers rose to fame as social media content creators, and some of them went multiple steps ahead in gaining exponential fame and recognition across the world. Today, more and more people desire to become a part of this industry, for they know it can change their lives and careers and can give success like never before. Abram Puttan stands tall as one of such social media influencers, who dived deep into the field and now looks unstoppable. He has today come forward to share his views on what other budding talents must work around to attain their desired success and name in the social media world. The first thing he advises influencers is to be relatable. Puttan says that all the content that instantly connects audiences with are those that seem relatable. The second thing he believes people must workaround is being personable. He says an influencer must work around being personable and develop a personality that looks agreeable, pleasant and sociable. Creativity is at the core of any social media influencer's success, points out the man who himself has won hearts with his creative, entertaining and comedy content on social media. It is also imperative to understand the importance of being responsive to audiences believes the ace influencer, who says that whether the feedback is positive or negative, influencers must make sure to be responsive to their audiences for them to know that they are grateful for all their fans and followers. Lastly, he explains that passion for content creation can truly lead people to their desired success, even amidst competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Amit Vishwakarma's astute business sense and his strategies with his digital company PowerHouse Media & Entertainment have earned him massive success||To understand an industry fully and to make it huge in the same, individuals need to get all in and learn as many things as possible each passing day, keep hustling, be resilient and go under the grind to reach their definition of success. The digital world is a world of its own, which so far has given rise to not just digital marketing and media companies, but many astute entrepreneurs and experts who have changed the social media game for the better. Today, most of the brands and businesses are aware of how important it is to stay relevant in their niches and have a dominant presence in online mediums. For that, they have been getting in touch with digital media companies like PowerHouse Media & Entertainment to keep up with the pace of the changing times and trends of their industries. The owner of PowerHouse Media & Entertainment, Amit Vishwakarma as a teenage digital entrepreneur, wants more and more youngsters in the industry to learn to utilize, optimize and capitalize on the tools that social media platforms offer to everyone. These tools and strategies help people and brands survive even the tough times and emerge as winners in their respective industries. As a company that offers a variety of services like digital marketing, influencer marketing, artist management, ad creation, content creation, music distribution, PR, and so much more, PowerHouse Media & Entertainment has raised the bar in management and marketing consultation. He also advises brands and people to focus on providing a personalized approach to each of their clients to cater to their individual needs and demands. This white-glove approach always works for companies, gaining them more trust from their clients and making them more authoritative in the industry. Amit Vishwakarma plans to bring about more innovations in the industry through his company's incredible digital solutions and services and plans to expand his business in the coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Govt indulging in doublespeak over 'Made in India' slogan, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the government of doublespeak over the 'Made in India' slogan, which he dubbed as a mere 'jumla' (rhetoric). His remarks came after Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla expressed concern over the growing trade deficit with China as India's trade with it grew by 49 per cent in the first nine months of this year. "The Usual Doublespeak. #MadeInIndia #Jumla," he said in a tweet. He also tagged a media report that said the trade with China grew by 49 per cent with Shringla red-flagging the deficit. The report said in the first nine months of this year, India's trade with China touched USD 90 billion, an increase of 49 percent. The trade, however, remains unbalanced with a large trade balance in favour of China, Shringla had said. "Our trade deficit concerns are two-fold the first is the actual size of the deficit. The trade deficit for the nine months period stood at USD 47 billion. This is the largest trade deficit we have with any country. Second, is the fact that the imbalance has continuously been widening," the foreign secretary had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM meets affected people in Chamoli's rain-hit Dungri village||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday visited Dungri village in Chamoli district to meet the disaster-hit people who lost their kin in the landslides triggered by heavy rains in the state. Accompanied by Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, State Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat and officials, the Chief Minister trekked up the steep slippery slopes of the village with a stick in hand for support to do an on-the-spot assessment of the losses. Two persons of a family were buried in the rubble of a landslide in the village on October 19. Dhami met the surviving members of the family and promised them all help from the government. He asked officials to speed up relief and rescue efforts in the affected areas assuring them that they will not have to face any shortage of resources. "The affected families will get all support from the government. They have lost their kin and have little children. We will ensure that they are given good care," Dhami told reporters during a visit to the village. A total of 65 people were killed, 22 injured and two went missing during the recent spell of downpours in the hill state which also saw 60 houses being damaged. Many hectares of forest and agricultural land with standing paddy crop in them have also swept away in the rains with the Chief Minister pegging the losses as per an initial estimate at Rs 7,000 crore. Search and rescue operations continue in the upper areas of Kumaon and Garhwal regions to evacuate stranded people, including tourists, to safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Fire breaks out in 60-storey Mumbai residential building||A 30-year-old security guard fell to death from the balcony of a flat located on the 19th floor of a 61-storey residential building in central Mumbai after a major fire broke out there on Friday, a fire brigade official said. The blaze erupted on the 19th floor of the One Avighna Park building on Currey Road shortly before noon, he said. "After the fire broke out, Arun Tiwari, a security guard of the building, rushed to the 19th floor. Soon he realised that he was trapped and in order to save himself from the blaze, he kept hanging from the balcony of the flat where the fire had erupted. He precariously clung to the railing of the balcony for several minutes before losing his grip and falling to death," the official said. After Tiwari fell to the ground, he was rushed to the civic-run KEM hospital, where he was declared dead, he added. The fire brigade declared it as a level-4 (major) fire. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited the building, said two persons were still trapped inside the building although most of the residents have been rescued. Talking to reporters, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the fire has been doused and the cooling operation is on. An inquiry will be carried out into the incident, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for third straight day||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday touched an all-time high across the country after rates were hiked for the third consecutive day by 35 paise per litre each. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.89 a litre and Rs 112.78 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 103.63 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 95.62 per litre. This is the third consecutive day of the price hike. There was no change in rates on October 18 and 19, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states and is treading towards that mark in places from Srinagar to Chennai. Diesel costs Rs 99.49 a litre in Srinagar, while it is priced at Rs 99.92 in Chennai. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 19 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 5.7 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 7 per litre in 22 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||1 billion jabs reflect image of a New India, notes Prime Minister ||A day after India crossed the milestone of 100 crore vaccine doses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the country's vaccination programme was science-born, science-driven and science-based , and asserted that it had been ensured there was no "VIP culture" in the drive. In an address to the nation, the prime minister said there is confidence in the country today. From various strata of society to the economy, at every level and everywhere, there is "optimism, optimism and optimism", he said while also emphasising that people should not drop their guard during the festive season and continue with Covid appropriate behaviour such as masks. Experts, as well as national and international agencies, are very positive about India's economy with Indian companies not only getting record investments but employment generation also taking place, Modi said. Along with record investment in start-ups, record start-up unicorns are also being developed, he said. Modi said it is a matter of pride for all that India's vaccination programme has been science-born, science-driven and science-based". From the development of vaccines to inoculation, science and science-based approach have been involved in all processes, he asserted. Taking a dig at critics of his government, the prime minister recalled that some people had asked how the 'taali-thaali' initiative and lighting of 'diyas' at the start of the pandemic would help eradicate the virus. The initiatives, he stressed, were a reflection of people's participation and unity. Modi also talked about the apprehensions and doubts raised earlier on India's capacity to fight the pandemic. Pointing out that several questions were raised, such as will the people of India get the vaccines or not and will India be able to vaccinate enough people to stop the pandemic from spreading, he said the 100 crore vaccine dose milestone is the answer to every question. Modi said the milestone was not just about a number but a symbol of the country's capability and a picture of "new India". " it is the writing of a new chapter, a country that knows how to set difficult targets and achieve them. It is a picture of that new India that has the strength to strive for achieving its goals," the prime minister said. One impact of this milestone would be that the world would consider India safer from coronavirus, he said. At the beginning of the Covid pandemic, fears were expressed that it would be very difficult to fight the disease in a democracy like India. It was also asked how would there be the restraint and discipline required to combat the pandemic but for us democracy means 'Sabka Saath', Modi said. Taking everyone along, the country had started the campaign of 'Sabko Vaccine, Muft Vaccine', he noted. The country, he said, had only one mantra -- that if the disease does not discriminate, then there cannot be any discrimination in the vaccination. "That's why it was ensured that there is no VIP culture in the vaccination drive," he said. "No matter how big a post one holds, no matter how rich he or she is, they will get vaccination just as a common person will," Modi said. The prime minister urged people to keep following Covid protocol during the festival season and not drop their guard. "No matter how good the shield is, how modern it is, there may be a guarantee of protection from the shield, but weapons are not laid down till the battle is on," the prime minister said, urging people to continue wearing masks and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. In an opinion piece published on Friday to commemorate the landmark achievement of administering 100 crore Covid jabs, Modi noted that the feat was achieved in nine months despite many doubting the country's capability. “There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination,” he said, while giving credit to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion to make the country aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) in producing vaccines. Outlining the enormity of the challenge, from producing the vaccine in plants of Pune and Hyderabad to ensuring last mile delivery across the country with seamless logistics, Modi said the drive has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India. “When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our healthcare workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our youth, social workers, healthcare workers, social and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India faces minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared to even developed nations,” he wrote in the piece, ‘Team India-Responding to Adversity with Achievement’ . “Administering 100 crore doses of vaccines in just about nine months since the vaccination started has been a tremendous journey in dealing with the disease,” the prime minister said, noting that humanity was dealing with such a pandemic after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus following its outbreak in early 2020. “We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then, as we were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy mutating rapidly. The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world's largest vaccination drive,” he said. “One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite various efforts to create mistrust and panic,” he added. Describing the exercise as “bhagirath (gigantic)” effort involving multiple sections of society, he pointed out that if it is assumed that a healthcare worker took just two minutes for every vaccination then at this rate it took around 41 lakh man days or approximately 11 thousand man years of effort to reach this landmark of 100 crore doses. “There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for simply everyday necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the COVID-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted Made in India' vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift,” he said. “India's vaccine drive,” Modi added, “is an example of what the country can achieve if the citizens and the government come together with a common goal in the spirit of Jan Bhagidari (people's participation).” Noting that only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines so far, he said, “more than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines while India has crossed 100 crore doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||India logs over 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 231 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 15,786 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,43,236, while the active cases have declined to 1,75,745, the lowest in 232 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,53,042 with 231 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 28 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 117 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 1,75,745 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 3,086 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,24,263 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,70,66,481. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 53 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 119 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,14,449, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100.59 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 231 new fatalities include 118 from Kerala and 39 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,53,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,925 from Maharashtra, 37,984 from Karnataka, 35,968 from Tamil Nadu, 27,202 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,021 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi to address nation at 10am on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 AM on Friday, his office said. His address comes a day after the cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore in India. The Prime Minister had hailed it as history being scripted and, in an opinion piece on Friday, described India's COVID-19 vaccination drive as a journey from "anxiety to assurance" that has made the country emerge stronger. He credited its success to people's trust in the vaccines despite "various efforts to create mistrust and panic". Shortly after the country reached the 100 crore vaccinations milestone mark before 10 AM on Thursday, PM Modi had congratulated the country's health care workers for helping the country achieve the feat. "The milestone is a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and  the collective spirit of 130 crore Indians," he said. Later, while speaking via video conferencing after inaugurating a new building at AIIMS Campus in New Delhi, PM Modi said, "This day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. India has crossed the 100 crore vaccine doses mark sometime back. To combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, the country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India, every citizen of India."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Dhaka artist’s Delhi show deferred||The Indian Council for Cultural Relations in Delhi has postponed a large retrospective exhibition of the works of Dhaka-based artist Rokeya Sultana. The postponement coincides with a furore led by the BJP in India over sectarian violence reported from Bangladesh during Durga Puja. But no one has yet directly linked the decision on the exhibition to the uproar. The event was being organised in collaboration with the Bengal Foundation, a Dhaka-based art trust founded in 1986. The show was to open at the Lalit Kala Akademi on October 23 and display 120 to 130 works. Amit Sahai Mathur, ICCR programme director, said the exhibition had been postponed for “logistical” reasons and that a new date would be announced “within a short while”. The sudden decision caused surprise and disappointment. “Why was the exhibition closed? It makes one feel uncomfortable,” Jogen Chowdhury said. “I cannot figure out the reason. I don’t know if the decision has anything to do with the incidents in Bangladesh. If it is so, then it is reason enough for worry.” Rokeya, however, said over the phone from Delhi that she was not disappointed. “I will continue to paint. I hope something will come through. I’m optimistic,” she said. Luva Choudhury, director-general, Bengal Foundation, chimed in with the artist. “This retrospective was to mark the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence and 50 years of Bangladesh’s friendship with India. We hope to get new dates. I’m taking it on a positive note.” Ina Puri, art writer and curator based in Delhi, was “disappointed”. “I had written a monograph on Rokeya Sultana two years ago. That could not be launched earlier because of Covid, and this time owing to the postponement. I hope we shall hear back from the ICCR soon.” Born in 1956 in Chittagong, Rokeya was initially trained as an artist at the government art college in Dhaka. Her father was from Burdwan but moved to what was then East Pakistan after Partition. Rokeya did her MA and MPhil at Kala Bhavana, Visva-Bharati. Among her teachers were Somnath Hore, Lalu Prasad Shaw and Sanat Kar. Kar said over the phone from Santiniketan that Rokeya’s work was “marked by diversity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||SC restores KCOCA charges on man accused of harbouring Gauri killers||A man accused of harbouring the killers of journalist Gauri Lankesh will face stringent charges of organised crime that Karnataka High Court had set aside, the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday. The high court order quashing the charges filed under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (KCOCA) against Mohan Nayak was “manifestly wrong and cannot be countenanced”, the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravikumar said. Gauri, a trenchant critic of the BJP-RSS, was shot dead outside her Bangalore home in 2017 and the investigators have linked many of the suspects to the Sanatan Sanstha, a Right-wing outfit. Thursday’s verdict came on separate appeals filed by Gauri’s sister Kavita Lankesh and the Karnataka government challenging the quashing of KCOCA charges against Nayak. The BJP-led state government filed the separate appeal in the Supreme Court on July 26, some three weeks after Kavita filed her plea in the apex court and over three months after the high court pronounced its order. Apart from the charges of murder and conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code, all the 18 accused — one of them absconding — face charges also under the KCOCA. The 2000 act takes into account not just one specific offence but also other possible crimes committed by the accused or other members of the organised crime syndicate they allegedly belong to. The Bangalore police commissioner had in August 2018 sanctioned the invocation of the KCOCA against the Gauri murder accused. But the high court quashed these charges against Nayak on an appeal from him, ruling the material wasn’t strong enough. The high court had “completely glossed over the crucial fact” that sanction for the KCOCA charges had come from “the competent authority” (police commissioner) and that the trial court had taken cognisance of the “offence of organised crime committed by the members of organised crime syndicate including the writ petitioner (Nayak) — to which there was no challenge”, the apex court said. “Further, the high court has clearly exceeded its jurisdiction in quashing the chargesheet (against Nayak) for offences punishable under (various sections) of the 2000 Act.” The KCOCA sections mandate a jail term between five years and a life sentence. Nayak, arrested in July 2018, is at Bangalore central jail. The investigators have linked him to the Sanatan Sanstha and accused him of putting up the alleged killer, Parashuram Waghmare, in the run-up to the murder. Nayak, 53, ran an acupuncture clinic in Kumbalgodu on Bangalore’s outskirts, 12km from Gauri’s home. Writing the judgment, Justice Khanwilkar stressed that the police commissioner had rightly approved invocation of the KCOCA against Nayak and the other accused, focusing at that stage only on the commission of crimes by an organised crime syndicate and on being prima facie satisfied about the material on record. “Therefore, the specific role of the concerned accused is not required to be and is not so mentioned in the stated prior approval,” the judgment said. “That aspect would be unravelled during the investigation.... The high court, thus, examined the matter by applying erroneous scale. The observations made by the high court in the impugned judgment clearly reveal that it has glossed over the core and tangible facts.” Justice Khanwilkar stressed that the KCOCA can be invoked “if there is material to indicate that he (Nayak) happens to be a member of the organised crime syndicate who had committed the offences in question and it can be established that there is material about his nexus with the (other) accused who is a member of the organised crime syndicate”. But he added that Thursday’s judgment expressed no opinion on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Modi claims India didn't depend on any other country for vaccines||A “vaccine anthem” released by the Centre to mark India’s billionth Covid-19 vaccine dose is prefaced by an audio excerpt from a speech by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that says India did not have to depend on any other country for vaccines. The words heralding the anthem are strikingly similar to a part of Modi’s Independence Day speech this year. “It is due to the power of our entrepreneurs and scientists that the country is not dependent on anyone or any country for vaccines,” says the translated version of the August 15 speech, available on the website PMIndia. The Union health ministry released the three-minute anthem, produced by singer-composer Kailash Kher, at an event at the Red Fort on Thursday morning. It was part of nationwide celebrations to mark the Covid-19 vaccination campaign surpassing the billionth dose. But scientists say the campaign has largely hinged on Covishield, a UK-designed vaccine, and that the recipe for Covaxin, India’s home-grown vaccine, includes a key molecular ingredient developed in the US. India has approved six Covid-19 vaccines, but the campaign has almost entirely relied so far on two: Covishield, developed jointly by Oxford University researchers and AstraZeneca and produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin. Some say Modi’s words would be correct if they refer only to the vaccine production. Except for a relatively minuscule 1 million doses of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine, all the others used have been produced in India. But such a defence would recall what Yudhishthir conveyed to Dronacharya through a mix of utterance and whisper during the Kurukshetra war in the Mahabharat: “Ashwatthama hata, iti narova kunjarova (Yes, Ashwatthama is dead. I don’t know if it’s a man or an elephant).” On Thursday, a vaccine science researcher familiar with the makeup of multiple Covid-19 vaccines said, requesting anonymity: “Anything made in India is made in India, but any suggestion that the Covid-19 vaccines are 100 per cent indigenous would be disingenuous.” But the scientist added that Modi’s words were probably an allusion to the critical role the Serum Institute had played in ensuring mass domestic production of Covishield, and the research by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech to develop Covaxin. “The PM’s statements are not untrue — technology transfer (for Covishield) and domestic production also require significant research expertise,” the scientist said. Covishield accounted for nearly 884 million (88.4 per cent) of the billion doses administered across India until Thursday morning, while Covaxin accounted for 115 million doses. The campaign has also administered a million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine. “Nearly nine in 10 people have received Covishield, which was designed and developed in the UK. It’s primarily Covishield that has helped India achieve what it has,” a public health specialist said. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin uses an ingredient — called an adjuvant — discovered and developed by a company called ViroVax in Kansas, with support exclusively from the adjuvant development programme of America’s National Institutes of Health. Adjuvants are substances that boost a vaccine’s immune responses and enhance its effectiveness. The adjuvant in Covaxin travels to the lymph nodes where the molecule detaches from alum and activates cells that play a critical role in immune responses to viruses. Scientists familiar with vaccine development said Bharat Biotech’s use of the US-made adjuvant was in line with global practices to outsource the best ingredients needed from wherever available. Bharat Biotech’s pact with ViroVax — a biotech company founded by Sunil David, a former student of the Christian Medical College, Vellore — predates Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Army officer accuses Kashmiris of suffering from 'selective dementia'||A senior army officer on Thursday accused Kashmiris of suffering from “selective dementia” and wondered whether the word “Kashmiri” runs the risk of being treated as a pejorative similar to “Paki” if they do not condemn the killings of non-Muslims in the Valley. Lt Gen. K.J.S. Dhillon, director-general of the Defence Intelligence Agency and deputy chief of the Integrated Defence Staff, asked at an army seminar where Kashmir’s “silent majority” was when Kashmiri Pandits migrated. The general, who was also the Valley’s army chief, put the size of the “silent majority” at 85 per cent of the population of Kashmir, adding that the remaining are those who played an active role on the other side. “In this game, why is the silent majority silent? Why is the majority not exerting itself?” The general said: “We are a democratic country where we have a right to dissent, to express our feelings. We have the right to (have our own) feelings but whenever there is a killing by terrorists, selective dementia happens.” The officer asked Kashmiris to tell any person speaking against other atrocities that he has lost the right to speak. Lt Gen. Dhillon said “Paki” (Pakistani) was an abuse in the West, and he asked Kashmiris whether they wanted to become “a society like that”. “Where you are called a name… but it is an abuse. Are we heading that way? Do we need to go that way? We have a 5,000-year-plus rich history, which is peaceful co-existence, Kashmiriyat, insaniyat (humanity) and Sufiyat (Sufism),” he said. “Are we headed that way, when someone calls you (Kashmiri), you take it as an abuse? Do you want someone calling you a ‘Kashmiri’ (or asking) ‘are you a Kashmiri’? And it is an offence? So, please be very clear what is happening.” Kashmir High Court Bar Association spokesperson G.N. Shaheen said Kashmiris had always widely condemned the killings of members of the minority community. “The fact is it is the majority community (Muslims in Kashmir) that has suffered the worst. Around 99 per cent of the victims have been Kashmir Muslims, who die every single day. Despite that, Kashmiris have always condemned all civilian killings, no matter who the victim is,” Shaheen told The Telegraph. “We don’t celebrate deaths here but when we are killed, nobody (in the rest of India) cries,” Shaheen added. Lt Gen. Dhillon said the killings had to be condemned so that future generations were saved and there was an end to people’s sufferings. He said the perpetrators of attacks on innocent civilians were targeting the roots of the society and such people could never be friends of Kashmir. The officer headed the Srinagar-based 15 Corps during the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Soon after the attack, he had warned that anybody who picked up the gun in Kashmir would be eliminated unless he surrendered, which was seen as a declaration of a “take-no-prisoner policy” against militants. Many Kashmiris, including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, were jailed to prevent protests in the wake of the dilution of Article 370, with the army playing a key role in crushing dissent. The authorities continue to pursue zero tolerance against any dissent, even in cases in which civilians have died at the hands of security forces, during the past two years. Lt Gen. Dhillon said 66 per cent of the population of Kashmir was below 32 years of age and they could be referred to as “children of conflict”. He said there was a need to “understand their psychology”. “They were born and brought up during the gun culture, strikes, curfews and crackdowns. They have grown up with a scar on their psychology. They have grown through radicalisation and propaganda,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi ‘shock’ claim on Uttar Pradesh police||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the family of a Dalit man who died in police custody has told her that he had been mercilessly assaulted and also administered electric shock. Police in Agra denied the allegation, saying Arun Narwar, a sweeper, had died of heart attack on Tuesday night. Arun had been arrested on the charge of stealing Rs 25 lakh from the locker room of Agra’s Jagdishpura police station. Priyanka said after meeting Arun’s family at Lohamandi on Wednesday night: “The family members of Arun told me that the police picked up 17-18 people of the Valmiki community, took them to the police station and thrashed them mercilessly. His wife (Sonam) told me that she was also beaten up, not only by policewomen but male cops as well. They all have big injury marks. Her husband was beaten in front of her. His hands and legs were tied and he was given electric shock.” The Congress leader added: “The police wrote a complaint and forced the victim’s brother (Sonu) to sign it. He doesn’t even know how to read. Their house was ransacked.” Arun’s mother Kamla Devi said he had mentioned the names of “the police officers who had actually stolen the money and so the cops killed him”. Five policemen have been suspended and booked for murder. Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police of Agra, told reporters when asked about Priyanka’s allegation that Arun had been administered electric shock: “It is not true. He died of a heart attack when the police had taken him to his home to recover the stolen cash. However, every aspect will be investigated.” The officer conceded that there were four injury marks on Arun’s body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||SC posers on EWS quota criteria in postgraduate medical seats||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre searching questions about the criteria it had adopted to fix the ceiling of Rs 8 lakh on annual family income for eligibility under the quota for economically weaker sections (EWS) in postgraduate medical seats. The court asked the government if it would want to “revisit” the policy. Although the EWS ceiling is Rs 8 lakh in all cases, the court restricted itself to the 10 per cent EWS reservation within the all-India quota in postgraduate medical seats filled up through the NEET. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. The court pointed out that the annual family income limit to identify the creamy layer among Other Backward Classes was also Rs 8 lakh, reasoning that these OBCs were socially and educationally backward unlike their EWS peers. The creamy layer is excluded from quota benefits. At one point, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna indicated that it could stay the notification for EWS quota in postgraduate medical education, but did not do so on the request of additional solicitor-general K.M. Natraj representing the Centre. “What was the criteria adopted by you (to fix the EWS income ceiling)? You must have some demographic or socio-economic data. It is not that you can pull out (the) 8-lakh figure from thin air? How did you arrive at this exact figure?… By this you are making unequals equals by applying your Rs 8-lakh limit,” Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, remarked. “For determining the creamy layer in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, the limit was fixed as Rs 8 lakh annual income and they were considered progressed class among OBCs and… excluded from reservation benefits. Here, for the EWS category, the limit is the same Rs 8 lakh annual income, but it was for inclusion in the reservation benefits,” the bench said. “The EWS are not socially and educationally backward,” Justice Chandrachud remarked. The court clarified that though such matters were policy decisions, it could definitely seek answers from the government. The bench said: “Tell us if you want to revisit the criteria or not. If you want us to discharge our duties, then we are ready to do so. We are formulating questions, which you need to answer. We may stay the government notification fixing the Rs 8-lakh criteria for determining the EWS and you can keep filing affidavits.” Natraj, the government counsel, said the criteria had been fixed “after proper application of mind” and that it was a “pure policy matter” in which “the court should not interfere”. The Supreme Court was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the Centre’s and the Medical Counselling Committee’s July 29 notice providing for 10 per cent reservation for the EWS category in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The petitions had been filed by Neil Aurelio, Yash Tekwani and other NEET candidates. The bench was dissatisfied with the government for not filing an affidavit despite an October 7 direction to do so within two weeks on the EWS quota ceiling. “You had two weeks to file an affidavit. But you haven’t done so. We can stay the notification and in the meanwhile you do something,” Justice Chandrachud said. Natraj pleaded that no such direction be passed and offered to file an affidavit “at the earliest”. Natraj defended the EWS quota, saying many people were not receiving the benefits and that there had been no legal challenge when this reservation had been introduced in the undergraduate medical courses in 2019 and at the time of its inception in postgraduate programmes in 2020. The court asked the following questions: ⚫ Has the Centre determined any criteria to implement the Rs 8-lakh ceiling for the EWS quota? ⚫ Had the 2010 report of the Major Gen. (retd) S.R. Sinho Commission been considered before ascertaining the criteria? The report has to be placed on record before the court. The commission, constituted by the UPA government, had recommended welfare measures for the EWS category. Natraj said the panel’s report had been taken into account. ⚫ Had the difference in rural and urban purchasing power been accounted for while deriving the income limit? ⚫ Were any criteria adopted for distinguishing between beneficiaries in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Vaccine: Miles to go as a billion doses done||The government, industry associations and medical experts applauded India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Thursday as it surpassed its billionth dose, but some cautioned that the celebratory mood shouldn’t obscure the challenges emanating from unmet goals. The Union health ministry announced on Thursday morning that India had surpassed the major milestone of a billion doses nine months since the start of the campaign aimed at administering over 1.8 billion doses to fully vaccinate an estimated 944 million adults. The health ministry released a “vaccine anthem” — a three-minute folk song by singer-composer Kailash Kher —  as part of the day’s celebrations. The Archaeological Survey of India illuminated 100 monuments across the country, including the Red Fort, Khajuraho complex, Sun temple in Konark and the Qutub Minar. Ships anchored on Indian ports were urged to hoot, and fully vaccinated people were offered free ropeway rides in Gujarat, Kerala and Uttarakhand. “India scripts history,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. “We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat.” The feat drew congratulatory messages from the Association of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry and the Federation of the Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, amid expectations that vaccinations would accelerate economic recovery. The world took notice too. US secretary of state Antony Blinken tweeted: “We congratulate India for the extraordinary accomplishment of administering one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. I applaud India’s successes in fighting Covid-19 at home and for its efforts to help end the pandemic in the Indo-Pacific region and well beyond.” Australia, France, the Maldives and Sri Lanka also tweeted congratulatory notes. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, said it was “delighted to see the one billionth vaccination done”, but added that “we are yet miles and miles away to go, before we stand firm to say all our needed population are vaccinated”. Sections of medical experts echoed those concerns, saying that while completing a billion doses was a major milestone, tens of millions of people aged 45 years or older and at high risk of severe Covid-19 were yet to be fully vaccinated. Only about 87 million (41 per cent) of India’s estimated 210 million people aged between 45-59 years and 62 million (43 per cent) among an estimated 143 million people aged 60 years or older had been fully vaccinated till October 20, according to immunisation data. “People older than 45 were prioritised for vaccinations. If the public health goal was to minimise the risk of deaths, all above 45 should have been fully vaccinated,” said a health expert. “Under the initial goal, all such prioritised at-risk populations should have been fully vaccinated by August.” A public health specialist said India could have accomplished that initial goal had the Centre not opened the vaccination campaign to all adults — 18 years or older — in April without the sufficient quantum of vaccine doses to support the plan. Health officials had defended the policy tweak, asserting that many states and the public had demanded that the campaign be opened to all adults, but simultaneously pointed out that “science and public health dictated” that vaccines should be prioritised to high-risk groups. A vaccine science specialist said the task of getting vaccines to the remaining sections of the population was likely to get harder and harder as the number of vaccinated people grows in any country. “It is much easier to vaccinate the first 50 per cent of the population, and harder to vaccinate the last 20 per cent,” the researcher said. “Some people may be hard to reach or the campaign may encounter vaccine hesitancy.” Health experts also said the campaign’s current pace — an average of less than six million doses per day this month — was not enough to achieve the goal of fully vaccinating all adults by December 31. To accomplish that, the campaign would need to administer 12.3 million doses daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Congress phone and scooty offer to girls||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the Congress, if voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, will give smartphones to girls who clear the Class XII exams and electric scooters to graduates. “I met some girl students yesterday (Wednesday). They said they needed smartphones for their education and safety. I am happy that the UP Congress has decided, with the consent of the declaration committee (of the party), to give smartphones to girls clearing the intermediate exams and electronic scooties to graduate girl students if the Congress forms the government,” Priyanka tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. On Wednesday, Priyanka had spoken to several school and college girls after police had stopped her on her way to Agra. “She asked about us. We told her that we didn’t have phones, which was needed for our safety,” one of the girls told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Cong calls attention to images of death during Covid second wave||The Congress on Thursday called attention to the heart-rending images of death and devastation during the Covid second wave as the Narendra Modi government celebrated the administration of 1 billion vaccine doses, and demanded an independent commission to investigate the Centre’s “criminal role”. “Jashn se zakhm nahin bharte (Celebrations don’t heal wounds),” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. “How can we forget the tragedy of bodies lining up at crematoriums and strewn on riverbeds, the struggle and sufferings of millions who were abandoned by the government? How can we forget those who didn’t survive? The official figure puts the number of deaths (from Covid) at 4.53 lakh, but estimates by independent agencies fear over 50 lakh people died in India. Should there be no accountability for such a large number of deaths?” he said. “An independent commission should be constituted to investigate the Modi government’s criminal role. The commission can give suggestions for strengthening health infrastructure and how to be prepared for such crises in future. It can also undertake a survey on the number of deaths. The commission can include judges, health experts and other independent personalities,” the party spokesperson said. The Congress insisted it had no intention of crying down the government’s pleasures and that the Modi regime was free to use all available machinery, and the media, to hype up the 100-crore vaccination mark. The Opposition party, however, cautioned that the facts could not be buried for the government’s convenience. The Congress pointed to the lack of preparation to tackle the deadly second wave earlier this year, the oxygen crisis, the unavailability of hospital beds and medicines and the bungling in vaccine procurement. While congratulating doctors, nurses, health workers and scientists for combating the pandemic and administering 1 billion Covid vaccine doses, Surjewala said: “The time has come to seek accountability for (the government’s) incompetence, criminal negligence and the confused vaccination policy. The government should also answer by when the remaining population will be vaccinated as India stands at the 19th position among the top 20 countries in terms of the percentage of the total population inoculated.” He added: “Around 29 crore people have got both doses and 42 crore have received only one dose. This also means 32 crore adults haven’t received any dose. To complete the task by December 31, the government needs 151 lakh doses daily. Then our children are at great risk. Vaccines have been developed (for kids), why the delay in decision-making?” The Congress also raised issues such as the need for a booster dose, delay in clearance to vaccine manufacturers given approval to sell their products in India and the absence of recognition to the indigenous vaccine, Covaxin, by countries and global agencies. The party questioned the government’s propaganda on free vaccines, pointing out that several BJP leaders and ministers had themselves said petroleum products were being taxed steeply to pool resources for the vaccination drive. Surjewala said that while vaccinating the entire population would barely need Rs 20,600 crore, the government had earned lakhs of crores through enhanced taxes on petrol, diesel and cooking gas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Farmers have a right to protest but cannot block roads: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers have a right to protest but cannot be allowed to block roads as other citizens have a right to unhindered passage on public roads. “The law is clear. You have a right to agitate but the roads cannot be blocked. Why the blockage has taken place, how it has taken place, has to be resolved,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was appearing for certain farmers’ organisations. The bench of Justices Kaul and M.M. Sundresh was hearing a public interest plea from a Noida-based woman who has sought removal of the road blocks put up since last November on Delhi’s borders, where farmers have been protesting three central farm laws. Dave told the court the blockades were a result not of the farmers’ protest but of the police’s security measures. He said the blockades only suited the government’s interests. “The roads have been blocked due to the way Delhi police have made the arrangements. It suits them to allow a feeling that farmers are blocking the road,” Dave said. Justice Kaul said: “The law is laid down. There’s nothing more to be laid down. You can tell them that their cooperation will help in resolving the issue.” He was referring to an earlier apex court judgment that said protests can be held only at notified locations and should cause no inconvenience to citizens. Dave recalled that on December 17 last year, a three-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had said it could not pass any order to remove the protesters. He said the bench had observed that the “right to protest is sacrosanct”. “We are not getting into (the) challenge to the (farm) law(s) and (the) protest. This is only about blocking of the road,” Justice Kaul said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, argued that when the court made the December 17 observation, the issue before it was not the road blockades but the constitutional validity of the three farm laws. He said that of the 44 farmer organisations protesting on Delhi’s borders, just two had appeared before the court. “When this court took up the issue regarding the challenge to the (three) acts for the first time, these farm unions were also called. They refused to appear before the court,” Mehta said. “The court took the unprecedented step of staying the operation of a law. The agitation is for some other reasons.” Dave countered: “The agitation is for repeal of the farm laws. The SG is trying to attribute something to farmers.” He said the solution was to allow the farmers, massed on Delhi’s borders for 11 months, to enter the city and agitate on the Ramlila Maidan which, with Jantar Mantar, makes up two of the capital’s most prominent protest sites. “After stopping us, the BJP held a rally at Ramlila Maidan with 5 lakh people. Why is there this selective permission?” Dave asked. Mehta retorted at one point: “For some people, Ramlila Maidan should be the residence. They survive on Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar.” The bench later clarified that the present matter mainly concerned the road blockades and not the farm laws. It said that if necessary, the matter would be tagged with the larger issue relating to the three laws that have been challenged by a bunch of petitions. The next hearing will be on December 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Chidambaram points finger at government’s selective ‘pluralism’||Former finance minister and Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Thursday said the Narendra Modi government subscribed to pluralism in the world but supported majoritarianism in India. Taking to Twitter, Chidambaram said: “The new Quad consists of four countries that reflect the pluralism of the world. US (secular, but mainly Christian), India (secular, but mainly Hindu), Israel (Jewish) and the UAE (Islamic). If pluralism can be harnessed for the good of the world, can it not be harnessed for the good of India? The Modi Government subscribes to pluralism in the world but supports majoritarianism in India!” While the Congress has consistently accused the RSS-BJP of subverting the constitutional scheme by executing a majoritarian agenda, India never attracted global attention for diminishing democracy as it has during the Modi regime. While independent agencies have described India as an electoral autocracy and referred to attacks on civil liberties and freedom of expression to buttress the charge of diminishing democracy, Modi had to digest sermons on democracy and Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy during his last visit to the US. Modi and his ministers have always asserted at international forums that India was fully committed to democracy and Gandhian values but now the Opposition leaders are pointing at the dichotomy in the government’s attitude. While Modi hails Gandhi’s value system abroad, the RSS-BJP ecosystem has trended “Godse Zindabad”, hailing his killer, on both his birth and death anniversaries. Chidambaram had recently written about Modi’s apathy towards human rights violations, pointing out the Prime Minister’s silence on cases such as Bhima Koregan in which activists and intellectuals are in jail for over two years without trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||BJP parliamentarian now cast glare on Harsh Goenka firm ||BJP parliamentarian Ananth Kumar Hegde has written to CEAT, the tyre maker and the flagship of RPG Enterprises headed by Harsh Goenka, claiming an advertisement against the bursting of crackers on streets had created “unrest” among Hindus and asking the company to also address the issues of Friday namaz on roads and azan over loudspeakers. Hegde’s letter to CEAT managing director and CEO Anant Vardhan Goenka refers to an ad in which actor Aamir Khan exhorts cricket fans against bursting crackers or lighting sparklers on streets, citing road safety. The ad, released in the run-up to the T20 World Cup and Diwali, does not mention the festival that features crackers and fireworks. The letter by Hegde, Lok Sabha member from Karnataka and former Union minister, says: “I request you to address one more problem faced by people on roads i.e. blocking roads in the name of namaz on Fridays and other important festive days by Muslims.” “At that time (during Friday prayers on streets), vehicles like ambulances and fire-fighter vehicles are also stuck in traffic causing grave losses,” the letter adds without citing evidence. It targets “anti-Hindu” actors, saying: “Nowadays, a group of anti-Hindu actors always hurt Hindu sentiments whereas they never try to expose the wrongdoings of their community.” Aamir had six years ago expressed alarm at the rising “intolerance” in the country. The ad shows Aamir dressed in the Indian cricket team’s colours and advising fans against bursting crackers on streets even if an Indian batter hits a six. A message from this newspaper to CEAT’s Twitter account, seeking the tyre maker’s reaction to Hegde’s letter and the boycott call, had brought no response till Thursday evening. Hegde’s letter, dated October 14, became widely known after the MP posted it on his Facebook page late on October 20. His personal website too carries a copy of the letter, which comes amid a social media call for boycotting CEAT products over two advertisements featuring Aamir. The second ad to raise Right-wing netizens’ hackles shows Aamir urging a wedding party to stay off the roads to make way for traffic. The critics’ grouse is that the wedding depicted is a Hindu one. Hegde’s letter, which mentions only the cricket-cracker ad, says: “I kindly request you to take cognisance of this particular incident where your company’s advertisement has created an unrest among the Hindus. I hope in future your organisation will respect the Hindu sentiment and will not hurt it directly or indirectly...” It adds: “As you are very keen and sensitive towards the problems faced by the general public and you also belong to the Hindu community, I am sure you can feel the discrimination done to the Hindus since centuries.” Hegde goes on to raise another topic that should have little to do with road safety or the ease of traffic flow. “I also request you to highlight the issue of noise pollution in your ads. Everyday loud noise is emitted from mikes arranged on top of mosques in our country when azan is given. That sound is beyond the permissible limits,” the letter says. “It is causing great inconvenience to people suffering from different ailments and taking rest, people working in different establishments and teachers teaching in classrooms.” Days earlier, Hegde’s fellow Karnataka MP and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya had targeted homegrown apparels major Fabindia over an ad that described a line of clothing with an Urdu term, Jashn-e-Riwaaz (celebration of tradition). The ad did not mention Diwali but Surya tweeted that it was a “deliberate attempt of Abrahamisation of Hindu festivals”. Fabindia clarified that Jashn-e-Riwaaz was not its Diwali collection. But it withdrew the commercial. On October 21, Fabindia launched its Diwali collection, titled Jhilmil Si Diwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||NCB at Shah Rukh Khan's door after he visits Aryan in prison||Narcotics Control Bureau officers arrived at Shah Rukh Khan’s Bandra home on Thursday, soon after the superstar had visited his son Aryan in prison. Aryan, 23, was arrested by the NCB on October 3 during an operation on a Goa-bound cruise ship in which it claimed to have seized some drugs. No drugs were found on Aryan. Bombay High Court has listed his bail plea for hearing on October 26. An NCB officer said the visit to Mannat, Shah Rukh’s sea-facing mansion, was not a raid. A team from the Mumbai zonal unit had gone to seek certain materials related to the investigation into the case, the official said. In the morning, Shah Rukh met Aryan in jail for the first time since October 3. Physical visits were not allowed earlier because of Covid restrictions. A special court in the city had on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Aryan, while accepting that “no contraband had been found in his possession”. In its order, the court said Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying 6 grams of charas and that Aryan was aware of this. It also cited his WhatsApp chats. Aryan has challenged the order in Bombay High Court. His advocate Satish Maneshinde on Thursday mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N.W. Sambre, seeking an urgent hearing on Friday. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, however, sought time till next week. Justice Sambre then posted the plea for hearing on October 26. The special court extended Aryan’s judicial custody till October 30. Shah Rukh reached Arthur Road jail around 9am and left at 9.35am, officials said. The prison authorities checked the superstar’s Aadhaar card and other documents before letting him into the premises, the officials added. After the verification, a token was given to Shah Rukh and he was allowed to meet his son, who is lodged in the jail’s general cell as an undertrial. Shah Rukh spent around 15-20 minutes with Aryan, a prison official said, adding that there was a glass fencing between them and they spoke on the intercom. Four guards were present during their conversation, he said. The actor was allowed to meet his son as per the prison manual and no special treatment was given, the official said. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when Shah Rukh arrived. Heavy police security had been deployed outside the jail premises. The NCB on Thursday also recorded the statement of actor Ananya Panday. Ananya’s father, actor Chunky Panday, accompanied her to the NCB office where they reached around 4 pm. After recording her statement, Ananya left around 6.15pm, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind lauds Bihar’s liquor prohibition law||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday gave a thumbs-up to Bihar’s prohibition law, hailing the Nitish Kumar government for having accorded legal status to one of the Directive Principles of State Policy, which have been enshrined in the Constitution. Addressing a function organised here on the occasion of 100 years of the Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan — the sprawling building that houses the two legislative bodies — Kovind recalled with pride that he was part of the exercise in his capacity as the then governor of Bihar. Fondly remembering his association with the state where his gubernatorial assignment was nearly two years long, the President made an oblique reference to the Emergency and hailed “the extraordinary leadership of Jayaprakash Narayan, a son of Bihar”, when there was an “assault on our democratic values 25 years after India became a republic”. He also saluted the contribution of the land towards establishing an egalitarian political order recalling that “Chandragupta Maurya, born to a poor woman, went on to become the emperor of Magadha” and late socialist Karpoori Thakur, who became the chief minister of Bihar in 1970, was considered an epitome of integrity and probity. Noting that the state has been making rapid economic growth in recent times, Kovind also pointed to the entrepreneurial energy exhibited by the Bihari diaspora who have made Chhath a “global festival, known from Nawada to New Jersey and from Begusarai to Boston”. “The Directive Principles of State Policy call for protecting public health through measures that prevent consumption of intoxicants. It is a Gandhian ideal. The Bihar Assembly took the important step of passing a bill based on this constitutional provision and I had the opportunity to give my assent (as governor) and pave way for its becoming a law,” the President said. The prohibition law was introduced in April, 2016 in line with an electoral promise by Nitish during the Assembly polls held the previous year. Kovind, who became the President in 2017, was appointed as the governor of Bihar in 2015 and held the post till he was chosen for election to the highest constitutional office. The President also recalled the important role played by the “luminaries of Bihar” in drafting the Constitution. “Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan had once pointed out that Sachchidanand Sinha, who was the first interim president of constituent assembly, and Rajendra Prasad, who headed the body 1946 onwards, were both from Bihar which is characterised by its mriduta (sweetness),” said Kovind. “The soil of Bihar is ratnagarbha (a treasure trove of jewels). I have always been moved by the affection showered by its people. And that is why a visit here always brings me delight,” said the President who has been here on a three-day tour since Wednesday. He urged all the legislators in the state to continue striving towards making Bihar a state known for its learning, culture and prosperity. Earlier, the President laid the foundation stone of a commemorative pillar, which is being constructed to mark the centenary of Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan. He planted a Bodhi sapling, which was consecrated by Buddhist monks who had arrived from Bodh Gaya on the occasion. A host of dignitaries, including governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and acting chairman of Legislative Council Awadhesh Narayan Singh, addressed the gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
22-10-2021||India||Pressure on Naveen to sack minister of state for home mounts||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik is under pressure to sack minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra who is under attack from the Opposition for his alleged patronage to Gobinda Sahu, the main accused in the brutal murder of school teacher Mamita Meher in Kalahandi district. Mamita was killed for allegedly threatening to expose the extramarital affair of Sahu, who is the president of the school management committee where she was working. While the BJP on Thursday organised a “bandh” in Bolangir, the native district of Mamita, demanding the resignation of Mishra, who hails from Kalahandi and is said to be close to Sahu, National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma urged Naveen to remove the minister whose name has surfaced in the criminal cases to ensure a fair probe. The commission will wait for 15 days for the response and then might send a team to Odisha for a review of the case. “We are awaiting a response from the Odisha government. We want the chief minister should take a note of the atrocities against women which is rising gradually in the state and a strong political will is required to put a check on such incidents,” Sharma said. The NCW has also shot off a letter Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay to immediately arrest all the accused involved in the Mamita murder case and provide safety to the family of the victim. BJP leaders met Odisha Human Rights Commission seeking action against Mishra and justice for the family of Mamita whose body was allegedly chopped off after murder and then an attempt was made to destroy evidence by burning the body parts. A public interest litigation was filed in the Orissa High Court seeking a probe by the CBI into the murder of Mamita whose half-charred body was exhumed from a stadium construction site of Sunshine English Medium School at Mahaling in Kalahandi district on October 19. She was a teacher in the school and Sahu the president of the school management committee. The PIL filed by social organisation, Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, has demanded a CBI probe into the case and sought Rs 50 lakh compensation for the next kin of the deceased. Preliminary investigation reveals that the 24-year teacher Mamita was murdered by Sahu. Sahu, who had escaped from the custody of Titlagarh police, was nabbed on October 19 from a sugarcane field where he had been reportedly hiding. Mamita’s family had earlier alleged that she had mysteriously disappeared after accompanying Sahu in his car to Bhawanipatna on October 8. Mamita had threatened Sahu to expose his extra-marital affairs and the sex racket he was running in the school. Sahu is believed to have eliminated her in a bid to seek revenge and hide his immoral activities. Odisha State Commission for Women has also served a notice to SPs of Balangir and Kalahandi districts asking them to submit probe reports in Mamita murder case within 15 days. However, ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has urged the BJP and other parties to refrain from politicising the issue. “While political leaders are going to attend a meeting, many people click their photos with them. It does not indicate that the leaders are responsible for the crimes perpetrated by people seen in the photographs with them. Anyone committing a crime should be punished. Police have already arrested the accused and many more are likely to be arrested,” said BJD spokesperson and senior MLA Pramilla Mallick. She also rejected the demand for a CBI inquiry into the murder. “We also want justice for Mamita’s family but we have faith in our police. We will ensure the culprits are punished. When a BJP central minister’s son mowed down farmers in UP no action was taken against him for a long time. Police acted only after pressure mounted. Why did the BJP leaders not demand for a CBI probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident?” asked Pramila.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
