23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah reiterates 'roadmap' for polls and statehood restoration in Jammu and Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sought the support of the youth of Kashmir in realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "vision of a peaceful and developed" J-K, while reiterating that assembly election will be held in the union territory after delimitation and restoration of statehood will follow.  The government will not allow anyone to create hurdles in the path of peace and development in Kashmir, Shah, who is on his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was revoked in August 2019, said during an interaction with the members of youth clubs of the union territory.  I have come here to forge a friendship with the youth of Kashmir. Join hands with Modi ji and the Government of India and become partners in the journey to take Kashmir forward, he said.  The Union Home Minister said the youths of Kashmir should take advantage of the various opportunities being created by the administration for their progress.  God has made Kashmir as heaven with its natural beauty, but Modi ji wants to see peace, prosperity and development here as well. For that, I have come here to seek support from the youth of Kashmir.  The administration has lent a hand of friendship, youth clubs have been created, you have been given a platform, an opportunity, so come forward and take this opportunity. Make democracy stronger here, let the youths respond to the elements who try to make people go astray, he said.  Shah asserted the government's commitment to bringing peace and development in Jammu and Kashmir.  "Rest assured, the developmental journey in Kashmir will not stop, and no one will stop J-K from becoming an ideal state with respect to development, peace, infrastructure and prosperity, he added.  Shah said he has made a promise in Parliament that the statehood of J-K would be restored and it would be done after the assembly elections.  Elections will happen. (Politicians from Kashmir want that the) Delimitation be stopped. Why? Because it hurts their politics. Now, such things will not stop in Kashmir.  "The youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. I have said this in the country's Parliament and this is the roadmap, he said.  Shah said he felt pleased after his interaction with the members of the youth clubs as the youth of Kashmir has now "set out on the right path and become a shareholder in the journey of development".  I wish you all the very best. Keep moving forward and take benefit from this opportunity of youth clubs and support the administration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Go First starts direct passenger service from Srinagar to Sharjah||Wadia group-run airline Go First on Saturday commenced its direct passenger services to Sharjah in the UAE from Srinagar, becoming the first domestic carrier to provide direct international connectivity from the summer capital of Jammu & Kashmir.  Operated by an Airbus A320neo, the airline's maiden flight G8 1595 departed from Srinagar's Sheikh ul-Alam International Airport around 6.30 pm on Saturday, a release said.  Go First will operate four flights every week between Srinagar and Sharjah.  The introduction of the direct flight on the new route, which will be operated four times a week, will boost trade and tourism between Srinagar and the UAE, besides meeting demand for convenient travel options for the two cities, which are popular tourist destinations as well, Go First said.  The new services will also support growing trade and investment links with both Srinagar and Sharjah, it added. The direct flights from Sharjah will offer seamless connections to Srinagar and beyond to Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu, Leh and Mumbai and vice-versa, the airline said.  "Having been in operations here for over 15 years, the airline shares a special relationship with the region and is committed to its growth. We are delighted to be the first airline to connect Jammu & Kashmir with the UAE and it bears testimony to our commitment to the region, said Kaushik Khona, Chief Executive Officer, Go First.  The airline said it has taken initiatives for the development of air travel and cargo movement from Srinagar, Jammu and Leh, adding that it is the only airline appointed for the cargo movement of horticultural perishable and agricultural produce of J&K Horticulture Products the state owned company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Complainant gone missing: Uddhav Thackeray's dig at former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||In an apparent dig at former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said there is a case in the state where the complainant has gone missing.  Thackeray made the statement at the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijuju, Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud and others were present on the occasion.  "Justice D Y Chandrachud pointed out (during his address at the event) that a case is pending in Maharashtra since 1958 as the accused is absconding. But today we have a case where the complainant is missing," Thackeray said.  "He gave a complaint making serious allegations, but is now missing. We do not know where he is. This is something that also needs to be looked into," he added.  Although the chief minister did not name anyone, his remarks were apparently targeted at the senior IPS officer, who had levelled allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.  A few days ago, during a hearing of a plea pertaining to Singh, the Maharashtra government had told the Bombay High Court that his whereabouts were not known.  Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner, Singh had claimed in a letter to the chief minister earlier this year that Deshmukh used to ask the police officers to collect money from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, resigned as a minister in April this year, although he has denied the allegations against him.  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh.  During his address, the chief minister added that the state government is now planning to launch a project wherein a new high court complex will be built in Mumbai.  "I would like to extend my invitation to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana right now to come to the function as and when it happens. I will try to ensure that the foundation laying of the new building complex and its inauguration are both done by my government," he said.  His statement was apparently in response to minister Rijiju's remark that the foundation for this building (Aurangabad bench) was laid by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, while Thackeray has come for its inauguration.  Thackeray added that dispensing justice is a teamwork involving all the four pillars of democracy.  "We all have to work as a team to ensure that none of the pillars collapses," he added.  Thackeray said that when Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar was framing the Constitution, he was asked about the rights of the central and the state governments, and he answered that the except for a few rights to the Centre, the state will be equally sovereign.  "Dr Ambedkar had made it clear that the state is equally sovereign, except for a few powers to the central government. But are these rights of the states being exercised today? We should check," he said.  India has completed 75 years of Independence, he said, adding, "If we think that we should not lose our independence, I request that all the judges should guide the country about the meaning of independence."  Occupying a certain position doesn't mean that your wish is your authority. Wishes and rights are two different things, someone should tell this, Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||UP govt to rename Faizabad railway station as Ayodhya Cantt ||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rename the Faizabad railway station, a tweet by the office of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday.  It will be called the Ayodhya Cantt railway station, the tweet said, adding that the decision was taken by the chief minister.  In another tweet, the CM's office said the Centre too has granted its consent to the decision and Adityanath has given green signal to issue a notification in this regard.  Earlier in 2018, the Yogi Adityanath government had renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya.  The BJP government had also changed the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.  Meanwhile, the opposition dubbed the move as an attempt to "play with Hindu sentiments" for political benefits.  The chief minister, however, justified renaming, saying it is part of efforts to "restore the rich historical and cultural identity" of the place.  Opened in 1874, the Faizabad railway station comes under the Northern Railway zone. It falls under the Lucknow-Varanasi section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Modi meets seven Covid vaccine manufacturers after billion-dose milestone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met seven Indian COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers today, a meeting that comes in the wake of the country achieving the landmark of administering 100 crore doses of the jabs, official sources said. Representatives from seven vaccine makers - Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech - attended the meeting with PM Modi. PM Modi was likely to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible and also help other countries in inoculating their population as part of the mantra "vaccine for all", an official source had told news agency Press Trust of India. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar were present in the meeting as well. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 101.30 crore, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 7 am. India on October 21 achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both the doses, according to health ministry officials. So far, all adult population in nine states and union territories - Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli - have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Three more arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||Three more arrests were made on Saturday in connection with the Tikonia violence here which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead during a protest by farmers on October 3, officials said Saturday. This takes to 13 the total number of arrests made so far, also including Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, in connection with the violence. A senior police officer identified those arrested Saturday as Mohit Trivedi of Singahi town, Ranku Rana of Barsola Kalan and Dharmendra of Chimma Tanda both under Tikonia kotwali limits. The arrests were made after their names emerged during the interrogation of other accused in police custody, the officer added. All the three accused would be produced in the court later in the day and the investigators would request for their 14 days police remand for further interrogation,he said. Ashish was arrested on October 9 and is presently in police custody. The nine other arrested accused include BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana. Barring Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana, all other seven are in police custody for interrogation. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3. The next day, a counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested. The SIT constituted by the state police is probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||CJI Ramana rues 'unplanned' improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure||Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice, but it is baffling to note that its improvement and maintenance was being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner in the country, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Saturday. Noting that an effective judiciary can help in the growth of the economy, the CJI said courts are extremely essential for any society that is governed by rule of law. CJI Ramana was speaking at the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court. The CJI said today's success should not blind us to the issues that exist. "We are faced with certain hard facts like several courts do not have proper facilities. Some courts function out of dilapidated buildings. Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice," he said. "It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner," CJI Ramana added. He further said that the building that was inaugurated at Aurangabad on Saturday was envisioned in 2011. "That it has taken 10 years for this vision to be implemented is extremely worrisome. This is a deeper problem that has plugged our judicial infrastructure planning in our country since the Independence," the CJI said. "An effective judiciary can aid in the effective growth of the economy," he said. The CJI said he has sent a proposal for the establishment of the National Judicial Infrastructural Authority to the Union Minister of Law and Justice, and added that he was hoping for a positive response and the issue be taken up during the upcoming winter session of the Parliament. CJI Ramana said many ideas of social revolution that have resulted in the freedom and liberty that we all take for granted today have been born out of this fertile and progressive land. "Be it the extraordinary Savitri Phule or the pioneering feminist Jyotirao Phule or the legendary Dr Bhimrao Babasaheb Ambedkar. They always aspired for an egalitarian society where every individual's right to dignity is honoured. Together they have set in motion an irreversible social change which has finally evolved in our Constitution," CJI Ramana said. He added that it is a common notion that only criminals and victims approach court and people take pride in stating that they have never visited or seen a court building in their lifetime. "But it is high time we take the efforts to remove this taboo for the affirmation of a citizen's rights. The common man deals with multiple legal issues during his lifetime. One must never hesitate to approach the courts. After all, people's faith in the judiciary is one the biggest strength of democracy," the CJI said. He added that courts are extremely essential for any society that is governed by rule of law as they actively assure the constitutional right to justice. Courts in India have always stood up whenever an individual or society is at the receiving end of executive excess, he said. "It is an assurance that an individual, howsoever weak, need not worry about the might of a state," CJI Ramana said. Also speaking at the function, Supreme Court Justice D Y Chandrachud said the flipside of their work is they are confronted with the extent of justice and injustice faced by citizens across the nation. Justice Chandrachud added that while the judiciary is celebrating the inauguration of the building but at the same there has to be introspection from the judiciary on how to address the issue of pending cases in the state and country. "As on date, there are over 48 lakh cases pending in Maharashtra with around 21,000 cases being more than three decades old. These are some of the problems we have to face. This calls for some introspection," Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Chandrachud said the building at Aurangabad is a landmark in the history of Maharashtra. "This building is a symbol of the ethos of Maharashtra. It represents the value of diversity, tolerance and plurality of culture in this state," Justice Chandrachud said. He also emphasized the need to have virtual courts so that every citizen across the nation can have access to court proceedings. "Our citizens are entitled to know how court proceedings are being held, how long judges sit, and why some cases get adjourned. This is their right to know," Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Modi calls for continuation of 'double engine' govt to make Goa self-sufficient||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for the need to have continuation of "double engine" government in order to realise the vision of making Goa self-sufficient. He said this while interacting with the beneficiaries and stakeholders of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme' via video-conferencing. His 'double engine' reference was to the BJP governments at the Centre as well as in the state. The Assembly polls in Goa, which is currently ruled by the saffron party, are due in February next year. "Goa can become 'swayampurna' (self-sufficient) only when it makes cent per cent use of the developmental avenues and possibilities," Modi said, adding that 'Swayampurna Goa' is a means to fulfil the aspirations of common people. "Swayampurna Goa is an assurance of well-being and health of our mothers and sisters. Swayampurna Goa will provide employment and self-employment opportunities to youths and unemployed people," he added. Modi said that it is not just a programme of five months or five years, but it is a first phase of the vision for next 25 years. Each one from Goa will have to contribute to achieve the goal, he added. "That is why, Goa needs continuation of development by double engine government. Goa needs clear policies like the way they are today and a stable government," he said. The prime minister said that the coastal state needs "energetic leadership like today". "With the blessings of entire Goa, we can make the state swayampurna," he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant welcomed the prime minister during the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan's manager visits NCB office||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani visited the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office here on Saturday morning, sources said. Dadlani arrived at the anti-drug agency's office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around 10 am, carrying an envelope in her hand, they said. While stepping out of the office over an hour later, the media persons waiting outside tried to seek her comment, but she left the place without speaking to them. Aryan Khan (23), son of Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. On Thursday, an NCB team had visited the actor's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra seeking some documents related to the investigation of the alleged drug seizure case. On Friday evening, the Shah Rukh Khan's bodyguard had visited the NCB office and handed over some documents in a sealed envelope on the actor's behalf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Shah grills officials on killings, terror threat in Kashmir ||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday reviewed the security situation and steps taken to combat terrorism in Kashmir Valley in the wake of a spate of attacks on civilians, particularly non-local labourers and minorities. Prolonged encounters with terrorists, the growing threat of radicalisation, the killing of civilians, and an increase in cross-border infiltration were some of the key issues discussed at the high-level meeting held at the Raj Bhawan, reported ndtv com The meet was attended by top civil administration officials, including Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and senior security officials from the Army, CRPF, police and other agencies. NDTV.com quoted a ministry official as saying: "The narrative of the centre is that J&K is safe for everyone… but these killings prove minorities and outsiders are not safe. This is a big concern for government… so a strategy to further reassure people was discussed." Shah also sought explanations on prolonged encounters and anti-terror operations. The home minister was briefed about the steps taken to eliminate terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and counter-infiltration measures taken by the forces, the officials said. Shah's visit to Kashmir comes in the backdrop of 11 civilian killings in the valley in October alone. Five of those killed were labourers from Bihar, while three, including two teachers, belonged to minority communities in Kashmir. Earlier, upon arriving, Shah was received at the Srinagar airport by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha where other senior officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration were also present, officials said. After landing the Home Minister visited the family of J&K police officer Inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists this month. Shah has offered Mr Ahmad's wife a government job, reported ndtv.com. After the Raj Bhawan meeting, the home minister is also likely to interact with members of a youth club here. This is Shah's first visit to Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir state into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Security was beefed up across Kashmir ahead of Shah's visit to the valley. Additional deployment of security forces has been made across the valley, the officials said. They said the security apparatus has been beefed up, especially in the city here. Official sources said 50 companies of additional paramilitary forces are being inducted into the valley in the wake of the recent spate of civilian killings. Bunkers manned by CRPF forces have come up in several areas of the city as well in other parts of the Kashmir valley, the officials said. On Sunday, he will travel to Jammu to address a public rally, and on Monday, he is likely to meet village heads to address their concerns before flying back to Delhi. The civilian killings have prompted extra precautions for Shah's visit, with fortifications in a 20 km radius around Raj Bhavan (where he will stay) on Srinagar's Gupkar Road. Drones were spotted Friday to keep track of suspicious movement and the CRPF monitored activity on Dal Lake and parts of the Jhelum River that flows through the interior of the city. "Regular area domination exercises are being carried out. Also, flash nakas are being organised," CRPG's Deputy Inspector General (Operations) Mathew A John told NDTV.com. "Snipers and sharpshooters have been deployed at strategic places. Vehicles are being checked and pedestrians are frisked. Not to harass the public but for their safety too," he added. The killing of civilians has been linked to Pakistan-backed outfits like the Lashkar-e-Taiba; an outfit called The Resistance Front, blamed for some of the deaths has been linked to Lashkar. This week J&K police said four Lashkar terrorists linked to the deaths of civilians - three migrant workers - had been killed after encounters in Shopian and Kulgam districts. Last week two other terrorists - involved in the killing of a civilian and a cop - were killed in back-to-back encounters in Srinagar and Pulwama. According to police, one of those killed was involved in the death of Mohammad Shafi in Srinagar on October 2. 17 terrorists have been killed during 11 encounters in the last two weeks, according to Vijay Kumar, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir. The attacks on civilians have come at a time when the Army is engaged in one of the longest and toughest anti-terror ops in recent times.. Yesterday there was heavy firing in the Poonch sector as the Army hunted down terrorists hiding in the forests there for the past 12 days. Army and police sources have said the fierceness of the fighting has led to speculation the terrorists may have been trained by Pak commandos. Nine soldiers have been killed in action so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Court rejects Kangana's plea in defamation case||The additional chief metropolitan magistrate court here has held that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate, which is presiding over the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against Kangana Ranaut, has acted "judiciously" and did not show any bias against the actor. Just because the court proceeds with the case by following the procedure of law, it does not mean that it is biased against the applicant, additional chief metropolitan magistrate S T Dande said in her order in which she rejected Ranaut's plea that sought transfer of the case to some other court. The additional chief metropolitan magistrate had rejected Ranaut's petition on October 21, but its detailed order was made available on Saturday. The actor had filed the transfer petition last month, saying that she had "lost faith" in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court as it indirectly threatened her of issuing a warrant if she failed to appear before it in a bailable offence. The petition also alleged that the court was biased against her. However, Dande, in her order, ruled that the metropolitan magistrate, 10th court, Andheri, has given a fair opportunity to the accused to remain absent by granting all her exemption applications. "I have perused all the orders passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate, Andheri. He has passed the orders judiciously," she said. Moreover, the order passed by the Andheri court was confirmed by the sessions court. Further, the high court had dismissed Ranaut's plea seeking quashing of the criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by the magistrate, the court said. "It shows that Metropolitan Magistrate, Andheri, has acted judiciously and is not biased against the applicant," the CMM court said. "Merely because the court proceeds with the case by following the procedure of law, it does not mean that court is biased against the applicant/accused," it added. It further held that the case cannot be transferred from one court to another on the basis of mere "apprehension". The court said it was of the view that Ranaut has failed to make out a positive, concrete case to show that her apprehension is reasonable. "Unless some positive, concrete case is made out showing that there is reasonable apprehension of not getting a fair trial or fair justice from the concerned court, the proceedings cannot be transferred from one court to another on mere vague and general allegations," it said. "If on the basis of false allegation, the matter is transferred, it will affect the morale of the presiding officer," it added. The court ruled that there are no grounds made out for transfer of the case from the metropolitan magistrate's court, Andheri, to any other court. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the Andheri court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ms. Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Ranaut has also moved a counter-complaint in the Andheri court against Akhtar for alleged "extortion and criminal intimidation" before the metropolitan magistrate court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Modi to meet seven Indian Covid vaccine manufacturers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet seven Indian COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers on Saturday, a meeting that comes in the wake of the country achieving the landmark of administering 100 crore doses of the jabs, official sources said. Representatives from seven vaccine makers -- Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech -- will be participating in the meeting. Modi is likely to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible and also help other countries in inoculating their population as part of the mantra "vaccine for all", an official source said. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 101.30 crore, according to the health ministry data updated at 7 am. India on October 21 achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both the doses, according to health ministry officials. So far, all adult population in nine states and union territories -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli -- have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. Three vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V -- are currently being used in the country's Covid vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||India logs over 16,000 fresh Covid cases, 666 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 16,326 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,59,562, while the active cases have declined to 1,73,728, the lowest in 233 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,53,708 with 666 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 292 fatalities on Saturday from the previous period. Hence, the death toll is higher, officials said, adding that 99 deaths have been reported from Kerala in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 29 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 118 consecutive days now. The active cases have decreased to 1,73,728 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 2,017 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,64,681 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,84,31,162. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,32,126, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 101.30 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 666 new fatalities include 563 from Kerala and 40 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,53,708 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,965 from Maharashtra, 37,995 from Karnataka, 35,987 from Tamil Nadu, 27,765 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,033 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to visit Goa on October 28||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would be on a maiden visit to Goa on October 28, and appealed to political parties and individuals to join her party in defeating the ruling BJP in the state, where Assembly polls are due early next year. The West Bengal Chief Minister's party has already announced its decision to contest the Assembly elections in Goa. "As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organizations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years," Banerjee said on Twitter. "Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realizing their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSakal," she added. The party had earlier announced that Banerjee would be visiting the state by the end of this month. On Friday, the TMC had appointed Goa's former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro as its vice president less than a month of his joining the party. The party has been inducting several local leaders in its fold ever since it announced its intention to contest the Goa Assembly polls. Several Congress leaders from Goa have joined the TMC over the last few days, while Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has also extended his support to the party. Elections to the 40-member House in the state are due in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Modi seeks to project widespread euphoria over billion jabs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to bask in the afterglow of India administering 1 billion Covid-19 jabs, portraying this in an address to the nation as an achievement of the “new India” being built on his watch. While acknowledging the collective effort behind the feat, the Prime Minister said the milestone was not just a number but “a new chapter” and a “picture of that new India” that knew how to set and achieve difficult goals. Sections of health experts said Modi’s speech appeared to reflect his government’s penchant for engaging in “image building” at every available opportunity while disregarding the planning and response failures that cost lives and limited the pace of the vaccination campaign. In his 17-minute speech, Modi said the billion doses administered were a fitting reply to the questions raised about India’s ability to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19 and the scale of the vaccination campaign. He made no mention of the lives lost during the country’s second Covid-19 wave, which many experts believe could have been less brutal had the Centre curbed mass gatherings by mid-February and arranged for more oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and medicines. “Public health milestones should not be political spectacles,” said R. Ramakumar, professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, and one of the experts to have criticised the Centre for not planning adequately for the vaccination campaign. Health experts also flagged Modi’s assertion during his speech that “India has given 100 crore vaccine doses to its citizens, that too free”. “This is a government’s duty -- in almost all countries, rich and poor, Covid-19 vaccines worldwide are free,” said Rijo John, a health economist at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi. “Our own country’s universal immunisation programme has been free for decades. It is paid from taxpayers’ money.” While the government has offered free Covid-19 jabs to all, it has also kept open the private sector channel for those opting to pay for the vaccination. “Jagadguru of Jhoot excelled himself today rewriting history, twisting facts, distorting reality, making meaningless comparisons, beating his own chest — in short, being himself. While he forgot those who suffered loss of lives and livelihoods from Covid-19 due to his Govt’s failures,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted. CPM leader Sitaram Yechury, who lost his son to Covid-19 during the second wave, had on Thursday questioned the billionth-dose celebrations. “A billion vaccinations is a landmark. But celebrations? Modi government has abandoned its own target of fully vaccinating all adults by year end,” he had tweeted. Modi sought to project a widespread euphoria over the billion vaccinations, asserting that “there is optimism all around in every section from society to economy”. Claiming that many agencies in India and abroad were positive about India’s economy, he said: “With record investments, start-ups are becoming unicorns. New energy is also visible in the housing sector. The various reforms and initiatives undertaken in the last few months -- from GatiShakti to the new drone policy – will play an important role in helping India’s economy grow faster.” Advocating the use of “Made in India” products, he repeated his “vocal for local” slogan and projected the vaccine milestone as a “ray of hope” for shopkeepers, entrepreneurs and street vendors ahead of Diwali. But experts say the billionth-dose celebrations shouldn’t overshadow the vaccination campaign’s unmet targets. The campaign had initially aimed at fully vaccinating all the priority populations, 45 years or older, by August-end. “India has failed to meet this goal,” said John, who estimates that India has nearly 30 million people aged 60 or older who are yet to get their first dose, and 75 million waiting for their second dose. A public health specialist who requested not to be named said that throughout the pandemic, the Centre had through the health ministry used numbers and statistics to portray achievements. The health ministry described the billionth dose on Thursday as a “major milestone”. But, the specialist said, it had also described as a “landmark milestone” the 420 millionth dose on July 23, the 540 millionth dose on August 14, the 750 millionth dose on September 13, the 840 millionth dose on September 23, the 910 millionth dose on October 4, and the 980 millionth dose on October 18. Target worry Going by health ministry figures, India needs to administer 12.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses every day from now on to fully vaccinate its entire estimated adult population of 944 million. But the average this month so far has been less than 6 million daily doses. Some 230 million adults are yet to get even a single dose, Reuters said. One of the hurdles to meeting the December 31 target is the unusually large gap the government has stipulated between the doses of the most widely used vaccine, Covishield. Another is the growing complacency as cases fall. Covishield has a 12-to-16-week gap between doses in contrast to the 8-to-12-week gap recommended by the World Health Organisation. Based on current trends, this dosage gap means more than 200 million people will be eligible for their second dose only in mid-January even if all of them were to get their first shot on Friday. Also, people are growing increasingly complacent about getting inoculated with infections and deaths falling sharply in the past month. In September, the country recorded an average 7.8 million jabs a day, which plunged below 6 million a day in October. “It is likely that the (December 31 target) may be missed by several weeks,” said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at JNU. “Reducing the Covishield dosage interval is certainly a possibility to consider.” While the health ministry did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment on Friday, it had told the agency on Monday that its immunisation experts were “actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses”. However, health experts are not too worried about many people not getting their second doses in 2021, though they say it would be safer for the population to be fully inoculated as soon as possible. A government study in July estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had Covid-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. That gives them substantial protection even with one dose unless more infectious variants emerge. About 75 per cent of India’s adult population have received at least one Covid-19 dose, while 31 per cent are fully vaccinated, according to government data. “At least one dose we should be able to give to most of the adults by the end of the year,” N.K. Arora, who leads a government group on immunisations, told NDTV news channel late on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||SC: Ramana agrees to allow hybrid hearing in exceptional cases||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is learnt to have turned down a plea from some senior lawyers against making physical hearings mandatory but agreed to allow the hybrid option in exceptional cases if the bench concerned so decided. In the hybrid mode, lawyers have the option of appearing either physically or over video. The CJI is understood to have indicated at a meeting with several Bar members, including attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, that physical hearings, which had been suspended since March last year because of the pandemic, would be restored in full. The resumption is expected to be completed gradually after the Diwali vacation, which ends on November 6. At the meeting on Thursday evening, the CJI apparently refused a plea from senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, Mukul Rohatgi, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and others to reconsider the decision to resume physical hearings on all non-miscellaneous days (Wednesdays and Thursdays) from October 21. Old matters or partially heard matters are taken up during the non-miscellaneous days. Mondays and Fridays are treated as miscellaneous days when only fresh cases are taken up for hearing. Spillovers from Mondays as well as old matters are heard on Tuesdays. The senior lawyers’ alternative plea that hearings be held in the hybrid mode has been partly accepted. The discretion has now been conferred on the respective benches to consider requests for virtual or hybrid hearings on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The CJI is understood to have consulted some of his senior colleagues, who agreed that physical hearings ought to be restored at the earliest in line with the wishes of the majority of lawyers. The decision has the support of Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh and Bar Council of India chairperson Mannan Kumar Mishra. The Bar had been vertically split on the resumption of physical hearings. While several prominent lawyers and law firms are keen on continuing with the virtual mode, many others want physical hearings restored, mainly because many lawyers have been financially crippled by the pandemic. Under the system of virtual hearings, the most sought after lawyers were able to appear in different courts of the country on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Journalist accused of being Maoist sympathiser acquitted after 9 years||A journalist in Karnataka and his father were acquitted in a terror case on Thursday, nine years after they were arrested and accused of being Maoist sympathisers for possessing a book on Bhagat Singh and newspaper clippings. Additional district and sessions judge B.B. Jakati dismissed all the charges against 32-year-old Vittala Malekudiya, who works for Kannada newspaper Prajavani in Bangalore, and his father Lingappa, 60, who makes a living by foraging for forest produce. The two tribal men had been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act’s Sections 19 (harbouring terrorists) and 20 (punishment for being member of a terrorist organisation), and the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 121 (waging, attempting or abetting war against the State) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Vittala, who was a member of CPM youth wing DYFI, and Lingappa had participated in protests against a government plan to evict tribal families from their hamlet in Kudremukh National Park that had been their home for several generations. But they had all along denied any Maoist links. “It took so many years to clear our names,” Vittala told The Telegraph on Friday. Vittala was a second-semester student of MA journalism in Mangalore University when he was arrested. On March 2, 2012, the state police’s Anti-Naxal Force had raided the forest village of Kuthloor in Dakshina Kannada district and assaulted Lingappa, allegedly fracturing his leg. Vittala rushed home from the university the next day and was arrested with his father. They spent four months in judicial custody, securing bail in July 2012. The police had seized a Kannada translation of journalist Kuldip Nayar’s book on Bhagat Singh from their home along with what the prosecution called “Maoist literature” but turned out to be newspaper clippings. The court ruled that it isn’t illegal to possess a book on Bhagat Singh or newspaper clippings even if there is “instigative publication in the newspaper”. Nor did it find anything wrong with Vittala’s handwritten appeal urging his people to boycott a Lok Sabha by-election in protest against the government’s failure to meet their longstanding demand for basic amenities. “From such writings one cannot find out that the accused No. 6 and 7 (Vittala and Lingappa) are engaged in Naxal activities or they were concealing or harbouring accused No. 1 to 5,” the court said. Accused number 1 to 5 are still in hiding, and include Maoist leader Vikram Gowda. Pictures of a handcuffed Vittala being escorted to write his second semester exams had sparked outrage. The university eventually withheld his results because of inadequate attendance, the fallout of his being in jail. “I did the second semester again after being released on bail, and eventually completed my master’s in 2014,” Vittala said. The chargesheet was filed in January 2015, a year and a half after the Congress administration of P.C. Siddaramaiah had replaced the BJP government of D.V. Sadananda Gowda. “The Congress had raised our arrests in the Assembly when the BJP was in power. But their own government chargesheeted us,” Vittala said. Then CPM general secretary Prakash Karat and M.B. Rajesh, then a Lok Sabha member and now Speaker of the Kerala Assembly, had visited Vittala in Mangalore jail. Rajesh had raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. CPM politburo member Brinda Karat had led a team to Gowda on behalf of Vittala and Lingappa. Vittala, whose family is one of 30 living in a forest hamlet of 180 people, unsuccessfully contested the panchayat polls in 2015 and 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Gujarat: Rahul meets senior leaders on choosing next state president||Rahul Gandhi on Friday met senior Congress leaders from Gujarat to elicit their opinion on the next state president who would lead the party in the Assembly polls next year. Such wide consultations on the choice of state president are rare but Rahul wants to evolve a consensus on the next Gujarat chief, given the strong opposition to his favourite Hardik Patel. The majority of leaders believe a senior leader should be given the mantle and Hardik can assist him as working president. They feel 28-year-old Hardik is too young to lead the party in a complex state from where both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah hail. The high command had invited 15 leaders for discussion on Friday. Rahul held one-on-one conversations with everybody. Though it is not known what transpired at the meetings, the majority of senior leaders are said to be in favour of either Shaktisinh Gohil or Naresh Rawal to lead the party. There is an assessment that the Patidar movement has weakened considerably and the BJP has regained control over the community, reducing Hardik’s clout in the state. Majority of leaders now want the Congress to create a rainbow coalition of castes with a focus on OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Srinagar overrun by security forces ahead of Amit Shah's visit||Srinagar was on Friday overrun by security forces, a day before Union home minister Amit Shah’s trip. The city looked like a fortress, with people being frisked and checked at almost every corner. The heightened security has served as a reminder of how the government continues to rely on jackboot tactics to keep the Valley calm. The two-day trip will be BJP leader Shah’s first visit to the Valley since the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Kashmir has been battling another ordeal after a spate of civilian killings this month. Security forces have over the past fortnight arrested hundreds and seized scores of two-wheelers. Many in Kashmir have linked the security beef-up to Shah’s visit, although Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said the measures had nothing to do with the home minister’s trip and was “purely” related to “terror violence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Anti-CAA protests: Delhi court denies bail to Sharjeel Imam||A Delhi court on Friday denied bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a sedition case lodged against him during the anti-CAA protests although it acknowledged that the evidence was scanty and sketchy. Additional sessions judge Anuj Agrawal observed that free speech could not be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony. Sharjeel was arrested on the charge of delivering an inflammatory speech against the new citizenship regime at an event on December 13, 2019, that instigated a “particular religious community”. The police say the speech triggered violence two days later with a group of over 3,000 people attacking cops and torching vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area of south Delhi. While rejecting Sharjeel’s bail plea, Judge Agrawal, however, noted that the evidence in support of the allegations that the people had got instigated by the activist’s speech was scanty and sketchy. “The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace and harmony of the society,” the judge said. “It is no gainsaying that the fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society.” On evidence, the court said: “Neither has any eyewitness been cited by the prosecution nor is there any other evidence on record to suggest that the co-accused got instigated and committed the alleged act of rioting upon hearing the speech of Sharjeel Imam.” The court said there was no evidence corroborating the version of the prosecution that alleged the mob was a part of the audience addressed by Sharjeel. It said the essential link between the speech and the subsequent acts was conspicuously missing. “Once the legally impermissible foundation of imaginative thinking and disclosure statement of accused are removed, the prosecution version… appears to be crumbling like a house of cards,” the court observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh opposes ‘sale of public assets’||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Friday termed the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) a “sale of public assets” and threatened a movement against the aggressive  plan. BMS general secretary Girishchandra Arya told reporters here on Friday that the trade union would hold demonstrations on October 28 against the NMP through which the government plans to raise Rs 6 lakh crore in the next four years by monetising assets such as highways, passenger trains, airports, railway stations, stadiums and warehousing facilities. “We want the government to stop this sale of public assets. If this does not stop, we will launch a public movement,” Arya said. He said the BMS was not against the idea of raising money to boost infrastructure spending but was opposed to divestment as a method of monetisation. “The government is moving aggressively towards divestment. The government should discuss these issues with stakeholders and find a solution instead of divestment. Otherwise, we will protest. The BMS has created a platform — the public sector coordination committee — to fight against this sale,” he said. Arya argued that there was some merit in the divestment of loss-making organisations such as Air India, but no logic behind privatising Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), which gave Rs 3,000 crore dividend to the government every year. He said the NMP had not been discussed thoroughly. It is an idea mooted by some Harvard economists who have no knowledge about the ground situation, Arya said, adding that privatisation would promote contractualisation and exploitation of workers. “If the government does not listen to our protest, we will expand our agitation to include people like vendors and transporters and others who benefit from the operations of the public sector undertakings that are being proposed to be privatised,” Arya said. On whether the BMS found any parallels between its agitation over the NMP and the peasants’ protests, Arya said the farm laws were in the interest of small farmers. “The agitation of the farmers does not have the support of all farmers,” he added. The BMS criticised the Left trade unions, saying they were driven by political motives. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the ownership of the assets would stay with the government and would come back to it after the end of the lease period. Ten central trade unions, including the CPM-backed Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the CPI-supported All India Trade Union Congress and the Congress-backed Indian National Trade Union Congress, are separately holding protests against the NMP, fearing price rise and loss of jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand rains: Death count rises to 75 ||The death count in Uttarakhand rose to 75 on Friday as rescue workers found more bodies and also brought to safety score of stranded people after the rains that recently lashed the state.  State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) men rescued 65 trekkers, including six foreigners, stranded near Bageshwar's Pindari and Kafni glaciers. Twenty-three people were rescued from from Darma Valley of Pithoragarh.  The official death toll in the state now is 68, including the five bodies of members of a team of 11 people who were trekking from Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi to Chitkul in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh.  The figure, however, does not include two others member of the Chitkul trek reported dead.  Five people feared dead in Bageshwar are also not included in the official count.  Rains battered Uttarakhand for nearly three days, beginning Sunday night, with the Kumaon division bearing the brunt of it.  An official said Kumaon suffered a loss of Rs 2,000 crore, out of Rs 7,000 croe damage statewide estimated by the Uttarakhand government.  "SDRF teams have rescued 42 tourists, including six foreigners, from Dwali near the Pindari glacier and 23 from the Kafni glacier," Bageshwar DM Vineet Kumar told PTI.  Meanwhile, two Cheetah helicopters, which were to make sorties in search of 10 members of a trekking team stranded in Sundardhunga, could not take off due to cloudy weather, he said.  "But four members of the team have returned safe. We suspect that there may have been some casualties too. The helicopters will make another attempt early on Saturday morning in search of the missing members of the trekking team," Kumar said.  Besides, 15 people who had gone missing in Sarmool, the point of origin of the Saryu river, have also been found safe, he said.  Twenty-one tourists and two ailing locals were rescued from Darma Valley of Pithoragarh district, DM Ashish Chauhan said.  Two surviving members of a trekking team have already been rescued while the search for two missing is on, officials in Uttarkashi said.  Kumaon Divisional Commissioner Sushil Kumar said, "Kumaon division bore the brunt of the unseasonal spell of record rains which damaged crops and property worth Rs 2,000 crore besides accounting for the highest number of deaths and large scale destruction of houses," the official said.  Fifty-nine deaths were reported from Kumaon alone with Nainital reporting the maximum 35 deaths followed by 11 in Champawat, six in Almora, one in Bageshwar and three each in Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts.  Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday visited Dungri village in Chamoli district to meet the disaster-hit people.  Accompanied by Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, state Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat and officials, Dhami trekked up the steep slippery slopes of the village with a stick in hand for an on-the-spot assessment of the losses.  Two persons of a family were buried in the rubble of a landslide in the village on October 19. Dhami met the surviving members of the family and promised them all help.  He asked officials to speed up relief and rescue efforts in the affected areas assuring them that they will not have to face any shortage of resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Bihar: Congress announces exit from Opposition Grand Alliance||The Congress on Friday announced its exit from the Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar and vowed to go solo in future elections, accusing the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of causing the tie-up to fall apart over a bypoll seat. “The Congress is no longer a part of the Grand Alliance in Bihar. The RJD forced us to leave by deciding to contest the Kusheshwar Asthan seat in the (October 30) bypoll. We gave the RJD a chance to withdraw their candidate but it didn’t do so,” AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das said. Das asserted that the Congress would now decide its own course in Bihar and prepare to “contest all 40 Lok Sabha seats in the 2024 general election”. However, Das said the Congress would welcome all like-minded socialist, democratic and secular parties in its effort to counter the NDA. The Congress is the fourth largest party in Bihar with 19 MLAs. The Grand Alliance led by Lalu Prasad’s RJD has 110 MLAs. The bypolls to the Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly seats are scheduled on October 30. Both seats were won by the JDU in the 2020 Assembly elections but fell vacant after the deaths of their representatives. The RJD unilaterally announced its candidates for the two seats despite the fact that the Congress had contested Kusheshwar Asthan in the 2020 Assembly elections. The Congress considers the area its stronghold. The RJD reacted sharply to the Congress’s decision to quit the Grand Alliance. “Congress leaders do not realise the ground reality in Bihar. They should not shoot their mouth off without understanding the situation. Leaders like Das are responsible for the poor condition of the Congress,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary said. The Pappu Yadav-led Jan Adhikar Party on Friday said it would support the Congress in the bypolls and also in future elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||NGOs have no fundamental right to receive foreign donations: Centre||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that NGOs had no fundamental right to receive foreign donations. The government defended its 2020 amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act as a move to curb illegal funds transfer from foreign donors and non-State actors to influence the country’s political and social discourse. “The Act is a sovereignty and integrity legislation where the overriding purpose is to ensure that foreign money does not dominate public life as well as political and social discourse in India. This becomes even more imperative in view of the fact that some foreign powers and foreign state and non-state actors continue to take up activities that amount to interference in the internal polity of the country with ulterior designs,” the government said in an affidavit filed through Sumant Singh, joint secretary (foreigners) in the home ministry. “The restrictions on transfer aim to prevent and counter such acts of ulterior motives. Therefore, for effective monitoring and for ensuring the accountability of the recipient association, the transfer of foreign contribution has been prohibited. It is expected that NGOs would grow on the strength of their own genuine work undertaken for fulfilling specific needs of society,” the affidavit added. Section 7 of the amended act restricts transfer of foreign contributions from one NGO or individual to another. Section 12 empowers the government to obtain the Aadhaar details of key functionaries of NGOs. Section 17 (1A) makes it mandatory for every NGO to open a dedicated FCRA account with the State Bank of India, New Delhi. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2020, has been challenged by some NGOs as being violative of their fundamental rights to equality (Article 14), form associations or unions (19(1)(c), practise any profession, occupation, trade or business (19(1)(g), and life and liberty (21). The Narendra Modi government’s affidavit says: “It is submitted that at the outset… the petitioners have claimed fundamental rights under Article 14, 21 and Article 19(1)(c) and Article 19(1)(g). It is unequivocally submitted that there exists no fundamental right to receive unbridled foreign contributions without any regulation. “…In fact, there exists no fundamental right under which any right, legal or otherwise, can be said to include the purported right to receive foreign contributions. It is submitted that Parliament, representing the will of the people, has enacted the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, thereby laying down a clear legislative policy of strict controls over foreign contributions for certain activities in the country. “…There exists no right to receive any foreign contribution outside the framework designed by Parliament and implemented by the executive. It is submitted that no part of any purported right to receive foreign contributions can be said to be a part of the fundamental rights granted to citizens…. “There is no question of fundamental rights being violated through controls of acceptance of foreign contribution by certain type of organisations as the said organisations or individuals are always open to operate with locally secured funds….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||PLA reinforces posts along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is said to have reinforced its posts in large numbers and increased the scale of its training exercises by deploying military assets along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang, sources in the Indian security establishment have said. “It is a matter of concern that the PLA troops have moved heavy reinforcements along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and have established temporary camps. The PLA has also increased the scale of its training exercises by bringing in additional military assets along the undemarcated frontier in the eastern sector,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The Indian Army troops, the official said, have been keeping a close watch on the development. “Considering the aggressive patrolling by the PLA troops and reinforcement of their posts in the eastern sector, it seems they are planning incursions like they did last May in eastern Ladakh,” the security official said. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The Tawang sector alone has a 270km border with China. China claims 90,000sqkm of territory, practically the whole of Arunachal Pradesh. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year and the PLA is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000 sq km of India-claimed territory. In an attempt to guard against possible PLA transgressions, the Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor the deployment of Chinese troops along the LAC in the eastern sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Uttar Pradesh govt shifts cop heading SIT probe ||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred the police officer heading the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of farmers but said he would continue to supervise the inquiry. The Uttar Pradesh police headquarters made it clear that the transfer of deputy inspector-general Upendra Kumar Agarwal to Gonda district, 180km from Lakhimpur Kheri, was a routine exercise. A Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni and with his son Ashis in it had run over and killed four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Ashis was arrested after a week in the aftermath of the Supreme Court expressing dissatisfaction with the probe. Agarwal is a 2005-batch IPS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Odisha Congress working president resigns from party||Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) working president and former MP Pradeep Majhi resigned from the party’s primary membership on Friday. Speculations are rife that he may join the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) soon. A prominent tribal leader, who represented Nabarangpur Lok Sabha seat from 2009 to 2014, has sent his resignation letter to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. In the letter, Majhi cited how he had joined the Congress with utmost enthusiasm with a view to serve the needy people, and the party had also provided ample opportunity and placed him in a good position without any demand from his side. Majhi enjoys strong clout among tribals in southern Odisha. “The organisation of the party was extremely well managed by your dynamic leadership which gradually declined due to recalcitrant persons occupying pivotal posts at different levels, and now the party has almost lost its credibility which may take a long time to revive,” he pointed out in the letter. Majhi said he would work hard to serve the people in the future. “I have a great desire to serve my people at whatever position I am, which is now lacking in the Congress party. As such I am painfully quitting the party for which I may kindly be excused. I shall however perform my duties as per your ideology and serve the people with utmost satisfaction,” he wrote. Following his resignation, Odisha Congress leaders said Majhi betrayed the party and questioned what prevented him from serving the people. “It’s the Congress party which had given him an identity. It was Rahul Gandhi who had given him ample opportunity and made him a state leader by giving him a chance to contest the Lok Sabha seat. But later, he failed to garner public support.  That’s the reason why he lost two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019 consecutively,” said Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. Bahinipati said: “The party had almost decided to suspend him. Getting a hint about it, he quit the party to avoid the blot of suspension. ” Saying that his resignation won’t affect the party, senior Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray said: “The party has a long history. Here people come and remain in the party till their ambitions are fulfilled. After reaping the benefit, they ditch the party. But such people have never affected Congress. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Congress calls out Narendra Modi’s ‘half-truths’ ||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have addressed the nation on the several serious problems the country was grappling with but he went on a credit-hunting spree for vaccination on the basis of half-truths and plain lies. Arguing that the Prime Minister insulted India’s scientists and health professionals by claiming that the Covid-19 vaccine was the first to be manufactured in India, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “India is known as the vaccine hub of the world. India has run several successful vaccination drives since the 60s but no Prime Minister turned it into an image-building event for himself. They didn’t orchestrate ‘thank-you’ campaigns to refurbish their own image. They didn’t cry free-free because such drives are conducted with national resources.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said in an acerbic tweet: “Jagadguru of Jhoot (global leader of lies) excelled himself today rewriting history, twisting facts, distorting reality, making meaningless comparisons, beating his own chest — in short, being himself. While he forgot those who suffered loss of lives and livelihoods from COVID19 due to his Govt’s failures.” The Congress on Friday reiterated the need for a judicial commission to investigate Covid mismanagement and lamented that the Prime Minister didn’t tender an apology. Rahul Gandhi also hinted at the Prime Minister’s tendency to mislead the nation by tweeting, “the usual doublespeak”. He was referring to Modi’s claim that there was a time when goods made in other countries were purchased during Diwali but now the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ mission had ensured people bought local stuff. This was a clear reference to China, a country he was very fond of, but avoids naming after the intrusion in Ladakh. Rahul posted a news item that reported imports from China had increased by 49 per cent over the last year. The Congress has repeatedly pointed out that trade with China was increasing despite the bluster against the hostile neighbour. Vallabh said the Prime Minister was not a knowledgeable person and his expertise lay elsewhere but the officials should not make him rely on wrong facts. He expressed shock at the Prime Minister addressing the nation without a single word of condolence on the death of lakhs of people, selective killings in Kashmir, inflation, petrol-diesel prices and other pressing problems. Vallabh said the vaccines would have been free if Modi bought them from the money he got through electoral bonds, adding: “This government collected lakhs of crore by taxing petrol, and if that money is being used to fund the vaccination drive, photograph of a common man filling petrol in his vehicle should be there on the vaccine certificate, not the Prime Minister.” He also busted the false propaganda that no other country achieved such a feat, saying: “China gave over 200 doses in September itself. Over 80 per cent of their population have got two doses. Do we need celebrations for fully vaccinating 21 per cent of population?” Wondering why should the nation thank the Prime Minister for gross mismanagement leading to the deaths of over 40-50 lakh people, Vallabh said: “When there was not enough vaccine in the country, Modi exported vaccines to other countries. When the big countries were placing orders for vaccines, the Prime Minister was asking us to do thaali-taali. And when millions of families are mourning the loss of the their dear ones, the scars of second wave have not been forgotten, the government is celebrating.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
