25-10-2021||India||Cruise Drug Case: Police protection given to witness, says Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on Monday said police protection has been given to Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case who has claimed Rs 25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and other person to let off Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the case. Sail visited the Mumbai police commissioner's office in the morning and met Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Milind Bharambhe, an official said. He later approached the Sahar police in suburban Mumbai, seeking security whenever he comes to meet his wife, children and mother-in-law, who live in the Sahar village here, officials said. Walse Patil, speaking to reporters in Mumbai, said, Prabhakar Sail has been given police protection. However, as I have not met (minister and party colleague) Nawab Malik yet, I can not comment on what he had indicated earlier. Malik claimed earlier in the day that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede used forged documents, including his birth certificate. Malik tweeted a photo of the purported certificate, saying Sameer Dawood Wankhede ka yahan se shuru hua furjiwada. (Sameer Dawood Wankhede's document forging started from here). Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, slammed the minister, saying his action was defamatory in nature and an invasion of his family's privacy. “I had a brief discussion about this issue (alleged forging of documents by Wankhede) with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. I was here to attend a meeting related to another topic,” Walse Patil said while responding to a question about the meeting. “Central agencies have been so active for the first time in history. I have never seen such activism earlier in my career by one government against another,” said the home minister in response to another query. On Sunday, Sail told media persons that he feared a threat to his life. The witness had claimed Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the cruise drugs case. Sail had said he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 3 raid on the cruise ship about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of NCB. However, a senior NCB official had denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious". Wankhede on Sunday wrote to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
25-10-2021||India||MP: Six persons infected with with AY.4 variant of coronavirus||Six persons in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh were found infected with the new coronavirus variant AY.4, a health official said on Monday. As per the report received from the Delhi-based National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), six persons were found infected with the AY.4 variant of coronavirus. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing along with other infected persons in September, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) B S Saitya said. It is for the first time in the last 19-month history of the pandemic that the AY.4 variant was found, he said. Saitya said all the six persons who were found to be infected with the AY.4 variant were fully vaccinated. They have recovered after treatment, he added. The CMHO said over 50 people who came in contact with these six persons in the last few days were found to be healthy after testing. Meanwhile, Dr Anita Mutha, who heads the microbiology department of the Indore-based Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, said AY.4 is a new variant of coronavirus and not much information is available about its severity. A total of 1,53,202 Covid-19 cases were found in the Indore district so far. Among them, 1,391 have succumbed to the coronavirus infection. Indore district remained worst affected in MP when the Covid-19 pandemic raged. However, due to the rapid pace of vaccination, the number of new infections found of late has trickled down to one or two per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
25-10-2021||India||Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure, in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The prime minister also inaugurated various development projects worth more than Rs 5,200 crore for his constituency. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. It is in addition to the National Health Mission. Its objective is to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states. Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. People will have access to a full range of diagnostic services in the public healthcare system through a network of laboratories across the country, and integrated public health labs will be set up in all the districts. Under the scheme, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South-East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centres for disease control will be set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws from India||The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Monday, making it the seventh-most delayed retreat since 1975, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In view of a significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country today (October 25, 2021). Simultaneously, with the setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today, the IMD said in a statement. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon 2021 from the entire country is the seventh-most delayed withdrawal (on or after October 25) during 1975-2021, it said. The southwest monsoon retreated on or after October 25 five times between 2010 and 2021 in 2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021, the IMD data showed. The southwest monsoon started receding from west Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat on October 6, making it the second-most delayed withdrawal since 1975. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins from September 17. The monsoon withdrawal started on September 28 last year, October 9 in 2019, September 29 in 2018, September 27 in 2017 and September 15 in 2016, according to IMD data. The country received "normal" rainfall during the four-month southwest monsoon season from June to September. All-India monsoon rainfall during June 1 to September 30 was 87 cm against the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm of 1961-2010 (99 per cent of its LPA). This is for the third consecutive year that the country recorded rainfall in the normal or above normal category. Rainfall was above normal in 2019 and 2020. The rainfall over the country as a whole was 110 per cent in June, 93 and 76 per cent in July and August, respectively -- the months that bring the maximum rains. However, the shortfall of July and August was compensated in September which recorded rainfall 135 per cent of the LPA. The southwest monsoon made its onset over Kerala on June 3, after a delay of two days. It rapidly covered central, west, east, northeast and south India by June 15. It also covered many parts of north India, even Barmer and Jaisalmer -- its last outposts -- but the monsoon winds failed to reach Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh. It then witnessed a lull. It finally covered Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh, on July 13, five days after its normal onset date, belying IMD's forecasts. The northeast monsoon, which brings rainfall to southern states from October to December, is likely to be normal, according to the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Bajrang Dal creates ruckus on web series set in Bhopal||A day after the set of filmmaker Prakash Jha's web series 'Ashram' was ransacked in Bhopal over alleged wrong portrayal of Hinduism, a Madhya Pradesh minister on Monday said producers and directors will have to inform the authorities about objectionable content or scenes in their stories before seeking permission for shooting in the state. Bajrang Dal activists had, on Sunday evening, vandalised the set of the third season of web series 'Ashram' and also threw ink on Jha, accusing him of portraying Hindus in a bad light, following which four people were arrested for the ruckus. "We are going to issue a permanent guideline following the dispute over the shooting of Ashram-3. Now, (the producer-director) will need to show the script of the story to the administration before seeking permission, if they are going to shoot objectionable scenes which hurt the sentiments of any religion," MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters on Monday. He said the state government welcomes filmmakers to shoot their projects here but they should inform authorities about objectionable scenes before seeking permission, and those who have objections to a script or scene must complain to the administration. Replying to a query, Mishra further said he supports the Bajrang Dal's demand to change the name of the web series from Ashram. "I also support this. Why is the web series named Ashram? They will understand (the consequences) if they name it (web series or stories) after others' (religion)? We consider the ransacking as wrong. Four persons were arrested and further legal steps will be taken. But, Jha saheb (Prakash Jha), think about your mistakes too," Mishra said. Later, Mishra tweeted, "In the name of the web series, an attempt is being made to deliberately target Hinduism for a long time. Considering the spirit of the majority society, Prakash Jha should consider changing the name of his web series Ashram. Meanwhile, Bhopal South Superintendent of Police (SP) Sai Krishna Thota said Bajrang Dal activists raised objections and staged a protest over the name of the web series when its shooting was underway at Old Jail Premises located in Arera Hills. The protesters threw ink on Prakash Jha, pelted stones due to which the windscreens of two buses were damaged and one person was injured, the SP said. Bajrang Dal state convener Sushil Surhele asserted that his activists would not allow Ashram to be shot in Bhopal as "Prakash Jha wrongly portrayed the arrangements in a Hindu ashram in its previous seasons by showing the exploitation of women by gurus." "There have been ashrams in Sanatan Dharma since the past thousand years and these have played an important role in building social values. There is no truth in what has been shown in this web series," Surhele, who admitted Bajrang Dal activists threw the ink on Jha, claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Maharashtra minister claims Sameer Wankhede forged birth certificate||Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Monday claimed that Narcotics Control Bureau's zonal director Sameer Wankhede used forged documents including his birth certificate. Malik tweeted a photo of the purported certificate, saying Sameer Dawood Wankhede ka yahan se shuru hua furjiwada. (Sameer Dawood Wankhede's document forging started from here). Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, slammed the minister, saying his action was defamatory in nature and an invasion of his family's privacy. The NCB official said he was pained by the nature of personal defamatory and slanderous attacks by the minister without any justification. The series of acts of the minister over the past few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure, Wankhede said in a statement. An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested on October 3. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs bust case as "fake". On Monday, the document posted by Malik on Twitter mentioned the name of the NCB official's father as Dawood. Wankhede said his father's name is Dnyandev, who was an excise official. Malik has been targeting Wankhede after his son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested in an alleged drug case. The minister had claimed that NCB officials booked Sameer Khan under wrong charges and no banned drug was found in his possession. Malik, who is also the NCP spokesperson, recently claimed that his government will soon put Wankhede behind the bars. On Monday, talking to a news channel in Nanded, Malik claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. "In the past 15 days, whenever I spoke on various subjects like the Maldives tour (of Wankhede), I didn't get any answers and they were termed as political allegations. But, now the truth has come out," he said. Malik stated that earlier the BJP had said his son-in-law and Aryan Khan are Muslims. Later, the BJP's "troll army" tried to create an environment, making it a Hindu-Muslim issue via Wankhede, he alleged. "NCB zonal director Wankhede's name is 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede', and he is a Muslim by birth. I have published his birth certificate (online). I had to make an effort to find it...he got the IRS job on bogus certificate...I shall reveal more such acts of his 'bogusgiri'," he said. Malik also alleged that by "hiding" his religion, he (Wankhede) obtained fake documents and through this, the right of a backward class candidate was snatched. Notably, Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday came out in support of Wankhede and said targeting a Dalit officer who is doing good work is not right. Terming Malik's allegations against Wankhede as "baseless" and "mischievous", Athawale had defended the officer, saying he has not done anything wrong. Athawale had also accused Malik of trying to give a religious and casteist colour while targeting Wankhede. Meanwhile, reacting to Malik's claims, Wankhede in a press release said the minister's act of publishing his personal information on Twitter was "defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of his family's privacy". Wankhede said this was intended to malign him, his family, his father and late mother. In the statement, Wankhede mentioned that his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as senior police inspector of the state Excise department, Pune, in June 2007. His father is a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim, the official said. Wankhede said he belongs to a "composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition" and he is proud of his heritage. The NCB official also mentioned that he married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act. Both of them divorced mutually through a civil court in 2016. Later, in 2017, he married Kranti Redkar, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCB, Sameer Wankhede move court against extortion allegations||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede approached a special court here on Monday against the allegations of extortion levelled against them in the cruise drugs seizure case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused. Two affidavits have been filed with the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) special court. The first, filed by the NCB, says the fact Prabhakar Sail filed his affidavit before submitting it to the court shows he has turned hostile. The second was filed by Sameer Wankhede (in his personal capacity) in response to NCP leader Nawab Malik tweeting a document related to the NCB officer's birth and alleging "forgery". It says: "... have been personally targeted, especially by a known political figure, (since) one Sameer Khan, a relative of this honcho, was arrested in a drug case... from that time there is a personal vendetta..." Wankhede also released a press statement outlining the "composite, multi-religious and secular (nature of his) family in true Indian tradition". "The publishing of my personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of my family privacy. It is intended to malign me, my family, my father, and my late mother," he has said, according to NDTV.com. The anti-drugs agency and Wankhede in their affidavits also said this was an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation in the case. The NCB in its affidavit sought that there should be no tampering with the evidence or investigation, while Wankhede refuted the allegations raised against him. On Sunday, an independent witness in the cruise drugs case, in a statement to the media, claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the case. Prabhakar Sail, the 'independent witness', told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 2 raid, about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Sail had said he would soon release evidence to support his claim. The NCB and Wankhede rubbished these claims in their affidavits submitted to the court on Monday. Wankhede on Sunday also wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. Without taking names, Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, had claimed in his letter to Nagrale that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries. An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently lodged in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. His bail application is likely to be heard by the Bombay High Court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Babul Supriyo backs TMC to do well in upcoming Goa polls||Trinamool Congress leader Babul Supriyo on Monday expressed confidence that his party will do very well in the Goa Assembly elections due early next year. Several TMC leaders, including Supriyo and party MPs Mahua Moitra and Saugata Roy, have arrived in Goa ahead of West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC head Mamata Banerjee's visit to the state scheduled on October 28. The TMC has already announced its decision to contest the Assembly elections in Goa. The forthcoming Goa Assembly poll is an important election and the TMC will do very well in it, Supriyo told reporters. This (Goa) is one place in India that should see a lot of development to make it more tourist-friendly, said Supriyo, who joined the TMC last month after quitting the BJP. He said Goa is known for its culture, tradition, music and wonderful beaches. A lot more can be done here, he added. Last month, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joined the TMC, while state Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has also extended support to the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The TMC last week appointed Faleiro as its vice president. The party has been inducting several local leaders in its fold ever since it announced its intention to contest the Goa Assembly polls. Elections to the 40-member House in the state are due in February 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Firing resumes in Jammu and Kashmir's forest||Heavy firing was reported from a forest area as a massive search operation to track down hiding terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the 15th day on Monday, officials said. It was not immediately clear whether the firing in Bhatti Durrian forest was the result of a fresh contact with the terrorists, believed to be hiding in caves deep inside the forest, the officials said. Nine Army personnel including two JCO's and an arrested Pakistani terrorist have been killed and three security men injured since the commencement of the operation on October 11. While five Army personnel were killed on the first day of the operation in Surankote forest of Poonch, four other soldiers lost their lives in Bhatti Durrian area of Mendhar on October 14. The Pakistani terrorist, who was shifted from Kot Bhalwal Central Jail Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on Sunday. Besides Surankote and Mendhar, the search operation also continued in nearby Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district. The officials said Army helicopters made several sorties over the besieged forest area, while drones are also being used to keep a tight surveillance to ensure that the terrorists are not able to flee. Nearly a dozen persons including two women were also detained for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support including food and shelter to the terrorists, the officials said. Traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the 10th day on Monday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lashed out at the previous government in Uttar Pradesh for ignoring basic medical needs of the people of Purvanchal region while "filling coffers" of their families, and asserted that the region will now emerge as a medical hub under BJP rule. Inaugurating nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh virtually from here, the prime minister said the BJP's priority is to provide basic facilities to the poor. In an apparent dig at the Samajwadi Party government which ruled the state before the BJP came to power in 2017, Modi said, "Their cycle of corruption ran 24 hours. They had the priority of earning for themselves and filling the coffers of their families while for us the priority is to extend basic facilities to the poor. Earlier there was corruption in medicines, ambulance, appointments, transfer and posting and in this entire game some 'parivarwadis' (dynasts) in Uttar Pradesh flourished, he said. "The cycle of corruption ran 24 hours but the common families of Purvanchal and Uttar Pradesh got crushed, he said. Modi said seven years ago the government in Delhi and the one four years ago in Uttar Pradesh did not pay attention to the poor and announced small dispensaries which could never see the light of the day. Built at a cost of Rs 2,329 crore, the medical colleges inaugurated on Monday are located in Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts. While eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under a Centrally sponsored scheme for the establishment of new medical colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, the one at Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources. The new medical colleges have been named after noted personalities of the region and in some cases prominent politicians. The Siddarthnagar medical college has been named after Madhav Prasad Tripathi, a Jansangh leader who served as the first BJP president of the state after its formation in 1980. In Deoria, the medical college has been named after Maharshi Devraha Baba (a noted saint), Ghazipur medical college after Maharshi Vishwamitra, Mirzapur medical college after Maa Vindhyavasini, a manifestation of Goddess Durga, Pratapgarh medical college after Dr Sonelal Patel (founder of BJP ally Apna Dal), Etah medical college after Virangna Avanti Bai Lodhi and Fatehpur college after Jodha Singh Ataiya Thakur Dariyav Singh. Under the Central scheme, preference is given to backward and aspirational districts. The scheme aims to increase the availability of health professionals, correct the existing geographical imbalance in the distribution of medical colleges and effectively utilise the existing infrastructure of district hospitals. Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional. Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were among those present at the inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 443 casualties in a day||India logged 14,306 new COVID-19 cases, taking the virus tally to 3,41,89,774, while the active cases declined to 1,67,695, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,54,712 with 443 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 363 fatalities from the previous period, officials said, adding that 71 deaths have been reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.18 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 4,899 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,67,367, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.27 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 443 new fatalities include 363 from Kerala, 18 from Maharashtra and 15 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,54,712 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,016 from Maharashtra, 38,007 from Karnataka, 36019 from Tamil Nadu, 28,592 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,055 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh polls: Priyanka Gandhi promises free medical treatment up to Rs 10 lakh||Making another poll promise ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said free medical treatment of up to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to people of the state if her party government is voted to power. The Congress leader had flagged off her party's "Pratigya Yatras" from Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district on Saturday with seven promises, including loan waiver for farmers and jobs to 20 lakh people if voted to power. Everyone saw the dilapidated condition of the health system of UP due to government neglect during the Corona period and now during the spread of fever. For ensuring good and cheap treatment, with the consent of the manifesto committee, the UP Congress has decided that if voted to power, our government will provide up to Rs 10 lakh for treatment of any disease, Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Among the other promises made by the party are purchase of wheat and paddy at Rs 2,500 per quintal and Rs 400 per quintal for sugarcane. The party has also promised jobs to 20 lakh people, halving the electricity bill of all and a sum of Rs 25,000 to families who faced financial crunch amid the Covid crisis. Besides the party has decided to give 40 per cent tickets to women in elections and smartphones to Class 12 pass girls and e-scooters to graduate girls if voted to power. Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are scheduled early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Facebook grapples with Indian hate army||On February 4, 2019, a Facebook researcher created a new user account to see what it was like to experience the social media site as a person living in Kerala. For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month. “Following this test user’s News Feed, I’ve seen more images of dead people in the past three weeks than I’ve seen in my entire life total,” the Facebook researcher wrote.  “The test user’s News Feed has become a near constant barrage of polarizing nationalist content, misinformation, and violence and gore.” In a separate report produced after the elections, Facebook found that over 40 per cent of top views, or impressions, in Bengal were “fake/inauthentic.” One inauthentic account had amassed more than 30 million impressions. The reports were two of dozens of studies and memos written by Facebook employees grappling with the effects of the platform on India. They provide stark evidence of one of the most serious criticisms levied by human rights activists and politicians against the world-spanning company: it moves into a country without fully understanding its potential impact on local culture and politics, and fails to deploy the resources to act on issues once they occur. With 340 million people using Facebook’s various social media platforms, India is the company’s largest market. And Facebook’s problems on the subcontinent present an amplified version of the issues it has faced throughout the world, made worse by a lack of resources and a lack of expertise in India’s 22 officially recognised languages. The internal documents, obtained by a consortium of news organisations that included The New York Times, are part of a larger cache of material called The Facebook Papers. They were collected by Frances Haugen, a former Facebook product manager who became a whistle-blower and recently testified before a Senate subcommittee about the company and its social media platforms. References to India were scattered among documents filed by Haugen to the Securities and Exchange Commission in a complaint earlier this month. The documents include reports on how bots and fake accounts tied to the country’s ruling party and Opposition figures were wreaking havoc on national elections. They also detail how a plan championed by Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to focus on “meaningful social interactions,” or exchanges between friends and family, was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was unable to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts, according to its documents. Eighty-seven percent of the company’s global budget for time spent on classifying misinformation is earmarked for the US, while only 13 per cent is set aside for the rest of the world — even though North American users make up only 10 per cent of the social network’s daily active users, according to one document describing Facebook’s allocation of resources. Andy Stone, a Facebook spokesman, said the figures were incomplete and don’t include the company’s third-party fact-checking partners, most of whom are outside the US. Facebook has invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including Hindi and Bengali, two of the most widely used languages,  Stone said. He added that Facebook reduced the amount of hate speech that people see globally by half this year. “Hate speech against marginalised groups, including Muslims, is on the rise in India and globally,”  Stone said. “So we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.” In India, “there is definitely a question about resourcing” for Facebook, but the answer is not “just throwing more money at the problem,” said Katie Harbath, who spent 10 years at Facebook as a director of public policy, and worked directly on securing India’s national elections. Facebook, she said, needs to find a solution that can be applied to countries around the world. 2019 elections Facebook employees have run various tests and conducted field studies in India for several years. That work increased ahead of India’s 2019 national elections; in late January of that year, a handful of Facebook employees travelled to the country to meet with colleagues and speak to dozens of local Facebook users. According to a memo written after the trip, one of the key requests from users in India was that Facebook “take action on types of misinfo that are connected to real-world harm, specifically politics and religious group tension”. Ten days after the researcher opened the fake account to study misinformation, a suicide bombing in the disputed border region of Kashmir set off a round of violence and a spike in accusations, misinformation and conspiracies between Indian and Pakistani nationals. After the attack, anti-Pakistan content began to circulate in the Facebook-recommended groups that the researcher had joined. Many of the groups, she noted, had tens of thousands of users. A different report by Facebook, published in December 2019, found Indian Facebook users tended to join large groups, with the country’s median group size at 140,000 members. The “Popular Across Facebook” feature began recommending viral, unverified material about military action following Indian airstrikes against Pakistan in the wake of a suicide bombing in Kashmir. The feature also began recommending military-themed posts unrelated to the strikes. Graphic posts, including a meme showing the beheading of a Pakistani national and dead bodies wrapped in white sheets on the ground, circulated in the groups she joined. After the researcher shared her case study with co-workers, her colleagues commented on the posted report that they were concerned about misinformation about the upcoming elections in India. “These groups become perfect distribution channels when they want to promote bad content within short period of time.” “The admins of these groups tended to take a lax position/hands-off attitude towards ensuring that the content shared in the group was on a particular topic of focus, and allowed users to freely post whatever they found interesting/wanted to share.” Two months later, after India’s national elections had begun, Facebook put in place a series of steps to stem the flow of misinformation and hate speech in the country, according to an internal document called Indian Election Case Study. The case study painted an optimistic picture of Facebook’s efforts, including adding more fact-checking partners — the third-party network of outlets with which Facebook works to outsource fact-checking — and increasing the amount of misinformation it removed. It also noted how Facebook had created a “political white list to limit P.R. risk,” essentially a list of politicians who received a special exemption from fact-checking. The study did not note the immense problem the company faced with bots in India, nor issues like voter suppression. During the election, Facebook saw a spike in bots — or fake accounts — linked to various political groups, as well as efforts to spread misinformation that could have affected people’s understanding of the voting process. A report published in March 2021 showed that many of the problems cited during the 2019 elections persisted. In the internal document, called Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study, Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on Facebook. The report said there were a number of dehumanising posts about Muslims and callss for men to rape their female family members. Hesitation on RSS Much of the material circulated around Facebook groups promoting the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The groups took issue with an expanding Muslim minority population in Bengal and near the Pakistani border, and published posts on Facebook calling for the ouster of Muslim populations from India and promoting a Muslim population control law. Facebook knew that such harmful posts proliferated on its platform, the report indicated, and it needed to improve its “classifiers,” which are automated systems that can detect and remove posts containing violent and inciting language. Facebook also hesitated to designate RSS as a dangerous organisation because of “political sensitivities” that could affect the social network’s operation in the country. Of India’s 22 officially recognised languages, Facebook said it has trained its AI systems on five. (It said it had human reviewers for some others.) But in Hindi and Bengali, it still did not have enough data to adequately police the content, and much of the content targeting Muslims “is never flagged or actioned,” the Facebook report said. Bajrang Five months ago, Facebook was still struggling to efficiently remove hate speech against Muslims. Another company report detailed efforts by the Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is “inciting religious violence” on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so. “Join the group and help to run the group; increase the number of members of the group, friends,” said one post seeking recruits on Facebook to spread Bajrang Dal’s messages. “Fight for truth and justice until the unjust are destroyed.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad: Partner appeals to speak with Gautam Navlakha||The Delhi-based partner of human rights activist Gautam Navlakha, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case, has issued a public appeal to be allowed to speak to him over the phone and for him to be allowed to walk in the open in his Navi Mumbai jail. Sahba Husain said in a statement: “Gautam Navlakha, nearly 70, is one of the oldest of the Bhima Koregaon arrestees, who was shifted to the ‘Anda Circle’ (high security) from the barracks on October 12, 2021. “Additionally, his telephone calls to me and his lawyers, his lifeline to the outside world, have been discontinued on the pretext that physical mulaquats have resumed in jail.” Husain added: “I, his partner, Sahba Husain, am over 70, and I live in Delhi. Travelling to Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai frequently to meet him for the allotted ten minutes is difficult.” Husain said: “And Gautam’s only contact with me is through the two calls he was allowed every week to me that enabled me to send him articles of need, including medicines, books etc. With discontinuance of phone calls, all this will now depend on letters that take a minimum of two weeks to reach me. “Apart from the calls to me, regular access to lawyers through phone calls is an essential facility for undertrial prisoners. To deprive any undertrial prisoner of this effective and efficient mode of securing legal advice and help, or access to family, is the height of unfairness.” She added: “Gautam writes, ‘confinement in Anda Circle means denial of fresh air/ oxygen as there is not a single tree or plant in the open space of the Circle. And we are forbidden to step outside of the Anda Circle…. In other words, we spend 16 hours out of 24 cooped inside our cell and the 8 hours we are let out we are confined to a corridor 71/2’ x 72’ for our daily walk on cemented floor surrounded by high walls all around. Husain said: “These are prisoners of conscience, who have had to face indignities and humiliation for the smallest needs, and wage court battles for basic dignities in prison. In the past, when Navlakha’s original pair of spectacles went missing, it was difficult for the replacement spectacles to reach him in time. “It is not too much to ask for these simple facilities, phone access to his lawyers and family, and some fresh air to walk in once or twice a day.” Maharashtra’s prisons department is yet to respond to Husain’s appeal. She told The Telegraph she planned to send her request to the director-general (prisons) with endorsement from relatives of the other accused. The state government has ignored civil society pleas to recommend to the high-powered committee, mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic, the release of the Elgaar prisoners — most of whom are elderly and ailing -- on interim bail. Despite demands from internationally renowned activists and human rights defenders every few weeks in the past three years, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has consistently opposed bail pleas in the case. Two of the accused have blamed then Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar of ill-treating co-accused Father Stan Swamy, an 84-year-old Jesuit who suffered from Parkinson’s disease. Father Stan died of post-Covid complications while in hospital under judicial custody in Mumbai on July 5. Fifteen others, including Navlakha, had been arrested in the case which relates to an alleged Maoist conspiracy and caste violence at an Ambedkarite pilgrimage in 2018. The accused include rights activists, writers and lawyers. Forensic analysis of devices of the accused by an American firm has indicated the planting of evidence on the computers of two of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Shadow of Bengal looms large over CPM in Kerala||As the CPM prepares for its 23rd all-India Congress, the shadow of Bengal looms large over the party in Kerala. In its determination not to repeat the mistakes of the party during its over three-decade rule in Bengal, the CPM in Kerala has gone to such extremes that some political observers wonder whether the party has been afflicted by some sort of Bengal phobia. These concerns of the Kerala CPM are noted in a party circular issued among its cadre for discussion at the block, area and local levels in the run-up to the CPM state party conference this year. This will be followed by the party’s 23rd all-India Congress to be held in Kannur sometime next year. This is the first time after 1946 that the communists have no representation in the Bengal Assembly. The reasons for this setback are both political and organisational. While the party grew organisationally in the first two decades, ideologically the party became bankrupt. The Kerala document points out that local landlords and lumpen elements found precedence over genuine party workers at the grassroots level. Since 2008, there has been steady erosion in the party’s mass base mainly because of the leadership’s alienation from people. This has resulted in a fall in its general social acceptance. The party leadership failed to read the socio-political changes taking place in Bengal, especially in the rural belt, where the party once had strong roots. The industrial policy imposed by the government in the villages of Nandigram and elsewhere alienated the poor. The leadership was partially blinded by three decades of power. The only way to overcome these pitfalls is to stand by the people and constantly engage them in the decision-making process. After the recent Assembly elections, the Kerala unit has taken a number of corrective measures effecting changes in its rank and file. For a party, which has been voted back to power with a larger majority some of these measures may appear harsh. In the light of the assessment of election results, disciplinary action has been initiated against no less than a dozen district committee members and even state committee members; notable among them is a former minister and a senior leader from Alappuzha. Even leaders from winning constituencies have been penalised for dereliction of duty. Once again it is the lessons learnt from Bengal that prompted the Kerala CPM to deny tickets to two-time MLAs. The idea was to discourage party leaders from turning into local satraps and in the process becoming larger than the party. Bengal had witnessed quite a number of them even during the time of the late Jyoti Basu. The Kerala CPM had all along opposed the Bengal comrades’ decision to go in for any sort of tie-up with the Congress there. Though the decision was backed by a section of the central leadership led by party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala CPM had always maintained that Congress remains its No. 1 enemy in the state. Even while asking their Bengal counterparts to go in for introspection with regard to their tie-up with the Congress, the Kerala comrades have welcomed senior Congress leaders into the party, something unheard of in the past. By giving party membership to two long standing Congressmen despite resentment in its own ranks, the CPM recently successfully thwarted the BJP’s moves to entice disgruntled Congress members. The divide between the Kerala and Bengal CPM has only widened on the issue of Congress. Another term for Sitaram Yechury as party general secretary will depend much on how the party resolves the Congress issue. Kerala is not going to back Yechury if he toes the Bengal line. That is for certain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Youth with bag of apples dies in alleged CRPF firing||A 20-year-old died in alleged CRPF firing in Shopian district on Sunday, a day after Union home minister Amit Shah had made overtures to Kashmir’s youth seeking their help to weed out militancy. Shahid Aijaz Rather, who local people said had dropped out of school to earn a living and support his family, was shot dead at Babapora outside the camp of the CRPF’s 178 Battalion. Police and the CRPF claimed Shahid had died during a gunfight between security forces and militants but local people and politicians accused the forces of killing him in cold blood. A picture shows Shahid lying on the ground, head propped up against the wheel of what appears a security force vehicle, with a bag of apples lying in front of him. Both his arms are inside the pheran, the long cloak Kashmiris wear in winter. The killing comes at a time Shah is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to review the situation after a surge in militant violence. The home minister was in Jammu on Sunday, laying foundation stones for development projects. He is to return to the Valley on Monday before leaving for Delhi on Tuesday. Shah had on Saturday told the Valley’s youth they could do what his government could not — eradicate militancy from the region. On Sunday, Shopian district police tweeted: “Around 10:30 hrs unidentified terrorists attacked a Naka party of 178 Bn, CRPF at Babapora, Shopian. CRPF retaliated the fire and during cross-firing, one unidentified person got killed. Further details are being ascertained.” Women in Shahid’s village in adjoining Anantnag district staged a protest, accusing the forces of murder and asking them to hand the body over to the family for the last rites. “For God’s sake we urge the tyrants to return the child (his body). At least his mother will see his face,” a woman protester is seen shouting in a video. “They are a very poor family and his mother had sent the child to earn a living for them. Let them (the forces) kill us all. We don’t raise our kids for this.” Another woman said Shahid’s father was bedridden after having surgery recently. She said the young man was the sole breadwinner of the family. Some social media users asked the CRPF to release the CCTV footage to prove Shahid had died in a gunfight. “Another innocent civilian killed allegedly by CRPF in Shopian today,” former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. “Its sad that armed forces show little restraint & operate with such impunity. My heartfelt condolences to his family.” This is the second killing at CRPF hands in Kashmir this month. On October 7, the paramilitary force had fired at the vehicle of a tribal man, Parvaiz Ahmad Bokad, and killed him. The CRPF had claimed that Bokad had jumped a checkpoint but local people accused the forces of deliberately targeting him. October has witnessed a surge in militant violence with the rebels killing 11 civilians, seven of them non-Muslims, who were allegedly targeted to force religious minorities out of the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav returns to Bihar from Delhi||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad received a rousing welcome on his return to the state capital from New Delhi on Sunday evening after more than three years. The RJD supporters went berserk with excitement as Lalu, sporting  a green cap and a green gamchha around his neck, came out of the Patna airport accompanied by wife Rabri Devi and eldest daughter Misa Bharti. His sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, currently at loggerheads with each other, were present at the airport to receive him. Cries of “Lalu Prasad zindabad” rent the air as RJD workers waved party flags and showered petals on their leader and his vehicle while he waved at them. RJD supporters lined the road to Rabri’s 10, Circular Road residence in the city and a large number of them were present there to witness his return — an event that has the potential to spark off a turbulence in state politics. The vehicle carrying Lalu went straight inside. “I was not in Patna for a long time. I am going there today. By-elections are going to be held at Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan in Bihar. I will try to go there, too. The doctors have given me medicines and allowed me to go. I will have to return for medical check-up after a month,” Lalu said in Delhi before catching the flight to Patna. He attacked the Congress over its recent exit from the Opposition Grand Alliance in the state on the ground that the RJD unilaterally fielded a candidate from Kusheshwar Asthan (a seat contested by the Congress) in the 2020 Assembly elections. “What is an alliance with the Congress? What is it? Should we have given the seat to it for losing and forfeiting the security deposit?” Lalu said. Reacting sharply to the All India Congress Committee’s Bihar in-charge and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das’s allegations that the RJD was in cahoots with the BJP, Lalu used a vernacular slang to call him an “idiot”. The RJD chief also rubbished claims by various NDA leaders that he would not be able to campaign because he had been granted bail on health conditions. “They are not right,” Lalu said. He also downplayed the rivalry between Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and said there was no fight between them. “Both are my sons. There is no anger between them,” he said. The RJD chief is scheduled to campaign with Tejashwi at Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan on October 27. The two Assembly seats are going to polls on October 30. The RJD chief had been away from Bihar after being convicted and incarcerated in fodder scam cases. He is suffering from severe diabetes, kidney and heart ailments, and was mostly under treatment at various hospitals in Ranchi, Mumbai and Delhi during this period. He was granted bail in April this year, but was stuck in Delhi due to health reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis sent to hospital after he contracted dengue||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashis, arrested for the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of four farmers and a journalist, has been shifted to hospital after he contracted dengue, an official said. Ashish was sent to the district jail on Saturday evening for treatment at its healthcare facility, additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said. He had been taken into two-day police custody on Friday evening. Arrested on October 9 after the Supreme  Court’s intervention,  Ashis was allowed to go to judicial custody after three days of police remand. On Wednesday, when the apex court heard the matter again, it had asked why the police had not sought extension of custody. The chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Bhatnagar, and his team examined Ashis. “The samples collected Saturday night tested positive for dengue. His sugar levels were found to be critical. Some changes were also observed in the ECG. This demands treatment under observation by expert doctors at the district hospital,” he told reporters on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Bihar: Cong decision to contest by-elections alone delights party lobby||The Congress decision to contest the Bihar by-elections alone and declare the end of the alliance with the RJD has delighted a party lobby that opposes coalitions in the Hindi heartland, arguing the party needs to regain ground here to revive its national fortunes. This section is acutely worried at suggestions from some senior leaders that the Congress should explore the possibility of an alliance with the Samajwadi Party ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. They argue that any hope of a Congress revival in the 2024 general election rests on the party’s performance in the Hindi heartland. While the Congress is strong in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, this lobby is pushing firmly for the party to go it alone in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “We have built an organisational structure across the state, in every district, after almost three decades. We have got a charismatic leader in Priyanka Gandhi,” a young Congress office-bearer from Uttar Pradesh told The Telegraph from Lucknow. “If we get into a coalition with the Samajwadis now and don’t contest in 70-80 per cent constituencies, the organisation will slip into decay again. If we fight ferociously now, we will be ready for the parliamentary elections even if we don’t win too many seats in the Assembly elections.” A senior leader echoed the same sentiment. “We must do in Bihar what we did in Uttar Pradesh: build structures in every district, prepare networks across the state and get ready to fight the parliamentary elections as a true alternative to the BJP,” the politician said. “If we survive on crutches, we shall get crumbs.” The younger Congress politicians are pushing the anti-coalition line more vigorously, arguing that a pragmatic approach on alliances should be adopted instead of surrendering the party’s chances of rebuilding itself. While the break-up in Bihar might appear accidental — a result of the RJD declaring candidates for both the by-elections without consultations — the anti-alliance Congress lobby has seized the opportunity to build its case for solo fights instead of sulking about a “betrayal”. Kanhaiya Kumar’s induction into the Congress had angered the RJD as the former CPI politician doesn’t get along with Tejashwi Yadav, and the resultant strains would have separated the two allies sooner or later. A prompt declaration from Congress Bihar minder Bhakta Charan Das about the party’s intention to contest all the 40 Lok sabha seats from Bihar in 2024, and Kanhaiya’s subtle attack on the RJD and Tejashwi, indicate the leadership is ready to carve a new path in the state. Kanhaiya has framed his narrative carefully to suggest the Congress alone has the credentials to fight the BJP at the national level. Addressing a meeting in Patna a few days ago, Kanhaiya had asked the people of Bihar to shed any dilemmas they might harbour. “Amne-samne ki ladai chhid chuki hai (It’s an open confrontation). Those who want to fight the BJP should come with the Congress,” he had said. “The Congress’s understanding is clear — no ifs and buts. There are no calculations here. I want to ask: is there any other party in the country that hasn’t ever gone into the BJP’s embrace? A few Scindias can go but the Congress will never go to the BJP, come what may.” What Kanhaiya said on the subjection of dynasty is likely to hurt many regional parties. “Whoever has his family’s political legacy has clung to it by closing the door on others. Nobody is willing to share space with others,” he said. “Look at Hardik Patel, Jignesh Mevani and myself — none of us comes from a political family. There is only one leader in the country, Rahul Gandhi, who is willing to heartily embrace people like us. This party has tolerance, this party gives you freedom. The party which gave this country freedom can also protect this country’s freedom.” Indicating a political resolve to confront the RJD, Kanhaiya said: “Only self-respect (atma samman) is not enough. People who snatched power from the Congress will be asked what they have given Bihar in 30 years.” Kanhaiya argued that self-esteem can be protected only if there are education and livelihood opportunities. He also attacked caste-based politics. “With social justice, social unity is needed too. I want to ask those who have turned the election into (a calculation of) caste equations, how long will you fool the people? Did the coronavirus strike on the basis of caste?” he said. Social justice and caste loyalty are the fulcrums of the RJD’s politics. Kanhaiya is now trying to convince people about the importance of social harmony, education, jobs and infrastructure that can prevent large-scale migrations from Bihar in search of livelihood. This suggests the Congress is preparing to try a new political narrative in the state. If the party does well in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the go-alone policy in Bihar is likely to be cemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai cruise drugs case: Witness alleges NCB sought bribe||A man listed as an independent witness in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau has in a notarised affidavit alleged a move to seek a bribe of Rs 25 crore. Prabhakar Raghoji Sail, who introduces himself as personal bodyguard of fellow independent witness K.P. Gosavi, says that shortly after the raid he heard Gosavi speak over the phone to a man named Sam D’Souza about paying Rs 8 crore to NCB officer Sameer Wankhede. Sail does not say what the purported payoff was for. But he adds that minutes after the conversation — which he says happened while he was in a car with Gosavi — a 15-minute meeting took place in a car between Gosavi, Sam and Shah Rukh’s manager Pooja Dadlani. There was no response from Dadlani in the public domain till late evening though reports about the affidavit were circulating since afternoon. Wankhede, NCB zonal director posted in Mumbai, told reporters he had done nothing wrong and would give a “fitting reply”. Sail has claimed that after Aryan’s detention on October 2, he was called to the NCB office by Wankhede and asked to sign as a panch (witness) on 10 blank sheets of paper. Sail, who has sent scanned images of the notarised affidavit to the media and also aired his allegations in a video, says he has done this because he fears that “NCB officials and other persons” would kill him. He suggests that Gosavi, who has disappeared, may have been kidnapped. Legal experts said anyone can get a declaration notarised if they wish. Notarisation is not a certificate of truth but lends credibility to the declaration, and if the person making the declaration later backtracks they can be hauled up in court. A notarised affidavit can be placed before a court. Little is known about Gosavi, who claims to be a “private detective agent” in his Facebook profile and was seen in a photo clicking a selfie with Aryan in the NCB office after the October 2 night raid. It raised the question what an outsider was doing in the NCB office. Sail has not explained who Sam is. A video shared by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday showed Gosavi handing a mobile to Aryan, presumably in the NCB office the same night. The NCB has not clarified Gosavi’s presence in its office that night beyond confirming he was an outsider and one of nine independent witnesses in the case. In the affidavit, Sail says that after Aryan’s detention, “Gosavi was talking to Sam on the phone and stated that you put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede”. “Bomb” denotes an inflated figure mentioned at the start of negotiations so that the final settlement would seem like a bargain. After the purported meeting that followed between Gosavi, Sam and Dadlani, Gosavi allegedly asked Sail to go to a spot near Indiana hotel and collect Rs 50 lakh in cash. Sail says an occupant of a white car, whose last four numbers were 5102, handed him two bags of cash. He delivered the bags to Gosavi, he says, and later to Sam at his employer’s instructions. In his affidavit, Sail says he had earlier accompanied Gosavi to the cruise ship on October 2. Sail says: “...K.P. Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involve(d) may kill me or abduct me like Gosavi.” The NCB, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah, issued a statement saying Sail should submit his statement to the court. Mutha Ashok Jain, NCB deputy director-general (southwest), said in a statement: “Affidavit by Prabhakar Sail, witness in a crime case of NCB has come to my notice. As he is witness and case is sub judice, he needs to submit his prayer to the court rather than on social media if he has anything to say. “In addition, there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing by Mr Prabhakar.... Our zonal director of Mumbai unit Sameer Wankhede has denied the allegation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
