27-10-2021||India||India test-fires Agni-V missile with 5,000km range||In a major boost to its military might, India on Wednesday successfully test-fired surface-to-surface strategic missile Agni-5 that can strike targets at ranges up to 5,000km with a very high degree of accuracy, officials said. The test-firing of the nuclear-capable missile was carried out around 7:50pm from APJ Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha, they said. "The successful test of Agni-5 is in line with India's stated policy to have credible minimum deterrence that underpins the commitment to 'No First Use'," the defence ministry said in a brief statement. The work on the Agni 5 intercontinental ballistic missile project was started over a decade ago. People familiar with the development said it was the first user trial of the missile which can bring the northernmost part of China under its striking range. The successful test-firing of the missile, built by the Defence Research Development Organisation's (DRDO), came in the midst of a lingering border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. The first test of the missile was carried out in April 2012 while the previous one was reportedly conducted around three years ago. "The missile, which uses a three-stage solid fuelled engine, is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 kilometres," the ministry said. The successful test firing of the missile paves way for its induction into the Strategic Forces Command that takes care of India's strategic assets, the people cited above said. The Agni 1 to 4 missiles have ranges from 700 km to 3,500 km and they have already been deployed. The Agni 5 project was aimed at enhancing India's nuclear deterrence against China which has missiles like Dongfeng-41 having ranges between 12,000-15,000 km. In June, the DRDO successfully test-fired a new generation of 'Agni' class nuclear-capable ballistic missile that has a range of up to 2,000 km. Many advanced technologies including propulsion systems, innovative guidance and control mechanisms and state-of-the-art navigation systems have been introduced in 'Agni Prime' missile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Govt announces door-to-door Covid vaccination from next month||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday the government was going to launch a mega vaccination campaign next month against the coronavirus disease. As part of the 'Har Ghar Dastak' drive, healthcare workers will conduct door-to-door vaccinations of people eligible for second dose as well as those who are yet to be administered their first jab as a shield against the virus, the health minister said. He added that special focus will be laid during the drive on 48 districts across the country where less than 50 per cent of the eligible population has been vaccinated against Covid-19. Mandaviya made the announcement after holding a meeting with his counterparts and representatives from states and Union Territories to discuss scaling up of the vaccination drive in the country. He further said 77 per cent of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated with the first dose, while another 32 per cent have been fully inoculated. However, more than 10 crore people have not yet taken the second dose of the vaccine, the health minister said, while urging them to go ahead with completing their course. The minister also asked officials at the meeting to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose. According to government data, over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin. Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated. The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe Covid-19 infection and hospitalisation. The 11 states and UTs that have completed administering both doses to more than half of their eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||PM reaffirms India’s focus on free, open & inclusive Indo-Pacific region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reaffirmed India’s focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of “ASEAN Centrality” in the region. Modi made the statement at the 16th East Asia Summit hosted by Brunei via video conference. The PM also emphasised the importance of a resilient global value chain and reiterated India's commitment to providing Quad-sponsored vaccines to Indo-Pacific countries. He recalled India’s support of $1 million to the ASEAN Covid-19 Recovery Fund. Taking to microblogging platform Twitter, the Prime Minister further wrote India remained committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. “I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow,” the PM wrote as part of a series of tweets. The PM also raised the idea of developing global standards on cyber security. The East Asia Summit is a premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific region. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a key role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of east Asia. Apart from the 10 ASEAN member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Russia. India, being a founding member of the East Asia Summit, is committed to strengthening the East Asia Summit and making it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges. ASEAN-India summits are held annually and provide the opportunity for India and ASEAN to engage at the highest levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Covid vaccine second dose missed by 11 crore Indians||Over 11 crore people who have taken the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine have not got themselves jabbed with the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between two doses, according to government data. The data showed that over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin. Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated. This issue was discussed in a meeting chaired by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya with health ministers and representatives of all states and Union territories on Wednesday. They were asked to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose, official sources said. The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe COVID-19 infection and hospitalisation. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bihar together account for around 49 per cent of such beneficiaries who are late for their second dose of vaccine. The Union Health Ministry has also written to several states and UTs asking them to prioritise administering the second dose to beneficiaries who have not got themselves jabbed with the second shot even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses, sources said. More than 76 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. The eleven states and UTs which completed second dose coverage to more than 50 per cent of eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Over 32 per cent of the country's around 94 crore adults have been administered both the doses, Health Ministry officials said, adding the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||NCB officials made me sign blank papers, says witness in another drugs case||Days after NCB witness Prabhakar Sail claimed that he was made to sign blank papers by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise drugs case, another witness in a separate drugs case on Wednesday levelled a similar allegation against the agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The witness, Shekhar Kamble, a resident of Navi Mumbai, said he was made to sign on 10-12 blank papers by Wankhede and others, which were later used as panchnama in connection with a Nigerian national's arrest from Mumbai's Kharghar in August this year. He also claimed that although no drugs was recovered from the Nigerian national, the NCB falsely showed that some amount of MD drug was found on him. He said he had played the role of an informer in that case and after the raid in Kharghar, the NCB had caught two Nigerians, but let off one of them, he claimed. On the day of raid in August, I along with six NCB officials reached Kharghar to catch a Nigerian national, but he managed to flee from the spot. Later, we went to another location in Kharghar, where around 50 Nigerians were present. As we entered, all of them escaped, but the officials caught two Nigerians and brought them to the NCB office, where one of them was let off, he said. "After taking my and friend's Aadhaar cards, the NCB officials asked me just to sign 10 to 12 blank papers. When I asked them about the panchnama, Wankhede and other officials said they will write it and I don't have to worry,” Kamble added. He said he came to know that he was a witness in the case after Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik made public a list of the agency's 26 different drugs cases and the witnesses in those cases. He said after he read about Malik's claims, he rang up NCB officer Anil Mane on Tuesday to express his concern over the claims in the Nigerian case. "The officer asked me to visit the NCB office on Wednesday, but I did not go," Kamble said. Kamble said he now fears for his life as anything can happen to him since he has spoken up about the NCB's "frauds". On August 27, the NCB had issued a press release, which said that it had intercepted a Nigerian national, identified as Kingsley Ukwueza, following a raid at Kharghar. As per the NCB, it was the agency's case number 80/2021. The accused was held at a Nigerian community kitchen, who was present there along with around 50 Nigerian nationals. However, others had disappeared from the spot and two NCB officials had suffered injuries due as the Nigerians scrambled to escape, it had said. The accused Nigerian national is a big MD trafficker or supplier in Navi Mumbai and has international linkages, the NCB had said. On Sunday, Prabhakar Sail had claimed that Rs 25 crore were demanded by an NCB official and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested in the cruise drugs case. He also claimed NCB officials had asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers. Sail had told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Minister Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping. Wankhede has refuted the allegations and denied any wrong-doing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||No bail for Shah Rukh Khan’s son yet, arguments to continue tomorrow||The Bombay High Court will continue hearing the bail plea of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan who has been arrested in a drugs case, on Thursday when the NCB will present its arguments. Aryan Khan's lawyer told the Court on Wednesday his arrest in the drugs-on-cruise case was a direct infringement of constitutional guarantees and the counsel of a co-accused claimed conspiracy charge was invoked as an afterthought, while an NCB team began probe into allegations of extortion linked to the case against agency officials, including its zonal director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede. The jail stay of Aryan Khan (23), son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, got longer as the hearing on his bail application remained inconclusive for the second day and proceedings in the HC will resume on Thursday. Aryan Khan, arrested in the drugs case earlier this month, is in judicial custody for nearly three weeks now. Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) Deputy Director General-northern region Gyaneshwar Singh said his team recorded the statement of Wankhede for more than four hours as part of a vigilance probe into allegations of extortion in the drugs case, while the controversy surrounding the IRS officer took a new turn when the qazi who performed his first marriage in 2006 said he was a Muslim at that time, a claim denied by his family. A five-member vigilance probe team, which landed in Mumbai in the morning, has started its probe and collected some documents and recordings NCB office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, DDG Gyaneshwar Singh, who is heading the departmental probe into the allegations of extortion, told media persons. "The team today collected crucial documents of the case from NCB zonal office and as part of the investigation, we recorded the statement of Wankhede, " Singh said. "During the four-and-a-half-hour-long recording of the statement, Wankhede has put many things before the team and we will collect a few more documents from him in coming days and if required we will get more information from him," he said. Asked whether Wankhede will continue to supervise the investigation into the cruise drugs case, Singh said, "Let the investigation go ahead, if I have something concrete then only I will be able to give report to my DG." "I am appealing to K P Gosavi and Prabhakar Sail (NCB witnesses in the drugs case) through the media to join the enquiry," he said, adding, "If they have any complaint... any allegations, they should approach us and record their statements." Meanwhile, the qazi who had performed the first marriage of Wankhede claimed the officer belonged to a Muslim family otherwise the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised as per Islam. The qazi's claim came against the backdrop of Nawab Malik's allegations that Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. I had performed the 'nikah' of Sameer Wankhede and Shabana Qureshi (his first wife). Her father had approached me to perform the marriage in the Lokhandwala complex area of Mumbai. The groom's name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede who married Shabana Qureshi, Maulana Mujammil Ahmed told a news channel. When asked about Wankhede's claim that he is a Hindu, the qazi said had Wankhede been a Hindu the 'nikah' would not have been performed. The Maulana claimed all the witnesses had signed the 'nikahnama' as per Islamic customs. As the controversy over his marriage and religion refused to die down, Wankhede, who is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case said he had married (in 2006) as per Muslim customs as per the wish of his late mother. "Fulfilling the wish of one's mother in a secular country is not a crime. I am proud of secularism in our country. My mother was a Muslim and my father is a Hindu. I love both of them very much, " Wankhede told PTI. Wankhede asserted that he never converted to Islam and he belonged to a Hindu caste. He said his first marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act within a month. "The process of divorce was also completed as per the Special Marriage Act. I was never converted to Islam and I belong to a Hindu caste of my family," Wankhede claimed. Meanwhile, Wankhede's father once again refuted allegations of Nawab Malik about his religion. Malik had said Wankhede senior's real name is Dawood Wankhede and not Dnyandev Wankhede. Kranti Redkar, whom Wankhede married after divorce from his first wife, also came out in support of her husband, saying he never changed his religion. Redkar, who is an actress, contested the claim made by the qazi. Addressing a press conference, Redkar, who married Wankhede in 2017, slammed Malik for playing "low level" politics by making a string of allegations against her husband. "Is that qazi above the Constitution? He should produce papers to show Sameer Wankhede had converted (to Islam) to marry his first wife," Redkar said, adding Wankhede had performed the 'nikah' in 2006 only to fulfil the wish of his late mother, who was Muslim. "It was just a formality. Sameer (Wankhede) is born as a Hindu. He never converted. Malik is levelling allegations out of his grudge owing to the (drugs) case involving his son-in-law," she claimed. Redkar admitted that the signature on the 2006 nikahnama was of Sameer Wankhede's. "He doesn't know much about nikahnama (a written document that two Muslim partners entering into a civil union must put their signature on to legalise their marriage)," she claimed. Meanwhile, Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede said he would approach the court against Malik. "What do my religion or castes have to do with the drug cases? I am Hindu and Mahar (Scheduled Caste). The 2006 Nikahnama is correct and my signature is also genuine. But I didn't understand the content of the document since it was in Urdu," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Pegasus snooping attempt to 'crush' Indian democracy, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday termed as a "big step" the Supreme Court appointing a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people, and expressed confidence that truth would come out. At a press conference here, Gandhi alleged that only the prime minister or the home minister could have ordered the use of Pegasus spyware. During the last Parliament session, the Opposition had jointly taken up the issue and had stalled proceedings demanding a probe, he recalled. "We were asking three basic questions -- who authorised Pegasus, which agency, which person authorised Pegasus as we all know Pegasus cannot be bought by a private individual, it has to be bought by a government; second question was who was it used against; final thing was, did any other country have access to information of our people," the former Congress chief said. Asserting that alleged snooping using Pegasus is an "attempt to crush Indian democracy", Gandhi said it is a "big step that the Supreme Court has said that they are going to look into this matter. I am confident that we will get the truth out of this". "We are quite happy that the Supreme Court has accepted to look into this. There is the institution of Parliament where we will raise this again and we will try to have a debate in Parliament. I am sure the BJP will not like that debate so they will make sure that debate is stalled but we will try to hold that debate," he said. The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of "national security by State" does not render the court a "mute spectator". Finding material that "prima facie merits consideration", a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli declined the Centre's plea to appoint an expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate settled judicial principle against bias. Three experts on cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware were roped in by the Supreme Court to "enquire, investigate and determine" whether Pegasus spyware was used for snooping on citizens and their probe would be monitored by former apex court judge R V Raveendran. The three-member technical panel, which has been given wide ranging powers, would comprise eminent experts, Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste and report to Justice Raveendran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Modi most successful administrator India has ever had, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the most successful administrator of the country after independence, saying he has taken India into a different trajectory in the spheres of eradication of poverty, economic development, national security and foreign policy. Addressing a conference on Delivering Democracy: Reviewing two decades of Narendra Modi as head of government, Shah said Modi first became chief minister of Gujarat two decades ago without having any administrative experience and proved himself as a successful administrator despite facing a difficult situation at that time. The home minister said in 2014 when the Manmohan Singh government was in power, there was a policy paralysis everywhere and every member of the cabinet thought of himself or herself as the prime minister while the "prime minister was not considered as prime minister". There was no national security policy. India's honour had been lost. There were scams of Rs 12 lakh crore and an impression had been created that Indian democracy will collapse, he said. But when the Modi government came to power in 2014, Shah said, people started thinking that ''now things would improve, the system would improve''. He said India's problems are not just of the administration or economic development but its honour has to be protected, the country's culture should be preserved and its security should be ensured. And for this one has to have a different kind of approach which only a popular leader can have. That leader has to be rooted to the ground and has to know the pain of the poor. Poorest of the poor must get the benefits of development, he said. The home minister said economic development, good governance and eradication of poverty are all necessary. Poorest of the poor must be developed, the country is made secured, the country is made developed, the people of the country are educated, our cultural glory should be enhanced and the country's honour must go up. When all these happen, then only someone becomes a successful administrator. Even though Narendra Modi considers himself as the 'pradhan sewak', I can say with conviction that he is the most successful administrator the country ever had after independence. Because he covered all these points and took India to a different level, he said. Referring to a series of decisions taken by the Modi government in the last seven years, Shah said when demonetisation was announced in 2016, they knew that there was a risk as the Uttar Pradesh assembly election was due but people stood behind Modi and supported the decision. The people realised that it was announced to check black money and Modi had no other intentions, he said. The home minister said the law against Triple Talaq, one rank and one pension and creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff were all difficult decisions. After the anti-terror surgical and airstrikes, a message has gone out to the whole world that no one can play any game with India's border. You can see it as a bold decision of Narendra Modi or you can see it as a decision of national security. It is a significant move, he said. Shah said there was no proper national security policy prior to the Modi government and it was always under the shadow of foreign policy. But Narendra Modi has clearly separated the national security policy from the foreign policy. We made it clear that we want friendship but we will not accept any aggression on our sovereignty, he said. With the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A, the home minister said, Jammu and Kashmir has been completely integrated with the union of India, not a single riot has taken place anywhere in the country and there has been no murmur after the Supreme Court decision on Ram Janmabhoomi. Narendra Modi has also enhanced the value of India's passport which is an honour for the country, he said. Shah also gave a detailed description of the development works Modi had carried out in Gujarat as chief minister. Perhaps Narendra Modi is the only person who became chief minister without having any experience. At that time, Gujarat was trying to come out of the devastating Bhuj earthquake, he said. Shah said Modi completely overhauled the power situation in Gujarat, gave emphasis on the education and development of those living in forest and coastal areas. Modi did such work that Gujarat had seen 10 per cent growth in the agriculture sector for 10 years continuously, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Will launch party once EC clears name, symbol, says Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will launch his new political party when the Election Commission clears the name and symbol, and claimed that many people from the Congress are in touch with him. "I am forming a party. But I cannot tell you the name right now. When the Election Commission (EC) approves the name and symbol, only then I can tell you. Let us wait for the EC to approve," he said during his first press conference after resigning as the chief minister last month. He also said that he will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday to continue his efforts to resolve the issues of farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Responding to a question, Singh claimed many people from the Congress are in touch with him and that they will come out in the open when the time comes. Obviously many people are with us. We are waiting for the opportune moment. But I will not take their names as my supporters are already being harassed, he said. Asked how many MLAs are in touch with him, the former CM said, If Rahul Gandhi needs to have back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean? On not resigning yet from the Congress, he said, I have spent 50 years in the Congress, how does it matter if I stay for another 10 days? Singh had last week said that he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir was resolved in their interest. He also asserted that he had never spoken of aligning with the BJP, and that all he wanted was seat sharing. In military parlance, it means concentration of forces, he said while stating that he had, however, not yet talked to the saffron party in this regard. The leader further said he had no intention of aligning with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but only with breakaway Akali groups. Asked about the reported refusal of SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to tie up with him, he said, If Dhindsa has to put up a real fight, he will have to concentrate his forces too. To defeat the Congress, SAD and AAP, we all have to work as a joint force, he asserted. Meanwhile, Sidhu took another dig at Singh and called him the negative force stalling development in Punjab. "We, the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine, what we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal Chief Minister of Punjab @ capt-amarinder who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling justice & development of Punjab," Sidhu tweeted. Singh, however, dismissed the tweet as trash and said the thought of seat sharing with the BJP came to his mind only after he was forced out of office. States have to work with the Centre to function effectively, he pointed out. "We will fight and defeat Sidhu from wherever he contests the upcoming assembly polls," he said. The former CM also alleged that ever since Mr Sidhu came on the scene (took over Punjab Congress reins), our surveys show there has been a drop of about 25 per cent in the Congress' popularity. Rejecting the Congress claims of a majority of party MLAs hvaing opposed his continuation in office, he said, Once they (party leadership) had made up their mind to replace me, all these excuses were made. He added that the so-called 18-point agenda of the Congress for his government was nothing but part of the Punjab 2017 manifesto, adding that the Kharge committee, formed by the party to end factionalism, was clearly told that 92 per cent of the poll promises had been fulfilled. Singh also dismissed allegations against his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam. Even as he asked if Alam was the only issue left in Punjab, he questioned the intention of (Sukhjinder) Randhawa in raising the issue now after never mentioning it all these years. Singh asserted that Alam had been visiting him for 16 years and he would definitely invite her again. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had recently said that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Alam, a Pakistani journalist visiting Amarinder Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Amarinder Singh later shared with the media a booklet titled 'Facts v/s Disinformation', detailing achievements of his government from March 2017 till September 18, 2021. On the political issues he will prioritise in the elections, the former CM said a manifesto committee will finalise the same. Punjab goes to the polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Educational institutions in Delhi to reopen from November 1 ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed reopening of all educational institutions from November 1, and Chhath Puja celebrations in the city amid strict Covid protocols, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Schools will have to ensure that classes are conducted in a hybrid mode which means online classes will continue, he said. "All private and government schools can be reopened from November 1. However, parents cannot be forced to send their ward to schools, Sisodia said at a press conference after a DDMA meeting. The minister said not more than 50 per cent of the students in a class should be called to the school and all the staff are required to be fully vaccinated as soon as possible. Sisodia said a restricted number of people will be allowed to conduct Chhath Puja at predetermined spots across the capital. "People are requested to follow all Covid protocols and wear masks... The Covid situation is under control in Delhi but one has to remain careful, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Extortion: NCB's vigilance probe team recording Sameer Wankhede's statement||The NCB's Deputy Director General (DDG)-northern region Gyaneshwar Singh on Wednesday said they have started recording the statement of the agency's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede in connection with the departmental vigilance probe into allegations of extortion in the drugs-on-cruise case. A five-member vigilance probe team, which landed in Mumbai in the morning, has started its probe and collected some documents and recordings from the Narcotic Control Bureau's (NCB) office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, DDG Singh, who is heading the departmental vigilance probe into allegations of extortion, told media persons. "We have started recording the statement of Wankhede. It is a sensitive inquiry and it is not possible to share real-time information related to the probe," he said. "We have started our investigation and are calling witnesses to record their statements," he added. Earlier, Gyaneshwar Singh reached the NCB's office here at 12.45 pm. The NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness, Prabhakar Sail, in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan. The inquiry is being conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, who is also the chief vigilance officer of the federal anti-narcotics agency. A large number of media persons were present outside the NCB's office when Singh arrived. Wankhede, who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case, visited the NCB's headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday and spent over two hours. Sources earlier said the inquiry will also look at the aspect of K P Gosavi, another NCB independent witness in the case, being in close proximity of Aryan Khan after the raids, and the procedures followed by the sleuths while entrusting custody of all the accused arrested on October 3 from the international cruise terminal in Mumbai. Photos and videos of Gosavi with Aryan Khan have gone viral on social media and other news platforms. The role of all the officers and witnesses involved in the case will be probed and it will be recorded if they followed the NCB manual and procedures mentioned in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during such operations, they said. Wankhede on Sunday wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue. On Monday, he failed to get any relief related to an affidavit on the sensational extortion claims made by Sail, with a special court saying it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognisance of the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Extortion claim in cruise drugs case:  Police record witness Sail's statement for 8 hours||Mumbai Police recorded the statement of independent witness Prabhakar Sail for over eight hours in connection with his allegation of extortion attempt by NCB officials in the drugs seizure case involving Aryan Khan, an official said on Wednesday. Sail appeared before the city police on Tuesday evening and the process of recording his statement was completed at around 3 am on Wednesday, he said. After recording his statement, Sail left the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Azad Maidan, early on Wednesday, the official said. He has been provided protection by the city police in the wake of revelations he made in his application, the official said. On Tuesday, Sail's lawyer Tushar Khandare claimed that his client was "misused" during the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month during which drugs were allegedly seized and Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, was arrested. The city police on Tuesday said they received four applications alleging extortion by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and other officials, and have launched an enquiry to verify these claims. One of the applications was sent by Sail, who had alleged that he overheard K P Gosavi, another witness in the cruise ship raid case, talking to one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore including Rs 8 crore for Sameer Wankhede, police said. Wankhede, the IRS officer who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations. A police official earlier said they will verify claims made by Sail. Police teams are also verifying locations of mobile phone numbers as well as CCTV footages of various places mentioned in Sail's application, he had said, adding that appropriate action will be taken after the enquiry. The Mumbai Police have also received two applications against Maharashtra cabinet minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik an official earlier said without elaborating. Malik has raised a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Sail on Tuesday said he stood by his allegation of extortion demand against Wankhede and others, and nobody had tutored him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Congress welcomes SC order on Pegasus snooping matter||The Congress on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order of setting up an expert committee on the Pegasus spyware issue and said it has negated alleged attempts of the government to evade and divert attention in the name of national security. "Pseudo-Nationalism is the last refuge of cowardly fascists everywhere," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. "Welcome SC order setting up Special Committee to examine misuse of spyware Pegasus despite Modi Government's embarrassing attempts to evade, avoid and divert attention in the name of National Security. Satyamev Jayate," he said. The Supreme Court has appointed a three-member panel of experts to probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of some persons, saying every citizen needs protection against violation of privacy. The court was hearing pleas seeking an independent probe into reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs party organisers took nod from Centre, alleges NCP minister||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed the Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers had taken permission directly from the "directorate of shipping" at the Centre and not the state police or the state home department. Speaking to reporters here, Malik also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise, and asked how come he was moving scot-free, while some others were arrested, following a raid on the ship earlier this month. Malik also said if the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede's birth certificate, which the minister had posted online to claim the official forged documents to secure job, turns out false, then he will resign from his ministerial post and retire as a politician. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 during which drugs were allegedly seized. Later, Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, and some others were arrested. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drug bust case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Wankhede, who led the raid. On Wednesday, the minister said, The Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers Fashion TV had not taken any permission from the Maharashtra Police or the state home department. They obtained the permission directly from the directorate of shipping, which comes under the Union Ministry for Ports, Shipping and Waterways. Malik said, I believe that a top committee of NCB officials from Delhi has arrived here. They should check the call detail records of personal phones of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, (witnesses) K P Gosavi, Prabhakar Sail and Wankhede's driver Mane. You will need no recording of statements. The phone calls will be self-explanatory." The minister also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise. "There are some of videos of the party in which the person, sporting a beard, can been seen. I am told he was in the Tihar Jail (Delhi) and in a Rajasthan jail in the past. The NCB's Delhi team should check the CCTV cameras of the cruise. How come a few people were arrested and the international level drugs mafia (member) is moving scot-free? the NCP spokesperson asked. Malik also said that if Wankhede's birth certificate, which he had posted on social media, turns out to be false, then "I will resign from my post and retire as a politician". "If my claims are true, then Sameer Wankhede should at least apologise to me and my family. He will lose his job for sure," the minister said. Malik had earlier levelled a number of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Wankhede, who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Teen girl from UP raped in Bengal ||A teenage girl from a village under Haldi police station limits here was allegedly kidnapped and raped by a 20-year-old youth, police said on Wednesday. The accused was arrested on Tuesday, police said. A 15-year-old girl had gone missing from her house on September 8. Her father had lodged a case against an unknown person for luring her away, SHO Suresh Chandra Dwivedi said. The police, who launched an investigation, traced the girl to Hooghly in West Bengal on October 25, the SHO said. In her statement to the police, the girl alleged that the youth, belonging to Dumraon village in Buxar district of neighbouring Bihar, kidnapped her from the village and took her to Hooghly, where he allegedly raped her. On the basis of the statement, the youth has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Dwivedi said. The victim has been sent to the district hospital for a medical examination, the SHO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||'Jumla' version of Covid vaccine story will not save lives, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said actual vaccinations and not the "jumla (rhetoric) version" of the COVID-19 vaccine story would save lives and pointed out to the large number of people who are yet to be vaccinated in the country. He shared an article by Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a newspaper that lauded Indian scientists and researchers on achieving the 100-core vaccination milestone but pointed out to the large number of people and children who are yet to be inoculated against COVID-19. "Jumla-version of the vaccine story won't save lives. Actual vaccination will," he said on Twitter using the hashtag "#DutyToVaccinate". The Congress also shared on Twitter Sonia Gandhi's article and quoted her, "The PM likes to emphasise that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the BJP government that moved away from India's universal free vaccination policy." Sharing the article on Twitter, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The floundering economy can be turned around if we can drive away the dark clouds of Covid-19. That requires us to ramp up the pace of the rollout of vaccines to all, completely free, including to our children." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also quoted the Congress president and said, "Not hollow announcements but genuine execution is the key to not only health of our citizens but wealth of our Nation". "Vaccine for all..including our children.. usher in the festive season with genuine optimism," he also said quoting Sonia Gandhi and shared her article on Twitter. In the article "The vaccination milestone and a distant goal", Sonia Gandhi pointed out that the Government ought to realise that vaccinating all Indians as quickly as possible is linked to their health and progress. "Our frontline healthcare workers deserve our fulsome congratulations for crossing the milestone of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. They, along with our scientists, researchers, medical professionals, and vaccine manufacturers have heroically overcome multiple obstacles in the quest to protect our citizens from COVID-19. Thanks to their efforts, our vaccination drive has picked up pace after the initial months of delay, indecision, and confusion," Gandhi has said in her article. She also said that this milestone also marks the triumph of science and of India's research and manufacturing infrastructure built and nurtured over decades. The Congress president has also pointed out that the promise of all eligible Indians being doubly vaccinated by the end of 2021 is unlikely to be accomplished. "The hollow announcement has not been accompanied by either appropriate planning or execution. Experts assert that we will miss this target by at least five to six months," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Supreme Court wants experts' panel to look into Pegasus case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of national security by State does not render the court a mute spectator. Finding material that prima facie merits consideration, a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli declined the Centre's plea to appoint expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate settled judicial principle against bias. The top court urged its former judge Justice R V Raveendran to oversee the functioning of the three member panel and sought a report expeditiously from the committee. It posted the batch of pleas in the matter, including the ones filed by Editors Guild of India and veteran journalists N Ram and Shashi Kumar, for hearing after eight weeks. The bench took note of the vehement submissions of the Centre on national security and rejected it saying it does not mean that the State gets a free pass every time the spectre of national security' is raised. "National security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning. Although this Court should be circumspect in encroaching the domain of national security, no omnibus prohibition can be called for against judicial review." Pronouncing the verdict, the CJI said the Centre must justify the stand that they take before a Court. The mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the Court a mute spectator . Justice Raveendran will oversee functioning of the panel of cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware and the three members are: Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste. The apex court said that former IPS officer Alok Joshi and Sundeep Oberoi -- Chairman, Sub Committee in (International Organisation of Standardisation/ International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee) -- will assist Justice Raveendran to oversee the task to the committee. The top court said that in this world of conflicts it was an extremely uphill task to find and select experts who are free from prejudices, are independent and competent, rather than relying upon any government agencies or any private entity. "We make it clear that our effort is to uphold Constitutional aspirations and rule of law, without allowing ourselves to be consumed in political rhetoric," the bench said, adding that this court has always been conscious of not entering political thicket. "Members of civilized democratic society have reasonable expectation of privacy. Privacy is not singular concern of journalists or social activists," the bench said. In a democratic country governed by rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following procedure established by law under Constitution, it said. A two-judge bench had reserved order on September 13, saying it only wanted to know whether or not the Centre used the Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly snoop on citizens. The apex court had observed orally that it would set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the matter and pass an interim order on the pleas seeking an independent probe into the grievances of the alleged surveillance of certain eminent Indians by hacking their phones using Israeli firm NSO's spyware, Pegasus. The top court's observations on constituting the committee assume significance in view of the Centre's statement that it would set up an expert panel on its own to look into the entire issue. The apex court had said it would pronounce order in a few days and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to mention the case if the government had a re-think about filing a detailed affidavit. Observing that concerns have been raised by journalists and others over violation of privacy in the Pegasus row, the top court had said it was not interested in knowing the details related to national security. The Centre maintained it did not wish to file a detailed affidavit on whether particular software is used or not as it was not a matter for public discussion and will not be in the "larger national interest". The pleas seeking independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. The pleas seeking independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 242 days||India logged 13,451 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,42,15,653, while the active cases declined to 1,62,661, the lowest in 242 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,55,653 with 585 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 33 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 122 consecutive days. The active cases comprise 0.48 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,155 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.03 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 33 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35, 97,339, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 585 new fatalities include 482 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,55,653 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,060 from Maharashtra, 38,024 from Karnataka, 36,048 from Tamil Nadu, 29,355 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,081 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||WHO seeks 'additional clarifications' from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin||The World Health Organisation's technical advisory group on Tuesday sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to conduct a final risk-benefit assessment for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. The technical advisory group will now meet on November 3 for a final assessment. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the WHO on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). The technical advisory group met on Tuesday to review data on Covaxin for the emergency use listing of India's indigenously-made vaccine. "The TAG met today (26 October 2021) and decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine, the WHO said in an email response to a question by PTI on the decision regarding the Emergency Use Listing of Covaxin. "The TAG expects to receive these clarifications from the manufacturer by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, 3 November, it added. The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL) is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid 19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Earlier Tuesday, WHO spokesperson Dr Margaret Harris had said that on COVAXIN, the technical advisory group that reviews all the data for a potential emergency use listing was reviewing that data. "Now if all is in place, and all goes well, and if the committee is satisfied, we would expect a recommendation within the next 24 hours or so, she had said during a press briefing. The Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. In June, the company said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use. Last week, the WHO had said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Bharat Biotech regarding Covaxin and emphasised that it has to thoroughly evaluate to ensure vaccines are safe and cannot cut corners before recommending a vaccine for emergency use. WHO has said the timeframe for its Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine's quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries. "When the information provided addresses all questions raised, WHO and the Technical Advisory Group will complete the assessment and come to a final recommendation whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to the vaccine, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Medical students booked for celebrating Pak T20 victory ||Jammu and Kashmir police have booked unnamed students of two premier medical colleges in Srinagar under the stringent anti-terror law for celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup, sources in the force said on Tuesday. The purported action came barely three days after Union home minister Amit Shah extended the “hand of friendship” to Kashmir’s youths and said only they, and not the government, could stamp out terrorism. Although the police have not officially commented on the purported action, the sources said an unknown number of medical students had been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for “insulting the national sentiment”. Footage of students, purportedly from the Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences and the Government Medical College in Srinagar, bursting firecrackers, raising slogans, some of them in favour of Pakistan, and dancing after the match were widely shared on social media. According to the sources, the students have been booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, which deals with crimes that advocate, abet, advise or incite the commission of any unlawful activity. The UAPA, usually used against terrorists, allows for detention without trial for up to six months and carries a maximum punishment of seven years’ imprisonment. Any official crackdown would mean India is going far beyond the political posturing behind the Tebbit test in Britain. Conservative Party member Norman Tebbit had whipped up suspicions among the white majority in 1990 by suggesting immigrants and their children could not show loyalty to Britain until they supported the England team at cricket. On Tuesday, a prominent students’ outfit in Jammu and Kashmir appealed to the government not to ruin the careers of the medical students. Erstwhile BJP ally and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti raised a point that few at the Centre would acknowledge. Mehbooba tweeted: “Instead of trying to ascertain why educated youth choose to identify with Pakistan, GOI (Government of India) resorting to vindictive actions. Such steps will alienate them further.” On Sunday, parts of the Valley had erupted in celebration soon after Pakistan defeated India in the T20 World Cup match. The celebrations capped a day on which the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha was busy hosting Union home minister Shah. A police officer said on the condition of anonymity that the FIR, lodged at Soura police station in Srinagar, was “open” and no student had either been named or arrested so far. Ravinder Raina, the BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir president, asserted that all those who had cheered for “enemy country” Pakistan would land in jail. In Jammu’s Samba, the police have detained six people after a video showed them celebrating Pakistan’s victory and raising “objectionable slogans”. Nearly four decades ago, a cricket match had unwittingly become the staging ground for events that were partly blamed for the spurt in militancy. “Pro-azadi” crowds had cheered for Clive Lloyd’s West Indies on October 13, 1983, during the match against Kapil Dev’s India at the Sher-e-Kashmir Stadium in Srinagar. It was the first international cricket match in the Valley. Some in the crowd had waved pictures of Pakistani players and booed Indian players. Several youths, angry that India had hosted an international match in the “disputed region”, had invaded the pitch during the lunch break and dug holes in it. The damage was not severe enough to halt the match. The West Indians won a match truncated by bad light and a dust storm by 28 runs. The conduct of the spectators had been criticised in the rest of the country. The youths were booked for waging war against the country, another name for sedition. A Srinagar court in 2011 acquitted 12 men for lack of evidence. A number of these Kashmiri youths went on to play a key role in starting the armed insurgency in 1989. “They were kids then but were arrested and booked for waging war against the country. They were put in jail for months. Years later, many of us picked up the gun because of continuous harassment,” a separatist leader, a relative of one of those acquitted, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. But this time, there have been no law-and-order violations like a pitch invasion. “We live in altogether different times. This government does not tolerate people celebrating a cricket victory even in their homes. I am worried this government might destroy the careers of these students. Such actions only trigger more alienation,” the separatist leader said. The second and last time Kashmir hosted an international cricket match was in 1986 when India played Australia. The state government had made elaborate security arrangements. The Sher-e-Kashmir Stadium ceased to be an international venue after that, mainly because of militancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Zakia Jafri says SIT ignored crucial evidence on Modi||Zakia Jafri, wife of Gujarat Congress leader and 2002 riot victim Ehsan Jafri, on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that a special investigation team had ignored crucial evidence to give a clean chit to then chief minister Narendra Modi in the larger case of conspiracy. After absolving Modi of complicity in the riots as alleged by Zakia, the apex court-appointed SIT had filed a closure report in February 2012, which the trial court accepted in December 2013. Gujarat High Court upheld the decision in October 2017, and an aggrieved Zakia had approached the apex court. “There were several facts which the SIT did not look into while filing the closure report,” senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for Zakia, told the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi Kumar. “A sting operation was relied upon in the Naroda Patiya (massacre) case and no one doubts its authenticity, and only the SIT did not look at it. Police wireless messages were not considered,” Sibal added. Sibal said some of the police messages had been destroyed. Sibal said the SIT had ignored the testimony of witnesses such as the then IPS officer Sanjeev Bhatt. Bhatt, who had accused Modi of directing the police to let Hindus “vent their anger”, was later dismissed from service and recently sentenced to a life term over a three-decade-old custody death. “The SIT did not even follow the procedure to record statements, etc. The SIT had no authority to select which statement was correct when contrary statements were made. But they did so by selectively recording the statements,” Sibal said. Ehsan Jafri and 68 others were burnt alive at Gulbarg Society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002. Zakia has alleged that the administration had ignored appeals for help. The trial court convicted 24 accused and acquitted 36. The apex court had directed the SIT to look into Zakia’s allegations that Modi, some other ministers and police officers were part of a larger conspiracy behind the riots. “Our case is that it was a well-planned operation of unleashing of violence with police complicity and which was in the knowledge of the state government,” Sibal said. He contended that to prove the conspiracy charges, one had to look beyond the specific massacre but “the magistrate says, ‘I can’t look at anything else since the Supreme Court asked me to look into only the Gulbarg Society case”. Sibal said about 23,000 pages of documents had been placed in support of the allegations before the SIT, but it had ignored them. “A republic stands or falls depending on the court. We cannot trust anyone but the judiciary and courts. I am not on any single particular person. This is not a political issue, it’s the administrative failure of the state that I am concerned with,” Sibal said. “All that I am looking for here is the investigation and not a conviction. I can show state intelligence bureau reports and see how it corroborates our submissions. This republic is too great to look the other way. So many documents were destroyed. Should not this be investigated?” Justice Khanwilkar said the court wanted to see the closure report accepted by the magistrate. The arguments will continue on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Kin of slain journalist afraid of bid to frame farmers ||The arrest of two farmers on Tuesday in connection with alleged retaliatory lynchings after the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and indications from police have prompted a sibling of a slain journalist to express fear that efforts are on to blame the farmers for his brother’s murder too. A police officer who asked not to be identified said that following the interrogations of the 15 suspects arrested in the case, the SIT now believed that TV reporter Raman Kashyap too had been lynched by the farmers. Kashyap’s father and brother have all along said the journalist was mowed down by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s Thar jeep. The family had also alleged that attempts had been made to force them to say that he had been thrashed to death by the farmers. Pawan Kashyap, younger brother of the journalist, told The Telegraph over the phone on Tuesday evening: “I know from my sources that the SIT is giving a twist to the murder of my brother. All I can say is that I have submitted evidence to the SIT, in which my brother can be seen lying under the wheel of the Thar jeep. Badly injured, he somehow tries to run towards the agricultural field and again falls (and) is not able to move. There were farmers near him but none of them harmed him.” Pawan added: “My brother was on the spot since noon and the farmers knew well he was there to cover their protest. The farmers didn’t hurt him. What I understand is that Teni is very powerful. We have lost all hope of getting justice and are looking to God for help.” While the injuries of a person crushed under a car should be easily distinguishable from those of one beaten to death, Pawan told reporters that Kashyap’s post-mortem report only mentioned “injuries” and loss of blood as the cause of death. Teni’s son Ashis and 12 associates had earlier been arrested on murder charges after a convoy of SUVs, led by the Thar jeep, hit a group of farmers from behind and ploughed through them as they were returning from a protest against the minister. Four farmers were crushed to death. In retaliatory violence, block-level BJP leaders Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sundar Nishad and Teni’s driver Hari Om Mishra were allegedly lynched. Vichitra Singh of village Bhira and Gurvindar Singh of village Mokarampur-Aliganj are the first two farmers to be arrested in the case. They have been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. The special investigation team (SIT) had begun questioning them on Monday evening. “Gurvindar Singh, son of Gurmej Singh, and Vichitra Singh, son of Lakhvindar Singh, were arrested on October 26, 2021, produced before the court and sent to jail. The investigation is on,” the SIT said in a statement in Hindi. The police officer who claimed the SIT now believed that Kashyap too had been lynched by the farmers said: “These two persons (Gurvindar and Vichitra) were identified on the basis of video footage.” He added that more farmers were likely to be arrested. Ashis, arrested on October 9, almost a week after the massacre and only after the Supreme Court’s intervention, was admitted to the government district hospital on October 23 with symptoms of dengue. Shailesh Bhatnagar, chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, said on Tuesday: “Ashis’s dengue report is positive. He has been kept in the VIP ward.” The Centre has refused to heed demands for Teni’s dismissal. The junior home minister had threatened the farmers a few days before the massacre that he would fix them if they didn’t stop protesting against the three new central farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Iran leaves India out of Afghan meet ||India has been left out of a meeting called by Iran on Wednesday of neighbouring countries on Afghanistan as Tehran has decided to invite only those that share a land border with the war-ravaged country, besides Russia. The meeting was announced by Iran on October 18, the day India joined Israel, the UAE and the US in what is being called the Middle East Quad. Announcing the meeting, Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said it will be attended by China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which share land borders with Afghanistan. Russia is the only other invitee to the meeting which does not share a land border with Afghanistan. In leaving out India, Iran has disregarded New Delhi’s contention that it shares a 106km-long land border with Afghanistan in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Billing the meeting as another initiative to address the political crisis in Afghanistan, the Iranian embassy in New Delhi said in a statement that the foreign ministers of the seven countries will meet in Tehran — two of them virtually — to discuss how they as surrounding countries can contribute to the creation of an inclusive government in Kabul with active participation of all ethnic groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri : SC directs UP govt to protect massacre witnesses ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre witnesses while asking why the number of eyewitness statements was just 23 when the gathering had “4,000 or 5,000” people. It said the witnesses should be protected under the “Witness Protection Scheme 2018”. The scheme entitles vulnerable witnesses to police guards and escorts, patrolling in front of their homes, round-the-clock CCTV surveillance, pseudonyms to protect their identity, appearance at in-camera proceedings or through video links, and avoidance of face-to-face contact with the accused. This apart, the witnesses are entitled to financial aid from the witness protection fund and confidentiality of all their records relating to the case. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli also sought an additional status report on the murders of BJP worker Shyam Sundar Nishad and journalist Raman Kashyap after lawyers representing their families expressed reservations about the investigations. A convoy of SUVs allegedly led by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra mowed down four protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 while a driver and two BJP workers, including Shyam Sundar, were lynched in retaliatory violence. Kashyap, covering the farmers’ protest, was also killed amid contradictory claims about whether he was run over or lynched. Justice Ramana expressed surprise that the statements of only 30 witnesses — of whom 23 are purported eyewitnesses — had been recorded so far. “There were hundreds at the farmers’ rally and only 23 people are witnesses?” he asked senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, and additional advocate-general Garima Parshad. Justice Kant remarked: “You said there were 4,000 or 5,000 people. Mostly they were locals. Post-incident, most of them have been agitating for an inquiry. Accessibility and identification of such persons in the vehicle should not be a great issue.” Justice Ramana directed the state government to have the statements of more witnesses recorded before a magistrate. The court also expressed concern about “the delay in getting all the reports by the state government from the forensic laboratories”. It directed the state “to make a request to the concerned forensic laboratories to provide all the reports to it as early as possible”. Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for Nishad’s wife Ruby Devi, said her husband was killed in the violence but the police had refused to register an FIR till now. Instead, she and her family members were being threatened, she said. Salve promised to look into the matter. He said the deceased was also an accused in the FIR filed for the killing of the farmers. On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested two farmers over the retaliatory lynchings. Ashis and 12 associates had earlier been arrested in connection with the killing of farmers. Harshvir Pratap Sharma, counsel for the family of Kashyap, too demanded clarity about the investigations into the journalist’s death. The bench sought an additional status report and fixed the next hearing for November 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Congress accuses PM Narendra Modi of failing to fight corruption||The Congress on Tuesday said the RSS-BJP’s divisive agenda had put India’s constitutional democracy in peril, and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of failing to fight corruption. A meeting called by Sonia Gandhi to finalise details of a membership drive and a nationwide campaign to expose the Modi government’s divisive agenda and failures also discussed Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik’s allegations of corruption against Goa’s BJP government. Malik’s disclosures dominated the post-meeting briefing, with the Congress accusing Modi of patronising corruption. “When Malik, the then Goa governor, brought to the Prime Minister’s notice the rampant corruption in the government, Modi chose to shoot the messenger instead of removing his chief minister,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “The Prime Minister’s role is in question and we demand a thorough probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge.” Dinesh Gundurao, the Congress’s Goa minder, revived the “chowkidar chor hai (The watchman himself is a thief)” slogan that plays on Modi’s 2014 campaign pitch about being a watchman who would prevent theft. “The Prime Minister was aware that everything is on sale in Goa but he acted like a bhagidar (partner),” Gundurao said. Malik has been quoted as saying in an interview: “There was corruption in everything the Goa government did.... The Goa government’s plan for door-to-door distribution of ration was impractical. It was done on the insistence of a company that paid money to the government.... I investigated the matter and told the Prime Minister about it. “They enquired from the same people who were responsible for corruption….  Today, people are scared to speak the truth in the country.” Surjewala said: “A government involved in corrupt practices in the middle of a pandemic — is (that) what aapda mein awsar (opportunity in a crisis) means?” “The Prime Minister should answer why no action was initiated against the chief minister when the (then) governor informed him of corrupt deeds? When Malik (then Jammu and Kashmir governor) informed him about corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, he was transferred to Goa; when he informed him about the corruption in Goa, he was transferred to Meghalaya,” he added. Asked about the Trinamul Congress’s foray into Goa and its claim that it went ahead alone because the Congress was not serious about fighting the BJP, Surjewala said: “If any single party has consistently fought the RSS-BJP without any fear, without retracing any step, it is the Congress and Rahul Gandhi. Elections are not tourism; Trinamul fought even the last election in Goa and vanished.” “Is Trinamul providing firing cover to the BJP in Goa? Are they helping the BJP? What are they fighting for and who are they fighting? Are they fighting to create their own space?” he said. “We empathise with smaller parties who at times compromise when they get an ED notice. They get frightened and compromise. We have no complaints, we still support them. We know they are being unfairly targeted.” The Congress meeting of office-bearers kept its focus on the Modi government, targeting its divisive politics, failure to create jobs and attack on farmers as well as the economic slide. Sonia said: “We must fight the diabolical campaign of the BJP-RSS ideologically. We must do so with conviction and expose their lies before the people if we are to win this battle. “You must train our workers to take on the unceasing onslaught of malicious disinformation campaigns at the behest of the BJP-RSS. And you must train our people to fight it while upholding and projecting the core Congress ideology.” Both Sonia and Rahul stressed the importance of discipline and unity. “I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation,” Sonia said. “This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success.” Asking the party to stay united, Rahul tweeted after the meeting: “True Congressmen are each other’s strength, not weakness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Trinamul Congress defends Goa foray||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday tried to answer the Congress charge of breaking Opposition unity, saying it had taken the plunge in election-bound Goa because the Congress made no move over the past few months to rally non-BJP parties together. Trinamul’s high-voltage bid to try and become the main challenger to the BJP in Goa has upset the Congress, which was hoping to gain from anti-incumbency sentiments in next year’s Assembly elections. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa on Thursday, and the Trinamul drum roll for the elections has begun. Trinamul has focused its attention on Goa and Tripura, where it has not been a player at all, to try and remain part of the electoral narrative ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Tripura votes in 2023. The seemingly endless drift in the Congress and the reluctance of several regional parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the YSR Congress to work with the Grand Old Party have given Trinamul the hope of becoming the rallying point for the Opposition. Addressing the charge of weakening the efforts to build Opposition unity, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told journalists in Delhi that Mamata had met all senior non-BJP politicians during her July visit to Delhi. During the trip, Mamata had urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to take the lead in framing a common plan of action for a joint battle against the Modi-Shah duopoly in 2024, Roy added. “We waited for the Congress to take the initiative but it seems to us that the Congress party is busy with its internal issues. So we decided that we cannot wait indefinitely as five Assembly elections are round the corner,” Ray said. He stressed that every party has a right to expand its footprint across the country. Roy dismissed the charge against Trinamul of poaching from other parties on a day former Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev was sworn in as a Rajya Sabha member from Trinamul. “We are not poaching. Every individual has a right to join any party. When Kanhaiya Kumar left the CPI to join the Congress, was it poaching?” he retorted. On fears that Trinamul would divide the anti-BJP vote in Goa, Sushmita said: “It is a fact that the Congress and Trinamul contested against each other in the Bengal elections. We did not ask, ‘Why are you contesting against us?’” She added: “In Tripura and Bengal, the Congress is nothing but a signboard. Yet it contests elections in both states. We understand that in a democracy every party has to look for political space.” Sushmita said that in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year, Trinamul had shown that it can do fearless politics and that it’s a party ready to fight on the streets. Trinamul believes it can grow in Goa riding the 28 per cent minority vote, reckoning that the Congress has lost the perception battle with 10 of its MLAs crossing over to the BJP after the 2017 Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||School teacher sacked for Pakistan celebration post||A private school teacher in Rajasthan’s Udaipur was sacked and a case registered against her after she posted a celebratory WhatsApp status following Pakistan’s victory over India in their T20 World Cup match Sunday. Nafeesa Attari, a teacher at Neerja Modi School Udaipur, had put out a picture of Pakistani players with the caption, “Jeeeet gayeeee… We wonnn”. After screenshots of her status were shared on social media, the school management terminated her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Odisha: Congress workers demand immediate resignation of minister||Congress workers on Tuesday hurled tomatoes and eggs at policemen who tried to stop them from marching towards Naveen Niwas, the official residence of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, demanding the immediate resignation of minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged involvement in the murder of a woman schoolteacher in Kalahandi district. Party workers also staged a demonstration outside the office of the DGP in Cuttack demanding Mishra’s ouster. In Cuttack, Congress workers organised a rally demanding immediate ouster of the minister. The Congress also issued a deadline of 72 hours to take action against Mishra or face an intensified agitation. Mamita Meher, a teacher at Mahalinga in Kalahandi district, had gone missing on October 8. Her charred body was later recovered from a deep pit. The Opposition has alleged that Mishra, who also hails from Kalahandi district, used to patronise Govinda Sahu, the main accused who has been arrested. On Tuesday, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra announced that it would send a three-member team from Delhi to find out the reasons behind Mamita’s death and the minister’s involvement. The team would submit its report to BJP national president J.P. Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Crushed farmers’ ashes trigger anguish and anger in Odisha||Sachin Mohapatra’s hands trembled as he touched the urn containing the ashes of the four farmers who were crushed under the wheels of a Union minister’s car in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. “They died for our cause. Their killing was a shameless attempt to stifle the voice of the farmers protesting the controversial central farm laws. But we will not be cowed down by such threats,” said Sachin, a 32-year-old MBA graduate from Rohtak University who opted for farming after changing jobs. The urn had been brought to Bhubaneswar by members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s Odisha unit from Lakhimpur Kheri to be immersed in the Daya river on the outskirts of the Odisha capital. “Farmers are being exploited and this must come to an end,” Sachin said. The Morcha, leading the farm struggle against the Modi government, chose the Daya river for the immersion of the ashes, including those of a journalist who too was mowed down by the Thar jeep of Union junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, because of its symbolic value. “Here on the banks of the Daya river the great Kalinga war was fought between the people of Kalinga (Now Odisha) and King Ashoka, the emperor of Magadha. Here we pledge to wage a war against the Modi government as long as we are alive. Either we will win or we will be finished,” said social activist Mahendra Parida Mishra’s son Ashis has been arrested against the backdrop of the charge that he was in the Thar when it ran the farmers and the journalist over on October 3. When the urn covered in red cloth reached the farmers’ protest site on Tuesday at the Master Canteen Square near the Odisha Assembly, there was a rush to touch it. “You see the anger of the people. Our interests have been ignored by the Modi government,” Sachin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Greenhouse gas emissions will fall by only 7.5% by 2030: UN||The world’s greenhouse gas emissions will fall by only 7.5 per cent by 2030 under currently pledged national emission-lowering actions, instead of 30 per cent required to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius, a United Nations agency said on Tuesday. Updated nationally determined contributions (NDCs) — voluntary pledges by countries under the 2015 Paris climate agreement — up to 2030 will place the world on track for a global temperature rise of 2.7°C, the UN Environment Programme said in its annual emissions gap report. The report also said India is among the several other group of 20 (G20) countries — Argentina, Brazil, China, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Saudi Arabia — which are expected to release more Earth-warming emissions during 2030 than they did in 2010. Scientists have warned for years that the Earth is already experiencing the impacts of global warming such as unprecedented heat waves, extreme weather events, fiercer storms. But the global temperature rise would need to be capped below 2°C to avert even more devastating impacts resulting from large sea level rises and mass melting of glacial ice. The UNEP report — released ahead of a UN climate conference that starts on October 31 in Glasgow, UK — said global emission reductions of 30 per cent by 2030 are needed to cap global warming at 2°C and 55 per cent to keep the temperature rise within 1.5°C. “We have eight years to almost halve greenhouse gas emissions to stand a chance of limiting global warming to 1.5°C,” Inger Anderson, executive director of the UNEP, said in a media release. “Eight years to make plans, put in place policies, implement them and deliver the cuts.” The UNEP said G20 members as a group are not on track to achieve their original or new 2030 pledges. But India is among 10 G20 members (Argentina, China, EU, India, Japan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey and the UK) likely to achieve their original NDC targets under current policies. Among these countries, India, Russia and Turkey are projected to reduce their emissions to levels at least 15 per cent lower than their previous unconditional NCD emission targets, the report said. India in its original NDC had pledged to increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary electricity production to 40 per cent and reduce its emissions per gross domestic product by 33 to 35 per cent by 2030 from its 2005 levels. The per capita emissions vary significantly across G20 countries. India’s per capita emissions are about half the G20 average, while Saudi Arabia’s is three times higher. India has during climate change negotiations consistently asserted that while New Delhi would pursue domestic actions to curb emissions, the developed countries need to accelerate their own actions and support developing nations with finance and technology for clean energy. The UNEP’s Anderson acknowledged that position on Tuesday saying developing countries need financial and technological support to enable them “to adapt to the impacts of climate change and set out on a low-emissions growth path”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Search for IIT Bhubaneswar director starts afresh||The government has cancelled the process of appointing a regular director for IIT Bhubaneswar after shortlisting names over a year ago, not citing any reason for the continued delay in making the recruitment. The Union education ministry on Tuesday uploaded on its website a fresh advertisement inviting applications for the post of IIT Bhubaneswar director by December 10. The ministry of education had issued ads for the posts of director for the IITs at Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Patna (Bihar) and Ropar (Punjab) together in November 2019. A panel headed by then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had conducted interviews for the three institutions on July 14, 2020, through video-conferencing. The IIT Council headed by the Union education minister appointed the director of IIT Ropar this January after approval from the Visitor, the President of India. Last month, the council appointed Prof. T.N. Singh, a faculty member from IIT Bombay, as director of IIT Patna. But IIT Bhubaneswar’s wait for a regular director has only got prolonged. The five-year tenure of the incumbent, Prof. R.V. Rajakumar, ended in April 2020. He has been functioning as in-charge director for the past 18 months. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry asking why the appointment process had been cancelled but received no response till late on Tuesday night. “The cancellation of the appointment process at IIT Bhubaneswar after a delay of over a year is a record in itself. As a matter of practice, the appointment process is started six months prior to the end of the incumbent director’s tenure with the objective of completing it within the intervening period,” said an IIT Delhi faculty member. Even if the process is fast-tracked, the duration can be three-four months. “It seems an institution of national importance like IIT Bhubaneswar will remain without a regular director for at least two years,” the teacher said, preferring anonymity. The absence of a regular vice-chancellor at a university or a director at an IIT affects the functioning of the institution. Prof. Rajen Harshe, former VC of Allahabad University, said an in-charge VC or director rarely takes any policy decision or recruits permanent faculty. “The institution suffers on mainly two counts. The in-charge VC or director neither pushes any policy issue nor recruits any faculty or non-teaching staff. The longer the post remains vacant, the institution’s functioning gets more and more affected,” Harshe said. An education ministry official claimed files for such recruitments are unofficially sent to the Prime Minister’s Office under the current dispensation. After a green signal, the names are sent to the Visitor, the official claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
