28-10-2021||India||Punjab: BJP reveals its poll strategy post-Akali Dal alliance||Warming to the 2022 state assembly elections, the BJP on Thursday sprung its poll slogan of “Nava Punjab Naal BJP”, saying the party will field candidates on all 117 assembly seats in the state and give due recognition to every section of the society. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat made a mention of his party's new poll slogan -- Nava Punjab Naal BJP (A new Punjab with the BJP) -- while talking to reporters about the BJP's poll strategy bereft of the SAD alliance on the sidelines of a meeting with party's district-level office bearers in Chandigarh. Besides Jal Shakti Minister Mr Shekhawat, who is also the party affairs in-charge of the BJP's Punjab unit, the meeting was also attended by Union ministers Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi, both co-incharge of the party affairs in the state. Dubbing opposition parties Congress, SAD and APP as "totally bereft of any vision to lead the state to prosperity", Mr Shekhawat said, “Punjabis are dissatisfied with the miserable performance of these parties which will be routed at the hustings.” Elaborating upon various measures taken by the Narendra Modi government in the Centre in the last seven years, Mr Shekhawat said the BJP delivered justice to the Sikhs after 35 years against the injustice meted out to them in the 1984 riots. Among other pro-Sikh steps taken by the Modi government, Mr Shekhawat recalled scrapping of the “black list” of expatriate Sikhs, the opening of the Kartarpur corridor after the partition and the abolition of GST on the ‘langar' at Harminder Sahib. Among yet other achievements of the NDA government, Mr Shekhawat listed the establishment of AIIMS at Bathinda and Amritsar, besides PGI satellite centres at Sangrur and Ferozepur. "We do deliver and not merely promise,” he said while expressing the party resolve to contest all 117 Punjab assembly seats in the upcoming assembly elections in 2022 without any alliance with SAD which walked out of the NDA amid the farmers' protest against the three central farm laws early this year. “We will go to the people with an outlined agenda of bringing prosperity and opportunity for everyone and commit that the mafia raj will be wiped out in the state," he said. On the issue of farmers' protests against the farm laws, the Union Jal Shakti Minister said already 11 rounds of talks have been held so far with farm unions and the government took the extra step of stalling the laws for 18 months. "Our initiative to address the issue can never be doubted. Our doors are always open for talks," he said. Speaking on the issue of the enlargement of the BSF's territorial jurisdiction up to 50 km inside Punjab from the international Indo-Pak border, Mr Shekhawat said the national security can never be compromised. The incidents of drug smuggling and drones carrying weapons inside Punjab had increased manifold, prompting former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to raise this pertinent issue with Home Minister Amit Shah repeatedly. Present Chief Minister Charanjit Channi too had recently met the Home Minister and brought up this issue but stepped back owing to political pressure, he said. This November 8 assembly session is nothing but a strategy to divert people's attention from the main issue of good governance, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Cruelty hollowing our country: Rahul Gandhi ||"Annadatas" (food providers) have been "crushed" and this cruelty is "hollowing out our country", said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday following the death of three women farmers after being hit by a truck near Haryana's Tikri border. Two women were also injured in the incident early on Thursday as they were waiting at Pakoda chowk for an autorickshaw to go to Bahadurgarh railway station. They were returning to their village in Punjab's Mansa district after participating in the farmers' protest at the Tikri border against the Centre's agri laws. "Mother India -- annadatas of the country (the food provider of the country) -- have been crushed. This cruelty and hatred are hollowing out our country. My condolences," Mr Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag "FarmersProtest". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the BJP over the alleged problems being faced by the farmers. "There is no proper price for the crop when the farmer grows it by working hard. There is no fertilizer when the farmers prepare to grow the crop. Two farmers of Bundelkhand have died due to non-availability of fertilizers," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. She alleged that the BJP government has been unmoved by the problems of farmers and there was an "anti-farmer" attitude in both its intention and policy. Priyanka Gandhi also tagged with the tweet a video of a woman expressing problems faced by her in getting fertilizer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Amarinder-Shah meeting over farm laws postponed||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the farm laws was postponed on Thursday. The meeting between both leaders could not take place as Shah was to leave for Gujarat, said a source close to the former Punjab CM. Singh was supposed to meet the Union home minister to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers' stir against the Centre's three farm laws. The former CM on Wednesday had said he will be meeting Shah along with some agricultural experts. "Tomorrow, I am going to meet Home Minister Shah and 25-30 people will go with me," Singh had said while addressing the media here. Singh had said he had met the Union home minister thrice in the past on farmers' issues. Singh, who had faced an unceremonious exit from the state government, had said any seat arrangement that he might make with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be subject to the resolution of the farmers' issue in their interest. Singh had earlier also met Shah in Delhi and had discussed the prolonged farmers' stir with him while urging him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the three farm laws. A large number of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been camping at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Kashmiri students held for celebrating Pak victory booked for sedition||Three Kashmiri students arrested in Agra for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans were on Thursday booked for sedition, Uttar Pradesh Police officials said. The three students, two of them aged 20 and one 21, were also remanded in 14-day judicial custody by an Agra court, the officials said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier in the day had said the sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. "The three students were arrested on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station. They were accused of raising pro-Pakistan slogans in the wake of an India-Pakistan T20 cricket match and posting celebratory messages on social media after Pakistan's victory," a police official told PTI. On Friday, they were produced in a magistrate's court in Agra, which remanded them in 14-day judicial custody, the official said. "The FIR was initially registered under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (creating or publishing content to promote enmity). Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC was included on Friday in the case," the police official said. The trio studies in a private college in Agra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Picture not over yet, says Nawab Malik to Sameer Wankhede||After the Bombay High Court granted bail to Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in the cruise drugs case, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday continued to target NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, saying the picture is not over yet. Tweeting in Hindi, Malik said, "Picture abhi baaki hai (The picture is not over yet)." The HC granted bail to Aryan Khan and his two co-accused over three weeks after their arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by the anti-drugs agency on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Malik, the state minority affairs minister, has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and using forged documents to secure job. In a video message circulated to media on Thursday, Malik said, "The officer (Wankhede) who arrested Aryan Khan and others has now approached the Bombay High Court requesting a restraining order against Mumbai police from arresting him. He had approached Mumbai police in the last week requesting protection. He must have done something really wrong and that is why he is afraid of action against him." "The Mumbai police have informed the Bombay High Court that they would issue a notice of his arrest 72 hours prior if they intend to take any such action. I reiterate my earlier comments that this drug case is completely bogus. The kids were deliberately framed in this case," Malik said. "If the case comes before the Bombay High Court, it will get squashed," the minister added. Two other persons arrested in the case were granted bail a day before by the NDPS court, Malik said, alleging that all the arrested persons were eligible to get bail in this case, but the NCB prosecutor was making fresh claims in the case to delay the bail. Wankhede filed a petition in the high court and sought an urgent hearing, saying he feared arrest by police over allegations of extortion against him in the case related to alleged drug bust on a cruise ship. But the Mumbai Police assured the HC that it will not arrest Wankhede without giving him three days' notice. Earlier, the NCP leader had levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and use of forged documents to secure job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Centre releases Rs 1.59 lakh cr to states fiscal as back-to-back loan for GST shortfall||The Centre on Thursday released the balance Rs 44,000 crore to states as loan to compensate for the GST shortfall, taking the total such amount to Rs 1.59 lakh crore this fiscal. This release of funds as back-to-back loans is in addition to the bi-monthly GST compensation being given out of cess collection. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021, had decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and UTs with legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the shortfall in compensation on account of inadequate amount collected in the GST compensation fund. This amount is as per the principles adopted for a similar facility in the last fiscal 2020-21, where Rs 1.10 lakh crore was released to states. "The Ministry of Finance has released Rs 44,000 crore today to the States and UTs with Legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST Compensation," the ministry said in a statement. The ministry had on July 15 and October 7 released Rs 75,000 crore and Rs 40,000 crore, respectively, to the states. With the release of Rs 44,000 crore on Thursday, the total amount released in the current financial year as back-to-back loan in-lieu of GST compensation is Rs 1.59 lakh crore, the statement added. This amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore is over and above the compensation in excess of Rs 1 lakh crore (based on cess collection) that is estimated to be released to states/union territories with legislature during this financial year. "The sum total of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the ministry added. The Rs 44,000 crore being released now is funded from the Government of India securities issued in the current financial year, at a Weighted Average Yield of 5.69 per cent. No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release. "It is expected that this release will help the States/UTs in planning their public expenditure among other things, for improving, health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Aryan Khan granted bail after three weeks||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was on Thursday granted bail by the Bombay High Court, 25 days after his arrest by the NCB in the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month, a drugs bust that triggered a series of controversies and put the central agency and its officials under the spotlight. However, Aryan Khan is not likely to walk out of the Arthur Road jail, where he is currently lodged under judicial custody, immediately as the court is yet to give its operative order on the conditions imposed while granting bail. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre also granted bail to his co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. "All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening," Justice Sambre said even as Aryan Khan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan Khan's advocates then sought permission to submit cash bail to which the court refused and said surety is to be given. Hearing on their bail applications started on Tuesday. "I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today," Justice Sambre said. The legal team of the 23-year-old Aryan Khan will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday. Justice Sambre said he would pass a detailed order assigning reasons later. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), commenced his arguments at 2.58 pm and completed the same a little after 4.10 pm. After the NCB, Rohatgi, a former Attorney General, started his rejoinder arguments which went on for about 15 minutes. His arguments were cut short abruptly by Justice Sambre, who tossed the case related papers towards his staff and said, "All three applications are allowed." This led to a scramble in the courtroom among media persons and lawyers to exit the room. While hearing the NCB's arguments, Justice Sambre sought to know on what basis the anti-drug agency was saying that Aryan Khan had dealt with commercial quantity of drugs. To this, Singh said Aryan Khan had made an attempt to deal with commercial quantity. "WhatsApp chats show this. The NCB has also obtained a certificate under section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act to authenticate that the electronic evidence has been collected from the accused's phone," he said. Singh argued that the NCB had got "secret information" that around 11 persons were going to consume drugs on the cruise, which was raided by the central agency on October 2. "At the time of raid, out of the 11 persons, eight were apprehended and most of them were found with drugs. This cannot be a coincidence. This is why the NCB is saying it is a conspiracy," Singh said. The court then asked if the NCB's case is that of cumulative effect. Singh agreed and said, "Aryan Khan and Merchant are connected with drug peddlers and hence cumulative effect attracts section 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act." Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and Dhamecha, a fashion model, were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. The NCB opposed their bail pleas and argued that the case attracted conspiracy and abetment charges. Aryan Khan's counsel Rohatgi, however, said conspiracy means there has to be a "meeting of minds". "Aryan does not know any of the other accused in the case except Arbaaz Merchant. There is absolutely no material to show conspiracy," Rohatgi argued. So far, 20 persons have been arrested in the drugs case. Singh argued that Aryan Khan and Merchant are habitual consumers of drugs. "Our record shows that Aryan Khan has been procuring drugs in bulk and commercial quantities. These are hard drugs. He (Aryan) has been in contact with drug peddlers," the ASG argued. "There is a chance of tampering with evidence or witnesses in the case. This is NCB's apprehension based on the affidavit filed by one independent witness in the case," Singh said. He further opposed Aryan Khan's arguments that there was no drug recovery from him and said there was conscious possession as he was aware that Merchant was carrying charas which was meant to be for consumption during journey on the Goa-bound cruise ship. Singh also said there was no need for the NCB to conduct a medical test on the accused to check for drugs as the agency's case is not that they had consumed drugs. "Why should the NCB test when we know that they have been caught for possession and conspiracy? The drugs were meant to be consumed later," he said. The ASG said sections 28 and 29 (of NDPS Act) for abetment and conspiracy have been applied in the case based on the material available with the NCB which include WhatsApp chats. Singh added that probe in the case was still on and the agency needs time to ascertain from where the seized drugs were procured. The ASG assailed the arguments made by Aryan Khan and Merchant's lawyers on Wednesday that till date the charges of abetment and conspiracy have not been invoked in the case. "The NCB's first remand application that was submitted to the magistrate's court on October 3, four hours after the accused persons arrest, and the other remand applications clearly say sections 28 and 29 have been applied in the case," Singh said. "The arrest memo also says that the accused (Aryan Khan) has been arrested in connection with commercial quantity. This means conspiracy. So it is not right to say that the accused was not aware of inclusion of sections 28 and 29," he added. If there had been any error then the magistrate would have noted it while hearing the remand plea, the NCB counsel argued. "If the accused are now claiming their arrest is illegal then why have they not challenged the magistrate's order remanding them to NCB custody," the ASG said. In a lighter vein, Singh said the accused persons ought not to have tried to do all this on October 2, which is considered a dry day owing to Gandhi Jayanti. "Drug menace is a serious problem in our society. It is a heinous crime that is worse than culpable homicide and hence has to be dealt with accordingly," Singh said. The drugs-on-cruise case triggered a slew of controversies related to the NCB and its officials, especially its zonal director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede, who faced charges of extortion attempt to let off Aryan Khan. The central agency and Wankhede, who led the raid on the cruise vessel, have refuted all allegations levelled against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||BJP won't go anywhere for next many decades, says Prashant Kishor||Political strategist Prashant Kishor, who is currently lobbying for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the upcoming Goa Assembly elections, has said that the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics and will not go anywhere for the "next many decades". He also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for thinking that people will throw away the BJP immediately. A video clip of Kishor addressing a private meeting in Goa has gone viral. A senior leader of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), a group led by Kishor, confirmed that the video was from a private meeting held on Wednesday in the state. In the video, Kishor is heard saying, "BJP is going to be the centre of Indian polity...whether they win, whether they lose, like it was for the first 40 years for Congress, BJP is going nowhere." "Once you secure 30 per cent plus votes at the India-level, you are not going away in a hurry. So, do not ever get into this trap that people are getting angry and they will throw away (PM Narendra) Modi," he added. "Maybe, they will throw away Modi, but BJP is not going anywhere. They are going to be here, you have to fight it out for the next many decades. It's not going in a hurry," Kishor said. Referring to Rahul Gandhi, he said, "That is where the problem lies with Rahul Gandhi. Probably, he thinks it's just a matter of time that people will throw him (Modi) away. That's not happening." Kishor had helped craft the election strategies for the TMC and the DMK in the Assembly polls in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, respectively, held earlier this year. These parties had emerged victorious in those states. The TMC has announced that it would be contesting the Assembly elections in Goa due in February next year. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to begin her three-day visit to Goa from this evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||NCB accuses Aryan Khan of being a regular consumer of drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday accused Aryan Khan of regularly consuming drugs and said his WhatsApp chats point at the procuring of "hard drugs" in commercial quantity, according to NDTV. The anti-drug agency argued against bail for superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son, saying bail in such cases is "an exception, not a rule", as the Supreme Court called drugs offences "worse than culpable homicide". "Accused number 1 (Aryan Khan) is not a first-time consumer," the anti-drug agency was quoted as saying by NDTV on Day 3 of arguments in the bail plea hearing that started on Tuesday. "He is a regular consumer since last few years and he has been procuring drugs," Anil Singh, the Additional Solicitor General, said on behalf of the NCB. "There is a reference of procuring drugs in commercial quantity and the drugs are hard drugs. He has been in contact with peddlers," Singh said. He pointed out that Aryan Khan was detained on October 2. "I was saying at least on Gandhi Jayanti you should have left these things," he remarked. Referring to the chart of arrest submitted by the defence, the Additional Solicitor General added: "It's a colourful chart. The party was colourful on that day." When the judge asked on what basis the agency had found him dealing in a "commercial quantity", the NCB referred to his WhatsApp chats. "WhatsApp chat I am relying on will show he had made an attempt to deal with commercial quantity. Not only that, when they were apprehended on the ship, multiple drugs were found with all eight. It cannot be a coincidence. If you see the quantity and nature of drugs it cannot be a coincidence," Mr Singh said. According to him, Ecstasy has been found in commercial quantity and there was a variety of drugs. "It cannot be said that these drugs were for personal consumption." He said the NCB had received a tip-off based on a secret note that said 11 or 12 persons would be on the ship and eight were caught. Aryan Khan has been in custody since October 3, hours after NCB raids on a cruise ship party. He has been in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail since October 8 and has been denied bail twice. His lawyers, including former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, have repeatedly underscored that no drugs were found on him and there was no evidence he had used drugs. In a counter to that argument, the anti-drugs agency said: "Even if he is not found in possession of the drug, there was an attempt to deal with commercial quantity and prima facie records show he is a part of conspiracy for commercial quantity." The agency also doubled down on its argument of "conscious possession" by Aryan Khan - even if he was not carrying drugs - because he knew that his friend Arbaaz Khan (Accused Number 2) had hidden charas in his shoes. This was cited by a special court that denied him bail last week. "We have argued for the principle of conscious possession. If one person is aware that the other person is carrying drugs and they are going to consume it together, it will be conscious possession," said the agency, adding that the two were childhood friends and were to stay in the same room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Parin Majithia’s YourHomes is the Hub of Innovative and Creative Creations||Every human being dreams of a place to call his own. However, in today’s scenario, building a home is not as easy as it sounds. People have to go through immense challenges and struggles before they can even start building their homes. So, by the time they go through the entire process, they are too tired to enjoy their new home. The problem does not exist for building homes only, but any construction today is a big challenge for individuals and companies. YourHomes is an architectural and interior design consultancy firm that aims to build your dream home with aesthetically pleasing and dynamically functional elements. Parin Majithia’s YourHomes is a Mumbai-based company recognized for its architectural marvels and astounding interior designs. The organization is full of professionals and experts who are budding with innovative ideas and creative designs. They, then, cater their services to the clients according to their requirements. Moreover, they are known for their unbiased opinions and services towards their clients. The team does not just do its job but also dedicate their time and energy to finding the design that best works for you and bringing it into life. According to their clients, they do not just build functional structures but also add emotional value to their creations which makes a long-lasting impact on the receivers. YourHomes believes that their growth is directly proportional to customer satisfaction. If the customer is content, that is considered a major success by the company. Parin Majithia is a successful architect, designer and an entrepreneur. From the establishment of YourHomes to this day, he has been continuously striving hard to take the company to great heights. His years of experience and expertise in the field are easily visible through his immaculate and impressive projects done for many famous and known personalities and businesses. He says that his success is a reward of years of hard work, devotion, and sacrifices. He spent hours to achieve perfection and reach the peak of his career. His message to the upcoming architectures and interior designers is to treat each project as if building for themselves, with utmost care and respect. Then, it is unlikely for them to make silly mistakes. In addition, it will help them come up with new ideas to make it different from others while winning the heart of the client and achieve success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Vinay Sharma is an incredible talent-boosting the Photography industry||What is significant for a person is to create out of nothing with his or her optimistic belief system. Vinay Sharma is an exclusive personality who has thrilled his fans with his outstanding photographs. It is truly said says Vinay "make your destiny rather than blaming it". Vinay has been emerging as the best fashion, celebrity, and paparazzi photographer in B-Town. The main factor of his victory is his talent of capturing emotions and moods in the photos giving life to the picture. This is what has inspired several famous celebrities to engross themselves with the young talent that Vinay possesses. What makes him dive into the ocean of photographing industry is his passion as he was always curious about the clicks. He always believed in clicks that admire the beauty with the natural look. However, his innovative techniques have sparked the celebrities' personalities. "No success is without thorns," says Vinay. He was also a struggler but with his optimistic approach and self-belief, he has astonished people. Moreover, he adds that if you are willing to transform the world you have to be always ready to experiment with new innovative ideas. He says "Success is fake without hassles" you have no value of your success unless you run the path filled with stones. Vinay trusting his passion bought an ordinary camera and with some cheap lights use to click. However, the cheap lights have no power to stop the burning talent of Vinay. He came out with new ideas and techniques which enhanced his pictures with miraculous results. Hence, these marvelous talents added more followers to his social media platform. Vinay is surprising his viewers with magical pictures that could deliver celebrities' emotions and feelings. To know more about his glittering work follow him on Instagram @vinaysharma||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Kunal Devani's meteoric rise with Waffle Affairs makes him a noteworthy success story||Having a strong self-belief and the "hunger" to get to the next level of success helps individuals face all odds on their path and helps them get moving ahead on their respective journeys towards success, believes Kunal Devani, a young entrepreneur, who has been shining bright consistently in the food and beverage industry with his extensive restaurant business that he has been spreading across Delhi, India. He believes that having the right mindset can help people tread on their path fearlessly and make them more determined each day as they take a step closer to their visions and aspirations in life. Kunal Devani highlights how he placed maximum focus on developing the right mindset, which eventually led him to the success he enjoys today as the owner of "Waffle Affairs" (Instagram - @waffleaffairs), a dessert shop and quick-service restaurant, serving food lovers outstandingly with mouth-watering food items. With Waffle Affairs, Kunal Devani entered the ever-evolving, competitive restaurant and food sector, but one thing that he was confident about was his determined efforts and his visions which he believed he could turn into reality. Today, it won't be wrong to say that he is living his reality and also finding ways to further grow his career as a young foodpreneur of Delhi. Waffle Affairs has become one of the most favourite food outlets in the city, known for helping people fill their souls with its flavoursome food items and luscious desserts. "The entrepreneurial world is not an easy space to be in. Getting up every day, planning things out, managing teams and staff, and taking care of other necessary departments can all seem very intimidating. However, I only kept going forward without thinking much of how others were doing in the business. This stern focus on me and my work helped me hone my skills, and turn my restaurants into successful ventures," says Kunal Devani, who not only owns Waffle Affairs but also other food ventures like "The Second Affair", Showstopper, SkyNest, the terrace café and Lean Kitchen, a fitness food takeaway outlet. "GK Hospitality" is also his brainchild, which takes care of the interiors of offices and cafes. Kunal Devani's massive contribution to the industry was also recognized with the "Public Choice Awards". Find out more through his Instagram @kunal_devani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Won't arrest Sameer Wankhede without giving prior notice, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it will not arrest NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede without giving him a prior notice of three working days, in connection with the allegations of extortion and corruption levelled against him. Wankhede also moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking interim protection from arrest or any coercive action against him. He sought an urgent hearing of his plea challenging the Mumbai police's decision to form a four-member team to investigate the allegations of extortion and corruption against him, in the aftermath of the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The Maharashtra government initially opposed the plea but subsequently, chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai assured the court that it will give prior notice of arrest to Wankhede. "We assure the court that three working days' notice will be given (to Wankhede) before arresting by Mumbai Police," Pai said. The HC disposed of the plea following the state government's statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Five arrested in Uttar Pradesh for celebrating Pakistan's victory against India||Five people have been taken into custody on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's victory in the T20 World Cup match against India, according to police. They were also accused of using indecent words against the Indian cricket team. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T-20 World Cup match. "Those celebrating Pakistan's victory will face sedition," a tweet posted on the official handle of Adityanath's office said. A man from Budaun was arrested in a sedition case on Wednesday, Senior Superintendent of Police OP Singh said. Niaz had posted the picture of Pakistani flag and wrote objectionable comments in support of Pakistan on Facebook after the match, according to a complaint filed against him by Punit Shakya of Hindu Jagran Manch. The SSP said Niaz posted a picture of Pakistan's flag on his Facebook account and captioned, "I love you Pakistan, I miss you Pakistan, Jeet Mubarak Pakistan". Niaz was booked for sedition and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act on Tuesday and sent to jail on Wednesday, the officer said. Pakistan on Sunday had drubbed India by 10 wickets in a Super 12 game for their first win in 13 attempts over their arch-rivals India in a World Cup match.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Siby Varghese the multi-entrepreneur astounding the world||Victory only leads if you are a glowing ball of passion and stubborn says, Siby Varghese. A dynamic and enthusiastic personality who has radiated the several businesses with his dazzling skills of the entrepreneur. Siby has several sources of income, including his practice in financial planning, forex trading, blogging, income investment, and his online courses in this business segment for the next generation, shining their glorious future with his guide and advice. Siby as always keen and excited to try his chance in multiplying his revenue has taken him to the next level. His optimistic approach and courage in taking risks have stood him apart from others. He always believed in investing to escalate his income. He believed to expand his income through savings and investing inspiring others to give chance to their ability and start their own business. He does not believe in relying upon one income. He says "Money grows by watering" thus taking risks and trusting the ability will definitely lead to unbeatable success. Siby believes if you want to live a healthy and wealthy life start earning at a young age because failing and improving takes time. Thus, making money and multiplying is what leads you to a fascinating world of peace. Moreover, as having experience in long-term investment, he believed that to gain high profits it is significant that you reap seeds in long-term investment. As a successful entrepreneur, he has invested and has upsurged his income through various sources and has become one of the best serial entrepreneurs in the world. It is only his dedication and stubborn personality that has sparked his future motivating other entrepreneurs to believe and work hard to gulp the victory fruit. His entrepreneur journey has encouraged several youths to try their luck in the field that they are confident in and multiply their income through several investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||32 students in Karnataka school test positive for Covid||In the latest scare amid the falling coronavirus numbers, thirty-two students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Karnataka’s Kodagu district, have tested positive for the virus. 22 boys and 10 girls, all students of classes between 9 to 12, are being treated at the district hospital, NDTV reported. The majority of the students are asymptomatic, with 10 students showing some symptoms. A staff member of the school has also tested positive and remains symptomatic. “Their condition is improving; there is nothing to worry about. The entire campus has been sanitised and other precautionary measures are being taken. The interaction between students and teachers is going on though it has affected the smooth functioning of the school," The school’s Principal, Pankajashan, was quoted as saying in the NDTV report. All 270 of the total students in the school have now been made to undergo the covid test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Govt seeks details of processes used by Facebook amid hate speech allegations: Sources||The government has written to Facebook seeking details of the algorithms and processes used by the social media giant, following allegations that the platform failed to check the spread of fake news and hate speech, sources said. The move assumes significance as a series of reports recently citing internal documents showed "a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence" in India - Facebook's biggest market with over 40 crore users. Researchers at the social media giant had pointed out that there are groups and pages replete with inflammatory and misleading content on its platform, as per US media reports. According to sources privy to the development, the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has written to Facebook asking for information around the algorithms and processes used by the platform. The government has also asked Facebook to provide details of steps taken to safeguard users, they added. When contacted, Facebook declined to comment. As per data cited by the Indian government earlier this year, there are 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers and 21 crore Instagram account holders. It is pertinent to mention here that India enforced new IT intermediary rules earlier this year, aiming to bring greater accountability for big tech companies, including Twitter and Facebook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede's sister files police complaint against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik||Yasmeen Wankhede, the sister of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has filed a police complaint here seeking registration of an FIR against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for allegedly defaming her, an official said on Thursday. Sameer Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. In her two-page complaint submitted to the Oshiwara police here, Yasmeen Wankhede claimed her family was being targeted on social media and that Malik had also called their family trip to Maldives as a "vasooli (extortion) trip", the official said. She alleged that Malik was trying to defame her and her family members. She also claimed that she was being stalked online and the minister was illegally distributing to media persons her personal photographs posted on her social media handles like Instagram and Facebook, according to the complaint filed recently. An official from the Oshiwara police station said they received a written complaint from Yasmeen Wankhede last week, but no FIR has been registered so far. Yasmeen Wankhede also filed a complaint with the National Commission for Women (NCW) and requested it to direct the police to register a case for the alleged offences of stalking, defamation, criminal intimidation and insulting a woman's modesty, as well as relevant sections of the Information Technology Act for violating her privacy and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and forging documents to secure jobs. The NCB official has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||SC permits NTA to declare results of NEET, 2021 for admissions in UG medical courses||The Supreme Court on Thursday permitted the National Testing Agency to declare the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) results for admission to undergraduate medical courses across the country. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai stayed the Bombay High Court's recent order asking the NTA not to declare the NEET results and conduct re-examination for two aspirants whose question papers and OMR sheets had got mixed up at a centre in Maharashtra. "We stay the high court judgement. The National Testing Agency can announce the results," the bench said after taking note of the submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the NTA. "We will decide what happens to the two students upon reopening (after Diwali vacation). In the meanwhile, we issue notice and file a counter. But we cannot hold the results of 16 lakh students," the bench said. In an unprecedented order, the Bombay High Court on October 20 directed the NTA, set up in 2018 for conducting NEET for admission to undergraduate medical courses, to hold fresh exams for the two students and declare their results along with the main results of the test conducted on September 12. The high court had taken note of the fact that the test booklet and OMR sheet of two medical aspirants -- Vaishanavi Bhopali and Abhishek Shivaji got mixed up at the examination centre before the start of the test and ordered that they be given a fresh opportunity to appear. The NEET Entrance Exam was conducted on September 12, for "16,14,777 candidates, involving 3,682 centres in 202 cities, 9,548 Centre Superintendents/ Deputy Superintendents, 5,615 Observers, 2,69,378 Invigilators and 220 City Co-ordinators," the NTA said in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 243 days||With 16,156 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,31,809, while the active cases declined to 1,60,989, the lowest in 243 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,56,386 with 733 fresh fatalities including 622 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of the 622 deaths in Kerala, 93 were reported in the last few days, 330 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 199 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said. The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 34 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 123 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it said. A decrease of 1,672 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to the ICMR, 12,90,900 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 60,44,98,405. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 24 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 34 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,14,434, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 104.04 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,56,386 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,098 from Maharashtra, 38,037 from Karnataka, 36,060 from Tamil Nadu, 29,977 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,096 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||NCB witness in cruise drugs case held in Pune in 2018 cheating case||Pune police have detained Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs-on-cruise case, in connection with a 2018 cheating case registered against him here in Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. Gosavi, said to be a "private investigator" whose photos and videos with actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan went viral on social media after the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2, had been absconding. Recently, another witness in the drugs case, Prabhakar Sail, told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 2 raid on the cruise ship, about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". On Monday, Gosavi had refuted the extortion claims made by Sail, and said he will surrender before Lucknow police. Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta on Thursday said they have "detained" Gosavi in connection with the 2018 cheating case. The official denied that Gosavi had surrendered before the police. Gosavi was apparently present during the cruise ship raid and was seen at the NCB office when Aryan Khan was taken there. His selfies and videos with Aryan Khan have appeared on social media. Gosavi has been called an "independent witness" by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drugs case in which nearly 20 people were arrested. The Pune police had earlier arrested Gosavi's assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case, filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh who had alleged that Gosavi cheated him of Rs 3.09 lakh under the pretext of providing him a job in Malaysia in the hotel industry. Kureshi had received the money in her account. The case was registered at Faraskhana police station here.Earlier, a lookout circular was also issued by the police to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Sitharaman to attend G-20 joint finance, health ministers meet in Rome||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will attend the G-20 joint Finance and Health Ministers meeting in Rome on October 29, which among other things will discuss COVID pandemic prevention and response. Union Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman embarks on an official visit to attend #G20 Joint Finance & Health Ministers meeting in #Rome to discuss measures to strengthen #COVID19 #PandemicPrevention, #preparedness & #response. The meeting precedes #G20RomeSummit, the Finance Ministry tweeted. Finance and health ministers will discuss how to keep momentum on response to pandemic and build on further coordination arrangements between health and finance ministries. On October 29, G20 Finance and Health Ministers will gather in Rome for their first joint meeting under the Italian G20 Presidency. The meeting will be co-chaired by Daniele Franco, Italian Minister of Economy and Finance and Roberto Speranza, Italian Minister of Health. The meeting will be held on the eve of the G20 Leaders' Summit taking place in Rome on October 30-31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus: SC constitutes panel to look into snooping allegations||The State would not get a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised, the Supreme Court declared on Wednesday and constituted a committee headed by a former judge to look into all the questions swirling around the Pegasus spyware controversy that the Narendra Modi government has been stonewalling. Former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran will head the six-member committee that includes technical experts. The panel has been preliminarily given two months to submit its report to the court. The terms of reference cover questions such as whether the Centre or any state government had acquired the Israeli spyware that can be bought only by State-run agencies. The committee has also been asked to collect details of any victims affected by the spyware attack. In July, information revealed by a media collective that included The Wire news portal and The Guardian newspaper suggested that the list of potential Indian targets covered citizens in every sphere that is expected to act as a check and balance in a democracy. Judges, politicians, journalists, social activists and industrialists were on the potential list. Citing national security, the Modi government had so far not even acknowledged whether it had indeed access to Pegasus or not. On Wednesday, a bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli rejected the Centre’s sustained argument that the government can neither admit nor deny the snooping charges in national interest. The court pointed out that “national security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from by virtue of its mere mentioning”. The CJI said the “mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the court a mute spectator”. “If the respondent — the Union of India — had made their stand clear, it would have been a different situation and the burden on us would have been different. Such a course of action taken by the respondent — the Union of India — especially in proceedings of the present nature which touches upon the fundamental rights of the citizens of the country cannot be accepted,” the top court said. The bench said it was a settled position of law that in matters pertaining to national security, the scope of judicial review was limited. “However, this does not mean that the State gets a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised,” the apex court said. “Although this court should be circumspect in encroaching upon the domain of national security, no omnibus prohibition can be called for against judicial review,” it added. The bench disposed of a batch of PILs filed by civil liberties activists, journalists and others seeking a court-monitored probe into the alleged illegal surveillance on electronic devices such as mobile phones and laptops with Pegasus. The petitioners had contended that Pegasus could also be used to plant incriminating materials to implicate an individual in false cases. The court noted that in the present world of conflicts, it was an extremely uphill task to find and select experts who were free from prejudices and were independent and competent. It rejected the Centre’s offer to appoint an expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate the settled judicial principles against bias. The Supreme Court said it had shortlisted the committee members based on their biodata and information collected independently. The committee will have the following composition: ⚫ Justice R.V. Raveendran, former Supreme Court judge. ⚫ Alok Joshi, former IPS officer of the 1976 batch. ⚫ Sundeep Oberoi, cyber expert and chairman, sub-committee, at the International Organisation for Standardisation/ International Electrotechnical Commission/ Joint Technical Committee. The sub-committee develops and facilitates standards in software products and systems. ⚫ Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, professor (cyber security and digital forensics) and dean of the National Forensic Sciences University at Gandhinagar, Gujarat. ⚫ Prabaharan P, professor at the School of Engineering of the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham at Amritapuri, Kerala. ⚫ Ashwin Anil Gumaste, the Institute Chair Associate Professor (computer science and engineering) at IIT Bombay. The last four members will look into the technical aspects. The terms of reference of the committee will be to inquire, investigate and determine whether: ⚫ The Pegasus spyware was used on phones or other devices of Indian citizens to access stored data, eavesdrop on conversations, intercept information and/or for any other purpose. ⚫ The details of the victims and/or persons affected by such a spyware attack. ⚫ What steps/actions have been taken by the government after reports were published in 2019 on the alleged hacking of WhatsApp accounts of Indian citizens using Pegasus. ⚫ Whether the Pegasus spyware was acquired by the Centre or any state government, or any central or state agency for use against Indian citizens. ⚫ If any government agency has used the Pegasus spyware on citizens, under what law, rule, guideline, protocol or lawful procedure was such a deployment made. ⚫ Whether any domestic entity/person has used the spyware on citizens, and if that was authorised. ⚫ Any other matter or aspect that may be connected, ancillary or incidental to the other terms of reference that the committee may deem fit and proper to investigate. The committee is also expected to look into the following issues and make recommendations: ⚫ Whether a new enactment or amendment is needed to existing laws and procedures on surveillance and for improving the right to privacy, and steps that can be taken. ⚫ Whether the cyber security of the nation and its assets needs to be enhanced and improved, and how to go about it. ⚫ How to prevent unlawful invasion of the citizens’ right to privacy by State and/or non-State entities through spywares. ⚫ Whether a mechanism needs to be put in place for citizens to raise grievances about or suspicion of illegal surveillance on their devices. ⚫ If a well-equipped and independent premier agency needs to be set up to investigate cyber security vulnerabilities, threat assessment of cyberattacks and allegations of such online targeting. ⚫ Whether the Supreme Court needs to make an ad hoc arrangement as an interim measure to protect citizens’ rights till such time Parliament initiates relevant steps. ⚫ Any other ancillary matter that the committee may deem fit and proper. The committee is authorised to: ⚫ Devise its own procedure to effectively implement and answer the terms of reference. ⚫ Hold such enquiry or investigation as it deems fit. ⚫ Record statements of any person in connection with the enquiry and call for the records of any authority or individual. Justice Raveendran is at liberty to take the assistance of any serving or retired officer, legal expert or technical expert. He shall fix the honorarium of the committee members in consultation with them. This amount will have to be paid by the central government. The Centre, all state governments, as well as the agencies and authorities under them have been directed by the Supreme Court to extend all facilities to the committee. Virender Kumar Bansal, officer on special duty who is the Supreme Court registrar, will coordinate between the committee and the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus: SC emphasises 'sacred private space of individual'||When Pegasus, the biggest of all Big Brothers, takes wing in judicial discourse like the mythical horse the spyware is named after, a nod to George Orwell is in order. “If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said at the start of the Pegasus ruling, quoting from Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-four. The cautionary tale by the Bihar-born English novelist chronicles the consequences of totalitarianism, mass surveillance and repressive regimentation of people and behaviours within society. The book also created Big Brother, the master of mass surveillance who never lets the citizens forget that “Big Brother is watching you”. Setting up the Pegasus probe committee on Wednesday, the Supreme Court asserted that “every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy”. Reading out the order in open court, Justice Ramana said the court normally would not go by news reports. But the batch of writ petitions, based mostly on news reports about alleged snooping through the Israeli spyware Pegasus, “raise an Orwellian concern about the alleged possibility of utilising modern technology to hear what you hear, see what you see and to know what you do”. Justice Ramana said: “This court has always been conscious of not entering the political thicket. However, at the same time, it has never cowered from protecting all from the abuses of fundamental rights.” The bench of Chief Justice Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli spoke of the “sacred private space of an individual”. “We live in the era of information revolution, where the entire lives of individuals are stored in the cloud or in a digital dossier. We must recognise that while technology is a useful tool for improving the lives of the people, at the same time it can also be used to breach that sacred private space of an individual,” Justice Ramana said. Invasion of privacy affects all citizens, not journalists and activists alone, he observed, adding that members of a civilised democratic society have a reasonable expectation of privacy. “Every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy. It is this expectation which enables us to exercise our choices, liberties and freedom,” the apex court said. The court acknowledged that the right to privacy could not be claimed to be absolute. “However, any restrictions imposed must necessarily pass constitutional scrutiny.” The bench said surveillance may be essential for fighting violence and terror when a need may arise to interfere with the right to privacy of an individual, provided it is carried out only when it is absolutely necessary to protect national security and is proportional. The court referred to the need to protect sources of journalists. “Having regard to the importance of the protection of journalistic sources for press freedom in a democratic society and the potential chilling effect that snooping techniques may have, this court’s task in the present matter, where certain grave allegations of infringement of the rights of the citizens of the country have been raised, assumes great significance,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI added: “In this light, this court is compelled to take up the cause to determine the truth and get to the bottom of the allegations.” The court said the materials placed on record by the petitioners — the Editors Guild of India, journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar and others — “prima facie merits consideration”. “There has been no specific denial of any of the facts averred by the petitioners by the… Union of India. There has only been an omnibus and vague denial in the ‘limited affidavit’ filed by the… Union of India, which cannot be sufficient.” The following are some of the “compelling circumstances” that prompted the bench to set up the probe committee: ⚫ The right to privacy and freedom of speech are alleged to be impacted, which needs to be examined. ⚫ The entire citizenry is affected by such allegations due to the potential chilling effect. ⚫ The Centre has not taken a clear stand regarding actions taken by it. ⚫ The seriousness accorded to the allegations by foreign countries and the alleged involvement of foreign entities. ⚫ Possibility that some foreign authority, agency or private entity is involved in placing Indian citizens under surveillance. ⚫ Allegations that the Centre or state governments are party to the rights’ deprivations of citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||India breaks its silence on China’s new land boundary law ||India on Wednesday broke its silence on China’s new land boundary law and urged Beijing to avoid using it as a pretext to take action that would unilaterally alter the situation on the unresolved frontier. The official Indian response to China’s land boundary law came four days after the neighbouring country’s top legislative body, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, passed the legislation for the “protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas”. The new law will come into effect from January 1. The external affairs ministry said in a statement on Wednesday:  “It may be noted that India and China have still not resolved the boundary question. Both sides have agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable resolution to the boundary question through consultations on an equal footing.” The external affairs ministry added: “We have also concluded several bilateral agreements, protocols and arrangements to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China border areas in the interim. “Such a unilateral move will have no bearing on the arrangements that both sides have already reached earlier, whether it is on the boundary question or for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China border areas. We also expect that China will avoid undertaking action under the pretext of this law which could unilaterally alter the situation in the India-China border areas.” India also took the position that the law does not confer any legitimacy to the “so-called” China-Pakistan Boundary Agreement of 1963 that New Delhi has consistently termed illegal and invalid. India claims sovereignty over part of the land China and Pakistan had ceded in favour of each other through the deal, including in northern Kashmir and Ladakh. A 3,488km India-China land boundary remains disputed and both countries have spent over a year trying to de-escalate after the biggest flashpoint along the Line of Actual Control, in eastern Ladakh, in 50 years. The new law gives more powers to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army to counter any invasion, encroachment, infiltration or provocation on any of the country’s borders with 14 nations and also provides for more stringent border closures if Beijing deems fit. The provision for stricter border closures also appears to be a response to the situation in Afghanistan, with which China shares a 74km border in the Xinjian-Uyghur Autonomous Region. Beijing is concerned about the Taliban’s links with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, an Uyghur extremist organisation, and has asked Afghanistan to crack down on the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||IAF officer echoes BJP on Kashmir||Senior Indian Air Force officer Air Marshal Amit Dev on Wednesday blamed the intervention by United Nations for helping Pakistan take over a part of Kashmir, appearing to echo the BJP’s claim that first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was responsible for ceding territory. Air Marshal Dev was here to commemorate the 74th anniversary of the air force landing on October 27, 1947, which came a day after Kashmir’s then Dogra ruler Maharaja Hari Singh acceded to India. “If the UN had not intervened, perhaps entire Kashmir would have been ours,” Air Marshal Dev said in Srinagar, without making any reference to Nehru. Nehru had approached the UN in December 1947 for intervention in the Indo-Pakistan war in Kashmir, although the ceasefire was not effective for another 13 months till January 1949. Air Marshal Dev then said that PoK (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir) would someday return to India. “All the activities which were carried out by the Indian Air Force and the (Indian) army resulted in ensuring freedom of this part of Kashmir,” Air Marshal Dev, who heads the Western Air Command, said. “I am sure that someday, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir will also join this part of Kashmir and we will have the whole of Kashmir in years to come.” Later, in response to queries from reporters, he clarified that India had no plans at the moment to capture PoK but claimed the situation on other side was grim and the people there were not treated fairly. The officer said celebrating 75 years (74 years) of the Budgam landing of the air force was a historic occasion. “After the instrument of accession was signed, we moved in our troops quickly and the Srinagar airfield was saved. Thereafter, we launched further offensive and pushed the Pakistani military, which came as Kabalis (tribals), further back,” he said. The BJP-RSS camp keeps accusing Nehru for allegedly ceding a part of Kashmir to Pakistan. Last year, Union home minister Amit Shah had said Nehru’s approach to the UN over Kashmir was a “Himalayan mistake”. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said all of Kashmir would have been India’s, if Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, instead of Nehru, had been allowed to become the first Prime Minister. Former Congress minister Saifuddin Soz, however, contends in a book that Patel was happy to let Kashmir go to Pakistan in exchange for Hyderabad but Nehru’s insistence kept it with India. Defence spokesman in Srinagar, Colonel Emran Musavi, said in a statement that the Budgam landings are the first military operations of independent India and the defence forces “changed the course of the war”. But he did not mention the UN intervention. “…wherein people and soldiers of State Forces of Jammu & Kashmir and the Indian Army fought alongside valiantly, to evict Pakistani Forces, driving them out of most of Jammu and Kashmir till ceasefire on January 5, 1949,” he said, suggesting that forces were free to act for more than a year after Nehru had approached the UN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||SC Pegasus ruling vindicates Opposition stand: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Supreme Court’s decision in the Pegasus case vindicated the Opposition’s stand, iterating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s role in illegal snooping needed to be probed. Addressing the media after the Supreme Court formed a committee to look into the matter despite stubborn resistance from the Modi government, Rahul said: “We welcome the order. This is a big step. Pegasus is an attempt to crush Indian democracy. It is an attempt to make sure that the vibrancy of democracy, the conversation that takes place in democracy, is crushed and people are controlled.” The Opposition parties had jointly blocked Parliament in the last session, demanding a debate on the illegal snooping while the government stonewalled any questioning on the issue. Rahul repeated the key questions that need to be answered: “Who purchased, authorised use of Pegasus? Who were the targets? And was the data (collected through this process) available to other countries?” He said: “Central institutions of this country were attacked by Pegasus. We all know that’s not the only attack that is taking place. There are different ways in which the idea of India is being attacked. Pegasus is of course a particularly nasty, subversive way of doing it. It is a way to control the politics of the country, to frighten people, to blackmail them into not doing what they are supposed to do. Not allowing the democratic processes to work.” Arguing that Parliament should still debate the issue, the Congress leader said: “Pegasus could have been ordered either by the Prime Minister or the home minister. No other person can do this. If the Prime Minister has connived with some other country to attack our country, then he should explain why he did it. Snooping by Pegasus is illegal. Why is the Prime Minister doing an illegal act? He is not above the nation, above institutions.” He wanted to know whether the data collected by Pegasus was given to the Prime Minister or the home minister. “If the data of election commissioners, Opposition politicians is going to the Prime Minister, it is a criminal act. This is a deeper problem. If the Prime Minister is using Pegasus as a personal tool, it is truly criminal. Governments have been toppled using Pegasus. In Karnataka, the government was toppled using Pegasus.” Asked about the government’s reluctance to answer questions because the issue is related to national security, he said: “This issue is the opposite. This is an issue where the government is attacking the national security of the country. Our data, of senior people, being handed over to a foreign country is an attack on national security. If it is true, that data is held outside India, then the Government of India itself is attacking India.” He insisted this is not a political but an existential matter for India and the attack has been masterminded by two persons. The Congress is now not insisting on its original demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe and it is viewing the court’s ruling that something terrible had happened and the government cannot hide behind the shield of national security as a huge political victory. Unlike in the Rafale case when the court gave its ruling on the false claim of the government that the public accounts committee of Parliament had examined the CAG report, judges this time refused to accept the government’s argument that it needn’t answer the basic question — whether it ordered Pegasus or not — because of national security. The Congress has now got the licence to tell the nation that something was being hidden by the government because Modi did something unlawful. This narrative will force the BJP on the back foot in the elections in five states, the campaigning for which will start in a few days. Rahul has already clubbed the Pegasus snooping scandal with the misuse of the Enforcement Directorate, the CBI and other central agencies to blackmail and control Opposition leaders. This episode is bound to give credence to the allegation that democracy is under threat in the Modi regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Covid: Govt data shows over 103 million overdue for second dose||Over 103 million people across India have not turned up for their second doses of Covid-19 vaccines after the prescribed gaps, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, urging states to work towards covering all adults with first doses by November 30. For the second time over the past week, the health ministry urged states to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign and execute district-wise plans to ensure that those overdue for their second doses get immunised, asserting that adequate vaccine doses are available. “No district should be without full vaccination,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while chairing a review meeting on the campaign with state health ministers and asking states to conduct door-to-door visits to seek out overdue second dose recipients. Health experts said the large count of 103.4 million people overdue for second doses pointed to vaccine truancy that could further delay India’s goal of fully vaccinating all adults as early as possible, already delayed by limited vaccine supplies in the campaign’s early months. The campaign had until Wednesday administered first doses to 725 million, or to 77 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults, and second doses to 316 million people, or 34 per cent. At its current pace, the campaign will not achieve its goal of fully vaccinating all adults by December 31. Mandaviya told the ministers that the country has adequate doses of vaccines and more than 120 million doses remain unused with the states, urging them to make state-level plans to reduce the counts of people overdue for second doses. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had last Saturday urged states and Union Territories to use district-level line lists of recipients to focus on beneficiaries who have not taken their second doses yet even though their dose-gap intervals were over. Bhushan had said district magistrates should use line lists of beneficiaries available on CoWIN — the digital platform being used to manage the vaccination campaign — to execute time-bound plans to administer the second doses to all eligible beneficiaries. Public health experts have expressed concern that the campaign at some point may begin to slow down after it has covered all easy-to-reach populations and as the epidemic continues to shrink and people no longer perceive Covid-19 as a major threat to their health. Vaccine hesitancy among sections of the population would be expected to manifest as a decline in the demand for first doses. But experts say recipients staying away from their second doses could be viewed as vaccine truancy precipitated by either inability to return for second doses or lack of fear of Covid-19. Vaccination data show gaps between first dose and second dose recipients in multiple states. In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, 97 million have received the first dose while 31 million have received the second dose. In Maharashtra, 66 million have received the first dose while 30 million have received the second. In Bengal, over 53 million have got first doses and 20 million their second.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Bihar: Lalu tears into BJP at rally after six years||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad returned to the Bihar stage on Wednesday six years after he last addressed an election meeting. Lalu vowed to never bow down before the communal forces and tore into the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar. The crowd went berserk as Lalu, brimming with confidence and carrying his well-known rustic charm, strode to the stage at Tarapur in Munger district, an Assembly constituency that goes to bypolls along with Kusheshwar Asthan in Samastipur on October 30. His younger son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was by his side. Barricades buckled as the people who had assembled to see and hear Lalu invaded the security area in front of the dais at the Idgah Maidan. A sea of mobile phones tracked his movements to capture the moment. Slogans rent the air in such a manner that at times they drowned Lalu’s voice coming out of the loudspeakers. Asking people to stay united and in harmony, Lalu said: “I got Lal Krishna Advani arrested. I never accepted defeat in front of communal forces. I will never compromise with communalism. They (alluding to BJP) cheat people. People have understood them and will not tolerate them any more.” The RJD chief attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre for selling off public assets. “Everything, be it rail or aeroplane, is being sold under its rule. It has not given anything to the people except promises of sending Rs 15 lakh to their bank accounts. What happened to it?” he asked. Lalu also raised the demand for a caste census that has been rejected by the central government. “It’s necessary because the population of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward castes has increased. The reservation given to them will have to be increased. This is the reason it (BJP) is refusing it. We will have to fight for it (caste census),” he said. Lalu pointed out that chief minister Nitish had vowed that he would prefer turning to dust but would not shake hands with the BJP. “He went with the BJP saying that it will grant special status to Bihar and give a ‘double-engine government’ (same government at the Centre and state). But see what has happened. The BJP did not give special status and the engines are pulling in different directions,” Lalu said. Asserting that the public in the state had given the mandate to form the government to Tejashwi, the RJD chief pointed out that his party and allies lost many seats in the 2020 Assembly polls with a slender margin. He accused Nitish of tinkering with the results and cheating Tejashwi of the opportunity to form the government and swore revenge. “I was in jail at that time. Had I been outside, he (Nitish) would not have dared to do so. I will take revenge for this. I had made him chief minister at a time (2015) when the RJD had more seats than his party (Janata Dal United),” Lalu added. The RJD chief iterated that Tejashwi has already uprooted the government in the state, while he (Lalu) has come for its immersion. “When I told this recently, Nitish said I will get shot. Is this Lalu’s work? Why would I get you killed? You (Nitish) will die on your own,” Lalu said and added that Nitish was a worried man because no work has been done under his rule and unemployment reigned supreme. “The bypoll is a fight between the government and the people. Nobody can stand against democracy,” he said. Lalu returned to Patna on Sunday after over three years. He was incarcerated after being convicted in several fodder scam cases and got bail in April this year, but was stuck in Delhi because of health problems. The RJD chief also made fun of prohibition in the state where rats have been blamed for drinking seized liquor kept at the police stations. Asking the people to vote for the RJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah in Tarapur at the end of his 10-minute address, Lalu flew to address his second rally at Kusheshwar Asthan. Bypolls in the two constituencies were necessitated by the demise of their representatives earlier this year. The main contest for both the seats is between the JDU and the RJD, though the Congress, which recently broke away from the Opposition Grand Alliance, has also fielded candidates. Later, Lalu tweeted his happiness about the large number of people who attended his election rallies and said that he was feeling energised after seeing the crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Naveen virtually launches Fifa Football for Schools programme||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik virtually launched India’s first Fifa Football for Schools programme at the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) on Wednesday. Football for Schools (F4S) is a worldwide programme run by the Fifa, which aims to contribute to the education, development and empowerment of around 700 million children. It seeks to make football more accessible to both boys and girls across the globe. Inaugurating the programme, an outcome of a partnership between Fifa and the institute, Naveen said: “Investment in sports is investment in youth. And investment in youth is investment in the future. Such collaboration to incorporate football activities into the education system will make football more accessible to both boys and girls at the grassroots.” The chief minister congratulated the KIIT (Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology) and KISS for sustainably creating a conducive ecosystem in channelising passion for sports and nurturing sporting talent and promoting it for the last two decades. Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS, had been in touch with Fifa president Gianni Infantino for the last one and a half years for bringing the Football for Schools programme to India, officials said. The launch ceremony was virtually attended by Nik Gugger, Switzerland member of Parliament, and Infantino. In his virtual address, Gugger said: “Odisha, under the leadership of Naveen Patnaik, has been promoting sports in a big way and has created an example for the whole country.” Commending Samanta’s contributions to sports, he said: “Dr Samanta has created unparalleled sports infrastructure and invested in sports and sportspersons that is now yielding returns. “This first-ever initiative of the Football for Schools programme by Fifa in the world is an outcome of his relentless contribution in the field of sports.” Infantino said: “We are delighted to see Football for Schools launching in India today, one of the first countries in the world in which it has been introduced. Football for Schools is a programme which unites football and education. It has been created to support schools and teachers in inspiring children to learn life skills through fun football sessions.” In his address, Samanta said: “Under the visionary leadership of Naveen Patnaik, Odisha has become a sports hub and Bhubaneswar a sports capital. He has not forgotten to nurture sports at the grassroots.” The revolutionary initiative of the Fifa president will make football accessible to all boys and girls in India, he said, while promising all support from KIIT and KISS for implementation of the programme. In the run-up to the launch of the programme, a three-day capacity-building workshop — “Train the Trainer” — was conducted by Fifa at the KISS from October 25. As many as 100 physical education teachers from all Odisha districts and over 100 football players from KIIT and KISS participated in the training programme, which included both classroom as well as field sessions. Minister for sports and youth services Tusharkanti Behera, All India Football Federation general secretary Kushal Das, Fifa Foundation chief executive officer and former footballer Youri Djorkaeff, sports and youth services secretary R. Vineel Krishna, Football Association of Odisha president Debashish Samantaray, FAO secretary Asirbad Behera, Fifa Football for Schools project leader Alexandre Gros and other senior officials of Fifa were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Four-year integrated UG and BEd courses on offer||School pass-outs will from this academic session be able to pursue a four-year integrated course combining undergraduation and Bachelor of Education (BEd). The teacher education regulator, the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) under the education ministry, has notified the four-year Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) under which a student will be able to pursue dual-major bachelor’s degrees offering BA-BEd, BSc-BEd or BCom-BEd. The NCTE had in 2018 notified a similar regulation to roll out the ITEP but it had not been implemented. The regulation was later withdrawn pending the formulation of the National Education Policy (NEP). “As per the NEP, 2020, teacher engagement from the year 2030 onwards will be only through ITEP. It will be offered in pilot mode initially in about 50 selected multidisciplinary institutions across the country,” said a media release from the education ministry. According to the curriculum of the new course devised by the NCTE, a student will be able to pursue a specialised discipline such as history, mathematics, science, arts, economics or commerce along with BEd. The NCTE, which gives approval to teacher-training colleges, allows courses like the two-year Diploma in Education (DEd) for Class XII pass-outs, two-year BEd for graduates and the two-year MEd for postgraduates. “The existing courses will continue even though the ITEP will be launched. Over the years, the ITEP may become the dominant programme and the diploma courses may be discontinued,” an education ministry official said. Some academics had earlier picked holes in the proposed ITEP courses. Prof. Poonam Batra, a former member of the NCTE, had told this newspaper in 2018 that the proposed BSc/BA-BEd programme was pedagogically unsound. “The current model of training secondary and senior secondary teachers after graduation (BEd after BA/BSc) is critical to maintain rigour of disciplinary knowledge in sciences, social sciences and mathematics among schoolteachers. To reduce teacher training to a four-year model after higher secondary will most certainly dilute teachers’ disciplinary knowledge base, a challenge we are already facing in the light of diluting standards of higher education itself,” Batra had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Zakia Jafri seeks SIT probe into post-Godhra communal riots||Zakia Jafri, wife of slain Congress leader Ehsan Jafri, on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the “larger conspiracy” behind the post-Godhra communal riots should be further probed by a special investigation team (SIT), not just the Gulbarg Society case in which Narendra Modi was among those given a clean chit. Resuming his arguments a day after claiming on behalf of Zakia that a Supreme Court-appointed SIT had ignored crucial evidence to give a clean chit to then Gujarat chief minister Modi in the larger case of conspiracy, senior advocate Kapil Sibal assailed the probe team for “ignoring” evidence while filing the closure report. Sibal said the SIT had relied on evidence provided by journalist Ashish Khaitan, who was at that time working for the Tehelka magazine, in various other Godhra-related cases but ignored the proof submitted by him in the Gulbarg Society matter. “This particular sting operation was done by Ashish Khaitan who was a prosecution witness in one of the other cases. The SIT relied on that sting in relation to other accused. This tape was authenticated by the CBI as genuine… but there the tape wasn’t taken into consideration…. The closure report was filed, that was it,” Sibal told the bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar. Khaitan had conducted sting operations on accused persons and others to establish the contention that there had been a conspiracy. “If it’s only about Gulbarg Society, then that’s the end of the case. The larger conspiracy has to be investigated or not?” Sibal asked while pleading that several incriminating materials were not looked into by the SIT while filing the closure report. These materials were also part of the protest petition filed by Zakia before the trial court, which disregarded them and accepted the closure report, Sibal argued. The Supreme Court bench that also has Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi is dealing with an appeal filed by Zakia challenging the closure report. After the trial court, Gujarat High Court had upheld the closure report. Sibal also questioned the need for handing over the bodies of the 54 Godhra train carnage victims to Jaydeep Patel, a Vishwa Hindu Parishad functionary. The advocate said this was a serious matter that too was not considered by the SIT. Patel was one of the main accused in the 2002 riots that followed the torching of the Sabarmati Express in Godhra. “By the time these bodies reached Ahmedabad a crowd had already gathered. Who made phone calls? How did anyone know that Patel was taking dead bodies? Who made these calls? I don’t know, but these have to be investigated,” Sibal said. “Is this the fashion of investigation being done? Should the magistrate not have said ‘further investigate’? Your Lordships are far too experienced for me to even make submissions on this,” Sibal said. The court adjourned the matter to November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Mumbai police to probe allegations against Sameer Wankhede||Mumbai police on Wednesday appointed an additional commissioner-level officer to probe the allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise ship case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is in jail. Aryan’s bail hearing in Bombay High Court will continue on Thursday. “Tomorrow we will try to finish it,” Justice N.W. Sambre said after Wednesday’s hearing. The NCB had earlier ordered a vigilance probe after independent witness Prabhakar Raghoji Sail alleged in a notarised affidavit that he had overheard plans for a demand for bribe, of which Rs 8 crore was to be paid to Wankhede. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has also levelled serious charges against Wankhede, including that he used a fake caste certificate to get the Indian Revenue Service job under the Scheduled Caste quota. Malik had shared on social media a birth certificate that purportedly shows that Sameer Wankhede was born Sameer Dawood Wankhede and that his father’s name was Dawood Wankhede, suggesting he was a Muslim and not from a Scheduled Caste. The minister also shared a photograph of Wankhede and his first wife Shabana Qureshi. Wankhede then said his father was Hindu and his mother Muslim and that his first marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act, suggesting that it was an inter-faith marriage. He said his father’s name was Dnyandev. But Malik on Wednesday shared a copy of Wankhede’s “nikah nama” or marriage certificate issued on December 7, 2006, showing that the wedding took place according to Islamic rituals. The “nikah nama” gives Wankhede’s name as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. On television, Wankhede’s father acknowledged the nikah nama and his signature on it but said he did not know that his name was given as Dawood Wankhede there. Wankhede on Wednesday accepted a nikah was held to honour his mother’s wishes but said he was Hindu. The qazi who conducted the nikah, however, told television channels the wedding could be solemnised according to Islamic rituals because both the bride and the groom were Muslim. Malik said he had received a letter from an unnamed NCB official stating that Wankhede had framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. Malik said he had forwarded the letter to NCB director-general S.N. Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Centre requests media platforms to display Azadi logo||The information and broadcasting ministry on Wednesday issued an advisory to all media platforms — be it print, electronic or digital — requesting them to display the logo of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of Independence. The advisory is a near repeat of the one that was sent out in the early months of the Narendra Modi government for airing the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme, Mann ki Baat. Though technically it was a request, almost all channels and radio stations had complied with that advisory. Pointing out that the 75-week commemoration of this milestone in modern Indian history has already begun and will continue till August 15, 2023, the advisory said: “Media platforms may consider displaying the official ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ logo during news programmes, reports, bulletins, especially while reporting on 75 years of India’s Independence so that viewers may be informed about the campaign and they take forward the spirit of ‘Jan Bhagidari’ (public participation) envisaged under the Mahotsav.”. Further, the advisory places on record that private media has consistently taken the lead in celebrating India’s patriotic spirit and national achievements. “It is advised to use the logo during the period of celebrations so that citizens are made aware of India’s rich history and commitment to a bright future,’’ it said. Since this commemoration programme was launched on March 12, the Modi government has been promoting the use of the logo at various levels. Last month, the Supreme Court’s registry objected to the image of the Prime Minister popping up as part of the logo in emails sent from its official email account. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) which provides email services to the Supreme Court was asked to drop the image of the Prime Minister from the footer of the emails originating from the apex court. The NIC has since complied with the Supreme Court’s directions and is now using a picture of the apex court instead. Some lawyers who had received the Supreme Court’s email with Modi’s image in the footer had objected to this on the premise that the judiciary is independent, and not a part of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
