29-10-2021||India||No Friday release for Aryan Khan , Juhi Chawla stands surety||Despite securing bail from the Bombay High Court in a drugs case, Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison as documents related to his release did reach jail authorities in time on Friday, while the HC imposed 14 conditions on him, including bond payment of Rs 1 lakh and weekly visit to the NCB office here. In the evening, a special court issued the release memo for Aryan Khan, granted bail by the HC on Thursday after 25 days of arrest in the case related to alleged seizure of drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month, but his legal could not meet the deadline for submission of papers. Shah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for his 23-year-old son before the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). We won't give special treatment for anyone. The law is the same for all. The deadline for receiving the bail papers was 5.30 pm. That has passed. He won't be released today, senior jail official told PTI. The HC on Friday afternoon made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. In the five-page order, signed by Justice N W Sambre, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and that they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence. The judge will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week. The HC said if the trio violate any of the conditions imposed then the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the cruise drugs case, shall "straightaway apply to the special judge/court for cancellation of their bail." "Each of the applicants/accused shall execute personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with one or more sureties in the like amount," the order said. The HC said the accused shall not personally or through anyone make any attempt to influence witnesses or tamper with the evidence. The high court directed the trio to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. The accused should give prior intimation to the NCB before leaving Mumbai and shall provide with their itinerary. It added that Aryan Khan, his friend Merchant and Dhamecha, a fashion model, shall not indulge in any activity similar to the activities on the basis of which the present case stands registered against them for offences under the NDPS Act. The HC further said the trio shall not establish any contact with any of the co-accused in the case or anyone involved in similar activities, and join the investigation as and when called by the NCB. "Once the trial begins, the applicants/accused shall not in any manner try to delay the trial," the court said. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai, Dhamecha is at the Byculla women's prison. Chawla arrived at the special court along with Aryan Khan's legal team, including advocate Satish Maneshinde, and submitted the surety and necessary documents. They appeared before special Judge V V Patil where Maneshinde said Chawla would be standing as surety and submitted her Aadhaar card for verification. While Chawla stood in front of the judge, Maneshinde told the court that the actress knows the applicant (Aryan Khan) since his childhood and that she and his father (Shah Rukh Khan) are professionally associated. The court, after verification, accepted the surety following which Chawla was asked to go to the court's registry department to sign the necessary papers. Once there, a crowd gathered to click photos with the actress. After Chawla signed the papers, they were sent back to the court for the judge to sign the surety bond and issue the release memo. While leaving the court building, Chawla told reporters, "There is a sense of relief in the family. We are all happy it is over." Aryan Khan's legal team later left the court with the memo for the Arthur Road prison, but failed to meet the 5.30 pm deadline for jail officials to accept release documents. Earlier, Aryan Khan's legal team had indicated that a slight postponement till 7 pm" was possible. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. Their arrest came a day after the NCB raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case and two of them were granted bail by the special NDPS court earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
29-10-2021||India||India will use margin of persuasion to cut down fuel prices: Minister||India will use whatever “margin of persuasion” it has while talking to oil-producing nations to make sure the fuel prices are down in the country, oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. He added that India's dependence on traditional energy sources such as petrol and coal will remain for a very long time and the transition to green energy sources will be orderly only if their prices are affordable. In his speech at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue organised by the Indian Navy, Puri said, "As a minister, the government is very sensitive to prices. And I can tell you, with total confidence, that we will use whatever margin of persuasion we have, bilaterally with my counterparts, or multilaterally or plurilaterally, to make sure the prices are down." A week back, the minister had said India is looking to bring together public sector undertakings (PSU) and private sector refiners to seek better crude oil import deals from Saudi Arabia and other nations. International oil prices climbing to a multi-year high of USD 85 per barrel has sent local retail petrol, diesel and LPG prices to record levels. India, which imports 85 per cent of its oil needs and is the world's third-largest energy-consuming and importing country, has been impressing upon producers to raise output to help stabilise rates at affordable levels. The minister also said, "We are going to make the transition to green and sustainable energy very quickly but out dependence on the traditional energy is going to be around for a very long time. Let's make no mistakes on that." "If we don't get the price right, and if we don't allow energy access at affordable prices, we are going to have a problem in ensuring that the transition from here to green energy will be orderly," he mentioned. India is the only country where as the per-capita energy consumption is one-third of the global average, the growth will be exponential in terms of energy requirement, he mentioned. There is a positive and negative side to it, Puri said. If the prices by the main producers remain high and more oil is not put in the market, it will at some stage affect us, the minister added. Today, India's petrol consumption and diesel consumption is 20 per cent and 12-14 per cent higher than before the Covid-19 pandemic, respectively, he stated. “This means that the economy is firing away on all six cylinders,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
29-10-2021||India||DRDO, IAF conduct successful flight test of long-range bomb||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) jointly conducted a successful flight test of a long-range bomb (LRB) in Odisha on Friday, the Defence Ministry said.  "The LRB, after release from the IAF fighter aircraft, guided to a land-based target at a long range with accuracy within specified limits," the ministry said in a statement.  All the mission objectives were successfully met, it mentioned.  "The flight of the bomb and the performance were monitored by a number of range sensors, including electro optical tracking system (EOTS), telemetry and radar," it noted.  The LRB has been designed and developed by DRDO labs, it stated.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday congratulated DRDO, IAF and other teams associated with successful flight trial and stated that this will prove to be a force multiplier for India's armed forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||TMC is national party, stands for 'temple, mosque, church', Mamata Banerjee says in Goa||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, on a visit to Goa where polls are due next year, on Friday said her party is national and "can go anywhere", and its initials -- TMC -- also stand for "temple, mosque and church."  The BJP calls her "anti-Hindu", but it has no right to issue a "character certificate", the West Bengal chief minister said.  Asked whether she was eyeing the prime minister's post in 2024, she evaded reply.  The West Bengal chief minister, who arrived in the BJP-ruled Goa on Thursday evening on a three-day visit, said the TMC did not intend to divide votes in the coastal state, and if it came to power, Goa will not be run from Delhi.  On Friday, she met local party leaders and also interacted with members of the fishing community at Malim Jetty near here.  Tennis player Leander Paes, actor Nafisa Ali and entrepreneur Mrinalini Deshprabhu joined the TMC in her presence.  Addressing local TMC leaders at another event, Banerjee said, "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You (BJP) will be blacklisted by the people from the country.  "You deface us, show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will die but will never compromise," she further said.  If the TMC won power in Goa, it will not pursue an agenda of revenge but work for the state, she said.  Listing various welfare schemes implemented by her government in West Bengal, she said her party can do it in a smaller state like Goa too.  "I will be happy to do it. I am not going to be the chief minister of Goa, but I will see to it that there is a policy, mechanism and no corruption in the government," Banerjee added.  The TMC is a national party and "it can go anywhere," she asserted.  "We will work for Goa in a resolute way. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all (other) parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," Banerjee said.  "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," she said.  The TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religion but "we unite people," and the party's initials "stand for temple, mosque and church," Banerjee added.  Recalling her stint as a Union minister in the past, the TMC chief said she has travelled across the country. "I know India very well," she said.  The West Bengal Chief Minister on Friday deflected questions about whether she will be in the race for the prime minister's post in the next general elections.  "If I tell you everything right now what I will tell later?" she told reporters while responding to a question if she is running for the country's top post in 2024.  Speculation is rife that after her party Trinamool Congress's resounding victory in the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, Banerjee eyes to take up a larger role in national politics prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. When asked whether the motive behind her party TMC contesting the upcoming Goa polls was part of larger plan of the next Lok Sabha elections, Banerjee said, "We will contest the elections in 2024."  "We are transparent. We don't play hide and seek. We are a transparent party," she asserted.  When another journalist asked the same question, Banerjee said in a lighter vein, "Why don't you contest the election for PM's post. You are media, you can also contest."  TMC's poll strategist for Goa elections, Prashant Kishor, had recently said the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics for the next several decades and the party will not go anywhere irrespective of whether it wins or loses.  When asked about his statement, Banerjee said that instead of asking her about it, the reporters should raise the query with Kishor.  "Maybe, he means to say that if we don't do it properly, BJP is going to stay," she said.  Founded in 1998, the TMC, which currently rules West Bengal, has announced that it will contest all 40 seats in Goa in the upcoming polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Delhi eases Covid norms, allows cinema halls to reopen with full seating capacity||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued an order allowing full-seating capacity in cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes, and also raised the number of people allowed to attend weddings and last rites from 100 to 200.  The order, listing various allowed and restricted activities because of the Covid pandemic, will come into effect from November 1.  It stated that owners of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be responsible for strict adherence to standard operating protocol (SOP), official guidelines and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the premises.  "In case any violation is found, strict penal, criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant, bar, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes," said the order.  Cinemas, theatres, multiplexes in the city were closed with the imposition of lockdown in April amid a raging second wave of Covid infections. They were allowed to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity in the last week of July.  The order also allowed meetings and conferences in banquet halls of the city. So far, only marriages and exhibitions were allowed there.  The order permitted funeral and marriage-related gatherings with a ceiling of 200 people. During the Covid surge in April, attendance at funerals was scaled down to 20 while marriages were permitted with the presence of 50 people.  With improvement in the Covid situation, 100 people were allowed in both types of gatherings.  All classes in schools will also resume from November 1 according to the order. This decision was taken in a meeting of DDMA earlier this week because of appreciable improvement in the Covid situation in the city. Senior classes (nine to 12) were restarted earlier with a maximum 50 per cent seating capacity.  All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious gatherings will remain prohibited. However, festival-related gatherings will be allowed according to the DDMA's September 30 order.  Restaurants and bars will continue to open with a 50 per cent seating capacity. Delhi Metro and public transport buses will ply with full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed, stated the order.  All the allowed and restricted activities will be permitted till the intervening night of November 15-16 or till any further orders, it added. The DDMA on Friday allowed Chhath Puja celebrations at designated sites in the city except the banks of Yamuna river.  The directions were issued in an order released on Friday.  The celebration of Chhath Puja during the month of November shall be allowed only at designated sites outside containment zones with requisite permission from the district magistrate. No site shall be designated on the bank of river Yamuna, the DDMA order said.  The DDMA had on Wednesday given its nod to Chhath Puja in Delhi.  The authority further said designated sites shall be identified and managed by the respective district magistrate in coordination with departments and agencies concerned.  Chhath, celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, involves offering of 'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water.  The order clearly stated that strict adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour, which include wearing mask, social distancing, and use of sanitiser, is mandatory.  The order said at designated sites, puja material offered by devotees should be collected by the municipal authorities concerned and other relevant agencies for immediate and proper disposal in a scientific manner.  "All devotees shall be strictly prohibited from throwing puja material like food grain, oil etc into river Yamuna.  "It shall be ensured that no such material is permitted to join the main stream of river at any point," the DDMA order stated.  It also asked all organisers of Chhath Puja to submit an undertaking to the district magistrate of the area in respect of strict adherence of the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Yamuna Monitoring Committee.  The DDMA order also said that people, including devotees and organisers, will have to follow guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in October last year.  On October 6, 2020, the Union Health Ministry has issued standard operating procedure for festival season where it had said that individuals shall maintain minimum six feet distance in public places.  It had also made mandatory wearing of face masks. It had asked authorities for pre-planning in case of mass gathering and ensure separate entry and exit of visitors.  Earlier, in an order issued on September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations at public places, including at riverbanks, water bodies and temples, in view of the threat posed by COVID-19.  Following this, the BJP staged protest and also at the residence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and demanded that Chhath celebrations should be allowed.  Later on October 14, Kejriwal wrote a letter to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to allow Chhath Puja in Delhi.  The DDMA earlier this week allowed Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi in a meeting attended by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Celebration cannot be at cost of others' health: Supreme Court||Celebration cannot be at the cost of others' health, the Supreme Court said on Friday and clarified that while there is no total ban on use of firecrackers, those fireworks which contain Barium salts are prohibited.  Warning that top officials at various levels "shall be held personally liable" for any lapses, the apex court said it is unfortunate that despite various directions issued by it there is a blatant violation going on.  Despite the ban on use of Barium Salts in the firecrackers, prohibited crackers are being manufactured, transported, sold and used, it said.  A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that no authority can be permitted to violate the directions issued by it and allow banned firecrackers in the guise of celebration.  Everybody including the implementing agencies are bound to see that the directions issued by the courts are implemented and followed in true spirit and in toto, the top court said.  Prima facie it appears that the implementing agencies of the concerned states either lack desire to implement the directions issued by this Court or they close their eyes for whatever reasons, it said.  The apex court further asserted that celebration cannot be at the cost of the other's health.  Under the guise of celebration, nobody can be permitted to infringe the right to health of others, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and nobody can be allowed to play with the life of the others, more particularly the senior citizens and the children, it said.  "It is made clear that there is no total ban on use of firecrackers. Only those firecrackers are banned, as directed hereinabove, which are found to be injurious to health and affecting the health of the citizens, more particularly the senior citizens and the children," the bench said.  It further noted that under the guise of 'green crackers' banned chemicals firecrackers are being sold and there is a mislabelling on the boxes and even the QR codes provided on the boxes of 'green crackers' are alleged to be fake.  "There is a report submitted by the CBI submitted pursuant to the earlier directions/orders passed by this Court and it prima facie appears that there is a blatant violation of the directions issued by this Court by the respective manufacturers and the banned firecrackers are being sold and used in the markets. The allegations, if found to be true, are very serious and cannot be tolerated," the apex court said.  The court reiterated the directions issued by it earlier including banning the use of Barium Salts in the firecrackers and manufacturing and selling joined firecrackers.  It directed all the states/Union Territories to see that the directions issued earlier by it as also on Friday are strictly complied with in true spirit and in toto.  "Any lapse on the part of the State Governments/ State Agencies and UTs shall be viewed very seriously and if it is found that any banned firecrackers are manufactured, sold and used in any particular area, the Chief Secretary of the concerned State(s), the Secretary (Homes) of the concerned State(s) and the Commissioner of Police and DSP of the concerned area and the SHO/Police Officer in-charge of the concerned police station shall be held personally liable," the bench said.  Nobody can be permitted to flout and disobey the directions issued by the top court, it said, adding that any wilful and deliberate disobedience shall have to be viewed very seriously.  It directed all the states/UTs to give due publicity through electronic/print media and local cable services to make the people aware of the directions issued by the court on manufacture, use and sale of banned firecrackers.  The matter is listed for further consideration on November 30.  The SC Thursday had dispelled the impression that it was against a particular group or community by banning firecrackers and said it cannot allow violation of rights of citizens under the guise of enjoyment.  It had made it clear that it wants full implementation of its orders to send a message that it is here to protect the rights of people and can even pass an order for CBI investigation concerning those manufacturers who are selling fake green crackers.  "Under the guise of enjoyment, you (manufacturers) cannot play with the lives of citizens. We are not against a particular community. We want to send a strong message that we are here for the protection of fundamental rights of citizens," the bench had said.  The bench had said that it is not averse to the celebration but not at the cost of the life of other citizens.  The apex court said that celebration does not mean the use of loud crackers and it can also be from "Fuljhaddi" etc which are not noisy. It had ordered six manufacturers to show cause why they should not be punished for contempt of its orders.  It had said it cannot infringe the right to life of other citizens under the guise of employment while considering a ban on firecrackers and its prime focus is the right to life of innocent citizens.  The apex court had earlier refused to impose a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers and said that sales can happen through only licensed traders and that only green crackers can be sold. The online sale of firecrackers has been completely banned.  The verdict had come in response to a plea seeking a ban on the manufacturing and sale of firecrackers across the country to curb air pollution.  In the past, the apex court had said that while deciding on a ban on firecrackers, it is imperative to take into account the fundamental right of livelihood of firecracker manufacturers and the right to health of over 1.3 billion people of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Around 30 detained for attempting to disrupt Friday namaz in Gurugram||Around 30 people were detained by police for allegedly gathering to disrupt Friday namaz offered by Muslims in Sector 12 area here.  Amid a heavy police presence in the area, the protesters, mainly from various Hindu outfits, gathered and raised 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' slogans even as the members of the Muslim community were arriving at the spot to offer prayers.  Carrying placards in their hands, they also raised slogans against the administration for allowing the Muslim community to offer namaz at designated open places in the city.  Though the situation remained peaceful, a police official said that around 30 protesters had been taken into preventive detention.  Talking to reporters, Sub Divisional Magistrate of Gurgaon Ankita Choudhary said, On this place people have been offering namaz for the last two years."  "There were some people from other group who were trying to stop them. So we asked them not to create nuisance and (affect) law and order situation. When they didn't listen to the administration and the police even after repeated warnings, they were detained just to maintain order, she said.  They were detained as a precautionary measure, she added.  Asked who were those who had been detained, she said investigation is going on in this regard.  Earlier in the day, police personnel had been deployed in strength following threats from some Hindu groups to disrupt public order if prayers are offered in the open.  Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in the city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz, after which there were protests by some Hindu groups.  A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays during this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan to spend one more night in Mumbai prison as release papers miss deadline||Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison as a senior jail official said his release papers did not reach them within the stipulated time.  We won't give special treatment for anyone. The law is the same for all. The deadline for receiving the bail papers was 5.30 pm. That has passed. He won't be released today, the official told PTI.  The assertion by the prison official came even as there were indications from Aryan's legal team that a slight postponement till 7 pm" was possible.  While granting Aryan bail on Thursday in the drugs-on-cruise case, the Bombay High Court imposed 14 bail conditions on him, paving the way for his release from jail.  In the five-page order, the high court said that Aryan Khan and and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs one lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount.  As per the conditions set by the high court, the trio will have to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and that they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday to mark their presence.  The HC had granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Modi 24-carat gold, no single stain of corruption on him: Rajnath Singh||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "24-carat gold", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said he is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology.  Singh, a former BJP president, said Modi's political journey of last two decades as head of government should be taught in management schools as a case study on "effective leadership and efficient governance".  Speaking at length about the last two decades of Modi's political journey, Singh said, "A true leadership is identified by its intent and integrity and in both cases, Modiji is 24-carat gold. There is not a single stain of corruption on him even after being the head of a government for 20 years."  He was speaking at the valedictory session of a national conference on 'Delivering Democracy: Reviewing 2 Decades of Narendra Modi as Head of Govt'.  Singh said Modi is not merely a person, but an idea, a thought.  "If we look at his political journey of the last two decades, we will find that new challenges kept coming before him. But the way he faced those challenges should be taught in management schools as a case study on effective leadership and efficient governance," the defence minister said.  Singh said the way Modi overcame challenges, it shows his deep understanding of Indian society. "He is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology."  Referring to the systematic changes that the Modi government is trying to bring in, Singh said the government has changed many times in this country, "but for the first time efforts are being to made change the system. You can find loopholes in this effort but Modiji's intent cannot be disbelieved."  Touching upon the government's agenda of a self-reliant India, the defence minister said hundred years ago Mahatma Gandhi spoke about 'Swadeshi' and after him, Deendayal Upadhyaya spoke about it.  "Now Modiji has brought Swadeshi 4.0 with new context and subtext. This is not a campaign against anyone but a positive effort to strengthen local products and brands," Singh said.  Talking about Modi's tenure as Gujarat chief minister, Singh said he took the state on the path of holistic development and worked for the progress of every section of the society.  The defence minister said Modi gave the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and then as prime minister added 'Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas' to it.  "Yeh nara 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' dete huiyae Narendra bhai Modi ne Gujarat mein panth nirpekshta ki ek nai ibarat likh di (By giving this slogan of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', Narendra Bhai Modi in Gujarat wrote a new chapter of unbiasedness towards any religion)," Singh said, adding secularism does not mean unbiasedness towards any religion.  Singh also cited various reforms and schemes started by Modi as Gujarat chief minister.  Stating that there is no difference between Modi's words and deeds, the defence minister said he accepted the crisis of credibility in Indian politics as a challenge and overcame it.  Discussing Modi's commitment to development, Singh said for a long time, promotion of trade, industry and business was avoided in this country.  "It was believed that if you stand with business and industry then your social commitment is weak. Modiji gave a tough challenge to this misconception. He recognised and respected industry and entrepreneurs in nation building, supported and promoted them also," Singh said.  Singh shared details of his long association with Modi when they were chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat respectively, and said Modi's amazing decision-making ability and imaginative power impressed him the most.  Modi served as chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 till his election as prime minister in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Usman Ashraf, a Rising Musician, Talks about His Accomplishments||Some people are clear and sure about their goals and what they want to achieve in their lives. And to make these goals possible, they go to any length and do not hesitate to give their best to make it happen. And when they achieve their goal, it only turns them into more supportive, humble, and kind people who understand the real struggles behind any success. Usman Ashraf, a talented musician with lots of successful music pieces and thousands of fans, has such a humble and positive persona. His success and fame only made him into a people’s loving person. With family support and good financial status, Usman’s life was not really that hard, but he faced many bumps on his road to achieving his dreams. Since the age of six, music was all he loved and cared about. It was his passion and everything he had. Acknowledging his passion, his parents got him a guitar on his birthday, and that was the day when a six years old kid knew exactly what he wanted to do in his life. Usman showed no interest in hanging out with his friends in the parks or running on the streets. He would simply pick his guitar and sit in his room making and recreating the musical rhythms and tunes. Everything was smooth until he graduated high school and had to choose a career choice. Call it peer pressure or social opinions, Usman ended up in a medical school to become a doctor for a financially stable future. As soon as he joined medical school, he realized he had made the biggest mistake of his life. He couldn’t put himself to get buried in the fat books of medicine. Instead, he would stay up all night, playing new music, and remembering how much he loves doing that. Eventually, his passion won, and he quit medical school to chase his lifelong dream of becoming a great musician. Usman wants to connect to people and inspire them with his music. He expresses his emotions and thoughts through his music and hopes people would decipher his tunes and relate to them. His music’s goal is to spread love, positivity, and hope in people’s lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||For Modi to be PM in 2024, Yogi must win as UP CM in 2022: Shah||Scotching speculation over the BJP's chief ministerial face in the coming UP assembly elections, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said Yogi Adityanath has to become CM in 2022 for Narendra Modi to be sworn in as the prime minister again in 2024.  The Union Home Minister made the decisive remark at a function while kickstarting the BJP's membership expansion drive here at the Defence Expo Ground and addressing the BJP's Shakti Kendra conveners and in-charges of the Awadh region.  On the occasion, the former BJP president also unveiled a slogan Mera Parivar, BJP Parivar amid the party consistently dubbing its rivals and opposition parties as "family-run parties".  When Modi Ji is the prime minister, he gives all that is required by Uttar Pradesh. The foundation of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, which has to be won under the leadership of Modi Ji, will be laid in the 2022 assembly elections here, the Union Home Minister said.  Modi Ji has to be made the Prime Minister in 2024 and (for that) Yogi Ji will have to be made the UP chief minister once again in 2022, he said.  Terming the upcoming polls as elections meant to make Bharat Mata a 'Vishwa Guru' (world leader), Shah said after Deepawali, the electioneering will gain momentum and exhorted party men to work dedicatedly for it.  When the BJP men come out and walk with the lotus flag and its slogans, the opposition parties start feeling threatened, he said, further exhorting the party men to aim at winning more than 300 seats in the upcoming UP assembly polls.  Pointing out that the BJP's membership expansion drives were started earlier before the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, Shah said the membership campaign before the 2022 elections is being launched on Friday.  Recalling the glorious past of the state, Shah said since the Mughal rule till the BJP came to power in 2017 with a full majority, it never appeared that Uttar Pradesh is the land of Baba Vishwanath, Lord Ram and Lord Krishna.  He emphasised that the BJP worked for getting the right recognition due to the state and took it ahead to empower it further.  The BJP has proved for the first time that the governments are formed not for the family but for the poorest of the poor in the state, he said, taking a dig at various opposition parties.  Attacking opposition parties and leaders, especially Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his poll-related activities, Shah said after the drums of elections were sounded, those sitting at home have come out in new clothes to show that their government is going to be formed .  "I ask Akhilesh (Yadav) to give an account for how many days he stayed abroad in five years, give the account to the people of UP," he said.  "These people ruled for themselves, for their families and if they had any broader thinking, for their caste men but never for anyone else, Shah further taunted.  Recalling the 1990 police firing at Kar Sevaks in Ayodhya during the Mulayam Singh Yadav regime, Shah said these people in 2014, 2017 and 2019, mocked the BJP with their slogans mandir wahin banayenge, par tithi nahi batayenge (Will build the temple there but won't tell the date when it will start) .  But the foundation stone for a grand Lord Ram Lala temple has already been laid in Ayodhya today and the construction work is on in full swing, he thundered.  Under the guidance of Modi Ji, Yogi Ji has run the government for the poor, women, youth and the unemployed, he stressed, lauding the working of the Yogi government.  Shah also attacked Gandhi and Vadra families along with the SP and BSP.  The former BJP president was welcomed by prominent leaders and ministers including Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport Lucknow on his arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs: HC directs Aryan Khan to execute personal bond of Rs one lakh for bail||The Bombay High Court on Friday said Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs one lakh with one or two sureties of the same amount. A copy of the five-page operative order was signed by Justice N W Sambre on Friday afternoon. This would help Aryan Khan's advocates to secure his release from the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai, where he is lodged, by evening. Aryan Khan's advocates will now take the certified copy of the HC order to the special court that is hearing the cases related to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, along with the requisite documents and sureties. After verification, the special court will issue the release papers which would be handed over to the Arthur Road prison to secure Aryan Khan's release. In its order, the high court has imposed 14 conditions on Aryan Khan and co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre had on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The high court had said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh a well-orchestrated conspiracy, claims RSS||The RSS on Friday said that the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja festivities was a "well-orchestrated" conspiracy to uproot minorities and called upon the Government of India to communicate to its neighbour, the global Hindu concern and ensure Dhaka stops the attacks on minorities. Briefing the media about the resolution passed in the three-day all India Executive Committee meeting of the RSS here, its Joint General Secretary Arun Kumar said the Sangh demands the Bangladesh government should act tough against elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. The three-day Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak of the RSS went underway here from Thursday. "The attack on Hindus in Bangladesh is a well-orchestrated conspiracy to exterminate and uproot minorities. The objective of the attack was to create religious clashes through fake news," Kumar said, referring to the resolution. The Centre should open all its diplomatic channels with Bangladesh to communicate the global Hindu concern and ask the government there to stop attacks on Hindus and Buddhists, the outfit urged. It also urged the Bangladesh government to act tough against such elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. Further, the 'silence' of the United Nations and other human rights organisations on the issue "displays their double standards," it alleged. RSS resolved it wants the perpetrators to be punished so that Hindus, Buddhists and other minorities lead their life with dignity and peace in the neighbouring country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Leander Paes, Nafisa Ali join Trinamul Congress in Goa||Tennis veteran Leander Paes on Friday joined the Trinamul Congress in presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee here. Senior actor and activist Nafisa Ali, who contested the 2004 Lok Sabha elections from South Kolkata against Banerjee, also joined the party. Banerjee, who is in the coastal state on a three-day visit, welcomed Paes into the party fold. The Trinamul Congress supremo told her party workers in poll-bound Goa that the BJP calls her "anti-Hindu" although it has no authority to give a "character certificate" to her, and added that the initial letters in her party's name - TMC - also stand for temple, mosque and church. The West Bengal chief minister, who arrived in Goa on Thursday evening as part of her three-day visit to the BJP-ruled state, also said her party wants to fight elections here not to divide votes but to make the coastal state "strong and self-sufficient" and asserted that the state will not be run from Delhi. She said her party doesn't divide people on religious lines even if they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians. The TMC has announced its decision to contest all 40 Assembly seats in Goa in the upcoming polls and started inducting several local leaders into its fold. Banerjee's tour is being seen as an attempt by her to gauge political mood in the state ahead of the Assembly polls slated in early 2022. During her maiden interaction with the TMC leaders in Goa, Banerjee accused the BJP of defacing her posters in the state and said people of India will deface the saffron party. "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You will be defaced from India," she said. "You deface us (our posters), show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will due but will never compromise," she said while targeting the ruling BJP in Goa. Banerjee said that if the TMC comes to power in Goa, it will not work with the agenda of revenge, but work for the state. Listing out various welfare schemes rolled out by her government in her home state, she said if the TMC can do it in West Bengal, the it can also do it the small state of Goa. "I will be happy to do it. I am not going to be the chief minister of Goa, but I will see that there is policy, mechanism and no corruption in the government," she said. Banerjee said the TMC is a national party and it can go anywhere. "We will work for Goa in a strong manner. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," she said. She said the initial three letters in her party's name TMC also stand for temple, mosque and church. "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," the 66-year-old leader said. Stating that the TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religions - be they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians, Banerjee said, "We unite people." She narrated how she has been associated with the all the religions by way of festivals and rituals. Recalling her stint as a Union minister earlier, the TMC chief said she has travelled the country. "I know India very well," she said. Calling the TMC a transparent party, she said, "If you trust us, the party will give its fullest to back to you...Goa will not be run from Delhi." Banerjee said her party wants to make Goa strong and self-sufficient and also protect the state's cultural heritage. Referring to the Congress, she said the party has contested elections for 60-70 years. "Last time (in 2017 Goa polls), you (Congress) allowed the BJP to form the government. They may repeat the same thing. How can we trust them? TMC is ready to give their blood for Goa, but it will not compromise with BJP," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||We trust Indian industry, says WHO official on Covaxin EUL||India's Bharat Biotech has been submitting data on the EUL of Covaxin regularly and very quickly to a technical committee which hopes to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week, a top official of the global health agency said on Thursday, stressing that the UN body "trusts" the Indian industry that manufactures high quality vaccines. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the World Health Organisation on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). A technical advisory group of the UN health agency which met on Tuesday has sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to conduct a final risk-benefit assessment for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. "Let me say that Bharat has been submitting data regularly and very quickly, but they submitted the last batch of data on the 18th of October, Dr Mariangela Simao, Assistant Director General, Access to Medicines and Health Products at WHO, said at a press briefing in Geneva. She was responding to a question on the delay in granting the Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin while Chinese vaccines Sinopharm and Sinovac were given approval even with lack of data. Simao said that when the technical advisory group met on October 26 to discuss the EUL for Covaxin, they asked Bharat Biotech for additional clarifications. The technical advisory group will reconvene on November 2 for the final risk-benefit assessment of Covaxin EUL. She said WHO is in touch with Bharat Biotech and has "daily conversations and calls and meetings clarifying what additional data needs" to be submitted to the technical expert group. "Let me just clarify and without wanting to mention any specific manufacturer but saying that we have assessed an Indian manufacturer earlier in the year and it took 30 days, she said, a reference to the Serum Institute of India which manufactures the AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine. "So this is not about moving quicker with one or another vaccine We really trust the Indian industry. India produces different majority of vaccines in the world, high quality vaccines. We are right now at the last stage of the assessment by this external advisory group and we hope to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week. I hope that's well understood. She said that it is important to highlight that the process that WHO uses for issuing the Emergency Use Listing is a very transparent process and there are no secrets involved except for any confidential information. "Everything else, the procedures that WHO uses, are independent of which country is manufacturing the vaccine," she said, adding that the process is based on the best international standards available. Simao also noted that sometimes WHO needs to inspect the manufacturer, if it hasn't done an inspection in the recent term. "It wasn't the case of Bharat. We did not need to inspect Bharat, she said, adding that once the manufacturer has completed submitting all the data to WHO, it is put through for assessment by an external Technical Advisory Group, which comprises experts from six different nationalities and they look at all the data that has been collected by WHO, provided by the manufacturer in recommend the Emergency Use Listing. She noted that in the case of the two Chinese vaccines also, the group had asked for additional clarifications and the entire process was followed to assess the Chinese vaccines. One of the Chinese vaccines was issued Emergency Use Listing one month after the first technical advisory group meeting, while the second vaccine was given EUL after six weeks, she said. Simao noted that at the moment, including Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, WHO is assessing eight vaccine candidates. She said Bharat Biotech started the rolling submission on July 6. We are treating this as a very urgent matter and we have teams working seven by seven on the topic. Responding to the Covaxin question, Dr Bruce Aylward, Senior Advisor to WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said that in the stressful situation we are all working under in this pandemic, it is so important that we're accurate in the information that we use and that we share. And we just want to highlight, be on the record, that there were a number of inaccuracies in the way the issue was presented. He added that the actual information about the EUL dates, the process is all available transparently on the WHO website. We're committed at the organisation from the very top under the Director General to move these processes as rapidly as possible. But let's be very clear, the timeline for EULing a vaccine depends 99% on manufacturers, the speed, the completeness with which they can get data to the independent groups that assesses for WHO. We just want to be very, very clear on that point. Aylward added that WHO's job is to save as many lives as possible and as fast as possible. This includes ensuring no product lies unused. While the organisation does everything, he said, we need manufacturers, the regulator agencies, others we work with to make sure they have the information they need to make those determinations. We need to make sure the products are safe and effective and produced to the right quality. And that takes a little bit of time, but it's in the interest of global safety. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said that one of the reasons for the high amount of stress that people who've received vaccines which are not yet approved, either by WHO or by any of the other main stringent regulatory agencies, is because of restrictions in travel that have been imposed. She reiterated that the emergency committee that reviews the International Health Regulations met again last week and underlined their previous recommendations that countries should not use vaccination status or selective vaccination status as the sole criteria for entry for travel. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Railway Ministry withdraws decision on sharing IRCTC convenience fee||The Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw its decision on sharing of convenience fee earned by IRCTC on online bookings of train tickets, DIPAM Secretary said on Friday. "Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw the decision on IRCTC convenience fee," DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The Indian Railways Catering and Transportation Corporation (IRCTC) on Thursday said that the Ministry of Railways has asked it to share 50 per cent of its revenue earned as a convenience fee from bookings on its website with the national transporter. Convenience fees charged from customers generated a sizable revenue for IRCTC. The fee is not part of the rail fare. It is for the service of online ticket booking offered by the IRCTC. Shares of IRCTC on Friday tanked nearly 10 per cent in opening trade to Rs 822.40 apiece. It recovered some ground after the government decided to withdraw its decision on IRCTC convenience fee and was trading at 887.35, down 2.89 per cent on the BSE. IRCTC listed on the stock exchanges on October 14, 2019 at Rs 644 a piece after selling shares at Rs 320 apiece in an initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Barricades at Ghazipur farmers' protest site being removed||The Delhi Police on Friday started removing the barricades and concertina wires it had put in place at the anti-farm laws protest site at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up last year, and further strengthened after the January 26 violence this year during the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said Friday, "The process of removing barricades on NH-9 has been started. The temporarily barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, the National Highway 24 was already opened for the traffic." The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and interiors of Uttar Pradesh to Meerut and beyond. Police officials and labourers were also seen removing iron nails that were studded on the NH9 at Ghazipur, where hundreds of protesters, chiefly belonging to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), have been occupying a road stretch since November 2020. The BKU is a participant of the anti-farm laws movement spearheaded by farmers collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The removal of barricades comes after the October 21 Supreme Court direction that called for unblocking of roads which have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. While the protesting farmers have been claiming that the three laws enacted last year are against their interest, the Centre has been saying these legislations are pro-farmer. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the three borders points --- Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur --- protesting the Centre's three farm laws since November 26, 2020. About the removal of blockades at the Tikri Border on Thursday night, a senior police officer had said some layers of barricades that were placed by the police have been removed. The Supreme Court on October 21 had said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's lawyers await HC order copy on his bail to secure his release||Even as the Bombay High Court has granted bail to actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in a drugs-on-cruise case, his lawyers will have to wait till they get the high court's operative order for taking further steps towards securing his release from jail. Once the high court gives the order copy on Aryan Khan's bail, his lawyers will have to take it to a special court hearing the NDPS cases along with other necessary documents, like sureties. The special court will then issue the release papers, which will have to be submitted to the jail superintendent by 6 pm to secure his release this evening. In case of any delay in the procedure, Aryan Khan will have to spend one more night at the Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai, where he is currently lodged, and could be released on Saturday. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The HC also granted bail to his co-accused and his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The high court had said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde on Friday said they are ready with all the requisite documents, including the sureties, and are waiting for the order copy from the high court. "We are prepared with our sureties. We are hoping to get the order copy from HC today. Once we receive it, we will submit the same along with all the necessary documents to the special NDPS court, Maneshinde told PTI. The NDPS court once satisfied with the sureties and other papers shall issue release papers which shall then be submitted to the jail, he added. "We hope to do it by this evening itself so that we can get Aryan Khan out of jail," Maneshinde said. As per the procedure laid down, if the formalities, which include submission of sureties, are complete and the release papers are submitted to the jail Superintendent by 6 pm, then the accused would be released on that day. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 and were booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment to commit an offence. Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison since October 8 after they were sent to judicial custody. Dhamecha has been lodged at the Byculla women's prison since October 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 805 casualties in a day||With 14,348 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,46,157, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,334, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,191 with 805 fresh fatalities, including 708 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths in the past few days, ministry officials said. Of the 708 deaths, 56 were reported in the last few days, 542 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 110 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Thursday. The ministry said that daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 35 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 124 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, it said. An increase of 345 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,27,632, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.12 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 35 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 104.82 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,57,191 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,134 from Maharashtra, 38,054 from Karnataka, 36,072 from Tamil Nadu, 30,685 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,105 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Modi arrives in Italy to attend G20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived here in Italy to participate in the G20 Summit where he will join other leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from COVID-19, sustainable development and climate change. Landed in Rome to take part in the @g20org Summit, an important forum to deliberate on key global issues. I also look forward to other programmes through this visit to Rome, Modi said on Twitter soon after landing here. The Ministry of external Affairs (MEA) said in a statement that Prime Minister Modi arrived here for his visit to attend the 16th G-20 Summit. Prime Minister was received by senior officials of the Government of Italy and Ambassador of India in Italy, it said. MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter that Modi arrived to a warm welcome. Arrivo a Roma! PM @narendramodi arrives to a warm welcome in the Eternal City. Looking forward to extensive engagements in bilateral and multilateral formats, Bagchi said in a tweet. In his departure statement on Thursday, Modi said he will be visiting Rome and the Vatican City from October 29-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, following which he will travel to Glasgow, the UK, from November 1-2 at the invitation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "In Rome, I will attend the 16th G20 Leaders' Summit, where I will join other G20 leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change," Modi said, noting this will be the first in-person summit of the G20 since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Modi said the meeting will allow the G20 to take stock of the current global situation and exchange ideas on how the grouping can be an engine for strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively and sustainably from the pandemic. "During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City, to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin," Modi said on Thursday. The prime minister said on the sidelines of the G20 Summit he will also meet with leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. There would also be various bilateral and community-related programmes during this visit, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Viond Rai apologises to Sanjay Nirupam over allegation||Vinod Rai, whose CAG reports on the 2G and coal-block allocation underlay portrayals of the UPA-II government as corrupt in its last years, has apologised to former MP Sanjay Nirupam for falsely accusing him of mounting pressure to remove Manmohan Singh’s name from one of the reports. The former CAG’s unconditional apology on Thursday, offered in a defamation case, prompted the Congress to describe Rai as a “fraud” and wonder what else he would have “lied” about in connection with the telecom and coal controversies that played a key role in discrediting the UPA-II and pitch-forking Narendra Modi to power at the Centre. Former Union coal secretary Anil Swarup asked whether Rai didn’t owe the country an apology “for his wrong calculations and going to town with them causing havoc in both the sectors”. After the Modi government came to power, it appointed Rai chairman of the Banks Board Bureau. He held the post from 2016 to 2018. Nirupam had filed a defamation case against Rai for alleging in interviews that the former Congress MP from Mumbai had pressured the CAG to drop then Prime Minister Manmohan’s name from the coal report. On Thursday, Nirupam said in a video message: “Rai has filed an affidavit apologising for the false charge and the court has accepted that apology. I had told Rai at that time that he was making a false allegation but he didn’t agree. But the real issue is that his 2G report was a farce. He should apologise to the nation for that fake report.” Rai’s affidavit said: “That I made certain statements against Sanjay Nirupam, particularly in 2014 in the interview given by me to Arnab Goswami with Times Now channel which was published in The Times of India and The Indian Express newspapers and an interview to Sagarika Ghose and also two other publications, subsequent to the launch of my book Not Just an Accountant: The Diary of the Nation’s Conscience Keeper.” Rai’s affidavit added: “That I have realised that in answer to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs who pressurised me to keep the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on 2G spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC or the sidelines of JPC.” The affidavit said: “That the statements made by me against Sanjay Nirupam, as televised and published, as above stated, are factually incorrect.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera tweeted in Hindi: “Vinod Rai is a fraud. Imagine the lies this man would have written in his book and in the CAG reports if he lied about Sanjay Nirupam to sell his book and then tendered an unconditional apology.” Rai could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts by this newspaper on Thursday evening. As head of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India between 2008 and 2013, Rai had alleged the country had lost Rs 1.76 lakh crore and Rs 1.84 lakh crore, respectively, because of corruption in the allocation of 2G spectrum and coal blocks. While the UPA-II government contested the charges of corruption as well as the figures, Rai’s reports left its credibility in tatters, especially amid an anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare. The BJP used the reports to accuse the UPA of looting the country. But a Delhi court in 2017 acquitted all the 2G accused, a decision that has been challenged in high court. The CBI chargesheet had alleged losses of Rs 31,000 crore — about a sixth of what the CAG had calculated. The coal-block case is still in the trial court. Congress leaders underlined that what Rai had alleged against Nirupam were not off-the-cuff remarks and that he had repeated the accusation many times. They alleged Rai was working to a plan at somebody’s behest. Posting a copy of Rai’s affidavit, former coal secretary Swarup tweeted: “This is an unconditional apology issued by Mr Vinod Rai to Sanjay Nirupam for false allegations against him in the alleged Coal & 2G scam cases. Doesn’t he owe an apology to the nation for his wrong calculations & going to town with them causing havoc in both the sectors?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The truth stands vindicated. The blatant lies to defame Manmohan Singh and Congress-led UPA stands exposed with this affidavit. Kudos to Sanjay Nirupam for his persistence. Shouldn’t the news channels apologise too? Shouldn’t Vinod Rai now resign from public office?” Rai is currently chairman of the UN panel of external auditors and an honorary adviser to the railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Pegasus panel India’s internal affair: Israel||Israel’s ambassador to India on Thursday said his country allowed companies like the NSO Group, which created the Pegasus spyware, to sell their technology only to governments but refused to be drawn into commenting on its alleged use here on the premise that it was India’s internal matter. Ambassador Naor Gilon was responding to questions related to Pegasus during his first media conference in New Delhi after presenting his credentials to the President on Tuesday. Gilon was asked if the Indian government had contacted the Israeli government or the embassy regarding the use of the spyware in India, and whether the mission would work with the Supreme Court-appointed probe committee if its assistance was sought. “NSO is a private Israeli company. I was dealing with it in the past,” he said. Gilon added: “Every export of NSO or such companies needs an export licence of the Israeli government. We grant this export licence only (for) exporting to governments.… They cannot sell to non-governmental organisations. What’s happening in India is really the internal thing of India and I would rather not go into your internal affairs.” Israel has all along maintained that the Pegasus software is sold only to governments. Gilon’s remarks came a day after the apex court appointed a committee helmed by a former Supreme Court judge and including technical experts to examine allegations that the Narendra Modi government had used the Pegasus spyware to snoop on citizens. Israel too is probing allegations against the NSO Group’s controversial Pegasus phone surveillance software after Amnesty International and the Paris-based Forbidden Stories released a list of 50,000 potential targets across the world. Several other countries have initiated their own inquiries into the purported spy scandal that first came to light in 2019. Pegasus apart, Gilon dwelt at length on external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s recent visit to Israel where he participated in the first meeting of a new Tel Aviv-led initiative for cooperation in infrastructure development among Israel, India, the UAE and the US. The Israeli ambassador described the new grouping — called the Middle-East Quad by certain quarters in India — as an offspring of the Abraham Accords but was categorical in maintaining that there was no military element to this new forum. The Abraham Accords marked the normalisation of relations between Israel and the UAE. Maintaining that ties between India and Israel are in a good place despite diametrically opposite positions on Iran — which Tel Aviv considers its main enemy — Gilon said both countries had learnt to work around this difference in opinion. “On most issues facing the world, we (India and Israel) have similar positions,” the ambassador said. On Iran, he said: “We are very much aware of India’s position. Each country puts forward its own interests and concerns. We are very clear about Iran. India spoke about its interests. Over time, we will see how it plays out. Friends work to make it more adjustable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||J&K: Authorities allot land at eight places to CRPF to build camps||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday allotted land at eight places in south Kashmir to the CRPF to build permanent camps for personnel and their families, triggering fears that the force was establishing permanent enclaves in the Valley. A government spokesperson said the administrative council chaired by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had approved the transfer of 524 kanals or 65 acres in favour of the CRPF in Anantnag, Pulwama and Shopian for establishing “battalion camping sites”. “This will provide for safe and proper accommodation for CRPF personnel and their families,” the spokesperson said. Officials said the CRPF already had “a few” permanent camps in Kashmir, set up decades ago, along with numerous temporary camps. But this is the first time in years the force has been given large tracts of land permanently, and the bulk transfer, coupled with the changed situation, has deepened people’s suspicions. With Article 370 diluted and land laws amended to allow any Indian to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir, residents have been sniffing a government plot to settle outsiders and change the demography of the Muslim-majority Valley. CRPF spokesperson Junaid Khan denied that individual officers or jawans from the paramilitary force would get proprietary rights over the land, stressing that ownership would lie with the force. “We have a few camps here on a permanent basis, such as at Awantipora (Pulwama) or Panthachowk (Srinagar). But the IGs’ (inspectors-general of the CRPF) office in Nishat is in a rented building,” Khan said. Khan added: “The new camps will be under the ownership of the CRPF. In the permanent camps, we can undertake construction.” Officials said the permanent camps would be set up in the villages of Brah, Jummo and Bhanpahari in Anantnag; Allowpora-Sheikhpora and Zawoora-Baderhama in Shopian; and Oukhoo, Kadlabal and Koil in Pulwama. “They (CRPF men) are now mostly deployed in rented accommodations like hotels or at government buildings,” an official said. A People’s Democratic Party leader said that elected governments had been averse to handing over permanent camping sites to the forces. “But they (the government) are now free to do anything they like (after the scrapping of the special status in 2019). Such measures will further alienate people and strengthen the notion that the government is bent on changing Kashmir’s demography,” he said. A government statement said: “The land will be transferred against the payment as per the stamp duty rates notified for the year, 2021.” In a separate order, the administrative council extended relief under the Service Recruitment Rule 43 to the next of kin of non-resident victims of recent militant violence. Militants recently killed several migrants, whose families are now entitled to government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir on compassionate grounds Such employment was previously available only to local people, with most government jobs reserved for permanent residents under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan gets bail after 25 days||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was on Thursday granted bail by Bombay High Court, 25 days after his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau following an alleged drugs haul from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. However, Aryan is unlikely to walk out of Arthur Road jail immediately as the court is yet to pronounce its operative order on the bail conditions. A single bench of Justice N.W. Sambre also granted bail to co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. “All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening,” Justice Sambre said when Aryan’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan’s advocates sought permission to submit cash bail, which the court refused and said surety had to be given. “I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today,” Justice Sambre said. The legal team of Aryan, 23, will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday. Justice Sambre said he would pass a detailed order assigning reasons later. Additional solicitor-general (ASG) Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, commenced his arguments at 2.58pm and completed a little after 4.10pm. Then Rohatgi, a former attorney-general, started his rejoinder arguments that went on for about 15 minutes. Justice Sambre interjected abruptly, tossing the case-related papers towards his staff and saying: “All three applications are allowed.” While hearing the NCB’s arguments, Justice Sambre sought to know on what basis the agency was saying that Aryan had dealt with a commercial quantity of drugs. Singh replied that Aryan had made an attempt to deal with a commercial quantity. “WhatsApp chats show this. The NCB has also obtained a certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act to authenticate that the electronic evidence has been collected from the accused’s phone,” he said. Singh argued that the NCB had got “secret information” that around 11 people were going to consume drugs on the cruise, which was raided by the central agency on October 2. “At the time of the raid, out of the 11 people, eight were apprehended and most of them were found with drugs. This cannot be a coincidence. This is why the NCB is saying it is a conspiracy,” Singh said. The court asked if the NCB’s case was that of cumulative effect. Singh agreed: “Aryan Khan and Merchant are connected with drug peddlers and hence cumulative effect attracts Sections 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act.” Aryan, his friend Arbaaz and model Munmun were booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Rohatgi said conspiracy meant there had to be a “meeting of minds”. “Aryan does not know any of the other accused in the case except Arbaaz Merchant. There is absolutely no material to show conspiracy,” he argued. So far, 20 people have been arrested. Singh said Aryan and Arbaaz were habitual consumers of drugs. “Our record shows that Aryan Khan has been procuring drugs in bulk and commercial quantities. These are hard drugs. He (Aryan) has been in contact with drug peddlers,” the ASG argued. “There is a chance of tampering with evidence or witnesses in the case. This is NCB’s apprehension based on the affidavit filed by one independent witness in the case,” Singh said. He opposed Aryan’s argument that there was no drug recovery from him and said there was conscious possession as he was aware that Arbaaz was carrying charas that was meant for consumption during the journey to Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||97% people in Delhi have antibodies against Covid: Health Minister||The sixth serological survey has found that 97 percent people in Delhi have developed antibodies against coronavirus, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday.  All districts in the capital have a seroprevalence of more than 93 percent. Four districts south, central, northeast and east have recorded a seropositivity rate of 99 percent, 99.5 percent, 99.7 percent and 99.8 percent, respectively.  The minister also said only experts can tell whether Delhi has achieved herd immunity.  "We cannot say exactly if Delhi has achieved herd immunity because there are no studies or data to show that the virus won't spread after a certain percentage of population is affected," according to an official.  "However, the same variant of the virus (Delta) cannot lead to a major epidemic. So, we can say there won't be another wave of coronavirus as big as the fourth wave until a new severe variant emerges," the official said.  "Women (90.1 percent) have a higher seropositivity rate than men (88.2 percent). Those aged below 18 have a seropositivity rate of 88 per cent," Jain told reporters here.  "The sero survey has given a positive result. Almost all vaccinated people (with a history of infection) in Delhi have antibodies against COVID-19," the minister said.  Ninety-five percent of the vaccinated people who have a history of COVID-19 infection have developed antibodies as compared to 82 per cent unvaccinated ones.  According to data from CoWin app, over 2.03 crore vaccine doses have been administered in Delhi since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. Over 73 lakh people have received both doses.  Around 1.5 crore people are eligible for COVID-19 vaccination in Delhi.  The Delhi government had started collecting samples under the sixth serological survey last month to find out the percentage of the population that has antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infections or vaccination.  A total of 28,000 samples 100 from each ward were collected during the survey.  This is the first survey to be done after Delhi was hit by a brutal second wave of the Covid pandemic in April and May. The fifth round of sero survey conducted in January had shown that 56.13 per cent of the people in Delhi had developed antibodies against COVID-19.  The first sero-survey conducted in June 2020 showed only 22.86 percent positivity, the second survey conducted in August last year depicted 29.1 percent positivity.  The third sero-survey in September showed 25.1 percent positivity, the fourth in October found 25.5 percent of the population had antibodies.  In April and May, Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives with oxygen shortage and reduced supplies of essential drugs at hospitals adding to the woes.  On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Single jab can protect women from HPV infections in cervical cancer||A long-awaited study from India has found that a single dose of a vaccine against the human papilloma virus can protect women as effectively as two or three doses from HPV infections implicated in cervical cancer. The single dose vaccine efficacy was over 90 per cent and similar to the efficacy with two or three doses, researchers from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in France and collaborators from multiple Indian institutions said. The researchers said their findings could enhance the affordability of this high-cost vaccine, which the Centre has not yet included in its free immunisation programme. “Our findings may lead to a single-dose recommendation for the vaccine, which would reduce procurement cost by half,” Partha Basu, the head of the IARC’s early detection and prevention section who supervised the India study, told The Telegraph. The three-dose HPV vaccine has been available for over a decade in India’s private healthcare market where, doctors say, it is priced at about Rs 3,500 per dose. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) — an expert panel that advises the Centre on vaccines — had in December 2017 recommended the nationwide introduction of the HPV vaccine to address India’s high burden of cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among women in India after breast cancer. Studies have suggested an incidence of over 90,000 new cervical cancer cases and 60,000 deaths every year. But the Centre has not been able to accept the NTAGI recommendation primarily because of the vaccine’s high cost, health experts said. The India study is the world’s largest to assess a single dose and became possible because the government a decade ago stopped a clinical trial of HPV vaccines midway after two volunteer-recipients died from unrelated causes. Some adolescent girls had received only a single dose, while others had received two or three doses, when the trial stopped. This allowed researchers to continue observing the girls over the years. The vaccine generates long-term immunity against HPV, a sexually transmitted virus implicated in cervical cancer. Two types — HPV 16 and HPV 18 — account for over 70 per cent of cervical cancers. “Many of the adolescent girls who were part of the trial are now married — this allowed us to compare the effects of single dose versus two and three doses,” said Usha Rani Poli, a gynaecologist-oncologist with the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, and a member of the study team. The researchers found that the vaccine efficacy of a single dose against persistent HPV infections — a risk factor for cervical cancer — was 95.4 per cent, very close to efficacy levels of 93.1 per cent with two doses and 93.3 per cent with three doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Pune police arrest K.P. Gosav in connection with 2018 cheating case||Pune police on Thursday arrested K.P. Gosavi, the self-styled detective who has been cited as an “independent witness” by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case, in connection with a cheating case in 2018. Gosavi, against whom a lookout notice was issued by Mumbai police earlier in connection with the cheating case, had said he wanted to surrender to Uttar Pradesh police as he felt “threatened” in Maharashtra. Lucknow police had said he could not surrender before them as the case belonged to Mumbai police. “Gosavi has been arrested in a 2018 cheating case. He had swindled a youth out of several lakhs on the pretext of providing him a job. Gosavi is named as an accused in three more cases of cheating in Mumbai,” a police officer in the city said. Gosavi, who claims to be a private detective agent on his Facebook profile, was apparently present during the cruise ship raid on the night of October 2. He was seen in a photo clicking a selfie with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan at the NCB office after Aryan had been taken there from the ship. Several politicians in the Maharashtra government have questioned why an “independent witness” of the agency should be present during the raid and at its office and take selfies with the “accused”. Last week, Prabhakar Raghoji Sail, who claims to be the personal bodyguard of Gosavi and is another independent witness in the case, had in a notarised affidavit alleged a move to seek a bribe of Rs 25 crore. Sail had said that shortly after the raid, he heard Gosavi speak over the phone to a man named Sam D’Souza about paying Rs 8 crore to NCB officer Sameer Wankhede, who led the raid. Sail claimed that after Aryan’s detention on October 2, he was called to the NCB office by Wankhede and asked to sign as a panch (witness) on 10 blank sheets of paper. Wankhede The Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday that it would not arrest NCB zonal director Wankhede in connection with allegations of extortion and corruption levelled against him without giving him a prior notice of three working days. Wankhede on Thursday moved Bombay High Court seeking interim protection from arrest or any coercive action against him. He sought an urgent hearing of his plea challenging the Mumbai police’s decision to form a four-member team to investigate the allegations of extortion and corruption against him. The Maharashtra government initially opposed the plea, but subsequently chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai assured the court that it would give prior notice of arrest to Wankhede. The NCB had earlier ordered a vigilance probe after Sail alleged that he had overheard plans for a demand for bribe, of which Rs 8 crore was to be paid to Wankhede. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has also levelled serious charges against Wankhede, including the use of a fake certificate to get a Indian Revenue Service job under the Scheduled Caste quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Vigilance officers find assets worth Rs 5 cr owned by dismissed cop||Vigilance officers on Thursday found properties worth several crores of rupees owned by a dismissed Odisha police constable accused of amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. Sources said the raids conducted at several places had revealed so far that Prasanna Kumar Behera possessed properties valued at over Rs 5 crore. Behera was dismissed from service for allegedly running a bar at a hotel in Bhubaneswar without a valid licence. The offence came to light after the murder of 30-year-old businessman Manish Anurag Das. Manish’s body was recovered from a pond on October 10 after he had visited the bar run by Behera late on the night of October 9. Following an inquiry, it was found that Behera remained in the bar and the bar continued to run till midnight in violation of Covid restrictions. Behera, who was the president of Havildar and Constable Association, was dismissed from service on October 24. He was arrested on October 23. After allegations surfaced that Behera had amassed huge properties, the vigilance sleuths raided his house and business establishments on Thursday. According to the vigilance media release, Behera owns a furniture showroom at Dumduma on a 0.250 acre plot. It had been registered in 2019 at a consideration value of Rs 1.47 crore. The actual market value is much higher, officials said. The approximate cost of the showroom is over Rs 2 crore, they said. The vigilance technical wing has roped in professional furniture manufacturers for the valuation of costly items displayed in the showroom. Officers found that even his residential quarters at Kalpana Square had illegal construction of eight more rooms (three bedrooms, one drawing room, dining room, a kitchen, one puja room and one bathroom). The vigilance technical wing are carrying out measurements and valuations of the illegal constructions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Jammu: OT staff fired for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s T20 win||A medical college in Jammu’s Rajouri district on Thursday fired an employee for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s drubbing of India in the T20 World Cup match on Sunday. An order issued on Thursday by Government Medical College (Rajouri) principal Brij Mohan said he had terminated the services of an operation theatre technician over a WhatsApp status where she had apparently celebrated Pakistan’s victory. The principal said Safiya Majeed had been hired on an academic arrangement basis, which is a temporary appointment. “Whereas a viral video has come to the notice of undersigned from different media platforms and also from DySP (deputy SP, headquarters, Rajouri) who sent the same via WhatsApp in which Miss Safiya Majeed, OT technician,… seems to have posted her WhatsApp status showing celebration of defeat of the Indian cricket team against Pakistan in the T20 World Cup 2021, the activity which seems to be disloyalty towards nation,” the order reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Adityanath threatens with sedition law for celebrating Pak T20 win||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that the sedition law would be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan’s victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. So far, five persons have been taken into custody in the state for allegedly using indecent words against the Indian cricket team, according to police. “Those celebrating Pakistan’s victory will face sedition,” a tweet posted on the official handle of Adityanath’s office said. The maximum punishment for sedition is life imprisonment. A man from Budaun was arrested on sedition charges on Wednesday, senior superintendent of police O.P. Singh said. Niaz had posted the picture of the Pakistan flag and written objectionable comments in support of Pakistan on Facebook after the match, according to a complaint filed against him by Punit Shakya of the Hindu Jagran Manch. The SSP said Niaz posted a picture of Pakistan’s flag on his Facebook account with the caption: “I love you Pakistan, I miss you Pakistan, jeet mubarak Pakistan”. Niaz was booked for sedition and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act on Tuesday and sent to jail on Wednesday, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||India likely to be hit worst by climate change||India is likely to be among the G20 countries hit the worst by climate change, with its heat waves lengthening and economy ravaged, an international climate report released on Thursday says. India’s heat waves are likely to “last 25 times longer by 2036-2065” given a scale of a close to 4°C global temperature rise by century end — the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change’s worst-case emission scenario — says the G20 Climate Impacts Atlas. The heat waves will be “over five times longer (than the current average) if global temperature rise is constrained to about 2°C, and one-and-a-half times longer if emissions are very low and temperature rise only reaches 1.5°C”, adds the report, released ahead of the October 30-31 G20 summit in Rome. Climate scientist Anjal Prakash, who has written the India-specific part of the report, told The Telegraph that India’s situation was “real red”. He said that with about 54 per cent of India’s area being arid and “extremely prone to heat waves, India stands extremely vulnerable”. Prakash added that India’s cities are “sitting on a time bomb in terms of climate change” and urged the government to take immediate action. Subimal Ghosh, an IIT Mumbai professor and a lead author of the IPCC report, said “Indian cities like Calcutta, Delhi and others are extremely vulnerable in terms of both searing heat” and extreme rainfall events. He said the density of concrete constructions relative to greenery in Indian cities “does not help the cause”. Ghosh and Prakash said most Indian cities were warming up faster than the global average. The G20 report says global warming will increase the demand for water for agriculture while lowering its availability. It warns that “without any mitigation, climate change could severely undermine the development gains made in India in recent decades”. “In a moderate climate-change scenario, India is projected to potentially lose between 0.8 (per cent) and 2 per cent of its GDP by mid-century,” it says. “By the end of the century costs could double, reaching up to almost 10 per cent of the GDP (or 237 billion EUR) under a high emissions scenario.” A senior official from the Union environment, forest and climate change ministry said: “The report is likely to push to the fore a global emissions cut agenda during the G20 summit, scheduled to be attended by several global leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” The report, prepared by a team of more than 40 scientists at the Euro-Mediterranean Centre on Climate Change, says climate change will have devastating impacts on every G20 member. “Climate impacts are already hitting the G20. Over the last 20 years, heat-related deaths have increased by at least 15 per cent in all G20 countries, while forest fires in the G20 have burnt an area one-and-a-half times the size of Canada. And if emissions keep rising, worse is to come,” the report warns. “The impacts of climate change will spiral to tear through the world’s richest economies within 30 years, without urgent action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions... from droughts, heat waves and sea-level rise, to dwindling food supplies and threats to tourism… no country is immune.” The G20 is a grouping that includes 19 countries and the European Union and works to address economic issues including those related to climate-change mitigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Kerala: SC grants bail to student arrested under UAPA two years ago||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Thwaha Fasal, an MA journalism student arrested in a terror case two years ago in Kerala for suspected Maoist links. While his family expressed relief, they demanded the CPM drop its ambivalence towards the anti-terror law UAPA, whose use against Fasal and a friend had earned Kerala’s Left government condemnation from rights activists. Kerala police had arrested Fasal and Allan Shuaib, a law student, in November 2019 under the UAPA after seizing what they suspected to be pro-Maoist pamphlets, books and diary notes from them. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the case. A Kochi NIA court granted bail to both students in September 2020 saying the agency had failed to establish even a prima facie case. Kerala High Court set aside Fasal’s bail in January this year while upholding Shuaib’s bail considering his mental health issues. While granting bail to Fasal, the Supreme Court dismissed the NIA’s appeal against Shuaib’s bail. Fasal’s elder brother Ijas Hassan, who had quit his CPM membership after his brother’s arrest, welcomed the apex court judgment. Asked to comment on the CPM opposing the UAPA elsewhere but using it in Kerala, he told The Telegraph he didn’t agree with the party “watering down its opposition to the UAPA” and would “speak more on this once the case is over”. Hassan said “certain members of the CPM and leaders of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League supported us in our legal fight”. Unable to continue his MA journalism course from jail, Fasal has been pursuing an MA in rural development from IGNOU. “I don’t know whether he will resume his journalism course after coming out. But he has lost two precious years,” Hassan said from his home in Kozhikode. Fasal’s mother Jameela told reporters: “This (bail) is like a second birth for my son.” Shuaib told a news channel that Thursday’s apex court decision was “a strong answer to many people”, apparently hinting at the Left Democratic Front government. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had in December 2019 defended the arrests, insisting the two youths were “Maoists and not CPM workers” as some reports had claimed. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan, who had campaigned against the arrests, hit out at the state government again on Thursday. “It was the state police that invoked the UAPA, which naturally brought in the NIA, and it was the state government that called them suspected Maoists,” he said. “Let’s not forget that eight suspected Maoists have been gunned down in three incidents in Kerala since the LDF came to power in 2016.” CPM state committee member P. Jayarajan defended Vijayan. “The chief minister had only stated the fact that they (Thwaha and Shuaib) have links with Maoists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
