30-10-2021||India||J&K: Two army personnel killed in mysterious blast while patrolling along Line of Control||An officer and a jawan of the army were killed in a mysterious blast near a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said.  The blast took place in Kalal area of Nowshera sector when an army column was on patrol duty as part of measures to check infiltration of terrorists from across the border, the officials said.  They said the two army personnel, including a lieutenant, were critically injured in the explosion and immediately evacuated to a nearby military hospital where they died later.  They said the area where the explosion took place is dotted with landmines planted by the army as part of the counter-infiltration arrangement.  The nature of the explosion was not immediately known, the officials said, without ruling out the possibility of the use of improvised explosive device (IED) by terrorists to target the patrol team.  Confirming the explosion, a defence spokesman said further details were awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi interacts with US President Joe Biden and other world leaders at G20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday interacted with world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, exchanging pleasantries and showcasing a spirit of camaraderie. In a series of photos tweeted by the PMO India, Prime Minister Modi is seen meeting Biden, French President Emmanuel Macron, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. "On the sidelines of the @g20org Rome Summit, PM @narendramodi interacts with various leaders," the PMO said in the tweet. In the pictures, Modi is seen walking with Biden in a half embrace, apparently sharing a light chitchat. The two leaders are seen happy to be in each other's company. Biden hosted Modi at the White House on September 24 for their first in-person meeting. In other photos, Modi is seen embracing Macron and engaged in an animated discussion with Trudeau and Johnson. Earlier, all the world leaders participating in the G20 Summit, including Modi, gathered for a "family photo". "World leaders meet in Rome for the @g20org Summit, an important multilateral forum for global good," the PMO said in another tweet. Prime Minister Modi on Saturday also met with French President Emmanuel Macron and the two leaders had "productive discussions" on the strategic bilateral ties and on a range of issues of mutual and global interests. Prime Minister Modi, who is here at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during his meeting with Macron. "Productive discussions between PM @narendramodi and President @EmmanuelMacron on the sidelines of the @g20org Summit. India and France are cooperating extensively in various sectors. Today's talks will add momentum to the bilateral ties between the two nations," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. The two leaders "discussed India-France cooperation on various subjects and reaffirmed their commitment to the Strategic Partnership, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. They also discussed global and regional developments, he added. The meeting comes more than a month after the two leaders held a telephonic conversation, amidst Paris' strong criticism of the AUKUS (Australia-UK-US) security partnership. During the telephonic conversation last month, the two leaders had agreed to "act jointly" in the Indo-Pacific to keep the region stable, rules-based and free from any hegemony. At the time, the two had reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region. They had vowed to maintain regular discussions to coordinate ahead of upcoming events, in particular the G20 and the COP26 on climate change, and continue with their joint actions against the COVID-19 pandemic. Ahead of Prime Minister Modi's visit to Rome, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that the G20 remains a valuable forum for India's engagement with major economies in the world and for setting the trends and norms for global economic development and recovery. The prime minister will be participating in the G20 Summit in Rome from October 30-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G20 since December last year. The G20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world's major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet. The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government. The Rome summit will be attended by heads of state and government of G20 member countries, the European Union, and other invited countries and several international organisations. The summit will be centred around the theme 'People, Planet, Prosperity, focussing on the areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening of global health governance. From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow on Sunday to attend the World Leader's summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh dismisses report of backend talks with Congress, says will launch own party soon||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of backend talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final.  Singh reiterated that he will soon launch his political party and said he wanted to build "a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab".  "Reports of backend talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I'm grateful to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now," tweeted Singh's media advisor quoting the former chief minister.  Singh was reacting to some media reports which suggested that some Congress leaders are engaged in backend talks to persuade him to remain in the party.  "I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India (BJP), breakaway Akali factions and others for the Punjab (assembly) elections in 2022 once farmers' issue is resolved. I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab and its farmers," Singh said.  Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points against three central farm laws, which were enacted in September last year, and are demanding these be repealed.  The former chief minister on Wednesday had said he would launch his new political party as and when the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol  He had also slammed the Congress while claiming that many people from the party are in touch with him.  Punjab goes to polls early next year.  Singh had earlier said that he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest.  He had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Climate: As world's 2nd largest coal user, India on global firing line||Coal and cars are the environment’s biggest enemies, says British MP Alok Sharma who’s president of the COP26 climate summit starting on Sunday. That automatically puts India on the global firing line because we’re the world’s second-largest coal user and in 2019 had 295 million vehicles plying on our roads. What’s more, we’re defying global pressure and refusing to set specific targets on reducing carbon dioxide emissions which is the main goal of COP26. That immediately makes us the bad guy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi can expect to have many world leaders grabbing his arm in the coming days and hoping to gently twist it. “China and India cast a pall over the opening of the COP26 summit in Glasgow when they rejected calls to set tough new climate change targets,” said the Financial Times. But India’s in a squeeze – and that revolves around soaring demand for electricity that will keep rising till the 2030s or possibly even the 2040s. About 80 per cent of coal burnt in this country is used by our thermal power stations. And 67 per cent of the electricity generated in this country comes from thermal power stations. Environment Secretary Rameshwar P. Gupta put it unapologetically and bluntly to the FT: “We depend on coal and we would like to continue.” Adds Partha Bhattacharya, former chairman and managing director, Coal India: “We need thermal power stations. We need to burn coal.” Obviously, that message is the last one anyone wants to hear in Glasgow. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on his way to the G-20 summit in Rome, spoke in apocalyptic terms. He warned that the human race was on the brink of catastrophe, and, like the Roman Empire, it could go into sudden decline. “Humanity, civilisation, society can go backwards as well as forwards…” he said, adding: “You saw that with the decline and fall of the Roman Empire, and I’m afraid to say that it’s true today that unless we get this right in tackling climate change, we could see our civilisation, our world also go backwards.” Incidentally, Johnson concedes that he wasn’t always a believer in climate change but is now convinced it could take us to the edge of disaster. Prime Minister Modi is already in Rome for the G-20 summit and will head directly to Glasgow from there. He has also met Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. The world’s top leaders are expected to do some hard bargaining on the environment in Rome before they head to Glasgow. It’s believed the British were extremely keen to have Modi in person at Glasgow. China’s President Xi Jinping, who hasn’t travelled abroad since the pandemic began, will only make a video appearance at Glasgow. India’s first line of defence at Glasgow will be that per capita or per person we emit only 1.7 tonnes of Co2. By comparison, Americans emit 15 tonnes per capita. Even the Chinese emit 7 tonnes per capita. But with our massive population, the total amount of greenhouse gases we release into the atmosphere is obviously huge. In 2018 China emitted 11.7 billion tonnes. The US came into second position with 5.8 billion tonnes and we came in third with 3.3 billion tonnes in 2018. India’s great problem is that demand for power is soaring and is likely to shoot even higher as industrialisation takes root. Also, domestic demand is shooting upwards with India’s middle-class stretching their budgets to buy air-conditioners and electrification also spreading to the remotest corners of the country. By contrast, demand has peaked in the West and is now rising only slowly. Scroll back to 2010-11 when India mined 532 million tonnes of coal. By 2019 that has soared to 730 million tonnes plus about 200 million tonnes of imported coal. Bhattacharya reckons that by 2030 India will be mining about 1.2 billion tonnes of coal. Other studies have worked out that demand could be far higher at between 1.3 billion to 1.9 billion tonnes by 2030. That could make for an awful lot of pollution in a country that has already become accustomed to a choking dust haze over cities like Delhi and much of north India. India’s already pushing its biggest selling point at Glasgow, which is that we have boosted the use of renewable energy in a big way and that is likely to grow in leaps and bounds in the coming decade. Bhattacharya reckons that by 2030 that we will add about 60 gigawatts of thermal power capacity (that’s about 60,000 megawatts). But that will be totally overshadowed by the 320 gigawatts of renewable energy (both wind and solar) we will be adding. As a result, only 50 per cent of our electricity will come from thermal energy. The catch there is that it will be 50 per cent of a far greater total. Glasgow’s COP26 has an added urgency this year because we’ve been experiencing a spate of extreme weather events. In India there have been floods in Uttarakhand and Kerala in the last month, at a time when the monsoon is usually in retreat. California has gone from forest fires to unseasonal heavy rains. There have even been forest fires in Canada which usually escapes such natural disasters. The general belief is that these extreme weather events are being caused by rising temperatures which are, in turn, caused by greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide (CO2). At the Paris COP 21 in 2015 it was agreed to limit greenhouse gas emissions so that temperatures would not rise more than 2C by end of the century. World leaders want to now bring temperature rise down to 1.5C. To do that, countries need to agree to the goal of net zero by 2050 – or a zero rise in greenhouse gas emissions. India argues this is impossible for us if we want to bring people out of poverty. To tell the truth, India has always been the grinch at the environmental party. Or, Banquo’s ghost hovering over the dinner-table while the rich supped and had their fill. Indira Gandhi was the person who laid out India’s position at Stockholm in 1972. Speaking at the very first Global Summit on the Human Environment, she uttered words that have always guided India’s environmental efforts: “We do not wish to impoverish the environment any further and yet we cannot for a moment forget the grim poverty of large numbers of people,” she said, adding: “Are not poverty and need the greatest polluters.” But we aren’t the only ones who haven’t signed on for net zero by 2050. China says it will be able to achieve this by 2060. India is in no position to make such a commitment even though we can see the deleterious impact of pollution in our cities. There are also murmurings that it is easy to make promises that have to be carried out by 2050 and none of today’s world leaders will be in office then. The Boston Consulting Group points to South Korea’s huge leap forward in the production of lithium-ion batteries and China which has captured the market for cheaper photovoltaic cells. These are both used for the production of cheaper renewable energy. There will be tense negotiations for the next 10 days at Glasgow and it’s certain that India will be at the forefront of all negotiations. Still there will be pressure to do more. And, indeed, we have a tough task ahead – we have to simultaneously beat poverty and also ensure that our air does not become unbreathable and our water too polluted to be used.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||IIM-C bags top rank in survey for business schools||The Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta (IIM-C) has bagged the top position in the 2021 edition of the Business Today-MDRA Best B-school survey. The survey saw a record 305 institutes participate in an exercise that took over three months. Last year's top-ranker IIM-Ahmedabad (IIMA) topped three of the five primary parameters this time -- learning experience, living experience and selection process, governance and establishment, while IIM-C topped in the other two -- placement performance and future orientation, according to a statement. "It was IIM-C's big score in future orientation that finally helped it topple the perennial favourite for the first time. In a close contest, IIM-C pipped IIM-A by a mere 0.1 points," it said. The third, fourth and fifth rank have been bagged by IIM-Bangalore, IIM-Lucknow and SPJIMR (SP Jain Institute of Management and Research) of Mumbai. Apart from the main ranking of institutes, the survey mentions the ranks of schools based on each primary parameter, cities, zones, and return on investment. Separate rankings of private and government institutions have also been published. "The other big trend in business education this year is the distinct imprint of the (COVID-19) pandemic on business school education," the statement said. "As industries and companies have moved en masse to digital methods of doing business, B-schools have had to course correct and add modules on artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and other digital technologies to their MBA courses, it said. Marketing and Development Research Associates (MDRA) is a premier marketing research and consulting organisation in India with focus on quantitative and qualitative research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Himachal bypoll: Over 33 pc voting for Mandi LS seat till 2 pm||A voter turnout of over 33 per cent was recorded in the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in Himachal Pradesh, while 39.24 to 48.19 per cent voting was registered in the Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats in the first six hours of polling on Saturday, an election official said. Voting is underway in a peaceful manner in pleasant weather conditions, he added. The voting for the bypolls began at a slow pace at 8 am, the official said, adding that it has been gaining momentum gradually. A voter turnout of 33.17 per cent was recorded in Mandi, while in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, the polling percentage was 39.32, 39.24 and 48.18 respectively in the first six hours, he said. A total of 12,99,756 voters in Mandi, 87,222 in Fatehpur, 92,609 in Arki and 70,965 in Jubbal-Kotkhai are eligible to exercise their franchise till 6 pm. According to officials, 2,484 polling stations and 312 auxiliary polling stations have been set up for the bypolls. The bypolls were necessitated following the death of the elected representatives from these seats. Tight security arrangements have been made to ensure smooth polling. State Chief Electoral Officer C Palrasu informed that around 50 per cent (1,383 out of 2,796) of the polling stations will be connected through web-casting. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. A total of 18 candidates are in the fray -- 12 for the three Assembly segments and six for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. A direct contest is expected between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on all the seats except Jubbal-Kotkhai, where rebel BJP candidate Chetan Singh Bragta is trying his luck as an Independent. However, all eyes are on the Mandi parliamentary bypoll as the constituency is the home turf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The BJP has fielded Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Singh Thakur from Mandi against Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, the wife of late chief minister Virbhadra Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Akhilesh taunts as BJP MLA and 6 BSP legislators join SP in UP||Seven MLAs - one from the BJP and six suspended from the BSP - joined the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav, who hit out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and also claimed the BJP and the Congress "are the same''. "The people of the state are so agitated that the BJP will be wiped out in the coming days and Bhajpa pariwar (BJP family) will appear as Bhaagta Pariwar (runaway family)," the SP chief said here while taunting the ruling party over its MLA Rakesh Rathore's desertion and indicating that some others from the BJP were also in touch with him in the poll-bound state. Those who joined the SP - BJP MLA from Sitapur Rakesh Rathore and BSP rebels Aslam Raini (Shrawati), Sushma Patel (Madiyahon), Aslam Ali (Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Phoolpur) and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli) - expressed their resolve to make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister again in the coming elections. Earlier this year, an audio clip purportedly of Rathore criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for asking people to clap and clang bells and plates during the COVID-19 pandemic had gone viral on social media and he was asked by the party leadership to explain his alleged anti-party activities. The BSP rebels who joined the SP were suspended by BSP president Mayawati after they had opposed the nomination of the party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha in October 2020. They had reportedly met Akhilesh Yadav earlier this year and had hinted that they may switch sides soon. Yadav also took a swipe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for saying that 90 percent works of the BJP manifesto have been completed and the 10 percent remaining in the 'lok kalyan sankalp patra' will be taken up in the next few months. Yadav said it seems that the BJP leaders have not shuffled its pages and have forgotten about what all was there in their manifesto. "The first thing mentioned in it was for the farmers that a roadmap to double their income will be prepared by 2022 and they assured farmers in this regard from various platforms. I want to know what has happened to it," he said reading out for the BJP's 2017 manifesto and asked about the fate of other promises as well. He also again distanced himself from the party's former ally Congress. "The opinion of Samajwadis for the Congress and BJP is that both are the same, the SP chief said to a query. The SP chief also contested the claims of improved law and order and said the statistics of the Government of India and services like Dial 100 and 1090 will clear the picture about the caes of injustice against the girls. Recalling the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, he said a BJP minister was seen threatening the people in a video and said that this very minister is "being honoured on the dais with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah". He also accused the BJP of ruining educational institutions by posting people of a particular ideology. Yadav alleged that instead of carrying out development works, the budget was being spent on publicity. Questioning the outcome of the investment meet held in Uttar Pradesh, he asked how many youths got jobs after the event. "Those who came here seeking jobs were chased away using canes and humiliated. Now, these youth will cast their votes to wipe out BJP, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Thousands pay tributes to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar in Bengaluru||Thousands of grieving fans continue to flock the city's Kanteerava stadium on Saturday to pay their final respects to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, whose last rites is likely to be performed by this evening. Considered as the Kannada cinema's reigning star, Puneeth, youngest of the five children of thespian and matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday. Following in the footsteps of his father, Rajkumar, the family has donated Puneeth's eyes. Mortal remains of the actor, wrapped in the national tri-colour, have been kept at the Kanteerava Stadium, to enable fans and well-wishers to pay homage all day on Saturday. A steady stream of people from across the state have been pouring into the arena since last evening. Several film and political personalities also paid their respects to the departed soul. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other ministers of the state cabinet, Telugu actor Nandamuri Balakrishna, ace choreographer Prabhu Deva, were among those who paid their respects today. "The feeling is like losing a son of our house," a tearful elderly woman fan said here. "Our Appu (as Puneeth is fondly called by fans) might have physically gone, but he will remain with us through his acting and the impact he has left on us because of his good and friendly nature," said a young fan. The state government has announced that Puneeth's last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father and mother. According to sources, Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter is abroad and is expected to reach the city by evening, following which last rites will be held, as per the family's wishes. The mortal remains will be taken in a procession from Kanteerava stadium at about 3 pm to Kanteerava studio, where the last rites will be performed. The late actor is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. Speaking to reporters Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the last rites will be performed after Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter arrives from the US, and called on the people to maintain peace and see off their "favourite actor" in a dignified way. "There is a sea of people descending to pay last respects to Puneeth Rajkumar and the government has made arrangements for it at Kanteerava Stadium. As we want the further process also to go on smoothly, police and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials are at work. Necessary works are on at Kanteerava Studio for last rites, where only family members and dignitaries will be allowed," he said. Necessary arrangements have been made for quick immigration clearance and others procedures, as soon as Puneeth's daughter reaches Delhi from the US. Bommai further said depending on her arrival, the timing of the final rites will be decided, and route by which the mortal remains will be taken to final resting place is being worked out. "My only appeal is, yes, Appu's death has caused us a lot of pain, but it is our duty to send him off peacefully and with utmost respect, so everyone should cooperate. Without getting emotional everyone should behave responsibly. People have cooperated in a good way so far, continuing, in the same way, will be our true tribute to Dr Rajkumar and Appu," he added. The CM's request for peace comes in the backdrop of the large-scale violence that took place in the city, following the death of Puneeth's father Dr Rajkumar in 2006.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Congress' poll assurances not just commitment, says Rahul in poll-bound Goa||Kickstarting the Congress's poll campaign in Goa, where Assembly elections are due early next year, party leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asserted that the assurances that his party gives in its election manifesto is not just a commitment but a "guarantee". Addressing the members of the fishermen community in South Goa following his arrival in the state for his day-long visit, he also alleged that while the BJP indulges in hatred and divides people, the Congress spreads love and affection as it believes in uniting people and taking them forward. "I want to make very clear what is the difference between the BJP and the Congress is. The Congress believes in uniting India's people and taking them forward. For us, every single Indian has the right to be given the space that he requires," he said addressing the gathering. Congress's response to the hatred spread by BJP is love and affection, he said. "So, wherever they spread anger hatred and division, we spread love and affection," he added. "I am not here to waste your time or my time. Just as your time is important, my time is also important. The commitment that we will make to you in manifesto is not just a commitment but a guarantee," he added. Talking about the assurances made by Congress, he said, "My credibility is important to me. Unlike many other leaders, when I say something here, I will make sure it happens." "If I come here I say to you that we will not allow coal hub and I don't do it, next time I come here I will have no credibility," he said in his address to the fishermen, who are opposing the project of double tracking of South Western Railway as they allege that it is an attempt to turn the state into a coal hub. Gandhi said that the party has fulfilled the commitments made to the farmers at Chhattisgarh on waiving their loan. "You can go to Punjab and Karnataka, we did the same (thing of keeping up the commitment)," he said. During his visit, Gandhi will be addressing party workers' convention in the evening and will also meet those dependent on the mining industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Modi meets Pope Francis in Vatican City||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on Pope Francis on Saturday and discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better by fighting climate change and removing poverty during their first-ever one-on-one meeting. Modi, who is the first Indian Prime Minister to meet Francis since he became Pope in 2013, invited the head of the Catholic Church to visit India. It may be recalled that the last Papal Visit happened in 1999 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister and Pope John Paul II came. Now it is during Modi's prime ministerial term that the Pope has been invited to visit India, sources said. The meeting between Prime Minister Modi and Pope Francis that was scheduled only for 20 minutes went on for an hour, they said. They discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better such as fighting climate change and removing poverty, sources said. At the Vatican, Modi was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. The Prime Minister also met Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State of the Vatican City State. Ahead of the historic meeting, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday said that the Vatican has not set an agenda for the meeting. I believe, tradition is not to have an agenda when you discuss issues with His Holiness. And I think we would respect that, he had said. "I am sure the issues would cover a range of areas of interest in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us, COVID-19, health issues, how we can work together to maintain peace and tranquility and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions," he had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Had a great interaction with members of Indian diaspora in Italy, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that he had a great interaction with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, including those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with their home country over the years. On the second day of his visit to Italy for the G20 Summit, Prime Minister Modi took to Twitter to share glimpses from the community interaction in Rome. In Rome last evening, I had a great interaction with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with our nation over the years. It was wonderful to hear their views on diverse topics, he said in a tweet. Swamini Hamsananda Giri, the President of Sanatan Dharma Sangha, termed her meeting with Prime Minister Modi as moving . It was (meeting with Prime Minister Modi) moving of course, because to be Hindu in Italy is not so easy but to meet the Prime Minister, it was a great honour for us. Hindus in Italy are in minority, she said. The culture of India is a treasure for the humanity because it is a culture of ancient times since now for the whole human being and this is a culture of non-violence (Ahimsa), of harmony and respect for the nature and environment since the beginning of this culture, she said, adding that it is a culture for the welfare of human being. As Sarvjan Hitaye, every human being, every being in the world has to live in harmony and in peace and we say Shanti, Shanti, Shanti. To each of us he asked something very peculiar of us and asked what I like if we go to India where and what we like from India so and I said Tamil Nadu and he spoke to me in Tamil, Giri added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Modi will be more powerful as Congress not serious about politics, says Mamata||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the Congress party is not serious about politics, and also accused the grand old party of not taking decisions. Apparently targeting the BJP-led central government, she said there was enough of Delhi's 'dadagiri' (bullying). Addressing a group of media persons in Panaji on the last day of her three-day visit to the coastal state, where Assembly polls are due early next year, Banerjee also said that the country is suffereing as the Congress could not take decisions. "I cannot say everything right now because they didn't take politics seriously. Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress...If one cannot take decision, why the country should suffer for that?" she said. "They (Congress) got opportunity (in the past). Instead of fighting against BJP, they contested against me in my state. Don't you think when they contested against me, when they contest my political party in Bengal..., she said. Banerjee said the TMC believes in distributing seats for the regional parties in elections. TMC has announced that it will be contesting all 40 seats in the upcoming Goa elections. "I want that the regional parties should be strong. We want that the federal structure should be strong. We should make states strong, if states are strong, then the Centre will be strong. Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don't want Delhi's bullying), enough is enough," she said. When asked about what decisions she thinks the Congress should be taking, she said, "I am not going to discuss about the Congress because this is not my party. I have set up my regional party and without any support of anybody, we formed three times government." "Let them decide. That is my system also, I don't interfere into any other political party's business, I can say about my political party and our fight will continue. We are not going to bow down our head to BJP," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 549 casualties in a day||With 14,313 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,60,470, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,555, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,740 with 549 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 36 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 125 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 221 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,41,175, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 26 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 36 days, according to the health ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 105.43 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 549 new fatalities include 471 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the last few days, hence the death tally of the state is high. Of the 471 deaths, 86 were reported in the last few days, 276 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 109 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Friday. A total of 4,57,740 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,170 from Maharashtra, 38,061 from Karnataka, 36,083 from Tamil Nadu, 31,156 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,113 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan walks out of Mumbai prison after four weeks||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, walked out of the Arthur Road prison, after 22 days in the central Mumbai facility following his arrest during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan came out of the prison shortly after 11 am, a day after a special court issued his release memo. Immediately after walking out of the prison, he entered a waiting car and drove to his house Mannat in suburban Bandra, 12 km away. He was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Shah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for the 23-year-old before the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The HC on Friday afternoon made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. The relief to the trio came just a day before the HC was scheduled to take a two-week break for Diwali. In the five-page order, signed by Justice N W Sambre, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. Also, they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence, the HC said. The judge will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. Their arrest came a day after the NCB raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case and two of them were granted bail by the special NDPS court earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Vinod Rai's lies exposes those who aided Modi's rise: Congress||The Congress on Friday said the exposure of “conspirator-in-chief” Vinod Rai’s “lies” had also exposed others who had joined him in maligning the Manmohan Singh government and aiding Narendra Modi’s rise to power. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera identified these others: “Anna Hazare, Baba Ramdev, Arvind Kejriwal and Kiran Bedi.” He left out Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav, two other members of India Against Corruption who later conceded that its campaign against the UPA-II government had been propped up by the RSS-BJP. Both are trenchant critics of the Modi government. Khera said a look at where some of the key players of the anti-corruption movement were today was enough to reveal their motivations and commitment. Khera said: “Anna Hazare is comfortably nestled in his village, forgetting everything about Lokpal and corruption. Baba Ramdev has become Lala Ramdev, with a flourishing business, thanks to the blessings of the BJP.” “Kejriwal is enjoying power, running a government in tandem with the Centre. The BJP tried to make Kiran Bedi the chief minister of Delhi but (after failing to do so) appointed her lieutenant governor of Puducherry. Gen. V.K. Singh became a central minister. All of them had publicly vowed never to join politics.” Khera’s comments came against the backdrop of former CAG Rai offering an unconditional apology for incorrectly accusing former MP Sanjay Nirupam of pressuring him to remove Manmohan’s name from his report on 2G spectrum allocation. “Vinod Rai was the conspirator-in-chief. You call him the main puppet as strings were pulled by the political master,” Khera said. “If he has any sense of shame, he should relinquish whatever comforts and perks he got from the grateful Modi government. You can imagine what kind of lies he resorted to. The court itself dismissed all the charges in the 2G scam and acquitted everybody.” Khera said a conspiracy had been hatched against the Manmohan government to destabilise a booming economy. “The CBI gave a clean chit to Manmohan Singh on September 21, 2015, in the coal allocation case. The CBI’s counsel told the Supreme Court there was no dishonest intention whatsoever on the part of Singh,” he said. “The media and the BJP created a political storm over the CAG reports. Where are the CAG reports today? Forget media, they are not even discussed in Parliament.” Khera said Rai, appointed Banks Board Bureau chairman in 2016 by the Modi government, had not uttered a word on the Rs 11,500-crore scam in the Punjab National Bank despite his media image as an anti-corruption crusader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Cops lift Ghazipur blockade on one side of NH-9, farmers stay put||The Delhi Police has removed the blockade put up by it on one of the carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, a site of the anti-farm laws protest at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border where scores of protesters continued to stay put on Friday.  The removal of the barriers and concertina wires from the carriageway would help the commuters travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, an official said, but it was not confirmed till Friday night if the route was officially opened for traffic.  Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up by the police last year. The arrangements were further beefed up after the January 26 violence in Delhi during the farmers' protest against three new agriculture laws of the Centre.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said, "The process of removing the barricades from National Highway 9 has started. The temporary barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, National Highway 24 was already open for traffic."  The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi and Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and the interiors of Uttar Pradesh, towards Meerut and beyond.  Police officials and labourers were also seen removing the iron nails that were studded on NH-9 at Ghazipur, where hundreds of protesters, mostly members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), have been occupying a road stretch since November 2020.  The BKU, a participant in the anti-farm laws movement spearheaded by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions -- reiterated that the blockade was put up by the police and not the farmers.  BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said the future course of the protest would be chalked out by the SKM.  BKU office-bearers said the farmers want to go to Delhi once the barricades are completely removed and are open to talks with the Centre to resolve the situation.  BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said, "If the government wants the logjam to end, it should talk to the farmers now and we are ready for it. But if it wants the farmers' movement to continue, we are determined to prolong it as it has already been 11 months since the protests began."  While the police removed a large portion of the barricades, wirings and iron nails from NH-9 (the Delhi-Meerut Expressway flyover) by the evening, the tents and other temporary structures erected by the protesters continued to remain there.  BKU's Uttar Pradesh unit general secretary Pawan Khatana said, "The government had said it had not placed the barricades and we had said the barricades were put up by the government and the police. We are sitting at the borders of Delhi and once the barricades are removed, we will head towards Delhi. We will go to Parliament, where the laws were enacted."  While one carriageway -- leading from Delhi to Ghaziabad -- was opened in the evening, the other side remained blocked due to the protesters occupying a stretch on it.  Kashyap said the police have removed the barricades on their end and are ready for vehicular movement.  "We have all arrangements in place and we are very much alert and ready. We will respond as the situation develops," the DCP added.  BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the Delhi Police has "corrected its mistake" of blocking the road after the Supreme Court's order.  "But the protest at the Ghazipur border will continue. The BKU appeals to more farmers to join the movement. Every day a new conspiracy is hatched against the farmers' protest but we are also prepared to tackle it," he said.  The process to remove the barricades started following the October 21 Supreme Court direction, calling for unblocking of the roads that have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the anti-farm laws protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur.  While the protesting farmers have been claiming that the three laws enacted last year are against their interest, the Centre has been maintaining that these legislations are pro-farmer.  Thousands of farmers have been camping at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, protesting against the three contentious laws since November 26, 2020.  According to a senior police officer, some layers of barricades placed by the police at the Tikri border were removed on Thursday night.  The Supreme Court had, on October 21, said the farmers protesting at Delhi's borders have the right to agitate but they cannot block the roads indefinitely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Pneumonia vaccine to be available free for children in India||A vaccine that protects against bacterial infections that can cause life-threatening meningitis, pneumonia or sepsis will be available free for children across India through the universal immunisation programme. The Union health ministry on Friday launched the nationwide expansion of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), four years after introducing it in five states: Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. While PCVs have been available across India since 2008 through private paediatricians for those willing to pay for the jabs, the health ministry introduced the vaccine for free in the five states in 2017 with support from GAVI, a global vaccine alliance funded by multiple countries and institutions. A disease burden assessment exercise had in 2015 estimated that around 560,000 episodes of severe pneumonia and 105,000 pneumonia deaths caused by the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae had occurred among children under five in India in 2010. Another burden assessment exercise in 2020 had estimated that pneumococcal pneumonia had caused 192,000 child deaths in India during 2015. Sections of public health experts have for years urged the nationwide expansion of PCV, arguing that severe pneumonia frequently requires hospitalisation and adds to the financial burden of households and the public healthcare resources. “For the first time in the country, PCV will be available for universal use,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said at Friday’s launch programme. The nationwide rollout of PCV is expected to significantly reduce child mortality, he said. Despite steady reductions in India’s child mortality rates, the 2015 exercise had estimated that 14 per cent of deaths among children below five years of age had occurred due to pneumococcal infections. Although PCVs have been available through the private sector across the country for over 13 years, paediatricians and public health researchers say the vaccine’s uptake has been significantly below expectations even across affluent households. One study published in 2016 had estimated that overall PCV coverage for children through the private sector in several states across the country ranged between 0.07 per cent and 2.38 per cent. PCV coverage was relatively higher in large cities — 13 per cent in Mumbai, 4 per cent in Chennai and 2 per cent in Delhi and Calcutta — but still below the expected levels for private sector sales. In the private sector, the vaccine — which has to be given in three doses — has been available at prices ranging from around Rs 1,200 to over Rs 3,000 per dose. Health researchers had estimated earlier this year that the nationwide introduction of PCVs would cost $227 million (Rs 1,700 crore) to cover the 26 million newborns annually, if the vaccine is available at $3.1 (Rs 232) per dose. “Although expensive, the vaccines are expected to have a large benefit”, given the country’s high burden of pneumococcus pneumonia deaths, a seven-member team of researchers had said last month in a research report on public finances required for the universal immunisation programme. The researchers from multiple academic institutions in India and the US had also estimated the national cost of providing basic vaccination services in 2020 was about $784 million (Rs 5,881 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||‘Periyar and Islam’ seminar triggers circular at TN university||Organising a lecture on “Periyar and Islam” faced a Tamil Nadu university with a disruption bid and a smear campaign this week from a Sangh parivar outfit, culminating in the varsity management curbing the various departments’ freedom to hold seminars. The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) in Tirunelveli, which last year dropped a book by Arundhati Roy from its syllabus on a demand from RSS student wing ABVP, had invited senior journalist Riaz Ahamed to deliver the Periyar lecture on Wednesday. After invitations were sent to the media on Tuesday, the Hindu Munnani took to Facebook asking whether MSU was “a university, a training centre for ISIS or an office of Dravidar Kazhagam”. The Dravidar Kazhagam is an organisation founded by the late Periyar (1879-1973), a rationalist and social reformer who began the Self-Respect Movement against Brahmanical hegemony, transforming Tamil Nadu politics. Before the lecture was to start on Wednesday, a group of Munnani members led by the outfit’s state secretary, K. Kutralanathan, gathered before the campus gate. They chanted slogans and demanded they be allowed to enter and attend the lecture. Turned away by the police, they left saying they would complain to governor R.N. Ravi, the pro-chancellor of the university. It was the university’s UGC-funded Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy that had organised the event as part of a series of lectures on Periyar. S. Samuel Asir Raj, the centre’s director and a sociology professor, told The Telegraph over the phone that the series was part of the centre’s research and outreach activities as prescribed by the UGC. The first lecture, held on October 1 after the resumption of physical classes, was on “Periyar and women’s rights”. Wednesday’s lecture by the Kanniyakumari-based Ahamed, associate editor of the Tamil journal Puthiya Vidiyal, was the second in the series. After the disruption bid, the duration of the lecture was cut to one hour from the scheduled 90 minutes. “He (Ahamed) gave a good talk but the Hindu Munnani people took it in a different way,” Raj said. In his lecture, Ahamed said the practice of untouchability in Hinduism had led Periyar to take an interest in Islam although he remained a lifelong atheist. He mentioned a speech Periyar had delivered in his hometown Erode in 1947 on “Friend of Islam”, in which he said Islam treated all equally and ensured the dignity of the human being. Ahamed added that Periyar had fought for the political rights of Indian Muslims. Late on Thursday, the MSU registrar-in-charge issued a circular to the heads of all the departments directing them to obtain permission “well in advance” from university authorities before they conducted any “seminar, conference, workshop” on any topic. The circular said that while seeking permission, the department heads must provide details such as the probable speakers. It added that the directive must be followed “scrupulously”. Raj expressed dismay at the circular. “It will destroy academic freedom and the spirit of tolerance,” he said. “This is an attempt to throttle the series of lectures on Periyar.” Last November, MSU had removed Arundhati Roy’s Walking With the Comrades from its postgraduate English syllabus after the ABVP alleged the book sought to “glorify the Maoists”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Karnataka Assembly secretariat calls for 25-year conversion data||The Karnataka Assembly secretariat has instructed the department of minorities welfare to submit a report on all religious conversions in the state over the past 25 years, in what appears to be groundwork for the anti-conversion law that the ruling BJP has promised to enact. An official with the department told The Telegraph on Friday that a “letter” was received from the government with clear instructions to hand in the report within 30 days. “We have received a letter from the Assembly secretariat. But we will start the work only after discussing with our secretary, who is on tour,” said the official, declining to be named. “We have been instructed to get the data on religious conversions from police and the departments of social welfare and revenue, and all district deputy commissioners and chief executive officers (of panchayats),” the official added. The letter from the Assembly secretariat is dated October 26. The latest move is based on the recommendation of the Karnataka Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare that met on October 13. BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar, who presided over the meeting, had controversially instructed district authorities and the police intelligence wing to conduct a survey on the state’s 1,700-odd churches and prayer halls to examine their legality. The government recently put the survey on hold after Karnataka High Court issued notice to it on a PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||LAC: India deploys troops at zones vulnerable to Chinese incursions||The Indian Army has deployed additional men and machines at sensitive zones that are vulnerable to Chinese incursions along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh, sources in the defence ministry have said. The development comes amid the recent alert by security agencies about “aggressive” patrolling by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the LAC in the eastern sector. “The army has deployed additional forces at several sensitive zones where the Chinese army had transgressed into the Indian side of the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh in the past. This has been done following intelligence reports suggesting a sharp increase in patrolling activities by the PLA in the sector over the past five-six months,” a defence ministry official said. The Chinese PLA is said to have reinforced its posts in large numbers and increased the scale of its training exercises by deploying military assets along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The Tawang sector alone has a 270km border with China. China claims 90,000sqkm of territory, practically the whole of Arunachal Pradesh. Earlier this month Indian and Chinese troops had been locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector after nearly 200 soldiers from the neighbouring country crossed over. On October 19 the eastern army commander, Lt Gen. Manoj Pande, had said both India and China were trying to develop infrastructure closer to the LAC. Underlining that the presence of additional troops in Chinese operational depth areas was a matter of concern, he said India had also heightened its capacity. In an attempt to guard against possible PLA transgressions, the Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor the deployment of Chinese troops along the LAC in the eastern sector. Transgressions and border skirmishes are not new along a large part of the disputed India-China frontier along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year and the PLA is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Varun alleges corruption at farm produce procurement centres in UP||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Friday said farmers would continue to be exploited as long as there is no legal guarantee on minimum support price, and alleged corruption at farm produce procurement centres in Uttar Pradesh. Varun, who has been vocal in his support for the farmers’ movement, tweeted in Hindi: “Till there is statutory guarantee of MSP, farmers will continue to be exploited in mandis. Strict action should be taken on this.” One of the main demands of the farmers protesting for 11 months against the Modi government is a legally guaranteed minimum support price for their produce. Varun uploaded on Twitter a video of his visit to a government procurement centre in his constituency, Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, in which the MP is seen raising “corruption” in procurement of farmers’ produce with a government official and threatening to move court. “If there is corruption and cruelty against farmers here, I will not plead with the government to take action. I will take the accused straight to court and make sure he is arrested,” Varun is heard telling the official as the farmers gathered around him clap and cheer. Varun told The Telegraph on Friday: “At every procurement centre in the state, there is crippling corruption, which is completely out in the open. Farmers’ grains are forcibly rejected, after which out of desperation they sell to middlemen.” He iterated his demand for a legally guaranteed MSP. “With the farmers already facing steep input costs, lack of fertilisers and inclement weather, to saddle him with a system that ensures he sells at a loss is going to drive the next generation away from agriculture and threaten both our food and national security,” he said. Varun alleged that the administration in Uttar Pradesh takes “a cut from farmers for procurement of their crops”. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to the polls early next year and Varun’s public allegations of corruption are sure to cause unease and anger in the party. Varun had taken a strong stand against the massacre of four farmers under the wheels of a car owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni on October 3. Varun had warned that “protesters cannot be silenced through murder” and demanded “accountability for the innocent blood of farmers”. Varun’s allegations of corruption at procurement centres seek to take the wind out of the Modi government’s repeated claim that it has been giving high MSPs to farmers. Last week, Varun had tweeted a video of a farmer in Uttar Pradesh burning his paddy after failing to get a remunerative price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Ajay Mishra Teni by side, Amit Shah comments on rule of law in UP||Sharing a dais with his junior Ajay Mishra Teni, Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday declared his blood “used to boil” when he saw the poor law-and-order situation in Uttar Pradesh under Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party governments. Teni’s presence signalled Shah’s support for the junior home minister, who has faced demands for his removal since his son Ashis was accused of leading a convoy that deliberately mowed down four farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Ashis, who was allegedly driving a Thar jeep belonging to his father, is in judicial custody. Days before, Teni had threatened to fix the farmers if they didn’t stop protesting against three new central farm laws. Teni himself faces a murder case that has been dragging on for 17 years. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav later said: “Those who killed farmers under their wheels are the home minister’s favourites. The Union minister of state for home, whose son mowed down the farmers, is protected by the government and shares a dais with the home minister.” Shah, as he contrasted law and order under Yogi Adityanath’s rule favourably with that under his immediate predecessors, seemed to repeat a discredited allegation by late BJP lawmaker Hukum Singh about Hindu families migrating for fear of Muslim extortionists. “My blood used to boil seeing the destruction of law and order in 15 years (under Samajwadi and BSP rule) and the forced migration from Kairana before the BJP came to power (in 2017),” Shah said, addressing a party membership drive in Lucknow. “People used to leave Uttar Pradesh out of fear. But now those who used to force people to leave Uttar Pradesh are running out of the state.” After Hukum aired his allegation in 2016, the then Akhilesh government had said a physical verification by the local administration had found it to be false. Investigations by media outlets had corroborated the state government’s findings. Shah claimed that law and order used to be so bad in Meerut that outstation girl students of Meerut University would prefer commuting 100km from Delhi every day to staying in the western Uttar Pradesh city. “Girl students of Meerut University used to live in Delhi. But the situation has changed: women can step out of their homes at 12 o’clock in the night wearing jewellery,” Shah said. “There used to be two-three bahubalis (musclemen) in every district in the past but you will not now find them even with a binocular under Yogi Adityanath’s rule.” Adityanath’s rule has been marked by the horrific Hathras and Unnao rapes, and official records have shown no decline in crimes against women in the state. Shah targeted Akhilesh, saying he had taunted the BJP during past election campaigns asking why the party did not reveal the date for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Akhilesh Babu, we have now laid the foundation stone for the temple but you failed to donate even Rs 5,000 towards it,” he said. Akhilesh told reporters: “We got more temples built than anyone else. I had got a temple constructed even on the premises of the chief minister’s residence in Lucknow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||At least five persons have died for consuming liquor in dry Bihar||At least five persons were killed while several others battling for their lives in hospitals on Friday after allegedly consuming liquor in dry Bihar. Around 50 people have died in different parts of the state in various hooch tragedies this year. The latest incident occurred at Repura village under Saraiya police station in Muzaffarpur district. The administration has put the hooch toll at four. The locals said a group of people partied on Thursday night at which alcohol flowed freely. Soon many among them started complaining of nausea and restlessness. “By early morning, a couple of the people who had fallen ill died. Two others passed away soon after. Everybody in the village panicked and rushed the other ill people to private hospitals and nursing homes,” said a resident of Repura on the condition of anonymity. The villagers put the figure of hospitalised people between six and 10, of which they claimed that the condition of two others appeared critical. “On the one hand we are worried about the well-being of our family members, on the other hand we are worried about being implicated in cases related to prohibition. But liquor is easily available in our area and the regulars keep drinking,” one of the villagers told The Telegraph. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said the cause of the deaths would be ascertained only after the post-mortem reports of the deceased. “However, preliminary inquiry indicates that a few people had arranged liquor and consumed it while partying. We are currently accepting the deaths due to consumption of hooch,” he said. The district magistrate said the house where the ill-fated group of people partied was deserted. “The police and excise teams are at the village where the incident has happened. They are conducting inquiries and investigations,” Pranav said. Chief minister Nitish Kumar brought special laws and imposed total prohibition in Bihar in April 2016. There has been a series of hooch tragedies since then, including the ones that occurred in Kaimur, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, West Champaran, Vaishali and Siwan this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||BJP mounts pressure on Naveen to sack Dibya Shankar Mishra||A BJP central team led by its Mahila Morcha chief Vanathi Srinivasan on Friday met the family members of a schoolteacher who was allegedly murdered by the president of the school management committee in Kalahandi district of Odisha. The visit comes a day after a Congress delegation led by AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala met Mamita Meher’s family at her native Jharani village in Bolangir. With central leaders of both the Congress and BJP meeting Mamita’s family, pressure is mounting on chief minister Naveen Patnaik to sack minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged link to the murder accused. However, Naveen continues to maintain a stoic silence on the issue. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das questioned Mishra and the chief minister’s silence on the issue. “Why does Captain Mishra remain silent? Silence only indicates admission of guilt. Why are the chief minister and his office not coming up with a clarification?” questioned Das. Even Surjewala on Thursday had pointed out how Odisha topped in crimes against women and the BJD government has remained silent over the issue. “The minister must be removed for an impartial probe into the case and all accused persons should be hanged to provide justice to the family of the deceased. The state has been turned into ‘Crime Pradesh’ by the Biju Janata Dal,” he had said, adding that the killers enjoyed power and privilege. The Congress has demanded a probe by a SIT (special investigation team) headed by the chief justice of Orissa High court. Mamita was killed for allegedly threatening to expose the extramarital affair of Govinda Sahu, president of the school management committee, according to sources. The BJP on Friday also organised a protest rally in Berhampur and hurled eggs and tomatoes at police. It launched a three-day agitation to lay siege to all 635 police stations across the state demanding the resignation of Mishra. It had already observed a 12-hour bandh in various districts of western Odisha. However, the BJD continued to maintain the law and order situation during the Naveen government was better compared to any other dispensation. The state government is in a fix as the police had not registered an FIR for five days after Mamita Meher had gone missing on October 8. When pressure mounted, the police registered the FIR and arrested Sahu. But later Sahu managed to escape from the police barracks. The police re-arrested the main accused on October 19 from a sugarcane field and later recovered Mamita’s body from an 8ft pit in an under-construction stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
