31-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi takes on CM Adityanath in his pocket borough Gorakhpur||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday targeted Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in his home turf of Gorakhpur and made a flurry of poll promises, including farm loan waiver and purchasing wheat and paddy at Rs 2500 per quintal. “'Things have happened against the 'vaani' (views) of Guru Gorakhnath. Bulldozers were used, threats were made to put people in jail,” she alleged at a rally, taking a swipe at Adityanath who is also the head of the prominent Mutt here named after saint Gorakhnath. The Congresss general secretary also reached out to farmers and members of the fishing community. “If the Congress is voted to power, then fisheries will be given the status of agriculture, and it will get all the facilities like agriculture. The rights of people of the Nishad community will be restored in sand mining and fisheries. Apart from this, a university named after Guru Machendranath will also be set up,” she said. "The entire loans of the farmers will be waived. Wheat and paddy will be purchased at Rs 2,500 per quintal, while sugarcane will be purchased at Rs 400 per quintal. The problem of stray cattle will be resolved on the lines of Chhattisgarh, and a complete solution will be evolved," she said. The Congress general secretary added that government jobs will be given to 20 lakh youths, while contractual workers will be regularised. The Anganwadi workers will get an honorarium of Rs 10,000, and women will get three free cylinders in a year, she promised. “Apart from this, if voted to power, our government will bear the cost of treatment of any illness up to Rs 10 lakh,” she said. She also said that Rs 25,000 will be given to families who have lost their livelihood due to COVID-19. Hitting out at Chief Minister Adityanath, who has been a five-time MP from Gorakhpur, the Congress general secretary said that the health scenario in the district is dismal. “As elections are approaching, we are hearing that AIIMS will be made functional. But nothing happened for five years. So how do you expect that it will be done now?” she said. The Congress is facing a Herculean task to improve the party's tally in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, where it had won only seven seats out of 403 in the last assembly election. Earlier this month, the Congress general secretary held a rally in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Grandma told me not to cry if something happened to her: Rahul||Recounting Indira Gandhi's assassination and funeral, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said just hours before her death she told him not to cry if something happened to her. In a video released on YouTube on former prime minister Indira Gandhi's 37th death anniversary, Gandhi described the day of her grandmother's funeral as the "second most difficult day of my life". Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated in 1984 by two of her security guards linked to Khalistani extremists. "(In) the morning before she died she told me that don't cry if something happens to me. I did not understand what she meant and two-three hours later she was dead," Rahul Gandhi said, recounting the setback he and his family suffered that day. "She (Indira Gandhi) sort of sensed that she would be killed and I think everyone in the house also knew it. She once said to us on the dining table that the biggest curse would be to die of a disease," the former Congress chief said in the video titled 'With love, in memory of my beloved Grandmother, Indira ji', which has been released on his YouTube account. From her perspective it was probably the best way to die for her country, defending the idea that she loved, Gandhi said. He said he essentially had two mothers -- "a super mother who was my grandmother, who basically would defend me when my father got angry, and my mother". “For me it was like losing my mother,” Gandhi added. Images from Indira Gandhi's funeral and last rites were also part of the video which showed a young Rahul mourning his grandmother's demise. Earlier on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here. "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs. Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Goa CM says, Rahul, Mamata on ‘political tourism’ ||In view of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attending separate programmes in Goa, where elections are due in February next year, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said such political tourism will help revive the taxi and hotel business, which had taken a hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. This is political tourism. During the next four months, the taxi and hotel businesses, which had suffered due to the pandemic would get a good business with such kind of tourism, the chief minister told reporters. Sawant said he wanted leaders of national parties to come to Goa so that business (of the hotel industry and taxi operators) would grow. Referring to Rahul Gandhi riding pillion a two-wheeler taxi during his visit to Goa on Saturday, Sawant said, “I felt good that he rode pillion a two-wheeler taxi. It must be the first time for him. We have been travelling on two-wheeler taxis and in rickshaws.” Downplaying Rahul Gandhi's interaction with fisherfolk, Sawant said that he has been meeting fishermen every day whenever he visits the market and listens to their grievances. TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently visited Goa where her party will contest its maiden polls in February. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Goa on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||MP minister gives 24-hour ultimatum to Sabyasachi over 'objectionable' mangalsutra ad||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw the advertisement with "objectionable and obscene" portrayal of mangalsutra or else face statutory action.  Last week, Dabur India Private Limited had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach advertisement, which showed same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth and watching each other through a sieve, after minister Mishra termed the ad as objectionable and warned that legal steps would be taken against it.  The mangalsutra advertisement by Sabyasachi's brand portrayed a woman wearing a low-neckline dress and posing solo and in intimate position with a man. After the designer shared these pictures, it created a controversy as a section of social media users termed it against Hindu culture and obscene.  Talking to reporters at Datia in the state, Mishra said, "I have warned earlier about such advertisements. I am personally warning designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee, giving him a 24-hour ultimatum. If this objectionable and obscene advertisement is not withdrawn, then a case will be registered against him and legal action will be taken. The police force will be sent for the action."  Mishra said that he saw Sabyasachi Mukherjee's mangalsutra advertisement.  "It is very objectionable. Mangalsutra is a jewellery of paramount importance. We believe that the yellow part of the mangalsutra signifies Goddess Parvati and the black part Lord Shiva, which protects the woman and her husband. Marital life becomes happy by the grace of Goddess Parvati," he said.  Mangalsutra is a necklace worn by married Hindu women.  Replying to a question about the requirement of law to check such incidents, the minister said, "The law is already in place. But why do such painful incidents take place only with Hindu symbols? If Mukherjee has courage, he should do it with some other religion, then we will understand that he is a real brave man."  While sharing the promotional photos of the advertisement, Sabyasachi's official Instagram page wrote, "Introducing the Royal Bengal Mangalsutra 1.2 and the Bengal Tiger Icon collection of necklaces, earrings, bracelets and signet rings in 18k gold with VVS diamonds, black onyx, opals and black enamel."  The designer has not given any statement on the minister's warning so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Zydus Cadila agrees to reduce its Covid vaccine price, final decision soon||Zydus Cadila has agreed to bring down the price of its COVID-19 vaccine to Rs 265 a dose following persistent negotiations by the government but a final deal is yet to be reached, sources said on Sunday.  Zydus Cadila's ZyCov-D is the first vaccine cleared by India's drug regulator for inoculation of those aged 12 years and above.  To administer the needle-free vaccine, a disposable painless jet applicator costing Rs 93 is required for each dose, which would take the price to Rs 358 per dose.  The Ahmedabad-based pharma company earlier had proposed a price of Rs 1,900 for its three-dose regimen, sources said.  "The company has brought down the price to Rs 358 for each dose which includes Rs 93, the cost of a disposable jet applicator, following repeated negotiations by the government.... A final decision in the matter is likely to be taken this week," a source in the know of developments told PTI.  The three doses are to be administered 28 days apart, with each dose comprising a shot in both arms.  The indigenously developed world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20.  Meanwhile, the government is still waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive for adults and children with co-morbities.  NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive.  Official sources earlier had said that the pricing of ZyCoV-D would be different from that of Covaxin and Covishield as apart from being a three-dose vaccine, it requires a special pharma jet injector that has to be used for administering the vaccine.  That pharma jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses.  "The jet applicator helps the vaccine fluid to penetrate the skin to enter cells of the recipient," the source said.  Zydus Cadila can provide around two crore doses in November, a source had said.  The government is currently procuring two other vaccines -- Covishield at Rs 205 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 215 per dose -- for the national COVID-19 immunisation programme.  Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, these are two-dose regimens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Haryana govt imposes total ban on firecrackers in 14 NCR districts||The Haryana government on Sunday imposed a ban with immediate effect on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region while restrictions were imposed in other parts.  There will be a total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in al the 14 NCR districts namely Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat, as per the order issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on regulation of sale and use of firecrackers in the state.  Altogether, there are 22 districts in Haryana.  The directive will also apply to all cities and towns in the state where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) is in "poor" and above categories.  The cities and towns in which air quality is in the "moderate" or below categories, only green crackers shall be sold, said the order.  Only green crackers shall be sold in cities and towns where the air quality is in the "moderate" or below category, the order said, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals such as Gurupurab will be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm.  For Chhath festival, the same will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am, it said.  Fireworks will be permitted from 11.55 pm on December 24 to 12.30 am on December 25 and from 11.55 pm on December 31 to 12.30 am on January 1, for Christmas and New Year, it pointed out.  The Haryana State Pollution Control Board will separately issue a list of these cities and towns and make it available on its website.  Bursting of firecrackers in communities will be promoted in areas where there is no ban, it said, adding that designated areas will be pre-identified by the authorities concerned.  Only green crackers shall be allowed even for marriages and other occasions, the noted.  The sale of crackers shall only be through licensed traders and e-commerce portals, including Flipkart and Amazon, will not be permitted to sell crackers, it said.  The decision was taken after considering the Covid pandemic and the approaching winter season during which the elderly, children, and people with comorbidities may develop respiratory problems, said the guidelines.  During Diwali, Gurupurab and Kartik Purnima, Christmas, and New Year, people usually burst crackers which can adversely affect the respiratory health of vulnerable groups, besides, aggravating health condition of COVID-19 positive people in home isolation, it said.  The state pollution board shall carryout short-term monitoring in the cities for 14 days, commencing immediately, for the parameters namely aluminium, barium, iron apart from regulatory parameters against the short-term Ambient Air Quality Criteria Values (AAQCVs) proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board with regard to bursting of firecrackers.  "This will help in generation of data on pollution caused by the bursting of firecrackers and would be helpful for regulation and control of quality of aluminium, barium and iron used in the manufacture of firecrackers," said the authority.  All deputy commissioners have been directed to constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the directions and shall ensure extensive checking and action against violators who shall be punishable under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other provisions of the law as applicable, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||TMC will form government in Tripura in 2023 elections, says Abhishek ||All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday claimed his party would form the Government in Tripura in the 2023 state assembly elections. Banerjee promised to end what he claimed was “BJP's misrule” and said his party followed West Bengal's model of good governance' to deliver fruits of development to the Northeastern state. Addressing a gathering before the Rabindra Shatabrshiki Bhaban (Tagore Centenary Hall) here, Banerjee alleged that law and order has collapsed in the state and development has come to a standstill ever since the BJP came to power in Tripura. He also termed all poll pledges made by the ruling BJP as jumla' (fake promise) as he claimed these had not been fulfilled despite the party being in power for more than three and half years. “They say BJP is a double engine government ... (but) If we compare the reports cards of West Bengal with that of the BJP led government in Tripura and in the centre, we see hardly any developments there (in Tripura and nationally),” Banerjee claimed. He said that TMC would fight in all the seats of the civic polls in the state including the Agartala Municipal Council slated for November 25 next and the sixty member assembly elections to be held in 2023 to ‘unseat the BJP’. “We must fight and defeat the BJP, otherwise the situation in Tripura would turn out to be similar to Afghanistan. BJP leaders have already instigated their party workers to launch attacks on TMC activists in Talibani style,” Banerjee said. He added “The double engine government of BJP is like coronavirus and they need only one dose which is Mamata Bandopaddhayay.” He claimed that TMC would be able to form a government in Goa in three months by defeating the BJP-led Government there. Banerjee said, TMC did not believe in forming governments by the back door. “If we want, we can break (Goa) government even now. 15 MLAs are ready to join us, but we do not believe in back-door politics. We want to form a government in a democratic manner. We are enjoying an overwhelming response from common people, who are fed up with this government. We are sure we will form the government in Tripura in 2023,” he said. Ashish Das, a BJP legislator from Tripura and Rajib Banerjee, a national body member of BJP on Sunday joined TMC and Banerjee welcomed them with his party's flag on- stage. He said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee would visit Tripura in December and address a gathering here. Whatever is possible to oust BJP from the government will be done. If necessary, I will spill blood, Banerjee said. He alleged that the government had hatched a conspiracy to cancel Sunday's programme by misusing police and administration, but could not succeed due to the interjection by the Tripura High Court. The High Court of Tripura late Saturday night gave permission to the Trinamool Congress to hold its planned rally for the party's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee after the local police cancelled its earlier permission, subject to the proviso that not more than 500 people would be allowed to attend. Amid a spike in coronavirus cases in parts of the country, the BJP-led state government had on Saturday also issued fresh guidelines making COVID-19 tests mandatory for people entering Tripura from several states including West Bengal. TMC had promptly reacted calling this a politically motivated move. "The BJP is scared of Abhishek. They are using coronavirus as a shield to stop him from addressing the people of Tripura. This shows they know well that the people of Tripura are no longer with the BJP," TMC leader Partha Chatterjee had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||PM to hold review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage on Nov 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting on November 3 with district magistrates of over 40 districts having low COVID-19 vaccination coverage, the PMO said on Sunday.  The meeting will include districts with less than 50 per cent coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of the vaccine, it said.  The 40 districts are spread across Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya among other states, and chief ministers of these states will also attend the meeting.  Modi will be holding the meeting immediately on his return from abroad after attending the G20 and COP26 meetings, the PMO noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Wait for visa appointment to be significantly longer, says US Embassy||The US Embassy here has said there will be significant appointment wait times for some non-immigrant visa categories as it builds back from COVID-19-related interruptions.  From November 8, an estimated three million visa holders from India, with proof of vaccination, will be able to travel to the United States under the new international air travel policy, the embassy said.  "Facilitating legitimate travel to support our strong and growing bilateral ties is our top priority. As we build back from COVID-19-related interruptions, we expect significant appointment wait times for some nonimmigrant visa categories at our Embassy and Consulates," it said.  The mission thanked people for their patience while "we work to increase our capacity and maintain the safety of our applicants and staff".  Describing the vaccination requirements, the US Embassy said that starting November 8, foreign national air travellers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the US, with only limited exceptions.  "The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) has determined that for the purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines accepted will include those FDA approved or authorized, as well as vaccines with an emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organization (WHO)," it said.  The embassy said that Covishield will be accepted for the purposes of entry into the United States since it has an emergency use listing from the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Jammu-Rajouri national highway reopens for traffic after 2 weeks||The authorities reopened a stretch of the Jammu-Rajouri national highway for traffic on Sunday morning, more than two weeks after it was shut in view of an ongoing counter-insurgency operation in an adjoining dense forest belt, officials said.  The operation to track down a group of hiding terrorists, who are responsible for the killing of nine soldiers, in Bhatti Durrian forest in Mendhar along with Surankote forest in Poonch and nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri district entered the 21st day on Sunday, the officials said.  While the operation is underway, the authorities allowed traffic on the main highway between Bhimber Gali in Mendhar and Jera Wali Gali in Surankote in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, much to the relief of residents, especially taxi operators who have been demanding its reopening.  The road stretch, which passes along the cordoned-off forest belt, was closed as a precautionary measure on October 15, a day after four army personnel, including a JCO, were killed in an exchange of fire with the hiding terrorists in Bhatti Durrian forest, the officials said.  The operation started in Surankote forest on October 11 following the killing of five soldiers, including a JCO, and was subsequently extended to Mendhar to neutralize the fleeing terrorists.  A Pakistani terrorist, who was moved from the Kot Bhalwal Central Jail in Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation, was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on October 24.  The contact with the hiding terrorists was only established twice on October 11 at Surankote and Thanamandi and again at Bhatti Durrian on October 14, the officials said. After the firing on October 24 in Bhatti Durrian which left the Pakistani terrorist killed, there was no contact with the hiding terrorists.  A major part of the forest belt was cleared to allow the authorities to reopen the highway and villagers to resume normal activities, the officials said.  They said there was no breakthrough against the holed up terrorists who are avoiding direct contact with the search parties and are on the run taking advantage of thick foliage, natural caves and difficult terrain.  The operation is now going on deep inside the forest with a number of natural caves. The search parties are clearing the caves and moving cautiously to neutralize the suspected terrorists, an official said.  Over a dozen persons, including two women, were detained so far for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support, including food and shelter, to the terrorists, the officials said.  Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Congress pays tributes to Indira Gandhi on death anniversary||The Congress on Sunday paid tributes to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi hailing her as a great example of women power.  Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here.  Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated on this day in 1984 by two of her own security guards.  "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.  "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs. Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said. The Congress, in a tweet from its official Twitter handle, also lauded the former prime minister's contribution to the country.  "She represented strength. She epitomised sacrifice. She personified service. A billion salutes to the Iron Lady of India, our very first woman Prime Minister, a true Bharat Ratna, Smt. Indira Gandhi, on her death anniversary," the Congress said in its tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Covid: India logs 12,830 new cases, active cases lowest in 247 days||With 12,830 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,73,300, while the active cases declined to 1,59,272, the lowest in 247 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,58,186 with 446 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 23 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 126 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.46 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said.  A decline of 2,283 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,55,842, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.13 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 37 days, according to the ministry.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 106.14 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 446 new fatalities include 358 from Kerala and 26 from Maharashtra.  Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the past few days.  A total of 4,58,186 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,196 from Maharashtra, 38,071 from Karnataka, 36,097 from Tamil Nadu, 31,514 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,126 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Vakkom Moulavi: The scholar who believed in the power of journalism ||Last week the postal department issued a special cover on the unsung heroes of Indian freedom struggle. Vakkom Abdul Khader Moulavi, widely known as Vakkom Moulavi, was one of the four names from Kerala. While he rightly deserved the recognition, it would have been more apt if he had been recognised for his pioneering contributions to journalism in early 20th century. Today is his 89th death anniversary. Vakkom Moulavi was a man of many facets. But nearly nine decades after his death, he is remembered more as a religious reformer in Kerala than as a fearless journalist who had strong convictions of nationalism and a visionary understanding of the power of journalism, and yet the spine to stand up for ‘freedom of press’ in 1910. Who was Vakkom Moulavi? If you google, you will find him as a socio-religious reformer and Muslim scholar in Kerala. But not much emphasis has been given or written about him being one of the early proponents of journalism as a powerful tool for social reformation. Born into a wealthy family in the erstwhile princely state of Travancore in 1873, he was trained in languages and subjects by hand-picked scholars. His wide reading and quest for knowledge helped him shape a national outlook and realise the importance of education for social development. Through foreign publications and books, he was in touch with what was happening around the world, be it matters to do with Islam, science or geopolitics. Before the age of 30, he had a patriotic heart beating fervently within him. He believed in the critical role of media in social reformation and in achieving and protecting civil rights and liberty. He questioned the ‘divinity’ of the royal and stood up for the rights of the people as citizens and not as mere ‘subjects’ of a king. In 1905, at the young age of 32, he launched Swadeshabhimani (ThePatriot) as a weekly newspaper. It was not to uplift the Muslim community in and around him but to empower the citizens of Travancore, to make them aware of their rights to freedom and liberty, and to remind the royal rulers and the dewans appointed by the British that the people of the land were not ‘subjects’. He was championing the democratic rights at a time when civil rights movement had not gained any momentum across India. His decision to start the newspaper was not at all a result of an adrenalin rush. Nor was it an emotional decision out of any epiphanic experience. It was taken after careful deliberation and thought. He imported an automatic flatbed printing press through Pierce Leslie from England more than a century ago at a cost of Rs 12,000—when an acre of land in Thiruvananthapuram could be bought for Rs 100! If he had to start printing a newspaper from an imported press from England at the age of 32 in 1905, he must have started planning it at least close to five years, which means when he was 27! That Swadeshabhimani was the first newspaper in Kerala to subscribe to the Reuters news agency shows that young Vakkom Moulavi was abreast of the latest trends in the industry. He named both the printing press and the newspaper ‘Swadeshabhimani’ as the leitmotif of his activities was patriotism, not business interests. He knew it well that publishing a newspaper was not a lucrative business and when some of his relatives tried to dissuade him from launching Swadeshabhimani, Vakkom Moulavi said: “I am not a businessman. What I want to achieve with the newspaper is social service and patriotism. Money is not the ultimate profit I need. I firmly believe that my country will get what I am looking for. That is enough for me.” In the editorial of the first edition of Swadeshabhimani on January 19, 1905, its editor CP Govinda Pillai wrote: We don't declare that Swadeshabhimani will perform great things for the Muslim community and other communities, who desire their well-being. Our primary objective is that Swadeshabhimani's work should promote public welfare and prosperity. To achieve this objective we will do our utmost. We will not conceal any public grievances fearing dangers that may happen to us. Vakkom Moulavi knew it well that it would not be a bed of roses for him or for his paper when he had decided to use journalism for public welfare. One of the mission statements of Swadeshabhimani was that the paper would not ‘conceal any public grievances fearing danger that may happen to us’. Dr Jose Abraham, author of Islamic Reform and Colonial Discourse on Modernity in India: Socio-Political and Religious Thought of Vakkom Moulavi, writes: “When people's rights and privileges were not respected by state bureaucrats, no one dared to raise voice against it and bring it to the attention of the Maharaja. Moreover, no journals in Travancore were ready to carry out this challenging responsibility. This was the gap that Swadesabhimani promised to fill. Through editorials and columns, people's rights — where these were challenged or denied — were highlighted even by risking everything and always living up to its ideals. Therefore, taking into consideration the political and social structures of Travancore at the beginning of the twentieth century, Swadeshabhimani was the medium to express public grievances to the government, and indeed to challenge its responsibility.” “Fear, crookedness and greed will not build a country” — Vakkom Moulavi printed the line under the masthead of Swadeshabhimani, and practised such a brand of journalism that no one had till then dared to do in India, let alone in Travancore. Influential nationalist newspapers like Leader (1909) from Allahabad and Bombay Chronicle (1910) from Bombay were published only after Swadeshabhimani was suppressed, the press confiscated and its editor Ramakrishna Pillai was sent into exile through royal decree. When Vakkom Moulavi teamed up with Ramakrishna Pillai, who was the second editor of Swadeshabhimani, both brave, passionate, honest and committed to their causes and profession, it was the beginning of an unparalleled professional association. The way and to the extent Vakkom Moulavi gave professional freedom to his editor, Ramakrishna Pillai, was unheard of in the history of journalism even today. To make Swadeshabhimani a spearhead in political journalism, Vakkom Moulavi did not have to depend on anyone else. He himself was good enough to edit and lead publications with strong socioreligious messages as it was evident in the cases of his other publications—Muslim, Deepika and Al Islam. The late MA Shakoor, who was Senior Assistant Editor of Dawn and later London Correspondent of Pakistan Times and one of Vakkom Moulavi’s nephews, once wrote: “The dual task of running ‘The Patriot’(Swadeshabhimani) and leading the Muslim reformist movement at the same time soon proved unmanageable, and Maulavi Abdul Qadir looked for an editor for ‘The Patriot’ who would measure up to the high standard ofintegrity, courage and political principles he had set for his journal. He was lucky to have found such a man in a young graduate called Ramakrishna Pillai who had just then been sacked by his own uncle from the editorship of his weekly journal because of his views and uncompromising adherence to principles…Not once throughout the stormy life of the journal did Maulavi Abdul Qadir find the need to interfere in the editorial policy of his journal to keep it on course he had charted for it. This political collaboration which began in 1906 between two young radical democrats forms a glorious chapter in the political history of Kerala.” When the king of Travancore, on the recommendations of the Dewan, suppressed Swadeshabhimani, confiscated the press and sent the editor into exile, Vakkom Moulavi refused to apologise for what he stood for and reportedly said that he did not want the press without the editor! Though it incurred huge financial loss to him, the setback did not deter his journalistic activities. He went on to publish Deepika and Al Islam in his efforts to reform the Muslim community which was steeped in superstitions, and to argue his case for the need to educate Muslim women. In his own right and by the merit of his sharp and incisive writing, Vakkom Moulavi was a shining example of a journalist and a media entrepreneur, whose knees did not jerk nor did his spine bend in servitude to the powers-that-be but had the cold-blooded courage to fight rampant bureaucratic corruption, and to stand up for the democratic rights of the people. Moreover, he did not fire from anyone else’s shoulder but his own, and spent almost all his bequeathed wealth for the sake of his society and community. Vakkom Moulavi’s sense of patriotism and his unselfish journalistic efforts to propagate nationalism and the people’s right to freedom and liberty a century ago should not be brushed under the carpet at any pretext. Nor should his clear-eyed understanding of the role and place of cultural and community identities in the unique sociopolitical mosaic of India. It will be a gross injustice to Vakkom Moulavi and his visionary journalistic attempts if we do not tell his story in right earnest — that he was not just a generous newspaper owner but was himself a fearless journalist, well-read and with felicity of language and moral honesty and intent to spend even his last penny for its cause. When he died at the relatively young age of 59 on Oct. 31, 1932—89 years ago—he was in debt, having spent all his money for the society and community. (Sabin Iqbal is a senior journalist and novelist based in Bangalore. A grandson of Vakkom Moulavi, Sabin is Vice-President of Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Global policy must weigh risks of adopting booster doses: Doctor ||Any moves now to offer a third Covid-19 vaccine dose to all people 12 years or older amid vaccine inequity across countries could generate conditions for the emergence of new variants and fresh waves, an Indian public health expert has cautioned. K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India and member of the Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force, said if the practice of administering a third dose became established in vaccine-rich countries, it could aggravate shortages for other nations. In this scenario, he said, under-vaccinated populations could generate conditions for the emergence of new variants — not only more infectious, but also with greater immune escape potential — that could trigger fresh waves of infection even in vaccine-rich countries. “That is not the kind of natural experiment the world would like to see,” Reddy said in a commentary on Friday in The Lancet, a medical journal. “Global policy must weigh the risks of adopting booster doses ad libitum across the world at this stage of the pandemic.” His commentary comes amid moves by European and US regulators to recommend booster doses to specific groups of people. The European Medicines Agency recommended earlier this month booster doses for people with severely weakened immune systems. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved boosters to individuals 65 years or older and those between 18 and 64 either at high risk of severe Covid-19 or with institutional or occupational exposure that puts them at high risk of serious complications of Covid-19 or serious Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 vaccination policy is aimed at fully inoculating all adults before any decision on booster doses. About 734 million (78 per cent) of the country’s estimated 944 million adults have received one dose and 330 million (34 per cent) have got both. Proponents of booster doses have cited studies showing declining antibody levels and real-life evidence of protection against breakthrough infections in Israel. But, Reddy said, there is no consensus yet in any geographical region on when, for whom and for which vaccines a booster dose is needed at present. The Israel study had reported around 85 per cent reduction in Covid-19 hospitalisation, 76 per cent decrease in severe disease and 94 per cent decline in deaths when the three-dose recipients were compared with those who had got two. But Reddy said such real-world assessments need to take into account the influence of “confounding variables” or other factors — such as behavioural or biological attributes — that could also determine the outcome of exposure to the virus. He said booster doses might also bring safety concerns, citing reports from Israel of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis — heart complications — as rare events after receiving mRNA Covid-19 vaccines. “Concerns exist regarding vaccine-induced thrombotic thromobocytopenia (a blood clotting disorder) in younger recipients of virus vector vaccines,” Reddy also said, citing a very rare adverse effect associated with vaccines such as Covishield. “We await data on the safety of third-dose boosters with different vaccines.” With 12,830 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,73,300, while the active cases declined to 1,59,272, the lowest in 247 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,58,186 with 446 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 23 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 126 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.46 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said.  A decline of 2,283 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||All must unite under Congress to defeat BJP, says Lalu Prasad||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad asserted on Saturday that his party would continue the alliance with the Congress and said all Opposition parties must come under the umbrella of the Congress to defeat the BJP across the country. “The Congress is a big party of this country and the RJD’s alliance with it will continue. All Opposition parties in the country will have to come under the Congress’s banner if they want to defeat the BJP. It’s high time to do so,” Lalu, who has returned to Bihar after three years, told reporters. “(Congress president) Sonia Gandhi called me recently to enquire about my health. She is my well-wisher. I reminded her that the next general election is going to be held in 2024 and told her that if you want a change then convene a meeting of the leaders of all like-minded parties. She has assured me that she would do so in November,” Lalu added. The veteran leader’s comments came on a day Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would become more powerful as the Congress was not serious about politics. Mamata, in Goa to mark her party’s foray in the state, alleged that the country was suffering because the Congress does not take decisions. Prashant Kishor, the election consultant who guided Mamata’s campaign in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year, has been training his guns on Rahul Gandhi and claiming that the Congress had failed to fathom the popularity and strength of the BJP. Last week AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das had said the Congress had exited the RJD-led Grand Alliance in Bihar and that the national party would go solo in future elections in the state. Das’s announcement had come after the RJD “unilaterally” decided to contest the bypoll to the Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seat. Both the RJD and the Congress fielded candidates in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur in the by-elections held on Saturday. Lalu sought to differentiate between the Bihar Congress and the central unit of the party. “The Congressmen of Bihar have no concern for the condition of the country. I have talked to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. She and Rahul Gandhi decide about alliances. The future of the Grand Alliance in Bihar is bright,” the former chief minister said, denying that there was any rupture among the Opposition parties in the state. Lalu asserted that the RJD was going to win both the seats in the bypolls, which he said would pave the way for the end of the NDA regime in Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar. “I have devised a formula to bring down this government. Nitish’s retirement from politics is certain now,” the RJD chief added. Lalu said everything was fine between his two legislator sons — Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav — but indicated that the latter would lead the party against the backdrop of its stellar performance in last year’s Assembly elections in which “Nitish cheated him of the opportunity to form the government in the state”. The counting for the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan bypolls will be held on November 2. Around 49.59 per cent votes were polled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||At Vatican, Narendra Modi invites Pope Francis to visit India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday invited Pope Francis, the spiritual and temporal head of the Catholic Church, to visit India when he called on the pontiff at the Vatican in the morning. The invite comes ahead of the Goa elections — where Catholics account for a quarter of the population — and is being used to address criticism overseas about India moving away from its constitutional path of a secular, liberal democracy. The BJP, which drew a blank in the recent Assembly elections in Kerala, has also been trying to court Christians in the southern state. The choice of some of the gifts the Prime Minister and the Pope exchanged was telling: Modi presented a silver candle stand usually used in altars; the Pope gave him the document on Human Fraternity, signed on February 4, 2019, in Abu Dhabi by the pontiff and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar. The BJP sought to amplify the meeting. Party president J.P. Nadda, himself a product of a Catholic school, said: “The meeting between (the) Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy and the supreme head of the world’s largest Christian denomination is an occasion fit for the history books.” Although many in the party and several fellow travellers have targeted the Christian community, Nadda used the optics of the meeting to assert: “India is a vibrant and inclusive democracy, where the Christian community has played a pivotal role in areas like politics, films, business & armed forces….” Modi himself announced the invitation in a tweet with pictures of the meeting, including his trademark hug of the pontiff. Later, the external affairs ministry, in a readout on the “private audience at the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican”, said the Prime Minister had invited the Pope to “visit India at an early date which was accepted with pleasure”. Briefing journalists in Rome later in the day, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla paraphrased the Pope as saying: “You have given me the greatest gift. I am looking forward to visiting India.” Asked specifically if religious freedom had come up in the one-to-one meeting between the Prime Minister and the Pope, the foreign secretary said: “The discussion was completely devoid of any extraneous issues. It was very warm and convivial.” The official communiqué issued by The Holy See did not mention the invitation. According to the Vatican News, the official news website of The Holy See, “the Vatican has not made any comment or declaration regarding the invitation”. It added: “The request for a papal visit to India ha(d) already been advanced in 2017, in view of the Pope’s apostolic journey to neighbouring Bangladesh and Myanmar in 2018, but it was not possible to follow up.” About the meeting, the ministry said the two leaders had discussed the pandemic and climate change. “His Holiness appreciated India’s assistance to countries in need during the pandemic,” the readout said, underscoring that this was the first meeting between an Indian Premier and the Pope in over two decades. Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been the last to call on the Pope, in June 2000. If the India visit happens, it will be the second visit by a Pope on a BJP government’s watch — the last one was in 1999 when Vajpayee was Prime Minister. It will also be the fourth papal visit to India, the first happening in 1964 and the second in 1986. The Vatican statement on the meeting detailed all those whom Modi had met and said: “During a brief conversation, the cordial relations between The Holy See and India were discussed.” Shringla said the “meeting that was scheduled only for 20 minutes went on for an hour”. The Italian Catholic newspaper, Avvenire, said: “The Prime Minister was welcomed by Francesco in the Sala del Tronetto at 8.25am, the face-to-face ended at 9.20am.” Besides the silver candle stand, Modi gave the Pope a book listing the NDA government’s initiatives to address climate change. The Prime Minister told the pontiff that the book was on his “most favourite subject”. The Pope, who has been very vocal on climate change, on Friday urged world leaders heading to Glasgow for the Cop26 Conference to “take radical decisions”. According to Vatican News, the Pope presented the Prime Minister with a bronze plaque carrying the inscription “The desert will become a garden”, volumes of papal documents, his message for the World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity. A six-member Indian delegation, including foreign minister S. Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla were present when the presents were exchanged. While the visit caught eyeballs internationally, most reports also mentioned the attacks on minorities in India. Avvenire said “the situation of Christians in India is not easy” and referred to a recent report on the community being targeted along with a mention of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy’s arrest on “terrorism charges” and subsequent death in custody. The Vatican News report on the meeting also mentioned the “growing anti-Christian violence in India”. Reacting to the optics of the meeting, Opposition leaders highlighted the BJP’s doublespeak. “Raising and praising Indian diversity abroad and showing scant disregard and disrespect for the same at home.… This seems to be the mantra in ‘New India’,” tweeted the RJD’s Manoj Jha. Trinamul’s Jawhar Sircar wondered: “Will Modi promise Pope that his goons will not attack Christians and churches?” There was no mention whether Modi discussed with Pope Francis, the first Jesuit pontiff, the death of  Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest and one of the oldest terrorism accused in India who passed away in custody on July 5. Modi has not yet made any public statement on Father Stan. The Vatican had not issued any direct statement but the news portal of The Holy See had published a statement by the Federation of Asian Bishops Conferences calling for the release of Father Stan in October 2020. The Holy See portal published an obituary of Father Stan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||Rahul avoids any reference to TMC during his first election tour in Goa||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday avoided any reference to the Trinamul Congress during his first election tour of Goa, describing the contest as an ideological battle between the BJP and the Congress. Other Congress leaders have made passing references to a “party from Bengal” (Trinamul) and another “from Delhi” (AAP) but Rahul mentioned neither, ignoring Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s acerbic attack on the Congress. Mamata, also in Goa, accused the Congress of suffering from indecision and thereby strengthening the hands of the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress doesn’t want to recognise Trinamul’s intervention in Goa and give credence to the claims about a triangular fight. At all the three interactions he had during the day, Rahul persisted with his unifocal attack on Modi. Alleging that Goa’s being turned into a coal hub was meant to benefit the Adani group, he accused Modi of pursuing an agenda to hand over the entire country to a few industrialists. Rahul said: “These are not random events. There is a systematic plan in operation to attack the unorganised sector and small businesses so as to hand over everything to five-six biggest business houses.” “While five-six people are benefiting in every sector — ports, coal, airport, agriculture, retail, telecom — the lives of millions and millions are destroyed.” Rahul added: “A national tragedy is unfolding. The media is a friend of the government; it portrays a distorted reality. The Chinese have grabbed India’s territory, as big a space as Delhi, and the Prime Minister says nobody has entered. “The nation is divided; hate is being spread everywhere. Their goal is to help their friends no matter if India burns. The farm laws are designed to harm the farmers, the GST was designed to harm small and medium businesses. India’s backbone is being broken.” The main banner at the Congress workers’ convention read: “Only goal — say no to coal.” “We will not allow Goa to become a coal hub. We will not destroy Goa’s environment. We can develop Goa and create employment opportunities by making it an education and healthcare hub and promoting tourism,” Rahul said. “Don’t see this as an election, this is a fight for the future of Goa, where people can live in peace and communicate with others with love and affection.” At an earlier interaction with the fishing community, Rahul had said that unlike many other leaders, he attached importance to credibility and would therefore not make false promises. Environmental issues dominated the conversation. Most of the questions were about the transport of coal, doubling of railway lines and environmental degradation. Rahul promised that the Congress wouldn’t allow any reckless exploitation of resources that can damage the environment. Responding to questions about local concerns at motorised boats coming from outside to corner the bulk of the fish, he said: “Unlike many other leaders, my credibility is important to me. I won’t make promises that I can’t fulfil. “Our manifestos are guarantees; we fulfil our promises. You can go to Chhattisgarh and Punjab and ask people whether we have delivered on our manifestos. And our manifestos reflect people’s concerns and aspirations.” He added: “There should be a balance between development and environment. There should be a balance between the big fishermen and small fishermen. The balance should be in favour of the poor and the locals.” Rahul said the difference between the BJP and the Congress was: “We unite, we know that every citizen must be given space, everybody will have to be taken together. The BJP spreads hatred and divides people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||The Prejudice & The Pride||The tendency of the incumbent regime to single out Jawaharlal Nehru to blame for just about any of their troubles is now legendary. It has not gone unnoticed that in its criticism of dynastic politics, the regime does not attack Indira Gandhi with similar single-mindedness. The Emergency is a blot on independent India, an exceptional disruption of democracy that dealt indelible blows to our democratic polity and aspirations and set terrible precedents for later tyrants to mimic. Is this legacy of Indira Gandhi treated with kid gloves by the current regime because Emergency is their favoured model without even the declaration of it? The personality and conduct of Indira Gandhi was often at odds with what she professed to believe in. These contradictions are apparent when you examine her closely in different phases of her life — a young person growing in a household full of freedom fighters, as Nehru’s daughter while being partner of Feroz Gandhi, one of Nehru’s most vocal critics in Parliament, going from being the heir apparent in the Congress to splitting it. Her imperious political style and her close self-identification with India during the Emergency gave birth to an alarming authoritarianism and left our democracy mangled. It bears pointing out that by contrast Nehru’s ideas about Indian democracy were not based on an individual quirk of personality. They were based on a principled faith that the foundations of a multicultural democracy lie in strengthening civil liberties and instituting processes that ensured social justice and harmony, and not on overconfidence in his personal ability to lead India. In this Nehru was also being mindful of the serious warning about the role of “Bhakti” sounded by Ambedkar in his final address to the Constituent Assembly. Ambedkar had clearly said that the path of hero worship in politics could lead to eventual degradation of democracy and pave the way for authoritarianism. Indira Gandhi’s “Emergency years” are probably inspirational to the present regime; and the stiffest challenge to their project to reimagine India as “New” comes from the Nehruvian idea of democracy and democratic functioning. Nehruvian ideals and his legacy command a deep and pervasive influence on the people of this country including his critics. “The Gentle Colossus” as he was called by veteran Communist parliamentarian Hiren Mukherjee, Jawaharlal Nehru embodies much that is grand and laudable about Indian democracy. In the last parliamentary session, the government disallowed questions on topics of national importance such as widespread surveillance and the farm laws. The decision to restrict Question Hour in the monsoon session of 2020 was shamelessly undemocratic. Narendra Modi has rarely answered questions on the departments and ministries held by him. His silence on the issues of importance and his absences from parliamentary debates remain a stark reminder of deteriorating democracy in India. Contrast this to Nehru, who, despite having a staggering majority in Parliament, never brushed aside the Opposition and gave dissent its due space. He did not shy away from uncomfortable questions and sat through the debates and interventions meant to criticise him. For instance, during the much-condemned China fiasco, Nehru made as many as 32 statements and interventions on China on the floor of the Parliament. He was present in Parliament even on days that the Prime Minister’s business was not listed, and participated in debates that did not strictly relate to the working of his department. Putting into practice the ideas and values of the leadership of the newly independent India, Nehru took on the unique task of building a nation rather than merely administering it. It is entirely conceivable that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Parliament in 2018 that rich democratic traditions have long been a part of Indian culture and that India does not owe democracy to its first Prime Minister, he was merely revealing his blinkered understanding of the past. Jawaharlal Nehru was a true democrat who laid the strong foundations on which we stand today and pride ourselves on being the world’s biggest democracy. He deeply believed that Indians could not merely adopt democracy; they had to develop it. Nehru was at pains to underline that democracies had no special claim to survival. Democracies are as likely to fail or succeed as any other political institution. In this, he appeared to wholeheartedly agree with his venerable colleague, B.R. Ambedkar who had argued in his last address to the Constituent Assembly that while the Constitution provides the blueprint for the workings of the State, it is up to the people to “carry out their wishes and their politics”. A government unaccountable to Parliament seems to be knocking down this far from perfect, yet painstakingly built, democratic ethos of our country. Today, regrettably, it would not be exaggeration to say that India is a functional electoral democracy found wanting in the very elements that make for vibrant and open democracies — inclusion, deliberation and accountability. In a letter dated March 1, 1950, Nehru wrote, “Loyalty is not produced to order by fear. It comes as a natural growth from circumstances that make loyalty not only a sentiment which appeals to one but also profitable in the long run”. In the same letter, he offered long-term policy solutions to consolidate India by making all minorities in the country at home. Nehru warned that even though India would survive any attack on its secular moral characteristic, she would be grievously wounded and take a long time to recover. The contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed in the midst of protests defies this vision of inclusivity. Constitutional experts as well as international watch bodies have observed that the amended law will cause Muslims to face exclusion. We have failed to learn the right lessons from the experience in Assam of the consequences of such policies. There is no denying that democratic forces in India have found themselves under strain in recent times. It is inevitable that the dark memories of Emergency have been invoked, as we see those very practices being normalised today. Activists, journalists, politicians, and students are being threatened through systemic misuse of institutions. The media was officially censored for 21 months following the imposition of Emergency in 1975. Today we have ended up largely with a media that is expert at falsification, misrepresentation and distortion of reality. On the other hand, media entities that show autonomy find staggering curbs imposed on their freedoms through dubious methods, without any formal suspension of rights. Central agencies are being used as tools to scare those who dare to openly dissent and question. Arbitrary Internet shutdowns, restrictive IT guidelines and the proposed changes in the Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill are just some of the actions of the NDA government that clearly tell us that control over expression and opinion remains it top priority. Imposing sedition laws without any due process has been deeply concerning, to the extent that a sitting judge had to remark, “The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.” Vanity is probably another quality that holds the current regime in thrall of Indira Gandhi. The writer is an RJD member of the Rajya Sabha and teaches at Delhi University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
