01-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal Assembly Monsoon Session to begin Monday||The twelve-day Monsoon Session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly will begin Monday, speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said Sunday. The session will start on August 2 and continue till August 13 with a total of 10 working days, he added. Parmar said all Covid protocols would be fully followed during the session. Visitors will be allowed to watch the proceedings, he said, adding social distancing norms would be ensured in the visitors' gallery. Earlier in the day, the speaker held an all-party meeting to prepare the ground for ensuring the smooth functioning of the session. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-monsoon-session-to-begin-monday-291425
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tri-service all-women mountaineering expedition to Himachal flagged off||A tri-services all-women mountaineering expedition to Mount Manirang in Himachal Pradesh organised by the Air Force as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mohotsav' celebrations was flagged off on Saturday. The team of 15 mountaineers led by Wg Cdr Bhavana Mehra aims to scale the 21,625 feet high peak on August 15, according to an IAF statement.  Flagging off the team, Air Marshal VPS Rana, Air Officer-in-Charge Administration at Air Headquarters, encouraged them to achieve their aim and appreciated the efforts by the organisers to facilitate the expedition. The other 14 members of the team include Wg Cdr N Linyu, Wg Cdr Nirupama Pandey, Wg Cdr Lalita Mishra, Wg Cdr Vyomika Singh, Flt Lt Komal Pahuja, Lt Col Geetanjali Bhatt, Maj Saumya Shukla, Maj Veenu Mor, Maj Usha Kumari, Maj Rachna Hooda, Lt Cdr Nandini Damroy, Lt Cdr Sino Wilson, Lt Cdr Chham Kumari and Lt Cdr Renu Ramdurg.Mount Manirang is located at the border of Kinnaur and Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh. The Manirang Pass is located close to the peak and is one of the early trade routes between these two districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tri-service-all-women%C2%A0mountaineering-expedition-to-himachal-flagged-off-291420
01-08-2021||Kali Dhank (Shillai)||Locals of Kamrau area face hardship as NH connecting region to Paonta Sahib cut off after road caves in||Immense hardships are being faced by the locals of Kamrau area in Shillai sub division of Sirmaur district with the national highway connecting the region to Paonta Sahib having caved in at Kali Dhank.In a bid to attend to the exigencies, locals from Kamrau area are trudging a three km steep hill comprising a narrow bridle path from Parchu to Heona to reach the other side of Paonta Sahib-Shillai National Highway 707.With schools reopening tomorrow, several villagers today risked climbing this hill to reach Sataun, Paonta Sahib and other places where their children are studying and staying.Naresh Kumar, who was among a group of villagers who trudged through this hill, said, “It is fraught with risk in this rainy weather as the path is risky and a slight loss of balance can push a person into the deep nallah where a 150m road has caved in at Kali Dhank.”Despite the risk, locals continue to use this arterial route to reach their destination.Renu Pundir, another woman who was on her way to Sataun from Kamrau area, said, “Since schools reopen tomorrow and my children are at Satuan, I had to come back from my parental village in Kandau using this hilly route despite the risk.”She had gone to visit her maternal family days before the highway caved in.Ankit Sharma, who plies a bus from Gathadhar Shillai to Paonta Sahib Nahan route, said, “Closure of the road at Kali Dhank has reduced the route from Paonta Sahib to Heona and only one trip is made daily given the scant passenger inflow. It has become unviable to operate more trips.”Work was underway to restore fallen electricity infrastructure at Kali Dhank. Labourers also used the 3 km hill route to transport cement for the restoration work which was partially hit due to the rains and cloudy weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/locals-of-kamrau-area-face-hardship-as-nh-connecting-region-to-paonta-sahib-cut-off-after-road-caves-in-291379
01-08-2021||Dipender Manta||One killed, another injured as car plunges into deep gorge in Lahaul-Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 1One person was killed and another injured when a car plunged into a deep gorge near Ropsang village in the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Tashi Dorje, a resident of Pin valley of Lahaul-Spiti.While Dorje died on the spot, the other passenge, Urgain Pasang, was rushed to the district hospital, Keylong.According to the police, the accident occurred when the driver lost control over the car.A case has been registered in this regard and investigation is under way, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-killed-another-injured-as-car-plunges-into-deep-gorge-in-lahaul-spiti-291376
01-08-2021||Shimla||Size matters: Himachal apple growers see big gains in plentiful rain||Apple growers in Himachal Pradesh, one of India’s major apple-producing regions, are upbeat that increased rainfall activity would result in sufficient moisture to help the fruit to gain optimum size. This would also raise overall apple production after a lean season.The state Horticulture Department said harvesting of the fruit has just begun in low apples belts, mainly in Shimla district, that alone accounts for 80 per cent of the state’s total apple production.A total of 6,60,000 apple boxes have been sent to different markets of the country till July 30, said the Horticulture Department.This year’s production of apples in the hill state is estimated at 40 million boxes with an improvement over last year’s 30 million boxes, Horticulture Director JP Sharma told IANS.More than 90 per cent of Himachal Pradesh’s apple produce goes to the domestic market. Apples constitute 49 per cent of the total area under fruit crops and 85 per cent of the state’s fruit economy comes to Rs 4,000 crore.The Economic Survey of 2020-21 stated that the area under apple production in the state had increased from 400 hectares in 1950-51 to 1,14,144 hectares in 2019-20. The production was normal with 70 million boxes in 2019-20.Currently, the harvesting of apples is going on in areas like Jubbal, Kotkhai, Rohru, Kotgarh, Nerva and Karsog.These early-season varieties normally fetch anywhere between Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,400 per 20-kg apple box.Superior grades like Royal Delicious, Red Chief, Super Chief, Oregon Spur and Scarlet Spur will start arriving by the middle of August.The major markets for apples are in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, with Narkanda town, some 65 km from the state capital, being a major hub for the fruit trade.S.P. Bhardwaj, former joint director at Dr. Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry in Solan, told IANS that this season the crop is expected to be 25-30 per cent less than the normal production of 70 million boxes.The main reason for the decline in the crop is lack of winter snow and then scanty rainfall till mid of July.“The crop in June and July needs the moisture for the fruit and colour development. Water stress during the maturing season not only impacts the fruit quality and production but also results in fruit drop,” he said. “Now with the enhancement of rainfall activity, the crop will gain in size wherever harvesting is yet to start,” he added.According to Bhardwaj, the fruit is sold on the basis of weight. The gaining of optimum size means overall increase in quantity.Trader Gian Thakur at the apple market in Dhalli near the state capital said a 20 kg box fetches Rs 2,400 in Delhi’s Azadpur market with the onset of the apple season.A large consignment is heading to the wholesale market in Delhi and Panchkula in Haryana where they are getting good prices.“Like last year, this time too traders from Gujarat and Maharashtra, have not arrived owing to the pandemic. The farmers are taking their crop directly to Delhi and Panchkula markets,” he added. According to the local meteorological office, despite an early monsoon the hill state received 16 per cent less precipitation in June. It was as high as minus 80 per cent in February.In July, the state saw 289.1 mm of rain against the normal of 273 mm, which was six more than the normal. Shimla district alone experienced 15 per cent more rains in this period. The rainfall activity in the state was enhanced with the onset of widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall after July 8, a Met official told IANS.The rainfall activity in the state was enhanced with the onset of widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall after July 8, a Met official told IANS. In July, the state saw 373 mm of rain against the normal of 289.2 mm. The rainfall activity in the state was enhanced with widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall after July 8.In the state about 81 per cent of the total cultivated area is rain-fed.Farmers say April and May saw damage to the crop due to unseasonal snow and frequent hailstorms.According to Horticulture Department estimates, lack of cold chains causes the decay of 25 per cent of the fruit produce.Dr Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry’s Department of Fruit Science last week addressed the queries of 100-odd farmers who have raised high-density plantations in 2016 under the World Bank-funded Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development Project.The high-density varieties, comprising Jeromine, Red Velox, Red Cap Valtod, Scarlet Spur-II, Super Chief, Gale Gala, Redlum Gala and Auvil Early Fuji, were grafted on M9 and MM106 rootstocks. The government is promoting new low-chilling and early maturing varieties in the lower-altitude hills that are facing the brunt of climate change.Farmers and trade insiders say the overall apple production in the state has been erratic since 2010.Horticulture experts believe changes in precipitation patterns like frequent extreme weather events both in summer and winter have impacted the taste, colour and texture of apples.Fluctuation in temperatures from December to February, for example, have preponed flowering in apple trees in spring and altered the timing of key plant physiological events like early bud break and full bloom period.Changes in taste, colour and size due to weather fluctuations and lower overall productivity are noticeable in orchards located at 1,500 m, said Bhardwaj.Himachal Pradesh’s apple boom is credited to Samuel Evans Stokes (later named Satyanand Stokes), an American missionary who first introduced the high-quality apples in the mid-altitude hills in the second decade of the previous century. From a small orchard in Kotgarh in Shimla district, Stokes promoted apple cultivation in other areas too, especially in upper Shimla.Before opting for apple cultivation, the locals were planting mainly wheat, maize and pulses.—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/size-matters-himachal-apple-growers-see-big-gains-in-plentiful-rain-291372
01-08-2021||Manu Moudgil||Recent landslides have put the focus on early detection & warning systems||A loud sound of gushing water jolted Devi Lal out of sleep around 4 am on April 9, 2012. Rushing out of his house, he realised that the newly constructed tunnel of the Chamera-III hydroelectric power project above his village in Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh was leaking. All families moved to a safer location before the slope gave in and debris buried the fields, houses and shops. “Though all villagers escaped unharmed, our lives are yet to be rebuilt due to displacement and inadequate compensation,” said Devi Lal, who is currently fighting a court case seeking an enhanced rehabilitation package.India is one of the countries that is most vulnerable to landslides with 4.3 lakh sq km of its hilly and mountainous areas being landslide-prone. The recent incidents in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh have put greater focus on the need for early detection and prevention of landslides. Traditionally, natural events like rainfall and earthquake are known to cause this large movement of rock, soil and debris, but construction of roads and buildings, mining and hydropower projects are now increasingly destabilising slopes, making them more susceptible to slippage. Changing rainfall patterns and rise in extreme weather events like cloudbursts are adding another layer of complexity to the scenario.Signs of an impending landslide                                                       Source: National Disaster Management Authority High on vulnerabilityIndia registered around 11,020 deaths from 892 landslides between 2004 and 2016, which made up 18 per cent of the total global casualties, found a study by Sheffield University, UK. The Northwest Himalayas spanning Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir contribute 66.5 per cent of the landslide area in India, followed by the Northeast Himalayas (18.8) and Western Ghats (14.7 per cent).Rudraprayag (Uttarakhand), Tehri Garhwal (Uttarakhand), Rajouri (Jammu and Kashmir), Thrissur (Kerala) and Pulwama (Jammu and Kashmir) are the top five hill districts most vulnerable to the damage. These places not only have a large landslide-prone area, but also a high number of people, livestock, houses and roads exposed to these disasters, according to an analysis of 45,334 landslides by the National Remote Sensing Centre, ISRO.Among the states, Uttarakhand was found to be the most vulnerable owing to major pilgrimage routes. Even though the Northeastern states record a large number of landslides annually, they are less exposed to the adverse impacts because of lower population density and large uninhabited areas. On the other hand, Kerala has a high exposure of people and houses because of very high population and household densities in Thrissur, Malappuram and Palakkad districts.However, these are also the areas which are witnessing big developmental projects causing deforestation, change in drainage channels and slope instability. “The recent landslide in Kinnaur became famous because of the viral video but we have been living this reality for many years now. Several people have lost their lives and livelihoods due to landslips caused by tunnelling, blasting and deforestation done for hydropower projects and construction of new roads,” said Shanta Kumar Negi, president of Hangrang Sangharsh Samiti, a group campaigning against hydel power projects in Hangrang valley of Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. “The government should prioritise conservation to deal with climate change rather than destroying the ecology in the name of development and thus making us more vulnerable to natural disasters,” he added.The urban areas of hill states are also undergoing rapid concretisation at the expense of safety. Land-use plans and building regulations of these towns are either invalid or not being enforced. “Existing building regulations enforced in hill towns are mostly inspired from the Delhi Master Plan(s), which are not appropriate in the context of hill towns, as the geo-environmental and socio-developmental context of Delhi is varied to a greater extent from that of hill towns,” according to the National Landslide Risk Management Strategy 2019 by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The NDMA recommends zoning of mountain areas according to their susceptibility to landslides and no construction in the hazardous areas, spring lines (path of spring), first-order streams (small streams with no tributaries which flow into other bigger streams) and hill slopes inclining at more than 30 degrees angle to the ground.Mapping of risk zonesThe Geological Survey of India (GSI) is currently working on a national landslide susceptibility map under which areas are divided into different zones according to probability of a landslide. It has already covered 85 per cent of the entire 4.3 lakh sq km landslide-prone area of the country on a 1:50,000 scale map. On a scale of 1:50,000, 1 cm on the map would denote 0.5 km on the ground.“These maps can be referred to while planning development in hill or mountainous areas. Big construction or road expansion can be avoided at places with higher probability of a landslide. If not avoidable, the site should be properly studied and appropriate engineering solutions provided for safe and sustainable construction,” said Dr Saibal Ghosh, Director, Landslide Studies Division, GHRM Centre, GSI. “More granular maps, however, will be required for site-specific planning which we are stressing on at many places nationally.”The GSI is also carrying out 1:10,000 scale landslide susceptibility mapping for select vulnerable sectors and 1:1,000 at site-specific landslide investigations on requests received from the state governments or the road maintenance authorities concerned. “We will try to cover around 200 critical sectors on important road corridors and a few hill townships in the next five years,” said Dr Ghosh. “This work relies less on remote sensing and more on footwork and hence takes more time.”Mizoram’s capital city Aizawl has taken a lead over other hill towns and developed a landslide action plan using 1:5,000 scale susceptibility maps, besides enacting new regulations to guide construction activities. Under these regulations, any construction in risk zones will require a mandatory assessment by a geologist or geotechnical engineer, who can also suggest remedial measures to stabilise the slopes.“We have also identified six most-hazardous spots for landslides. Any construction activity will be prohibited in future in these areas,” said Zohmingthanga, executive engineer with the Aizawl Municipal Corporation.Kerala, which braved massive landslides from 2018 to 2020, has also prepared an action plan giving high priority to landslide hazard zonation maps in hilly areas at the municipality and panchayat levels. “There is greater focus on devising land use plans for the most hazardous areas according to land zonation mapping, thus avoiding future disasters as far as possible. The Chief Minister also mentioned this in the state Assembly, which makes it difficult for the government to go back on its word now,” said Dr Sarun Savith, Assistant Professor of Geography with Kerala-based Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, who has developed a climate crisis vulnerability index for all districts of the state.Early warning systemsImproved weather forecasting has increased India’s capacity to deal with cyclones. Fishermen are warned against going to the sea in advance, people along the coast are shifted to safer locations and emergency teams are on alert to deal with any eventuality. Such a system is lacking for landslides even though rainfall is the most common trigger that brings down the already destabilised slopes.The GSI is experimenting with a rainfall-based early warning system for landslides in Kalimpong (West Bengal) and Nilgiris (Tamil Nadu). The model is based on a terrain-specific rainfall threshold, which is the amount of rainfall a slope can hold before a landslide gets triggered. “We are using past rainfall and landslide occurrence data for this experiment, but rainfall distribution in hills can be quite variable. This is the reason we need to validate this model on the ground for multiple monsoon years,” said Dr Ghosh. “We plan to carry out similar research in a few other landslide-prone states too, and if proven successful after ground testing and validation, this model would be rolled out as an operational regional early warning system in all landslide-prone areas.”Putting in place sensors The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, has developed a surface-level motion sensor-based early warning system. The device gathers information about weather parameters, soil moisture, and soil movement and when it detects a large displacement of soil which could result in a landslide, it sends SMS alerts. The IIT, Mandi, has developed a surface-level motion sensor-based early warning system against imminent landslides. Photo: Dr Varun DuttIn 2018, the sensors alerted officials about an imminent landslide on the Mandi-Jogindernagar highway, which helped the police turn away vehicles from the road before it was washed away.“We have installed 13 landslide monitoring systems in Himachal and recently signed an agreement with the Mandi administration to scale up these systems to 20 in the next three years,” said Dr Varun Dutt, Associate Professor, School of Computing and Electrical Engineering, IIT, Mandi.While it may take time for such systems to be scaled up and cover all risk zones, improved building plans and precautionary measures can go a long way in cushioning the impact of landslides.“It is possible to include landslide forecasting in the weather bulletins by taking into account antecedent rainfall and local trends like recent developmental activities and previous landslide incidents in the region. If the soil is already saturated with moisture during monsoon, more of heavy rainfall is likely to run off taking along the destabilised slopes,” said Anand Sharma, former head of the Indian Meteorological Department (Northern India). “All states should have block-level teams which can identify vulnerable spots based on recent construction and history of landslide events. The spots can then be stabilised before the rains arrive. The administration can also put barricades to divert tourists away from vulnerable spots on the days when heavy rains are forecast for the region.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recent-landslides-have-put-the-focus-on-early-detection-warning-systems-291296
01-08-2021||Mandi||178 stranded tourists rescued in Lahaul||The Lahaul and Spiti district administration today rescued around 178 tourists with the help of ladders, ropes, and zip lines while 66 tourists were still stranded.However, the helicopter service could not be operated to airlift the stranded tourists due to bad weather for the second consecutive day.Schools closed till Aug 9Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had planned an aerial survey of the flood-affected Lahaul valley but due to bad weather at the Rohtang Pass, his helicopter had to land at Manali. He reached Lahaul by road and visited Kirting village. He met flood-affected people and assured them of every possible help and financial assistance.3 missing trekkers safeTourists were stranded in the Lahaul valley since July 27 when flash floods created havoc in the region.Four bridges on the Tandi-Udaipur road were damaged, snapping the link between Udaipur and Keylong.Tanuj from Delhi had come to Udaipur along with his four companions for research work on agriculture and wildlife in Lahaul and Spiti.He told The Tribune, “We are stranded in Udaipur since July 27 and are waiting to be airlifted because in the current situation it is not possible to do research work. We are carrying a heavy luggage and it will be difficult for us to cross ladders or the zip line towards Keylong from the Udaipur side”.Praveen Kumar, a tourist from Punjab who is stuck at Triloknath, said, “I am waiting desperately for the restoration of the road between Triloknath and Keylong so that I can return home in my vehicle”.Like Praveen Kumar, a large number of tourists are stranded in their own vehicles in the Lahaul valley and are desperately waiting for the road between Udaipur and Keylong to be restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/178-stranded-tourists-rescued-in-lahaul-291218
01-08-2021||New Delhi||2 BRO officials die in rescue operations||Two Border Roads Organisation (BRO) officials have died during rescue and relief operations in Himachal Pradesh, which is witnessing flash floods and landslides due to heavy rainfall. The BRO has been tasked with restoring the strategic Manali-Leh highway that has been blocked due to landslides and rescuing stranded civilians.Chandigarh-Manali higway restoredMandi: The NHAI on Saturday restored the Chandigarh-Manali highway, which was blocked due to a massive landslide near Pandoh in Mandi district on Friday. Three vehicles were damaged in the incident. A large number of tourists were stranded in the area. The police diverted small vehicles onto alternative routes between Mandi and Kullu, while buses and trucks remained stuck in the area until the highway was restored. TNSA number of civilians, including women and children, were stranded at a road stretch near Sarchu ahead of Baralacha La (a 16,040 feet high pass) on the Manali-Leh highway, and facing problems due to the lack of oxygen in inclement high-altitude conditions. The BRO team cleared the landslide at 14,480 ft and rescued them. Sarchu is at the boundary of Himachal Pradesh on the Ladakh side.Naik Reetesh Kumar Pal, who was part of the rescue efforts, lost his life. The road was later restored to traffic, the Union Ministry of Defence said on Saturday.On July 27, the BRO cleared a stretch on the Killer-Thirot-Tandi road that connects Himachal Pradesh with Kishtwar in Jammu and Kashmir. Two passenger vehicles were stranded in the area. During the operation, some members of the BRO team, six civilians and a civilian vehicle were washed away in a sudden flash flood. Junior Engineer Rahul Kumar died in the incident, while BRO personnel rescued others, the MoD said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-bro-officials-die-in-rescue-operations-291219
01-08-2021||Shimla||Shimla to get water on alternate days||The city will receive water on alternate days from tomorrow till turbidity at the water sources reduces, especially at the Giri water scheme.“Turbidity at the Giri water scheme is too high to handle. As a result, we are not able to lift the required amount of water. To ensure equitable distribution of water, we have decided to provide water on alternate days until the availability of water improves,” said Rajesh Kashyap, AGM, Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL).Kashyap said Giri water scheme has been the worst affected as a lot of developmental works are happening in the catchment area of the river.He said they would try to provide water to the core area of the city and commercial establishments on a daily basis. “As for residential areas, we will provide water with extended timings on alternate days so that they can store adequate water for the next day,” he said. “The company would not compromise with water quality,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-to-get-water-on-alternate-days-291220
01-08-2021||Shimla||Kinnaur tragedy a ‘natural’ occurrence, says GSI team||Shooting boulders near Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district, which killed nine tourists on July 25, was a natural incident of rock fall from very high hills.A three-member team of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) visited the spot. Kinnaur falls in the seismic zone 5. Loose boulders on a steep slope with thick debris led to the mishap, said Deputy Director General (state unit Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh) Dr Ghanshyam Tewari.Highest rain in July after 16 yearsThe shooting boulders have impacted the hills and vigilance is required at the 200-300-metre stretch. The remedial steps, suggested by the team, included the installation of movement protector, catch fence and construction of a create wall and rock wall shelter.The team has stated that the sliding could continue during rain as big boulders have shaken the hills and the road will be closed for a week till rain stops, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq. “We are also writing to the GSI for rock mapping of 15 vulnerable points in the district,” he added.Nine persons, including three members of a family and four women, were killed in the mishap while three others, including local pedestrians, sustained injuries. The vehicle carrying 11 persons was on its way to Kalpa from Chitkul when the tragedy struck.As many as 378 roads, including 129 roads in Mandi district, 96 in Shimla and 45 in Chamba, are still closed due to landslides and 107 water supply schemes are affected.Meanwhile, moderate to heavy rain continued to lash the region and Chowari with 77 mm of rain was the wettest. The local Met office has issued yellow warning of heavy rain in Una, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for two days.There is no significant change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at night at 12.7 degree C while Bilaspur was the hottest in day with a high of 33.0 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-tragedy-a-natural-occurrence-says-gsi-team-291223
01-08-2021||Solan||Use of heavy machines may have caused Shillai landslip: Geologists||The use of heavy machinery like Poclain and earth excavation machines for mining limestone at the base of the valley which caved in at Kali Dhank Barwas in Shillai subdivision in Sirmaur district may have triggered the massive landslide, say geologists.A 150-m road stretch had eroded at Kali Dhank Barwas yesterday on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai national highway.Assistant Geologist, Sirmaur, Suresh Bhardwaj said, “A limestone mine was operational at the base of the valley till about two years ago where the use of hydraulic machinery could have weakened the hill. The problem was aggravated by the presence of clay shales whose cutting for limestone mining disturbed its surface and seepage of excess water during the rains triggered the landslide.”Locals also blamed the private company engaged in widening this Paonta Sahib-Shillai National Highway-707 for triggering such natural disasters.Sunil Kumar, a resident of Badwas, who resides within a periphery of 500 m from the spot, said, “The four-laning company has been recklessly dumping tonnes of debris at various places along the natural nullahs. This obstructed the natural flow of water towards the arable fields. An artificial lake has also been created at the village, which has aggravated the problem and destroyed three traditional water mills at Haivena village.”He said though no four-laning work was underway at the affected site, reckless dumping along nearby nullahs had triggered this incident. He said small landslides had been occurring at various places along the highway in the monsoon season since the four-laning work began.At Khajiaar village in Kamrau tehsil, too, a potable water resource has been damaged, causing hardships to people some days ago. “Only Rs 2,000 were extended by the private company which is too meagre given the damage incurred to their livelihood as the rural areas have little source of income,” added Sunil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-of-heavy-machines-may-have-caused-shillai-landslip-geologists-291224
01-08-2021||Solan||36 bus services on Paonta-Shillai hit||The operations of 36 buses were hit due to the closure of the Paonta Sahib-Shillai National Highway-707 at Kali Dhank Barwas in Shillai of Sirmaur district today.A 150-metre stretch caved in yesterday. The vehicular movement has been hit on the stretch and buses could ply on limited routes from Shillai to Kafota and from Paonta Sahib to Sataun.Some link roads were being repaired and made operational to ensure that the area was not cut-off.The SDM, Paonta Sahib, said the diversion of traffic had been worked out through Kafota-Jakna-Jong-Vikas Nagar-Paonta Sahib and HRTC buses en route Rohru and Dhamkoti plied on the route today. Another route through Kafota-Killod-Paonta Sahib was also operational and no area was cut off and efforts were on to make more link roads operational.Being new routes, the buses had to seek permission to ply as the restoration of the road was slated to take weeks.Regional Transport Authority officer Sona Chauhan said, “A request has been made to the State Transport Authority in Shimla to permit buses to take a diversion from Sataun through a 9.5-km stretch though link roads as well as through a 40 to 50-km stretch through Vikas Nagar in Uttarakhand for buses plying on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai routes.”Akhil Sharma, general secretary, Sirmaur Bus Operators Union, who operates Avni Travels, however, said, “The closure of the road at Kali Dhank Barwas has adversely hit transporters as well as the residents. The alternative route worked out through Vikas Nagar in Uttarakhand will entail a daily tax of Rs 2,400. The link roads could not withstand much traffic and a jam occurred last evening too.”He said, “Since it will not be viable to operate the buses under such circumstances, the administration has been requested to talk to the Uttarakhand government and allow us tax exemption.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/36-bus-services-on-paonta-shillai-hit-291226
01-08-2021||Dharamsala||Poll-bound Fatehpur gets Rs 43 cr projects||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur laid the foundation stones of nine development projects worth Rs 43 crore in the Fatehpur Assembly constituency, where byelection is due, in Kangra district today.Ticket aspirants displayed their show of strength in the presence of the Chief Minister. Former MP Kirpal Parmar and BJP leader Baldev Thakur came to the rally venue along with their supporters, who raised slogans in their support.Thakur, while addressing a rally at Wazir Ram Singh Stadium, announced the opening of a sub-tehsil at Rae, upgrade of Government High School at Barot to Government Senior Secondary School, channelling of the Nagoh and Kundal khuds, Rs 10 lakh for a retaining wall at Guru Ravi Dass temple complex, patwar circle at Nangal, starting of MA (Hindi) and M.Com classes in Wizar Singh Degree College at Dehri (Fatehpur) and the upgrade of the college to the postgraduate level.The Chief Minister announced Rs 2 crore for link roads and other works in the area. He also announced the construction of a Shaheed Smarak at Fatehpur, upgrade of a police post at Fatehpur to a police station, Rs 10 lakh for the construction of a Press Club and making the Community Health Centre at Rae functional round the clock.Thakur said that Himachal Pradesh is one of the best performing states in Covid management. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other states had appreciated the steps taken by the state government to check the spread of the virus, he added.He said that the Congress had been in power for about 50 years at the Centre. There were only 50 ventilators in the state when the pandemic broke out. “I took up the matter with the Prime Minister and 500 new ventilators were provided under the PMCAREs to the state immediately. Today, there are over 700 fully-functional ventilators in various hospitals of the state,” he added.The Chief Minister said that there was only one oxygen plant in the state earlier but 10 plants were functional now and 28 more were being established.He said that 3.20 lakh gas connections had been provided to eligible families under the Grehini Suvidha Yojana, 1.70 lakh families had benefited under the HIMCARE Yojana and Rs 3,000 per month was being provided to families having critically-ill patients.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said that the people of Fatehpur should support the policies and programmes of the government, which had ensured balanced and equitable development of the state. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary and Industries Minister Bikram Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poll-bound-fatehpur-gets-rs-43-cr-projects-291227
01-08-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||High Court dismisses plea against HPU VC||The High Court yesterday dismissed the petition challenging the appointment of Dr Sikander Kumar as Vice-Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU).Justice Sureshwar Thakur passed the judgment on a petition filed by Dharam Pal, who alleged that the appointment of Dr Sikander had not been made in accordance with the University Grants Commission Regulations, 2010, which require that a person to be appointed as VC must have an experience of 10 years as a professor or 10 years of experience on an equivalent position.The petitioner alleged that Dr Sikander applied for the post on July 16, 2018, and was appointed as VC on August 2, 2018. The petitioner alleged that Dr Sikander misled the search committee regarding possessing the experience.Dismissing the petition, the court observed, “The petitioner has not levelled any allegation or malafides against the members of the search committee. Consequently, when the search committee is taint-free, its expertise in making the selection is unquestionable, nor its opinion can be substituted by the court.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-dismisses-plea-against-hpu-vc-291228
01-08-2021||Shimla||153 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 153 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,06,027. Besides, one person died of the virus in Hamirpur.The highest number of 32 cases was reported in Shimla, followed by 31 in Mandi, 21 each in Kangra and Chamba, 20 in Kullu, 10 in Hamirpur, six in Bilaspur, five in Una, four in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/153-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-291230
01-08-2021||Solan||Paonta Sahib pharma firm staff strike work over colleague’s death||Employees of Sun Pharma at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district yesterday struck work and held a protest on the factory premises after the body of an employee was found on the Yamuna banks in Haryana.The deceased, who was a resident of Ward number nine in Paonta Sahib, had been missing since July 27. His family had lodged a complaint with the police.The employees gathered at the factory after learning about their colleague’s death. They alleged that the youth was being harassed. Police were posted there to avert any law and order situation. The deceased youth’s relative informed the police that two days ago, he had received a call at 5 pm from someone and he went to meet the caller. However, he did not return. The bereaved family alleged a conspiracy behind the death of the youth. His mobile phone was also found switched off since then.According to the Haryana Police, a body had flowed in the Yamuna and the deceased was identified as Suraj Kumar. The body would be handed over to the family after a postmortem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-pharma-firm-staff-strike-work-over-colleagues-death-291231
01-08-2021||Solan||Five arrested for sodomy||The Paonta Sahib police arrested five persons for sodomising a 13-year-old boy, who was working in the local sabzi mandi, in Sirmaur district today.A member of the Childline, an NGO, brought the matter to the notice of the police who arrested Vicky, Ankur, Bajrangi, Anil and Ashok, all of whom are residents of Saharanpur and were working in the local sabzi mandi.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-arrested-for-sodomy-291233
01-08-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Heath Dept to screen 4.81 lakh people in Hamirpur from today||To achieve the target of a tuberculosis-free society, the Health Department will do the screening of 4,81,243 people.The department will start the survey from August 1. This was stated by Dr RK Agnihotri, Chief Medical Officer, here today.He said the department had constituted 535 teams of health workers who would visit each and every household and collect health data of every family member.He said every suspected TB patient would be examined and treated once the survey is completed.He said the focus would also be on people who were affected by diseases such as Covid-19, AIDS, HIV, leprosy, diabetes and lever infections.Agnihotri said teams would also visit people living in the remote areas of the district and in slums, old age homes, labour hostels and childcare centres etc.He said the survey would be conducted as per the guidelines of the Chief Minister Leprosy and Tuberculosis Eradication Programme. He urged people to cooperate with the health staff and encourage all to participate in the health screening drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heath-dept-to-screen-4-81-lakh-people-in-hamirpur-from-today-291236
01-08-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||NDRF temporary HQs established at Nurpur||A temporary headquarters of the 14th Battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been set up at Nurpur. The battalion will comprise three units at Nurpur, Rampur and Baddi-Barotiwala. As per official information, 1,197 trained personnel of the ITBP are being deployed in the headquarters and the units are known as Regional Response Centres (RRCs), and 700 personnel meant for the battalion are undergoing special rescue training.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had approved the battalion exclusively for Himachal with its permanent headquarters in Mandi district. The state government had in 2018 made a request to the Centre.Baljinder Singh, Commandant of 14th NDRF Battalion, told The Tribune here yesterday that the temporary headquarters of the battalion had been set up at Nurpur where a small unit of 7th NDRF Battalion, Bathinda (Punjab), comprising 50 rescue personnel was already in operation. He added that 7th Battalion had been catering to Punjab, J and K and Himachal Pradesh but now 14th Battalion would be dedicated to HP.He said as and when the state government provides land in Mandi district, the headquarters would be shifted there. He added that the NDRF personnel being deployed in the Baddi-Brotiwala area were especially being trained in rescue operation in natural as well as man made disasters. “Being an industrial hub, the NDRF personnel will be equipped with technical know how to meet the challenges of chemical and biological disasters. Every Regional Rescue Centre will have 150 to 200 trained personnel,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ndrf-temporary-hqs-established-at-nurpur-291238
