02-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Eight-day Minjar fair concludes||Chamba, August 1 The eight-day long historic Minjar fair concluded here today with the immersion of minjars in the Ravi. Earlier, a procession was taken out from the Akhand Chandi Palace, wherein local deities were carried in palanquins. Chamba MLA Pawan Nayar was the chief guest. The procession started from the Akhand Chandi complex and reached the Manjari Garden, on the banks of the Ravi. People passed through local bazaars, reciting ‘Kunjadi Malhaar’, the local seasonal song of the region. On the Ravi bank at the Manjari Garden, prayers were performed with traditional rituals. Minjars were tied to coconuts and immersed in the Ravi by Nayyar, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner DC Rana, district officers, dignitaries and citizens, while complying with the Covid-19 guidelines. The markets were closed during the day as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of Covid.  Chamba’s famous Minjar festival, believed to have started in the 10th century, to mark the victory of Chamba’s King Sahila Varma over the King of Kangra, was a symbolic affair this year, due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eight-day-minjar-fair-concludes-291696
02-08-2021||Shimla||Rain claims 2 more lives||With two more deaths, one each in Chamba and Una districts, the toll due to rain-related incidents in the monsoon has touched 213, while 12 persons are still missing. As many as 47 roads, including 10 in Kullu district, nine in Shimla, eight in Lahaul and Spiti, seven in Mandi and six in Sirmaur are still closed. About 58 water supply schemes have been disrupted and 12 transformers have been damaged. The cumulative loss from June 13 till date is Rs 63,289.51 lakh. The local met office has issued yellow warning of heavy rainfall at isolated places in seven districts of Bilaspur, Kangra, Solan, Sirmaur, Una, Hamirpur and Chamba, on August 2, 4 and 5, and predicted wet spell in the region till August 7. Light to moderate rain lashed the state today. Nadaun received 35 mm of rain, followed by Dalhousie (34 mm) and Palampur (30 mm). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-claims-2-more-lives-291686
02-08-2021||Solan||Road may be restored in two weeks: Officials||The road restoration could take at least two weeks, according to  an assessment made by officials at Kali Dhank Barwas in Shillai subdivision of Sirmaur district, where a massive landslide washed away  150-m of the road on Friday.  Paonta Sahib SDM Vivek Mahajan said, “As per an assessment by RG Buildwell, a company  four-laning the road, its supervisory company and the Project Director, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, two weeks will be required to restore the road.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-may-be-restored-in-two-weeks-officials-291687
02-08-2021||Kullu||Amid landslip threat, families evacuated||The administration has shifted 15 families to safer places as their houses have become vulnerable due to a landslide at Nangcha village in Jindour panchayat of the district.  Two houses and a temple were damaged due to boulders, which fell from the hill on Thursday. More than 200 apple trees were also damaged. Besides, 200 forest trees were also damaged due to stones falling from the mountain. There is a persistent threat of landslides and falling rocks. Kullu SDM Vikas Shukla visited the spot. He said that tarpaulins and other assistance were being provided to the affected families. He added that there was still a danger of rocks rolling down the hills due to which villagers had been shifted to safer places. Locals would be kept at safe places till the falling of rocks stops.  The administration would provide all possible support to the affected families, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amid-landslip-threat-families-evacuated-291688
02-08-2021||---||CM seeks report on losses due to floods||Mandi, August 1 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur held a meeting with senior officers of Lahaul-Spiti at the district headquarters last evening and directed them to ensure effective implementation of policies and programmes of the state government. The Chief Minister sought a detailed report from the PWD, the Jal Shakti Vibhag, the HPSEB and the  Agriculture and Horticulture Departments on losses occurred due to the flash floods. He directed the Jal Shakti Vibhag to prepare a sustainable plan based on modern scientific studies for providing drinking water supply throughout the year. He said the meeting to sort out the issue of the pending permission from the BRO with respect to laying of underground power supply cable through the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, would be convened soon.  The chief Minister also directed the officers to prepare a report regarding damage caused in Spiti subdivision. He asked the BRO Commandant to fix a timeline for restoration of the main road in Udaipur area. Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda apprised the Chief Minister of the damage caused to cash crops due to road connectivity problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-seeks-report-on-losses-due-to-floods-291689
02-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Monsoon session to be stormy affair||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 1The monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha is likely to be a stormy affair with the Opposition Congress ready to take on the BJP regime for its failure on issues like “political appointments, unemployment and fiscal mismanagement”.The session will commence tomorrow in the absence of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, after decades. Virbhadra did not attend the session for a brief period when he was a Union Minister. The opening day of the session will be dedicated to obituaries in the wake of the demise of Virbhadra and Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Narinder Bragta, besides others.Gearing up to corner oppnSpeaker Vipin Parmar held an all-party meeting which was attended by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, CPM MLA Rakesh Singha and Chief Whip Vikram Jaryal. “I have sought the cooperation of all members for ensuring smooth conduct of the Assembly,” said Parmar.The chances of the session being a smooth affair seem most unlikely with the Congress demanding that it should also be allowed to make appointments like that of the Chief Whip and Whip of the BJP in the Assembly. Both BJP and Congress held meetings of their legislature parties to chalk out their strategy.The Congress is likely to raise issues like avoidable expenditure resulting from appointment of chairmen and vice-chairman. The issue of announcements being made by the Chief Minister with an eye on the four by-polls is likely to echo in the Assembly.The Congress is gearing up to corner the BJP regime on the “poor Covid management” besides “phone tapping and fiscal mismanagement with no thrust on resource mobilisation and cut in wasteful expenditure”.The BJP is likely to hit back at the Congress on the issue of its internal bickering and factionalism, which has intensified after the demise of Virbhadra Singh.Parmar revealed that a total of 853 questions had been filed by the legislators. This included 618 starred and 235 unstarred questions. There will be a private member day besides the government tabling some Bills.Parmar hoped that the legislators will try to utilise the session sittings fruitfully for raising issues concerning the public and debate on important issues. He said in view of the Covid protocol, efforts will be made to issue minimum possible passes, be it for the general public, officers and other employees so that there is no overcrowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-session-to-be-stormy-affair-291690
02-08-2021||ibune News Service
||Aurobindo yogi of modern India: Guv||Shimla, August 1 Governor Rajendra Arlekar, speaking on the inaugural function of the international conference on ‘Sri Aurobindo and India’s Renaissance’ organised by IIAS here today, said Aurobindo, who a scholar, poet and nationalist, propounded the philosophy of universal salvation through spiritual development. The Governor said Aurobindo’s was full of sacrifice and he spread the idea of nationalism and the spirit of renunciation. He made a contribution to the politics of the country, said Arlekar. He was the yogi of modern India, who first used the slogan of Swaraj, said the Governor. He used to say, “If you cannot run the country after getting Swaraj, you will come back to the same situation.”  He paid tribute to patriot Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his death anniversary and unveiled the portrait of Aurobindo Ghosh and the book ‘Himanjali’. Later, the Governor also inaugurated the tennis court at IIAS, Shimla, and played a match with DGP Sanjay Kundu and Major General, ARTRAC, Raj Shukla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aurobindo-yogi-of-modern-india-guv-291691
02-08-2021||---||Kaul targets CM over growth bias||Mandi, August 1 Congress leader Kaul Singh  targeted Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over development issues here today.  Addressing a press conference, he said, “The Chief Minister has focused only on two Assembly segments in Mandi district, Seraj, his home constituency, and  Dharampur, the home segment of Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, in three years and ignored the  eight segments of Mandi.” Kaul Singh said  Thakur was an inexperienced Chief Minister, who is dominated by the Jal Shakti Minister. Corruption prevailed everywhere during the BJP regime be it the PWD, Jal Shakti Department, Health Department and any other department, while the Chief Minister was keeping mum.  He said tarring and metalling work was being done on the roads at a few places  but the quality of the work was poor. As a result, the roads was being damaged soon. The Chief Minister should conduct an inquiry  and take action against erring contractors or officials. “The Director, Health, was arrested on corruption charges at the time of Covid outbreak but till now nothing has been done to punish the guilty. Similarly, there is mass corruption in the Jal Shakti Department as well as in other departments but the Chief Minister is doing nothing to check the menace,” he added.  “Now as byelection to Mandi is approaching, the Chief Minister is visiting each segment to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of development works to lure the voters. A majority of works, which Chief Minster had inaugurated in Mandi  recently, were started during the Congress regime,” he said. He said the Congress would raise all public issues like corruption, inflation and unemployment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaul-targets-cm-over-growth-bias-291692
02-08-2021||Shimla||Sessions courts inaugurated||Acting Chief Justice of the High Court Ravi Malimath has inaugurated the newly established Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge at Sarkaghat in Mandi district. Later he inaugurated the newly established Court of Civil Judge at Jaisinghpur in Kangra district. Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur and Justice Satyen Vaidya and members of Bar Associations were also present. Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath said the High Court was making dedicated efforts to provide speedy and cost-effective justice to people. He added that the new courts had been established to make the judicial system more accessible to people, especially of rural areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sessions-courts-inaugurated-291693
02-08-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Tourist footfall nosedives||Kullu, August 1The tourist footfall in Kullu district has witnessed a sharp decline, mainly due to recent flash floods in some parts of the state and damaged roads during the rainy season. The valley has witnessed a huge influx of tourists after Covid-related restrictions were relaxed from June 14. However, the rush lasted only for a month. The average occupancy in hotels of Manali has reduced drastically to negligible.Stakeholders of the tourism industry were expecting that the tourist season to continue till August 15 but the rainy season played a spoilsport. The tourism industry also suffered a big blow due to the bad condition of roads in Mandi and Kullu, which were blocked a couple of times due to landslides.According to information, while over 1,500 vehicles from other states arrived everyday till July 12, the number has dwindled drastically due to bad weather conditions. Most of the tourist spots, which were abuzz with tourists, now wear a deserted look.While 3,347 vehicles had entered the Lahaul valley on July 11, including 1,627 vehicles from other states, the number reduced to 2,211 vehicles, including 855 outside vehicles on July 18. Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said 2,421 vehicles, including 989 outside vehicles, had entered the valley on July 24.According to the Tourism Department, 7,79,371 tourists visited Kullu from January to June and 1,34,032 tourists were recorded from July 1 to 15. This number was very less as compared to the figures of previous years but it provided some relief to the ailing tourism industry. The number of tourist arrivals witnessed a sharp fall after July 15, causing worries to the stakeholders.Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur says that the tourist footfall has decreased because of the havoc wreaked by rain.He adds that the exaggerated tourist numbers in some tourist places of the district, especially in Manali, are shown in social media and some old photographs, showing a huge crowd in Manali are circulated have an adverse impact on the tourist footfall. The season recedes around July 15 but this time, it was expected to last longer. Now, the tourist rush is expected to increase in September, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-footfall-nosedives-291694
02-08-2021||Shimla||134 new cases, no death in Himachal||The number of new Covid cases reported today was 134, taking the tally of active cases to 1,229 in the last 24 hours, with no Covid related death in the state today.  The highest number of 33 cases were reported in Chamba, followed by 17 in Mandi, 11 each in Bilaspur, Kangra and Una, 10 in Solan, seven in Lahaul Spiti, six in Mandi, four in Hamirpur and two in Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/134-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-291695
02-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Expert advice on active sliding zones in Dharamsala ignored||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 1Many landslides and flash floods have hit hill regions in the month of July causing massive loss to public and private property. Many people have lost their life in landslide in Boh valley near Dharamsala and houses have been washed away in flash flood in Manjhi river in Bagli village near Dharamsala.The landslides and devastation have once again brought into focus the unplanned constructions taking place in Dharamsala region.Sliding zones thickly populatedThe experts had warned that constructions should not be carried out in active sliding zones of the city as this can threaten the life and property of people. However, all these areas now have multi-storey buildings and are thickly populatedA scientific study that was conducted by Dr AK Mahajan, professor in environment sciences department of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP), who was earlier working for Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, had put many zones in Dharamsala, including Tirah Lines, Barakoti, Kajlot, Jogiwara, Dhial, Gamru and Chohla under the category of active sliding zones.The experts had warned that constructions should not be carried out in active sliding zones of the city as this can threaten the life and property of people. However, all these areas now have multi-storey buildings and are thickly populated. As per the experts, many buildings constructed in the active sliding zones were threatened as they have not been constructed with proper advice from experts.As per the study, main factors for the areas being active sliding zones are geology, topography, high slope gradient and thick loose soil deposits. The study states that Dharamsala town is located between two major thrusts. These tectonic thrusts have developed a number of splays that cause lot of tectonic material in the area.Due to tectonic movement, rocks in Dharamsala are highly deformed, folded and fractured. The fracturing of rocks and presence of loose material coupled with high seepage leads to very high land slide hazard, Dr AK Mahajan’s study states.Dr Mahajan, when contacted, said that his study on active sliding zones in Dharamsala region was purely scientific in nature. The study was at the disposal of town and country planning and district authorities. It was their job to take the study into consideration while implementing the rules governing construction in the area.When asked if he or other geological experts were ever consulted by the district administration or town and country planning departments for advice on constructions or planning, Dr Mahajan said that they were consulted only after the tragedy took place. He said it would be better if the advice of geologists was taken while planning the projects or private constructions, especially in area that are active sliding zones or geologically active.Sources here said that experts many times have warned the district authorities against unscientific cutting of hills by private individuals. However, the warnings have been ignored.Many portions of the crucial Dharamsala-Mcleodganj road are threatened and facing slide due to heavy rains in the month of July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expert-advice-on-active-sliding-zones-in-dharamsala-ignored-291671
02-08-2021||Ravinder Sood
||Landslides threaten ancient Shiva temple||Palampur, August 1 Landslides near the ancient Shiva Temple in Baijnath, 20 km from here,  have posed a grave threat to the 800-year-old historical monument. If no steps are taken, the temple, which was built in 1204, could suffer heavy damage this rainy season. The temple is visited by  lakhs of foreign and domestic tourists every year.  The retaining wall of the temple is on the verge of collapse. A portion of the temple on the left bank of the Binwa has developed cracks because of soil erosion and landslides. Earlier, too, the temple faced a threat to its existence because of landslides. In 2016, Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had sanctioned Rs 5 crore for its maintenance. However, no repair was done and the situation moved from bad to worse. The historical monument has the essential features of Nagara temples and lies on the Kullu-Lahaul Spiti road, an ancient route to Central Asia. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has spent lakhs of rupees on the maintenance of the temple over 10 years. The government has constituted a trust to manage its affairs and the SDM, Baijnath, is its president. Local residents allege that the major damage to the complex has been caused by illegal mining in the Binwa. Though the government and the high court have imposed a ban on mining in the river, it’s been going on unabated. The SDM, Baijnath, says he is aware of the situation and   ASI officials have been informed about the damage caused to the temple due to the recent rains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslides-threaten-ancient-shiva-temple-291674
02-08-2021||Dinesh Kanwar
||Road damaged two days after repair work||Hamirpur, August 1 The road from Galore to Tippar village has worn out in two days after it was repaired.  The PWD was upgrading the 10-km stretch by spending over Rs 10 crore but the alleged poor quality of work has raised questions on the working of contractor and the PWD authorities. It was alleged that the contractor was executing the work in violation of quality norms.    Ravi Kumar of Tippar said it was surprising that the contractor was tarring the road amid rain. The video also went viral on social media. The government was regularly issuing warnings, indicating rain. But the contractor and the PWD ignored these and tarring continued that would result in the wastage of fund.  Experts in the PWD said in emergency, tarring could be done as weather was clear and the surface was dry but not at all if it was raining or the surface was wet. Meanwhile, people of villages, including Khorad, Tihri, Daswin, Fahal and Tippar, asked the PWD authorities to ensure the quality of the road. They said if road was not constructed as per norms, they would stop the repair work. Vijay Agnihotri, Vice-Chairman of  the HRTC, said he had seen the road work and it was not up to the mark. He said he would take up the matter with the government. Anil Nagpal, Executive Engineer  of Badsar division of the PWD, said the contractor would not be allowed to compromise with the quality of the work. He said he would visit the site and investigate the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-damaged-two-days-after-repair-work-291676
02-08-2021||---||Pharma firm gives relief to employee’s kin||Solan, August 1Paonta Sahib-based Sun Pharma has extended a compensation of Rs 3 lakh to the family of employee Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Kangra district, who had died on July 29. No foul play was found in his death as per a police probe.Notably, the company employees had staged a protest on the premises, alleging that the employee had been under stress.According to the police investigation, Rakesh had gone home to Kangra in June and had not been reporting for his job, following which an unauthorised leave information was sent at his residential address.This had allegedly given stress to Rakesh, who had been consuming liquor at his rented room at Kedarpur.Rakesh was taken to a local hospital on July 29 after his condition deteriorated and he was declared brought dead.No suicide note was found at his room. Besides empty liquor bottles, nothing incriminatory was found which could indicate any foul play.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said, “No foul play was found in the death of Rakesh Kumar. The company has extended Rs 3 lakh as compensation as well as Rs 14 lakh as his pending dues to his kin after police intervention.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pharma-firm-gives-relief-to-employees-kin-291678
02-08-2021||---||Pvt bus operators flouting norms, causing losses: HRTC||Shimla, August 1  The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has written to police about illegal operations by some private bus operators and has sought action against the offenders. In a letter addressed to SP, Shimla, an HRTC official has listed the names of private operators who are operating as ‘stage carriage’ even though they are registered as ‘contract carriage’. The official has alleged that these buses, registered in Haryana and UP, are plying as ‘stage carriage’ on interstate routes like Shimla-Delhi, Manali-Delhi and Dharamsala-Delhi without completing the required formalities.  “Due to these illegal operations, the HRTC is suffering huge financial losses, which is ultimately affecting the revenue of the state government,” the official wrote.  As per the Motor Vehicle Act, the stage carriage permit vehicle can pick passengers from different points on its route before reaching its final destination. Whereas vehicles plying with a contract carriage permit need to pick all its passengers at the starting point of the journey — it can’t pick passengers on the way.  Khemender Gupta, secretary of the joint coordination committee of the HRTC employees, says private operators have been flouting norms for many years but hardly any action is taken against them. “There are committees to check illegal operations but hardly any action is taken against the offenders. This is one of the major reasons why HRTC is bleeding,” said Gupta. Elaborating further, Gupta said operators have to pay much less tax for contract carriage permit than stage carriage permit. “Many vehicles of private operators have contract carriage permit but they operate as stage carriage. By doing so, they are evading a lot of tax, thus causing huge losses to the government,” said Gupta.  “Also, these illegal operations affect the occupancy in HRTC buses. A strict action against these operators is the need of the hour. Both the government and HRTC will benefit if all these illegal operations are checked,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-bus-operators-flouting-norms-causing-losses-hrtc-291680
02-08-2021||Dipender Manta
||Mahila Mandals come to stranded tourists’ rescue||Tribune News Service Mandi, August 1 Mahila Mandals of Thirot, Jahlama and Udaipur played a huge role in supporting stranded tourists during the recent disaster in Lahaul & Spiti. Around 400 tourists were stranded at Udaipur, Trilokinath, Thirot and Jahlama. These tourists were from Bombay, Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and from other districts of Himachal On July 28, when landslides took place at various locations, the connecting  bridge was damaged and around 55 tourists left stranded at Thirot, where there is no hotel or homestay, except two rest houses of the electricity board and the PWD, which provided accommodation that was inadequate.   Dr Baldev Singh Negi, a professor in HPU, who was on a tour in the Thirot area, said, “There was no network connectivity and the district administration was not aware of the tourists stranded at Thirot. Those stranded included small kids, women and aged people. They were in need of a  accommodation. The Mahila Mandal of Thirot stepped up proactively to provide shelter to all of us.” “The Mahila Mandal, Thirot, led by Kuntala Devi and Santosh Kumari called a meeting of members and took the decision to accommodate the tourists,” he said.  “They opened the Mahila Mandal office that has four rooms. As they did not have beddings, they went door to door in the village to collect blankets and beddings. Utensils and the LPG were provided for cooking. They provided fresh vegetables, milk for children and other such things,” said Negi.  “It was only the next day late in the evening when the local administration traced and counted the stranded tourists at Thirot. Howver, even after that, the Mahila Mandal continued to give necessary help to people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mahila-mandals-come-to-stranded-tourists-rescue-291681
02-08-2021||Shimla||Rs 241 cr sought to tackle third wave||The Executive Committee of the State Health Society has prepared a budget of Rs 241 crore to strengthen the health infrastructure to tackle the third Covid wave. The proposal has been sent to the Centre and the approval is expected soon.Of the total budget, the spokesperson said Rs 12 crore had been proposed to the Directorate, Health Services, and the Director, Medical Education, for the procurement of buffer stock and management of essential drugs.The spokesperson said a paediatric care unit with 32 beds each had been proposed for Lahaul & Spiti and Kinnaur districts. In addition, 42-bedded paediatric care units had been proposed at several hospitals across the state. Also, a 20-bedded units at Civil Hospitals, Kaza, Pangi, Udaipur, Dodra, Bharmaur, Shillai, Kupvi, Nerwa and Pooh had been proposed.Besides, 20-additional ICU beds would be provided at the IGMC-Shimla, Mandi, Tanda, Nahan, Chamba, and Hamirpur medical colleges and hospitals. “Besides, 100-bedded field hospitals have been proposed at Indora, Kangra, Hamirpur and Nahan,” said the spokesperson. The spokesperson said a budget of Rs 12.8 crore had been proposed for several liquid oxygen plants of 10 KL and 20KL capacity, and Rs 22.94 crore had been kept for augmenting human resource. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-241-cr-sought-to-tackle-third-wave-291682
02-08-2021||Dipender Manta||194 evacuated from flood-hit Lahaul valley||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 1All 194 persons were evacuated from the flood-affected areas of the Patan valley in Udaipur, Lahaul Spiti, today.Rescue teams took the help of a helicopter and also used ladders, ropes and zip line and transported them to safer places.Stuck since July 27As many as 19 persons, including a pregnant woman, were airlifted by the district administration and transported to Manali in an HRTC bus.Around 175 persons were evacuated from Jahlama, Thirot and Udaipur with the help of ladders, ropes and zip line by rescue teams of the ITBP, the police and the fire brigade at Shansha and Jahlama nullahs and taken to Keylong.A flash flood had wreaked havoc in the valley on July 27, which snapped the road connectivity between Udaipur and Keylong.Four bridges were also washed away, making it difficult for people at Udaipur to reach Keylong.Around 400 persons had been stuck since July 27, which took around five days for the district administration to evacuate them.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said around 45 persons were also rescued from Jobrang, Lingar and Rawa villages.Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda also visited the rescue site to review the work. He appreciated the efforts of the rescue teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/194-evacuated-from-flood-hit-lahaul-valley-291683
02-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||After Shillai NH caves in, locals battle hardships||Tribune News ServiceKali Dhank(Shillai), August 1Immense hardships are being faced by the locals of Kamrau in Shillai subdivision of Sirmaur district after a portion of the national highway, connecting the region to Paonta Sahib, has caved in at Kali Dhank.They are trudging a 3-km steep hill on a bridleway from Parcha to Heona to reach the other side of Paonta Sahib-Shillai National Highway 707.With schools reopening tomorrow, several villagers today risked their lives climbing the hill to reach Sataun, Paonta Sahib and other places where their children are studying. Naresh Kumar, a villager, said, “It is risky to climb the bridleway amid rain as a slight loss of balance can lead a person into a deep nullah.”Despite the risk, the locals continued to use the arterial route owing to various exigencies with their children and the elderly.Renu Pundir, who was on her way to Sataun from Kamrau, said, “Since schools reopen tomorrow and my children are at Sataun, I had to come back from my parental village using the risky route.” She had gone to visit her maternal family days before the highway caved in and was now returning.Nirmala Devi, pradhan of Barwas panchayat, who had come to the Paonta Sahib block office, said, “The closure of the road has landed the residents in a piquant situation as they have to take a longer detour from Vikas Nagar in Uttarakhand and it will especially create problems for the pregnant women and those requiring immediate healthcare.”Residents of about 40 gram panchayats have been affected with the road closure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-shillai-nh-caves-in-locals-battle-hardships-291684
02-08-2021||r Correspondent
||As weather clears, DC revokes traffic diversion order between Kullu, Mandi||KULLU, AUGUST 1 Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg today revoked his order passed yesterday that the traffic between Kullu and Mandi would be diverted through Kandi road between 8 pm and 6 am from July 31 till further orders. Orders were passed on receipt of the information by the Project Director, NHAI that due to incessant rains, there is a danger of falling rocks and landslides between Mandi and Pandoh. However, now the vehicles will be able to go towards Mandi from both the routes even during the night. The DC said that the weather has cleared now and both the routes are safe for movement. He added that people can adopt either of the two routes as before as per their convenience. The rains and flash floods have wreaked havoc and caused loss of life and property in various parts of this district. The cash crops were adversely affected in many areas by the rains. Water supply pipelines had been damaged in many areas. Landslides are occurring at various places and the condition of the roads has worsened. As many link roads are getting blocked agriculturists had to face major hassles to transport their produce. The driver of an HRTC bus was injured while the conductor had a narrow escape as a boulder fell from the hill on the bus parked on the side of Kullu-Chhamahn road during their night halt at Chhamahn yesterday. As per the information, both were sleeping inside when a boulder fell on the bus. The driver suffered minor injuries while the conductor escaped unhurt. The bus, however, has been badly damaged. Traffic on the Banjar-Anni and the Kullu-Pandoh national highways was being affected due to landslides. The Kullu-Kandi-Mandi road was also witnessing landslides in some areas due to which traffic was being hampered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/as-weather-clears-dc-revokes-traffic-diversion-order-between-kullu-mandi-291685
02-08-2021||Ajay Banerjee||Fewer from region opting for armed forces||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 1The share of Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in recruitments in the armed forces has seen a decline over the past few years.The information was shared in the Rajya Sabha by the Ministry of Defence in a written reply to a question asked by Neeraj Dangi, an MP from Rajasthan. Dangi had sought details of youth who had joined the armed forces from various states in the past three years.The data suggests that despite better salaries and post-retirement benefits, there is a decline in the number of youths from the region joining the Army as jawans, airmen in the Air Force and as sailors in the Navy.The trend is similar for Delhi and Chandigarh. While Himachal Pradesh has seen a small growth in Army recruitments, Punjab and Haryana have improved their numbers in the IAF.Nationwide, the states of Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Telangana, Karnataka, Manipur and Mizoram have sent more recruits to the Army over the previous years. The larger states like UP, MP, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Assam are among the ones where the numbers have declined.There are 1,09,671 vacancies across the three services, the MoD said.The Army has 90,640 vacancies, while the IAF and the Navy have 7,104 and 11,927 vacancies, respectively. Even the officer cadre has 9,712 vacancies, with the Army alone having 7,912 vacant posts. The recruitment to the officer cadre is done through an open test applicable uniformly across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fewer-from-region-opting-for-armed-forces-291615
02-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||In Himachal, quiet burial to road risk mgmt report||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 1Even as landslides and flash floods have been regularly wreaking havoc in Himachal, the authorities have failed to adhere to the safety protocol of a 2015 report that suggested certain engineering measures for the construction of roads, power projects and other development works.The hill state has recently witnessed massive landslides in Lahaul & Spiti and Shillai (Sirmaur) and flash floods in Dharamsala. Nine tourists were killed after rolling stones hit their vehicle at Badseri in Kinnaur.These incidents had exposed the alleged lackadaisical approach of various agencies, including the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the State Public Works Department (PWD), in executing projects, a researcher said. The casual approach had been costing lives, he alleged.Though ‘Landslide Hazard Risk Management’ study was undertaken in 2015, little heed is paid towards the mandatory engineering measures suggested in the report to avert mishaps.The contractors allotted road projects were recklessly cutting the hills, caring little for the fragile ecology, an environmentalist alleged.Interestingly, as per the ‘2015 Hazard Risk’ report, of the 1,628 km length of the eight NHs in Himachal, 993 km fell in high vulnerable zone. The corresponding figure for the 2,178-km-long state highways was 1,111 km. Since 2014, the NHAI had been granted permission to fell 83,320 trees for various road projects in Himachal, as per information accessed under the RTI.While the NHAI and the PWD authorities claim that intensive scientific and geological studies were undertaken before taking up any project, the disasters that had struck the state presented a different picture. “The manner in which the NHAI has dumped debris in ‘nullahs’ (natural drains) on the NH-707 (Paonta-Shillai-Hatkoti) is a perfect recipe for a disaster waiting to happen,” the environmentalist said.An expert said road cutting and development activities should be carried out while keeping in mind the hazard profile of an area so as to reduce the emerging risk of landslides. “As a first step, it is necessary to prepare zoning maps of landslide and rock fall-prone areas through geological and geo-technical studies,” said Arun Sharma, a retired state geologist.Vivek Panchal, Project Director, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, claimed that a scientific study was undertaken to assess landslide-prone sites and due measures were taken while widening the NH-707.Prakash Bhandari, researcher and activist, Himdhara Collective, said the four-lane projects were completely unsuitable for mountainous regions due to the sensitive nature of the hills and the massive cutting required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-quiet-burial-to-road-risk-mgmt-report-291613
02-08-2021||Mandi||All stranded people in HP’s Lahaul-Spiti rescued||Over 370 people, who were stranded in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti district due to heavy rains and landslides, have been rescued, a state disaster management official said on Sunday.They were marooned in areas under the Udaipur Sub-Division of the district.State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said according to information provided by the Udaipur sub-divisional magistrate, all stranded people have been rescued.He said 194 people were rescued from Udaipur, Fuda, Trilokinath and Jahlman on Sunday.While 19 persons were airlifted, 175 were evacuated by road, Mokhta added.Earlier on Saturday, 178 persons were rescued.Thus, a total of 372 persons were rescued from the Udaipur Sub-Division in two days, the SDMA director said. On Sunday morning, the first flight was conducted from Baring to Tandi helipad, near district headquarters Keylong in Lahaul Spiti, to evacuate eight people, including a pregnant woman.As many as 66 people were stranded at different locations under Udaipur subdivision in the tribal district till Saturday, while over 300 had already been evacuated by the district administration with the help of ladders, ropeways and zipline over the Shansha Nullah in the district.On July 27, flash floods had created havoc in the Patan valley, snapping the road connectivity between Keylong and Udaipur in the tribal district. As a result, a large number of people had been stuck in the area since July 27.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had on Saturday visited flood-affected areas of the Lahaul Valley to take stock of the situation due to flooding in the Tojing Nallah on July 27.Thakur had also inspected the areas with teams of the district administration, Border Roads Organisation and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-stranded-people-in-hps-lahaul-spiti-rescued-291361
