04-08-2021||---||Sirmaur road that caved in last week can be re-constructed on same alignment: GSI team||Solan, August 4Road would re-constructed at the affected spot at Kali Dhank in Shillai sub-division of Sirmaur in the next one week after as assessment carried out by a three-member team of Geological Survey of India(GSI) found the strata stable where a 150-metre section had caved in last Friday.A three-member GSI team led by Director Manoj Kumar today visited the affected site and examined the strata for restoration of the road as well as its future widening.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Gautam , who held deliberations with the team said, “As per an assessment made by the GSI team, road can be re-constructed following the same alignment as the rock strata was stable.“Barwas village, lying above the affected site, doesn’t face any threat from any landslide even while widening of the highway would be undertaken. Cutting and filling would be put in place to restore the affected site.”“One-way traffic would be restored in the next one week as per the discussion held with the officials of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways which was getting the road widening work done.”The DC appealed to the people to help the staff engaged in restoring the road and added that an effort is being made to restore the road at the earlier to facilitate the people.The residents have heaved a sigh of relief with this news and they hoped that the road restoration would be completed by August 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-road-that-caved-in-last-week-can-be-re-constructed-on-same-alignment-gsi-team-292951
04-08-2021||Shimla||Most HRTC bus routes running at loss, 13 closed before pandemic: HP minister||Most of the bus routes of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) are at loss, Transport Minister Bikram Singh told the state Assembly on Wednesday.Replying to Barsar MLA Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, the minister informed the Assembly that 13 revenue-losing bus routes had already been closed in the state in the pre-Covid phase from June 30, 2018, to January 14, 2020.Dhaneta-Galoh-Shimla is one of the 13 bus routes, he said, adding that this bus route was temporarily closed due to inadequate passengers on December 12, 2019.As many as 3,480 bus routes were at loss in the pre-Covid phase, he added.Currently, the HRTC is running 2,514 bus routes and 2,463 of them are at loss, the minister said.The HRTC failed to get even the transportation charges on 1,752 bus routes, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/most-hrtc-bus-routes-running-at-loss-13-closed-before-pandemic-hp-minister-292906
04-08-2021||---||Himachal makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for tourists entering state||Shimla, August 4In view of the increasing Covid cases in the state, Himachal Pradesh has made negative RT-PCR report mandatory for tourists entering the state.The Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department on Wednesday issued an advisory recommending Covid-appropriate behaviour. It has been recommended that an RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours should be carried by those visiting the state for tourism.Those carrying Covid vaccine certificates, one or both jabs, will be allowed to enter the state.These restrictions will remain in force till further orders.It has been recommended that Covid-appropriate behaviour be adopted. The government has admitted that there had been a surge in cases due to irresponsible behaviour, especially in public transport and at gatherings.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said that in view of the spike in Covid cases, some restrictions are likely to be put in place and a final decision will be taken by the cabinet at its meeting on August 9.He added that the Covid situation was discussed by the cabinet on Tuesday and it was felt that some restrictions would have to be put in place.Sources said the RT-PCR report would be mandatory only for tourists and not for locals. Those who have had both Covid vaccines will  be allowed to enter without an RT-PCR report.The total active cases in the state which had dipped to 800 have now crossed 1,400 with almost 200 new cases being added daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-makes-negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-tourists-entering-state-292878
04-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Vidhan Sabha: Congress stages walkout alleging backdoor appointments||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 4Accusing the BJP government of flouting norms to make backdoor appointments, the Congress on Wednesday staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha, demanding a White Paper on the issue.Opposition members sought a debate under Rule 67 on the appointments being made by the government in “violation of rules”. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, along with legislators Asha Kumari, Dhani Ram Shandil, ID Lakhanpal and Rajinder Rana, sought a debate on the issue in response to the adjournment notice given by them to the Speaker in the morning.Speaker Vipin Parmar said the issue did not qualify for debate under Rule 67; moreover, a debate had already been held on it in response to a question raised during Question Hour earlier. He said debate could be held on the issue under Rule 130 later for which a notice had already been given by a member.Agnihotri alleged, "All the appointments are being made from two Assembly segments, ignoring rest of the state and in one constituency almost 5,000 people had been given jobs, in violation of all norms.”He demanded that a White Paper be issued, giving details of the jobs given to people from each of the 68 Assembly segments. He said people were being appointed on outsource basis.As the Speaker rejected the notice of the members under Rule 67, Congress legislators started raising slogans and staged a walkout.Terming the behaviour of the Opposition as highly irresponsible, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said their only objective is to gain political mileage by misleading the House as well as people of the state."They have got into the habit of performing a ritual of walkout by raising issues daily under Rule 67, merely to make headlines," he remarked.Thakur said he had hoped that today the House would function and important issues concerning the public would be raised.Thakur said the government is fully prepared to satisfy the opposition but they are behaving irresponsibly. "I outright reject allegations of violation of norms in appointments and concentrating jobs in particular assembly segments levelled by the CLP leader as his only endeavour is to mislead the House and people of the state for gaining political mileage," he alleged.The CM said the irresponsible behaviour of the Congress in the absence of senior leadership is evident in the House. "There appears to be a struggle for one-upmanship in the Congress even though it is their internal party matter," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-vidhan-sabha-congress-stages-walkout-alleging-backdoor-appointments-292859
04-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Now landslides, flash floods deal blow to tourism in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 3Landslides and floods that struck region last month have dealt a double blow to tourism industry in Dharamsala region. Most hotels in the region that were expecting the tourism to grow after the second wave of coronavirus are once again deserted and hoteliers were reeling under losses.Most of the hoteliers have once again started shedding staff rendering thousands of youth from the region jobless. Sources said that many hotel owners are not in a position to pay their bank installments and their accounts have turned Non Performing Assets (NPA), making them ineligible for further credit from banks.Ashwani Bamba, president of the hotel and restaurant association of Upper Dharamsala, while talking to The Tribune, said that after videos of a flash flood in Bhagsunag went viral on social media on July 12 the tourism in area has almost finished. The hotel occupancy in Dharamsala region has been reduced to just two per cent since flash floods hit the area.“We tried to dispel fears regarding landslides in region through travel agents but people are not ready to come. The government advisory to tourists against coming to the region has added fuel to the fire,” he said.The hoteliers say that the industry was already reeling under losses due to lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The government has not provided any direct financial help to the tourism industry. Due to financial losses the accounts of about 50 per cent hoteliers in Dharamsala region have turned Non Performing Assets (NPAs). Due to it the hotels cannot get additional capital from the banks to keep themselves afloat, the hoteliers alleged.Deepak Kumar, a travel agent, said that earlier the weekend tourism that used to bring in tourists from adjoining areas of Punjab used to sustain the industry. However, after the flash floods even the weekend tourism has come to naught. If no effort was made by either the hoteliers or government the tourism in the region was unlikely to pick up until the month of October, he said.The sources said that hoteliers who had called their staff back in June-end are once again sending them back home. This would once again render thousands of youth employed in the tourism sector jobless in Dharamsala region alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-landslides-flash-floods-deal-blow-to-tourism-in-dharamsala-292611
04-08-2021||---||GSI team visits Shillai of Sirmaur district, meets villagers||Solan, August 3A three-member team of the Geological Survey of India (GSI), led by Director Manoj Kumar, today visited Kali Dhank in Shillai of Sirmaur district where a 150-m stretch of the road caved in last Friday.The team was accompanied by Project Director, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Vivek Panchal, project manager of RG Build Well Engineer, which is executing the road widening project, and local revenue officials.The team also spoke to villagers and noted their views on the incident. The officials will undertake a detailed assessment of the site tomorrow as well.While the immediate concern is to restore the road, it is pertinent to devise measures to ensure its stability once the widening work is undertaken on the stretch. No work had been undertaken on the affected site to widen it.SDM, Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan said a discussion would be held with the team after its visit to the site to carry out road restoration work as per their observations and suggestions.The excavation is under way at various places to widen the Paonta Sahib-Shillai highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gsi-team-visits-shillai-of-sirmaur-district-meets-villagers-292612
04-08-2021||Solan||Another landslip in Sirmaur, road restoration work on||The Dadahu- Renuka ji- Sangrah road was closed for vehicular traffic near Sangrah chowk this morning around 9 with a massive landslide obstructing the road in Sirmaur district today. The entire debris along with trees fell into the Giri river which lies along the road.  This is the second road in the district where vehicular traffic has been hit in the wake of natural disasters. Earlier, a 150-m highway at Kali Dhank had caved in on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai sub division on Friday.  “Boulders and debris have been falling on this road since yesterday. An earth excavation machine has been pressed into service by the local administration to clear the road. Motorists plying on the road had been directed to stop before the affected site in time which averted any loss of life,” informed local residents.  Being the lone road connecting the villages lying in the Sangrah - Haripurdhar to Nahan and other areas of the district, the residents were inconvenienced with the closure of the road. Initially, a small portion of the hill had eroded and this alerted the locals. Incessant rains which lashed the area throughout the day hampered work to remove the debris from the road.  Sirmaur DC RK Gautam said, “Since no arterial road is available to divert the traffic, efforts are afoot to remove the debris once the rain stops. It is expected to open this road later in the evening as machines have been deployed.” Roads which are considered the lifeline of the rural areas, have become vulnerable in the rain in Sirmaur district.  “Another landslide which occurred on the Nahan-Kumarhatti national highway at Ladu village also obstructed vehicular traffic for about two hours from 1:30 pm to 3:30 pm,” added the DC. This road connects the district headquarters of Nahan to Shimla and is used by a large number of people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/another-landslip-in-sirmaur-road-restoration-work-on-292613
04-08-2021||Chamba||Vehicles stuck in debris after cloudburst at Bharada in Churah subdivision of Chamba district||The flood caused due to a cloudburst at Bharada in Churah subdivision of Chamba district resulted in destruction of land and crops, the reports reaching here through the local media outlets said today.A huge amount of debris collected on the road, because of which, vehicles parked on the roadside got stuck. Though there was no loss of life reported in the incident, but due to the flood, crops of the farmers had been damaged. The reports said the weather continued to stay rough. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicles-stuck-in-debris-after-cloudburst-at-bharada-in-churah-subdivision-of-chamba-district-292614
04-08-2021||Shimla||Principal of Shimla's RKMV College faces probe||The government today ordered a probe against Principal, RKMV College, Shimla, for non-implementation of Section 32 of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.All government institutions receiving aid from the government will reserve not less than 5% seats for persons with disability and give them an upper age relaxation of five years for admission to the institutions. After a complaint by member of the State Advisory Board on Disability that students were stressed as the last date for submission of forms is August 9, Disability Commissioner-cum-Additional Chief Secretary, Social Justice and Empowerment, Sanjay Gupta directed the Secretary, Education, to submit a report in three days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/principal-of-shimlas-rkmv-college-faces-probe-292615
04-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur: HIMUDA colony houses on verge of collapse||Palampur, August 3A major landslide on the left bank of the Neugal has posed a serious threat to the existence of a part of HIMUDA Colony, Bindraban. Six houses on the riverside can collapse any time, if timely action is not taken to save them. A large part of the vacant land adjoining the colony toward the Neugal is also sinking.Mediapersons yesterday visited the landslide-hit part of the colony where a number of residents have been spending sleepless nights for the past two days since the sliding of the hill started. The residents said they had told HIMUDA officials to construct drains to check the soil erosion during rain.They said many buildings on the river side had become unsafe because of continuous sliding. The Resident Welfare Association (RWA) has also taken up the issue with the local administration.Two years ago, the river had washed away the Saurabh Van Vihar, a tourist resort. This year also, the river water entered the van vihar.To check flash floods, the state government should ban mining in the river. Earlier, the NGT had banned mining but recently the state government allowed the selected mining in the river.Col Shakti Chand Sharma and Dev Raj Chaudhry, president and secretary of the HIMUDA Residents Welfare Association, said they had already taken up the matter with higher officers in Shimla. A team of officers comprising assistant engineer and junior engineer visited the spot today and initiated the steps to check the sliding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-himuda-colony-houses-on-verge-of-collapse-292616
04-08-2021||---||Heavy rain warning at isolated places in Himachal today||Shimla, August 3With four more deaths in rain related incidents in the past 24 hours, one each in Kangra, Solan, Sirmaur and Una, the toll has increased to 218 in the current monsoon season.As many as 115 roads, including 42 in Mandi, 41 in Shimla and 12 in Kullu districts, are closed for vehicular traffic and 49 water supply schemes have been disrupted. Besides, 41 transformers have suffered damages.The local Met office has issued yellow warning of heavy rain at isolated places in Una, Chamba, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur on August 4; Chamba, Kangra and Sirmaur on August 5 and Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on August 7. The Met office has predicted wet spell till August 9.Light to moderate rain lashed several parts of the state during the day. Kufri received the maximum rainfall of 38.5 mm followed by Narkanda 33.5 mm, Fagu 32 mm, Nahan 31 mm, Nurpur and Jogindernagar 26 mm, Kothi and Paonta Sahib 23 mm each, Sarkaghat 22 mm, Dalhousie 21 mm, Kasol 20 mm, Gohar 19 mm, Dehra Gopipur and Sundernagar 18 mm each, Pachhad 16 mm, Bijahi and Pandoh 15 mm each, Nadaun, Palampur and Gaggal 13 mm each, Solan, Baijnath and Janjehli 12 mm each, Mandi 11 mm and Bhoranj 10 mm.There was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures in the state. Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was coldest at night recording a low of 12°C, while Una was the hottest in the day with a high of 32.2°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-warning-at-isolated-places-in-himachal-today-292617
04-08-2021||---||Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road restored for light vehicles||Mandi, August 3 After relentless efforts of the BRO, the Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road was restored for the movement of light vehicles. The July 27 flash flood had caused massive damage to this road at many locations and washed away four bridges on it. Road connectivity between Keylong, Udaipur and Killar remained disrupted for seven days.  In flash flood, one BRO official also lost his life when he was engaged in road clearing work near Tozing Nullah. As soon as the rescue operation for stranded people led by district administration Lahaul Spiti was over in the flood-hit Patan valley, the BRO focused attention on restoration this road. The BRO has installed a bailey bridge at Madgran and also readied an alternate road near Jahlama Nullah, where a bridge was washed away.  Sources in the BRO revealed that while the Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road has been restored for the movement of light vehicles, it will take at least six more days to restore it for heavy vehicles. This road provides access to Chamba district and Jammu and Kashmir from Lahaul and is used by tourists as well as civilians during summer season to gain access to the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tandi-udaipur-killar-road-restored-for-light-vehicles-292618
04-08-2021||Mandi||Rock develops cracks, houses under threat in Mandi's Tarna area||Cracks have developed in a huge rock in Tarna area close to the town, posing a threat to the residents living in nearby areas. There is apprehension that during rainy season, this rock may slide down in the area. It can cause considerable damage to the houses downside of the rock.There are at least 25 families in the area, who are living under constant fear. Mandi DC Arindam Chaudhari visited the spot to review the situation. In view of public safety, the residents have been asked to vacate their houses until the weather improves.Deepali Jaswal Mayor of Mandi MC said, “Temporary arrangements of stay have been made to arrange for stay of these families. The administration has engaged its workforce and machinery to crush the rock to avoid threat to houses downside in the area.” The DC said, “Efforts are being made to reduce the threat to the area residents.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rock-develops-cracks-houses-under-threat-in-mandis-tarna-area-292619
04-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Firm on CBI probe into death of BJP's Mandi MP Ram Swaroop, Congress walks out||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 3Opposition Congress today stalled the proceedings of the Vidhan Sabha demanding CBI probe into the death of BJP MP from Mandi Ram Swaroop, who had committed suicide in March earlier this year.Committed suicide in Delhi on March 17The Congress staged a walkout as party MLAs remained adamant on adjournment of the house under Rule 67 so that the demise of the MP under mysterious circumstances could be discussed. MLAs Nand Lal, Jagat Singh Negi and Sunder Thakur gave a notice under Rule 67 so that the issue could be taken up urgently.Ram Swaroop had committed suicide at his residence in Delhi on March 17, 2021 and the matter is being probed by the crime branch of Delhi police.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri said people of the state and Mandi want to know the reason for the suicide by the MP. He said it has been four months since the demise of the MP who represented 18 lakh people and there had been no progress in investigation and if there is further delay all evidence would be lost.Opposition members trouped to the well of the house raising slogans, demanding a CBI inquiry so that the people for the state knew the truth. The question hour was taken up during the pandemonium.Speaker Vipin Parmar rejected the notice for adjournment motion given by Congress MLAs while stating that it does not qualify for debate under Rule 67. He said the manner in which Congress legislators were waiving newspaper cuttings in the house was against rules. “The house has already paid tributes to the late MP during the budget session and his demise was discussed so where is the need to take it up again,” he argued.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur informed the house that his party too was saddened by the demise of Ram Swaroop, who had won by a record margin but considering jurisdiction issues, it is the Delhi Crime branch which is investigating the suicide. Thakur said he had assured the family of Ram Swaroop that he would go by their wishes. He added that rather than showing any haste it would be better if the future course of action is decided after investigation by Delhi branch is complete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/firm-on-cbi-probe-into-death-of-bjps-mandi-mp-ram-swaroop-congress-walks-out-292620
04-08-2021||Shimla||220 cases, one death due to Covid in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 220 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,06,589. Besides, one person died of the virus in Mandi district.The highest number of 51 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 46 in Chamba, 32 in Shimla, 26 each in Hamirpur and Kangra, 11 in Kullu, seven in Bilaspur and two in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/220-cases-one-death-due-to-covid-in-himachal-pradesh-292621
04-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||HPU VC, Registrar told to appear in Himachal High Court||Shimla, August 3The High Court has directed Prof Sikander, Vice-Chancellor of HP University, to be present before the court on August 9 in the matter related to lack of facilities and infrastructure in colleges.Poor Infra in fine arts collegeA Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order yesterday on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as a PIL petition on a letter addressed to the Chief Justice by students of Jawaharlal Nehru College (JLN) College of Fine Arts, Shimla.The court also directed the Registrar to be present on the next date. It has been alleged in the letter that the government started Fine Arts in May 2015 in five rooms of JLN Govt Degree College, Chaura Maidan, Shimla, and 143 students were pursuing the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the college.It was alleged in the letter that the college did not have experienced teachers and proper infrastructure, i.e. labs, workshops, etc.The court, in its earlier orders, had observed, “The maintenance of the standard of education is a responsibility of the university, but, so far as this college is concerned, the university has miserably failed to do so.”The court had directed the university to furnish information related to the number of colleges that falls within its jurisdiction, the courses being offered in these institutions, the number of students, faculty, the inspection reports of the colleges for the last five years and the existing infrastructure as well as the required infrastructure.However, the university had failed to provide the information due to this, the court asked the VC and Registrar to appear personally before it on August 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-vc-registrar-told-to-appear-in-himachal-high-court-292622
04-08-2021||Shimla||Girls shine in CBSE Class X exams in Himachal||The CBSE declared the results of Class X today. No merit list is declared this year. According to the data available with the correspondent, girls outshone boys in Class X examinations.As many as 28 of the 110 students of MCM DAV Senior Secondary Public School, Baghni (Nurpur), scored over 90 per cent. Jahnvi got the top position with 98 per cent marks followed by Bhanu Sharma 97 per cent and Jasmine Sandhu 96.6 per cent.Vedansh Pande, securing 97.8 per cent marks, topped Dayanand Public School, Shimla, Medhavi Gupta with 97.5 per cent marks grabbed the second position while Vrinda Sood (96.2 per cent) stood third. As many as 37 students scored over 90 per cent marks. Principal Anupam congratulated the students and the staff.Sejal Sharma 97.8 per cent, Sugandhi 97.6 per cent and Nancy Singh bagged the top three positions in Convent of Jesus and Mary, Chelsea. As many as 36 students of the 124 scored above 90 per cent.As many as 54 of the 238 students of DAV-New Shimla scored over 90 per cent. Dhruv Bhagat with 96.8 per cent topped the school while Anahita and Anusha scoring 96.6 per cent marks stood second and Shivoshita and Utkarsh with 96.2 per cent were third.Akrita Sharma, Shikhar Thakur, Ansh Bhan Singh securing 95.8 per cent, 94.8 per cent and 94 per cent bagged the first three positions in Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jutogh. Karunesh Sen grabbed the first position by scoring 97 per cent marks in Indus Global School and Jasbir Singh 92.6 per cent and Arnav Arora (92 per cent) were second and third.In Loreto Convent Tara Hall, Shimla, Ishani Ghosh with 95.4 per cent marks stood first while Sephal Gyamba (95.2 per cent) and Inaya Azami (95.2 per cent) stood second and third. Principal Sr Goretti Tirkey congratulated students as 79 of the 139 students scored over 90 per cent marks.Mohit Sharma (94 per cent), Savi Rustagi (93.8 per cent) and Krish Nagpal 93.6 per cent bagged the top three positions in BD DAV Senior Secondary School, Dharamsala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/girls-shine-in-cbse-class-x-exams-in-himachal-292623
04-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur: Can’t give benefit to staff under NPS||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said considering the financial crisis in the state, the government was not in a position to grant additional relief on death and disability to employees covered under the new pension scheme (NPS). He was replying to a question raised by Rakesh Singha, CMP MLA, during Question Hour here.“The benefit has already been granted to these employees but we are facing a financial crunch, which has been aggravated by Covid. If the financial health improves, we will consider granting them the relief,” he said.Thakur said so far only Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Assam had taken this decision. He informed the House that 2,114 employees, including 590 in the PWD, had died in the state since 2003 while in service in various departments. He added that though Himachal follows Punjab in employee matters, it was not binding on the government to adopt the scheme.Asked by Rajeev Bindal about the expected employment to be generated due to the proposed Rs 25,000 crore investment after the Global Investors’ Meet, Industry Minister Bikram Singh said that about 50,000 jobs would be created. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-cant-give-benefit-to-staff-under-nps-292624
04-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Hold officials accountable for illegal mining in Swan river in Una district: NGT||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 3The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the state authorities for illegal mining in the Swan river in Una district. In an order passed on July 30, the Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed that the officers and authorities concerned with illegal mining in the Swan be identified and made accountable under environment, criminal and service laws.Panel suggests Rs2 lakh to Rs4 lakh fineThe NGT directed the Chief Secretary and the DGP of Himachal Pradesh to brainstorm with all departments concerned on illegal mining in the river. It ordered the DGP and the Chief Secretary to hold the first meeting on the subject within 15 days of the order issued on July 30.The NGT had formed a five-member committee headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, to look into illegal mining in the Swan. The committee had recently visited Una district and submitted its report to the NGT.The committee recommended in the report that mining may not be allowed on riverbed or the bed of a stream within 75 metres of the periphery of soil conservation works, nursery plantations, check dams or within a distance recommended by the subdivision committee, which ever is more. Riverbed mining may not be allowed within one tenth of its span or five metres of its banks, within 200 metres upstream and downstream of a water supply scheme and within 200 metres upstream and 200 metres to 500 metres downstream of bridges, it stated.The committee also recommended that no digging for more than one metre shall be allowed in riverbeds or stream beds and no blasting should be allowed. It expressed shock at the extent of the violation of mining rules in the Swan and the helplessness of officials in taking remedial action.The committee report stated that there were 518 registered JCB excavators or earth moving equipment in Una. It was surprising that if such a large number of equipment were registered, why their operations were not being monitored. It was difficult to believe that the administration lacked competence to take action. “There is no reason for the plea that monitoring was not taking place. There seems to be laxity on the part of the police in not controlling overloading of trucks and thefts in the form of illegal mining,” the report reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hold-officials-accountable-for-illegal-mining-in-swan-river-in-una-district-ngt-292625
04-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Una: Ban only on paper, miners still active in Swan river||Una, August 3The government has banned mining in the Swan river and its tributaries from July 1 to September 15 so that sand and gravel on the riverbeds get replenished during the rains, but illegal mining is going on unabated.Trucks laden with sand and gravel can be seen moving out of the state through about 20 inter-state barriers and several unmanned roads, particularly during the night.Civil construction works, be it in the private or public sector, continue to run despite the ban, while the crusher and mining association maintains that it is on strike against the ban orders.State president of the association Dimple Thakur said not even one crusher was functional and that mining was being done illegally. The association urged the authorities should take action against illegal miners.Meanwhile, Mining Department officials conducted raids in the Swan in Santoshgarh. District Mining Officer Neeraj Kant said 14 tractors were seen involved in illegal mining. He added that Rs 67,050 was imposed as fine. He said the department would continue raids to ensure the implementation of the ban orders on mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-ban-only-on-paper-miners-still-active-in-swan-river-292626
04-08-2021||Solan||Youth jumps into Yamuna, rescued||Alert Home Guard jawans rescued 23-year-old Rohan, who had jumped into the Yamuna from the bridge around 10.20 am today.The police deputed at the Gobindghat barrier noticed the youth and immediately informed the Home Guard jawans, who rescued him.Rohan was pursuing hotel management course from Tehri Garhwal and was under the influence of alcohol when he jumped into the Yamuna. His parents had reportedly snubbed him for consuming alcohol. He was handed over to his parents after a medical check-up. Earlier also, a person from Badripur had jumped into the river at the Yamunaghat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-jumps-into-yamuna-rescued-292627
04-08-2021||Solan||Hotel wall collapses in Parwanoo, 1 killed||An employee was killed and two were injured, when the retaining wall of a hotel collapsed. The debris fell over a shed constructed on the roof, where the employees were sleeping, at 2.30 am yesterday, in Parwanoo.The three employees have been identified as Lalu (22), a migrant from Sahajanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, Ram Lal Thapa (47), a resident of Kamli village, and Amar Singh (19), a migrant from Kanpur. They were working as sweepers and cook.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta, said the three employees were trapped under the rubble. Two employees managed to save themselves. Lalu, who had come back from work at 1 am, was fast asleep. He got buried under the rubble. He was declared brought dead by doctors at the ESI hospital.The other two employees sustained injuries and were admitted to a local hospital for treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hotel-wall-collapses-in-parwanoo-1-killed-292628
04-08-2021||Solan||Wipro staffers protest transfer to Baddi||As many as 150 employees of the Wipro Limited today sat on a dharna, outside the company premises, at Jharmajri in the Barotiwala industrial area, after they were disallowed from entering the building. A notice pasted outside the gate stated that they had been transferred to the other unit in Baddi. The employees contended that the management had backed out of a written understanding applicable till December, and they had been directed to shift now. They also sat outside the office of the Labour Officer in Baddi and shouted slogans against the management. Union president Vicky said, “Employees were greeted with a closed gate. A notice was pasted outside the company gate, when we arrived here in the morning for work.” The employees demanded a long-term settlement and refused to join the other unit till their demand was met. Labout Officer Manish Karol said they would amicably resolve the dispute. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wipro-staffers-protest-transfer-to-baddi-292629
04-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Show of strength by Cong ticket aspirants at Fatehpur||Nurpur, August 3 Congress activists put up a united show of strength at Fatehpur in Kangra district last evening to pressurise the party leadership to field a ground-level worker in the forthcoming byelection. The factionalism and infighting in the Congress came to the fore when local leaders Reeta Gularia, Nashwar Singh, Chetan Chambiyal and Raghav Pathania assembled at Raja ka Talab with a large number of supporters and organised a roadshow comprising hundreds of four-wheelers and two-wheelers up to Fatehpur. After the show of strength, these leaders addressed a workers’ rally. They said the party should not field a parachute candidate in the Fatehpur Assembly byelection. They rejected familism and appealed to the party leadership to give the ticket to a ground-level worker and not to weaken the Congress by fielding an outside candidate.  These leaders, who are also ticket claimants, have been opposing the candidature of Bhawani Singh Pathania ever since the party leadership started seriously considering to field him in the byelection after the demise of his father and Fatehpur MLA Sujan Singh Pathania.  In-charge of Congress affairs Rajiv Shukla had formed a committee headed by former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur last month to meet the dissident groups and evolve a consensus before the party candidate for the Fatehpur byelection was announced officially. But yesterday’s show of strength organised by the dissidents indicated that the committee had failed to deter these leaders from expressing their dissidence openly and raising their voice against Bhawani Pathania.  Meanwhile, Viplove Thakur said that such a show was of no significance and merely a pressure tactic for getting party ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/show-of-strength-by-cong-ticket-aspirants-at-fatehpur-292630
04-08-2021||Due to seepage in rooftop of the Indira Market at several locations||Water seepage a threat to shopkeepers at Indira Market in Mandi||Rethink decision of opening schools The state government has opened the schoolsWhat our readers say for classes X to XII on August 2, so that the doubts of the students can be resolved. However, the numbers of cases is rising and the state recently witnessed 208 new cases. Though going to schools is optional and the attendance is not mandatory, the state government should rethink its decision to open the schools. — Jyoti, shimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-seepage-a-threat-to-shopkeepers-at-indira-market-in-mandi-292756
04-08-2021||Students belonging to SC/ST/OBC categories and studying in the Vidya Jyoti Educational Society||Release scholarship, say SC/ST/OBC students||Admissions start at Una collegeOnline admissions for undergraduate courses have begun at the Government College, Una. Principal Dr Trilok Chand said applications should be submitted on the college website www.govtpgcollegeuna.in, by 5 pm on August 9, and the merit list of the shortlisted candidates would be posted online on August 11, while classes would commence from August 16.Free coaching for MSc aspirantsThe Department of Chemistry, MLSM College, Sundernagar, will provide 15-day online coaching to students, seeking admission to MSc (chemistry). Department head Sudhir Kumar said the admission to MSc (chemistry) would be on the basis of the entrance test, held by the HP University and other universities of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/release-scholarship-say-sc-st-obc-students-292757
04-08-2021||---||In eight states, virus spread high; R-factor worrisome in Himachal, J&K||New Delhi, August 3In what has set alarm bells ringing, the Covid R-value, a critical marker of the disease denoting virus reproduction number, has touched 1.2 in India, up from 0.66 in June-end and 0.88 around mid-July.The number has crossed 1 in eight states, with Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir reporting the highest 1.4 each amid increasing infection trends. Lakshadweep has a value of 1.3; Tamil Nadu, Mizoram and Karnataka 1.2 each and Puducherry and Kerala 1.1 each. The R-value represents the average number of new infections generated by one Covid patient during his entire period of infection.“The national value has risen to 1.2 from 0.66 recently. It is rising in eight states,” Health Ministry spokesperson Lav Agarwal said, noting the second wave was not over yet. The states having a stable reproduction value of 1 are Haryana, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Goa, Jharkhand, Delhi and Bengal. The government has flagged Kerala, North-East, Himachal and J&K as areas of concern with Kerala leading the infection even as 30,459 daily cases were recorded today, in a major reduction since the last five days that witnessed over 40,000 cases each.“The cases are now being reported from limited areas with 49.85 per cent of the infections seen last week coming from Kerala. As of today, 47.5% of India’s cases are from 18 districts—Kerala 10, Maharashtra 3, Manipur 2; Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Mizoram one each. The active cases that were below 4 lakh until July 28 have now crossed the 4 lakh mark,” said VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog. Kerala and Maharashtra together make for 60% of India’s active cases.The ministry today said the central team that returned from Kerala found case positivity rate at a high of 17.26 per cent with 91% active cases in home isolation in Mallappuram.While India’s overall weekly case positivity rate fell below 2% after three months today, 44 districts, including one in Himachal, continued to show 10 per cent plus positivity rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-eight-states-virus-spread-high-r-factor-worrisome-in-himachal-jk-292598
04-08-2021||New Delhi||Covid-19 reproductive number highest in Himachal, J-K; more than 1 in six other states: Government||The government on Tuesday said India's reproductive number that denotes the spread of Covid-19 is more than one in eight states, including Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.While reproduction number in India has risen from 0.88 to 1.2, it is highest in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir at 1.4 each. The reproduction number stands at 1 in Haryana.Reproduction or reproduction number is a measure that highlights the number of people a coronavirus positive person infects, thereby reflecting the severity of its spread. A number of one or below one indicates a slowly spreading virus, while any number above 1 indicates a rapid spread.Read alsoAn official said the pandemic is for from over, and the second wave, as far as India is concerned, is still not over. The daily new Covid-19 cases being reported across the world are still high as more than 4.7 lakh infections are being recorded every day, the official added.The government said 44 districts across 12 states and Union Territories reported more than 10 per cent weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in the week ending August 2.It said that 18 districts from six states, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, reported an increasing trend in daily new Covid cases in last four weeks.It added that in the last week, 49.85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases were reported from Kerala.The government also said that the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in July is more than double of that in May. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-reproductive-number-highest-in-himachal-j-k-more-than-1-in-six-other-states-government-292356
