05-08-2021||Shimla||Body of BRO engineer missing since cloudburst found in HP’s Lahaul-Spiti||The body of a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) junior engineer missing since last week's cloudburst in Udaipur subdivision was found in Lahaul-Spiti district on Thursday, a senior official said.Rahul Kumar of Bihar had gone missing during heavy rain in Udaipur subdivision on July 27, Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said.Seven people died, two were injured and three went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over the Tozing Nullah in Udaipur.The DC said Rahul Kumar and two other people had been swept away by the Rangve Nullah.A search operation carried out using sniffer dogs of the Army found Kumar's body, he added.Search is on for the other two, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/body-of-bro-engineer-missing-since-cloudburst-found-in-hps-lahaul-spiti-293457
05-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress stages walkout in Himachal Assembly  to protest against govt changing chief secretary||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 5The Congress on Thursday staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha over the move to change Chief Secretary Anil Khachi, even as Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur accused opposition of adopting a parochial view.Congress Legislature party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri raised the issue through a point of order after the Question Hour in the Assembly. “There are reports that the Chief Secretary is being changed. We want to know what the compelling circumstances which force you to do so, when the Assembly is in session," Agnihotri said.Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Anil Khachi, a 1986 batch IAS officer, was on Thursday appointed State Election Commissioner. The post had been lying vacant since the term of P Mitra got over on May 31. With his appointment, it is almost a foregone conclusion that Ram Subhag Singh, a 1987 IAS officer, currently serving as Additional Chief Secretary, Industry and Transport, will succeed Khachi. He is the seniormost IAS officer in the state after Khachi.There were heated exchanges between the treasury and opposition benches over the issue. Congress legislators resorted to sloganeering and accused the government of meting out injustice to a Himachali officer. "There were reports of heated exchanges between a minister and the Chief Secretary and now he has been removed, while the session is on," said Agnihotri."We do not humiliate officers and supersede officers like you did. We have discussed the issue and he is being given a more important constitutional post, which is on par with a High Court judge," said Thakur. He told the Congress not to make an officer a politician, and let him remain an officer.The CM also took strong exception to the Congress adopting a parochial view by discriminating between an outsider and Himachali officer. "At least we did not supersede seven officers to appoint a Chief Secretary of your choice, like you did," he said. He said it is the prerogative of the government to appoint an officer against a post.Speaker Vipin Parmar said it was not an issue which fell within the purview of the Vidhan Sabha. "It is not right to cast aspersions on the chair of the Speaker as I allowed you a point of order," said Parmar. He advised the opposition to leave the decision of appointment of the Chief Secretary to the government.Finally, the Congress MLAs staged a walkout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-stages-walkout-in-himachal-assembly-to-protest-against-govt-changing-chief-secretary-293438
05-08-2021||---||BJP MLA Ramesh Dhawala backs stone crusher owners, embarrasses Himahcal Government||Shimla, August 4BJP MLA Ramesh Dhawala today caused embarrassment to the state government by threatening to launch a struggle in favour of stone crushers, who are on an indefinite strike in protest against the restrictions imposed by the State Pollution Control Board.The MLA raised the issue in the Vidhan Sabha under Rule 62. A piquant situation was caused as Dhawala and Industries Minister Bikram Singh vouched for their honesty and integrity.Dhawala, who has been on a warpath with the state leadership, demanded that the stone crushers in the state be allowed to undertake scientific mining in accordance with the norms, as there was a huge shortage of building material due to their strike.“If you do not protect the interests of people, especially at a time when there has been huge job losses, please remember that I am a person who can struggle for anybody’s cause,” he warned the government amid thumping of tables by the Congress MLAs. He added that the bureaucracy could not dictate the elected representatives, as this would weaken democracy.The Industries Minister stated that he, too, worked honestly and sincerely and never hesitated from launching a struggle for the right cause. “There is no ban on running stone crushers if you have already extracted material. Moreover, a ban on mining is imposed during the monsoons,” he informed the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-mla-ramesh-dhawala-backs-stone-crusher-owners-embarrasses-himahcal-government-293015
05-08-2021||The commuters were a harried lot as long traffic jams were witnessed near the railway station on the Cart Road||HRTC pensioners’ protest causes traffic jams||Roadside Parking goes uncheckedA large number of multistorey parking lots have been constructed at several points in the town to accommodate vehicles, but people still park their vehicles on roads. One can see vehicles parked along the road on the stretch from the Hotel Holiday Home to Tolland. The police should challan persons, who do not follow parking rules. — Aman, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-pensioners-protest-causes-traffic-jams-293018
05-08-2021||Vijay Arora||Himachal High Court stays tender process for diet to IGMC patients||Shimla, August 4The HP High Court has stayed the tender process for providing cooked diet to the indoor patients of the IGMC Hospital, Shimla, and its associated hospitals.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the interim order on a petition filed by Yadupati Thakur. The petitioner alleged that initially the canteen at the IGMC was run by the Rogi Kalyan Samiti but later the authorities concerned decided to outsource the service.Thakur alleged that e-tenders were floated on July 20, 2020, and outsourcing was done in an inappropriate and illegal manner by ignoring the requisite terms and conditions. The necessary approval of the government was not taken before finalising the tender. Moreover, the firm, which was awarded the tender, was not eligible, as it had been blacklisted by the Indian Institute of Advance Studies, one of the offices of the Central Government. He alleged that the whole tender process smacks of malafide intentions of the respondent authorities.The court observed, “Prima facie, the entire tendering process was erroneous, as the tender was not called for any specified volume of business, while it was stated in the document that the tenderer should assess the volume of business himself by visiting the hospital. The tender should always be called for a specific purpose for a specific quantity and it cannot be left to the discretion of the tenderer”.The court observed that the approval of the government was taken after the tender was finalised. Hence, it was of the view that calling a tender and the further proceedings may not conform to the law”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-stays-tender-process-for-diet-to-igmc-patients-293025
05-08-2021||---||Publishers protest ‘irregularities’ in purchase of books by Himachal Education Department||Shimla, August 4Publishers today held a protest in front of the Vidhan Sabha against alleged irregularities and corruption in the purchase of books by the state Education Department under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan.“We have pointed out gross irregularities in the purchase of books under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan by the state Education Department and there is a deadlock between the government and publishers for the past two months and publishers were forced to lodge protests today.The call for gherao was given by North-Central Publishers Sangh and Akhil Bhartiya Hindi Prakashak Sangh. Noted publisher from Raipur Satya Prakash Singh led the agitation. The publishers also met local writers and leaders and apprised them of alleged irregularities in the department.Sanjay Sharma, a publisher from Delhi, alleged the Education Department had planned to give work to eight firms registered at the same address and it was brought to notice of the Project Director and Education Secretary but nothing happened. Even the education minister did not take the matter seriously.Arun Maheshwari of Vani Prakashak said that the Education Department should refrain from giving work to three or four groups ignoring the quality books published by other renowned publishers.The publishers are ready to give a 35 per cent discount but the government wants only 10 per cent discount, which raises suspicion, said Satya Prakash Singh.Leading publisher from Uttar Pradesh, Vibhore Aggrawal stated that it was for the first time that not a single book has been selected from major publication centres at Allahabad, Kanpur, Agra and Varanasi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/publishers-protest-irregularities-in-purchase-of-books-by-himachal-education-department-293026
05-08-2021||---||Kangra police books miscreants for causing ruckus||Dharamsala, August 4Some persons from Dharamsala have been booked by the Kangra police for creating ruckus and threatening a resident, identified as Akshay Sood, of the Ekjot Colony in Ram Nagar area of Dharamsala.The sources said some ‘rich brats’, belonging to influential families of Dharamsala and Kangra parked their vehicles outside the house of Akshay Sood, yesterday, late in night, and created a ruckus.As per the sources, Akshay called the police for help in the middle of night. As soon as the police arrived, the men fled from the spot, leaving behind their luxury vehicles, including a Mahindra Thar jeep and a BMW car.The police took the cars in their custody and registered a case under Sections 341, 147, 149, 504 and 506 of the IPC. The accused in the case have been asked to join investigation on Wednesday.SP Kangra Vimukt Ranjan said he had got a call from Amit Sood, father of Akshay, yesterday night. “I directed the police to register a case and book the accused.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-police-books-miscreants-for-causing-ruckus-293028
05-08-2021||---||Post-mortem at Nalagarh CHC fails to detect bullet injury||Solan, August 4The failure of doctors of the Community Health Centre (CHC), Nalagarh, to detect a bullet injury while conducting a post-mortem on a youth has raised a question mark on their functioning. The youth’s body was found lying in a pool of blood in a village road here on July 23.The deceased has been identified as Abdul Kalam, a resident of Laxmipur in Uttar Pradesh, who was working as a carpenter at Nalagarh. Believing it to be a case of road accident, the Barotiwala police had handed over the body to the bereaved family members, who took it to their native village for burial on July 25.“The post-mortem conducted on the body in Nalagarh had stated a head injury as the cause of death. During investigation in the case, in a CCTV camera footage, the man was seen riding a bike with two other youths, who later returned without him,” said Baddi SP Rohit Malpani.Following this revelation, Abdul’s body was exhumed. A second postmortem conducted at Badaun in Uttar Pradesh after seeking the permission of the District Magistrate found a bullet stuck in the neck after penetrating the head. “A board of doctors conducted the second post-mortem as there were contradictions in the report of the first post-mortem conducted at Nalagarh,” added the SP.He said that given the seriousness of the case, a letter had been written to the Secretary, Health, Director Health Services, Chief Medical Officer, Deputy Commissioner and others to look into the laxity. The case has highlighted the ‘negligent’ working of the doctors at the Nalagarh CHC, as their failure to detect a bullet injury could have let the accused go scot-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-mortem-at-nalagarh-chc-fails-to-detect-bullet-injury-293029
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent\||Multhan-Ghatsani road cleared of debris, traffic flow restored||Palampur, August 4Over 100 tourists were stranded in different parts of Chhota Bhangal in Kangra district for the past 24 hours following heavy rainfall and landslides on the Multhan–Ghatsani state highway, the only road link to the valley. However, the authorities rescued them and took them to Barot and Multhan.Official sources said today that after a hill near the Rolling nullah between Multhan and Ghatsani sank, a large landslide occurred, blocking the highway. Besides, power supply lines feeding 20 panchayats of Chhota Bhangal and the Chuhar valley were damaged because of heavy landslides. Most of the areas of Chhota Bhangal were plunged into darkness.The authorities later took the stranded tourists along with their vehicles to Barot and Multhan, as it was risky for them to spend the night in their vehicles because debris was continuously felling on the highway.Meanwhile, the HP Public Works Department pressed JCB machines to remove the debris from the highway and vehicular traffic was restored in the evening.The engineering staff of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) also started repairing the damaged transmission lines. An Assistant Engineer of the HPSEB said that the power supply was partially restored in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/multhan-ghatsani-road-cleared-of-debris-traffic-flow-restored-293031
05-08-2021||Kullu||Ram Lal Markanda thanks Himachal CM for Rs 10 cr flood relief||Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Mardanda thanked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for providing a relief amount of Rs 10 crore for the disaster-hit Lahaul and Spiti district, while presiding over a review meeting on the restoration works in Keylong today.He said the recent flash floods in various areas of the district had damaged roads, bridges, water schemes and electricity management. He said many private properties had also been destroyed and cash crops were ruined in various parts of the district.The minister said the CM has also announced to provide a grant of Rs 2,500-Rs 3,000 to the agriculturists to transport their produce from Udaipur and Tindi to Sissu. The departments concerned would provide this grant till the routine traffic was normalised, he said.Markanda directed to earmark loading points on the road to ensure smooth flow of traffic. He said the relief amount would accelerate the restoration work.The minister directed the electricity board authorities to restore the Thirot power project, and prioritise laying of underground power cable through the Rohtang Tunnel, so that the supply in the valley was not interrupted during winter. He said that the irrigation channels constructed by the Rural Development Department had also suffered a massive damage and demanded repair. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ram-lal-markanda-thanks-himachal-cm-for-rs-10-cr-flood-relief-293032
05-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Life of 6-time Winter Olympian Shiva Keshavan from Manali to inspire movie||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 4Actor, writer and entrepreneur Kunal Kapoor is making a film on six-time Winter Olympian Shiva Keshavan, a native of Manali. Kunal announced this in an Instagram post, which delighted Keshavan.Kapoor posted, “I am very happy to start my journey as a producer with the story of six-time winter Olympian, the amazing @100thofasec. A story that I have lived with and been inspired by for many years. A story that is not only about resilience and the path less taken, but also about the spirit of India. Our ability to reach for the impossible with limited resources.”No mean featIn reply to the post of Kunal Kapoor, Olympian Shiva Keshavan posted, “I am super excited to announce that I am working on a film with a wonderful human being & multi talented @kunalkkapoor. Looking forward to bring some attention to winter sports, the Himalayas & most of all to the fire we all have within us that together forms the great blaze — India!”Keshavan is a six-time Olympian and the first Indian representative to compete in luge at the Winter Olympic Games. He set a new Asian speed record at 134.3 km/h (83.5 mph) after beating the previous record of 131.9 km/h (82.0 mph) and won a gold medal in the 2011 Asian Luge Cup at Nagano in Japan. In 2012, he set a new Asian track record at 49.590 seconds. He is the reigning Asian champion.He won the Junior National Ski Championship in 1995 at the age of 14. At the age of 15, he attended a luge camp at his school, conducted by world champion Günther Lemmerer. Keshavan was selected as a promising young athlete and went on to become the youngest person to ever officially qualify for the Olympic Games in luge, attending the Nagano 1998 games at the age of 16.In 2014, Keshavan walked as an Independent Olympic participant at the Winter Olympics opening ceremony in Sochi due to the suspension of the Indian Olympic Association. However, later on during the Sochi Winter Olympics, the Indian Olympic Association made a comeback, resulting in Keshavan competing under the Indian flag.Keshavan qualified for his sixth and final Olympics in 2018, where he finished 34th out of 40 athletes in the men’s singles event. In 2014, he became the founder-president of the Olympians Association of India.He now aims to promote the Winter Games in India.Keshavan struggled hard to reach the Olympics without government support and with limited resources, he represent the India in the Winter Olympics. He had to go for crowd funding to fund his expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/life-of-6-time-winter-olympian-shiva-keshavan-from-manali-to-inspire-movie-293038
05-08-2021||Vice-Chancellor (Additional Charge)-cum-registrar||Himachal Pradesh Technical University VC calls on Governor Rajendra Arlekar||College infra not our domain: VCHimachal Pradesh University has approved courses being offered by the affiliated colleges, but providing infrastructure was the domain of the state government, said Vice-Chancellor Prof Sikendar Kumar. The recruitment of staff was the mandate of the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission, he said.Students fare well in Class X examsVyom Dhawan topped Lawrence School, Sanawar, securing 97.6 per cent in the Class X CBSE exams, while Kirti Jindal stood second with 97.2 per cent. Congratulating the students, Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon said the result had improved by 4.3 per cent as compared to that of the last year. In La Montessori School, Kullu, Armaan Chauhan secured the first position by securing 97.6 per cent, followed by Akshit Thakur (97.4 per cent) and Navya (97 per cent). The exam result of the school was 100 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-technical-university-vc-calls-on-governor-rajendra-arlekar-293046
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent||HPSEBL staff ‘duped’ by union leader||Hamirpur, August 4Over 1,000 outsourced employees of Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL), who were allegedly cheated by their union leader, have been running from pillar to post to get their hard-earned money back.They said they had formed a Bijli Majdoor Ekta Union (BMEU) to contest for the regularisation of their services and other demands.It was alleged that Yashpal, general secretary of the union, along with some of his accomplices, collected over Rs 30 lakh in the name of legal and other expenses. Meanwhile, the union had suspended Yashpal and elected Sunil Kumar as general secretary of the BMEU.The organisation was affiliated to CITU but the general secretary did not inform about the development to CITU leaders and allegedly kept the amount with him instead of depositing it in the bank account of the union.The members of the union were taken by surprise when they found that the money was allegedly siphoned off by the general secretary. They informed CITU leaders and demanded action against him.Kashmir Singh Thakur, national general secretary of CITU, said after an internal investigation conducted by the members of the BMEU and CITU, it was found that Yashpal had collected the money but did not deposit it in the union account.He said Yashpal had admitted this and had provided cheques. However, most of these cheques issued by Yashpal had bounced.Sunil Kumar, general secretary of the BMEU, said Yashpal was not traceable now. He said a complaint was lodged with the police by various employees at various police stations. Some of the employees had also moved the court after the cheques bounced, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-staff-duped-by-union-leader-293030
05-08-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Kullu: No NOC to tourism units with over 10 rooms in Tirthan valley||Kullu, August 4Representatives of seven panchayats of the Tirthan valley in Banjar have decided that gram sabhas will not issue no-objection certificate (NOC) to allow the construction of hospitality units more than 10 rooms in the valley.This decision was taken to curtail commercialisation of tourism. The Tirthan valley attracts tourists because of its natural beauty. The number of tourists visiting here is increasing year after year. Tourism is becoming one of the means of livelihood of the people. To assess the benefits and harm caused by tourism to locals, a joint meeting was held at Gushaini on Sunday.Banjar Block Panchayat Samiti chairperson Lata Devi said the valley, including the World Heritage Great Himalayan National Park, had immense potential for tourism and people would get employment opportunities at their doorsteps through tourism business. She said to preserve the natural beauty, environment and cultural traditions of the region, they would make joint efforts so that the valley could be preserved for tourism for a long time.The people of the valley are dependent on limited natural resources. The construction of big hotels and resorts will cause a huge loss. — Varun Bharti, president, Tirthan conservation and tourism development associationRepresentatives of Tung, Sarchi, Pekhadi, Nohanda, Kandidhar, Shilli and Kalwari panchayats stressed that the community tourism should be promoted. The members unanimously decided that it would be necessary for all tourism stakeholders to obtain an NOC from the local panchayat before carrying out any construction.Tirthan Conservation And Tourism Development Association president Varun Bharti said the people were dependent on limited natural resources and the construction of big hotels and resorts would cause a huge loss.He said it was decided that the construction of hospitality units having more than 10 rooms would not be allowed.Jibhi Valley Tourism Development Association president Lalit Kumar said at present, the tourism in the Banjar valley was based on the homestay model and no hospitality unit was having more than 10 rooms.Tourism units registered as home stay, guesthouses or other units have been given on lease to third parties in violation of the government policies. He said the administration should take stern action against such establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-no-noc-to-tourism-units-with-over-10-rooms-in-tirthan-valley-293027
05-08-2021||Solan||Shillai road to be restored in a week||The stretch of the road at Kali Dhank in Shillai sub-division of Sirmaur which suffered a cave-in last Friday would be restored within a week as per the assessment carried out by a three-member team of Geological Survey of India (GSI).The team led by Director Manoj Kumar today examined the strata for restoration of the road as well as its future widening.Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner RK Gautam said, “As per the GSI team, road can be re-constructed following the same alignment as the rock strata was stable.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shillai-road-to-be-restored-in-a-week-293019
05-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Covid -ve report must for Lahaul staff to rejoin duty||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 4The Covid-19 negative report has been made mandatory for all government employees on leave and about to resume their duty in Lahaul and Spiti district from today. The decision was taken by the district administration Lahaul Spiti today as a preventive measure in view of the threat of the anticipated third wave of pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul Spiti Neeraj Kumar issued an order regarding this today in Lahaul Spiti. In this order the DC stated, “It was observed that there has been rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in some parts of the district. Therefore, as a precautionary measure in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district and in the larger public interest this decision has been taken under the Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act 2005.”“All government employees on availing their leave will be allowed to resume duty only after the employee is tested Covid-19 negative. The test should be conducted not more than 72 hours prior from the time of resumption of duty. All heads of department will ensure compliance,” said the DC.“All labourers, who are testing negative for COVID-19 through RT-PCR, will be allowed to enter the valley and the labourers testing positive would be kept in isolation either in dedicated Covid care centres established at various locations or in home isolation. The responsibility of testing, tracking and housing the labourers shall be of the concerned contractors and any lapse on the part of the contractor shall amount to the violation of the order,” he said.“This order will come in force with immediate effect in the territorial jurisdiction of Lahaul and Spiti district till further orders. Violation of this order would attract penal provisions as warranted by law,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-ve-report-must-for-lahaul-staff-to-rejoin-duty-293020
05-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Road damaged within months of construction, Haripur residents fume||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 4Residents of the Haripur area in Dehra subdivision of Kangra district are irked over the poor condition of the Bankhandi-Haripur road. They allege that the construction of road was completed just two months ago but was damaged in the first monsoon.Sukrit Sagar, a BJP leader from Dehra, said the road was constructed under the Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojna at a cost of about Rs 4 crore. The people of the area suffered for two years as the road was being constructed. Now that the construction of road was completed, it got damaged in just two months, he alleged.Sukrit Sagar said he has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur that action should be taken against contractors and officials of the PWD for poor construction that led to the wastage of government money to the tune of Rs 4 crore, he said.Protest against poor roads in DharamsalaBalbir, another resident of the area, alleged that almost all main roads in Dehra were in poor state. “Haripur to Dehra and Haripur to Bankhandi are the two main roads linking the region with rest of the district. The condition of both roads has been pathetic for the last four years. We had waited long for the construction of the Bankhandi-Haripur road. However, it is frustrating that it has been damaged in the first monsoon season and plying on it has become a nightmare.”Residents said they would gherao the office of PWD in Dehra in case the condition of road was not improved and if action is not taken against the officials and contractors responsible for poor construction.Executive Engineer, PWD, Dehra, Dinesh Dhiman, when contacted, said there was a problem on about 50-70 sq-m patch of the road. “It is a minor problem. After monsoon, we will get the damaged portion of the road re-laid,” he said. He said some people were making a mountain out of a molehill.Chief Engineer, PWD, Dharamsala, NP Singh said he had recently joined and would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-damaged-within-months-of-construction-haripur-residents-fume-293021
05-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal suffers Rs 682-crore losses due to monsoon||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 4The losses due to cloudbursts, flash floods, landslides and other rain-related incidents during the current monsoon season till August 2 (mid season) have mounted to Rs 682 crore.The losses were Rs 865 crore and Rs 914 crore during the full season in 2020 and 2017, respectively. These were higher at Rs 1,594 crore in 2018 and Rs 1,225 crore in 2019.So far, 219 persons have died in the monsoon season beginning June 13. As many as 12 persons have been reported missing this year till now against 75 in 2017, 343 in 2018, 307 in 2019 and 284 in 2020. The year 2018 was the worst as far as the damage and losses are concerned. The damage to agriculture (14,887 ha) and horticulture land (18,731 ha) was the highest in during 2017, compared to 7,004 ha horticulture land which was damaged this year.The loss to the Public Works Department has been Rs 451.56 crore to date, compared to Rs 433.25 crore in 2017, Rs 929.77 crore in 2018, Rs 594.99 in 2019 and Rs 432.50 crore in 2020.The monsoon is active and in case heavy rains continue, the loss and damage can be very high in the next two months.As many as 90 roads, including 46 in Mandi and 23 in Shimla district, were are still closed and 51 water supply schemes have been disrupted.Light to moderate rains lashed parts of Himachal today and Jogindernagar was the wettest in the region with 59 mm of rain, followed by Kufri with 35 mm, Paonta Sahib 33 mm, Nahan 25 mm, Dhaula Kuan 24.5 mm, Guler and Sarkaghat 24 mm each and Shilaroo 21 mm.However, the state received six per cent deficit rainfall from June 1 to August 4, despite frequent periodic rains.There was no notable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of 11.3 degrees C while Una was the hottest in the day, recording a high of 34.7 degrees C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-suffers-rs-682-crore-losses-due-to-monsoon-293022
05-08-2021||Shimla||GST collection in Himachal up 50.7 pc in July||The monthly Goods and Service Tax (GST) collection of the state has registered a growth of 50.7 per cent in July 2021, a spokesperson for the Excise and Taxation Department said here yesterday.He said the GST collected in July stood at Rs 473.81 crore, which is the highest collection in one month since its implementation. The cumulative GST collections up to July were Rs 1,301.03 crore. The state had collected Rs 705.26 crore during the corresponding period last year.Some reasons for the improved GST collections are the increased business activities, improvement in return filing as a result of better monitoring of taxpayers and more effective enforcement activities by the department, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-collection-in-himachal-up-50-7-pc-in-july-293023
05-08-2021||---||Himachal Chief Minister, Governor pay tributes to 1st CM YS Parmar||Shimla August 4Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur paid floral tributes to the former Chief Minister Yashwant Singh Parmar by garlanding his statue at The Ridge in Shimla today, on his 115th birth anniversary.Later, the Chief Minister, while participating in a function held on the occasion at Vidhan Sabha Complex, Shimla, also garlanded the portrait of Parmar.Governor Rajendra Arlekar also paid tributes to the first Chief Minister of the state. He said Parmar had laid a strong foundation for the development for the state, and on this day everyone should take a pledge to realise his dreams and contribute to state’s progress.He said Dr Parmar dedicated his life for the welfare of people and development of the hill state. Speaker of state Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Cabinet ministers Mahender Singh, Suresh Bhardwaj, Sarveen Chaudhary, Dr Rajiv Saizal and Sukh Ram Chaudhary, Deputy Speaker Hans Raj, Chief Whip Bikram Jaryal, Deputy Chief Whip Kamlesh Kumari and MLA Rajiv Bindal also paid their floral tributes to Parmar on the occasion.The Himachal Pradesh University also organised a state-level celebration to mark the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-chief-minister-governor-pay-tributes-to-1st-cm-ys-parmar-293024
05-08-2021||Shimla||243 new cases, four deaths in Himachal||As many as 243 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 206,832.Besides, four persons died in Kangra, Mandi, Una and Shimla.The highest number of 72 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 45 in Chamba, 25 in Shimla, 21 in Kangra, 19 in Mandi, 18 in Hamirpur, 16 in Bilaspur,11 in Una, seven in Solan, four in Sirmaur, three in Kinnaur and two in Lahaul & Spiti. The number of total Covid cases in the state has risen to 2,06,832.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/243-new-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-293016
05-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Paonta-Hatkoti road shut, apple transportation from Shimla belt hit||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 4The transportation of apple from the Shimla belt has been severally hit with the Paonta Sahib-Shillai-Hatkoti national highway (NH)-707 being closed for the last six days after a 150-m stretch of the highway caved in at Kali Dhank in Shillai sub-division six days ago. This road has been closed for vehicular traffic and its restoration work was underway. Notably, a 97-km stretch of this road from Paonta Sahib-Guma in Shimla is being widened by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.“Around 200 truckloads of apples usually take this route during the peak apple season on a daily basis from apple belts of Shimla district. Orchardists from Rohru, Jubbal and Chopal use this route to reach the markets in Delhi via Yamunanagar as it is a shorter route than the Shimla-Solan-Parwanoo route,” informed a grower Govind Thakur from Chopal.According to an estimate 12,5,000 metric tonnes of apple if transported through this route every year. This traffic is supposed to increase by 200 per cent once its widening is completed.Orchardists find this route shortOrchardists from Rohru, Jubbal and Chopal use this route to reach the markets in Delhi via Yamunanagar as it is shorter than the Shimla-Solan-Parwanoo route. — A grower from ChopalThe distance from Guma to Delhi via Paonta Sahib-Yamunanagar is 260 km while the distance from Guma to Delhi via Solan-Parwanoo route is 533 km. Being nearly 300-km shorter the Paonta Sahib route is preferred by the orchardists.“Buyers from Saharanpur, Lucknow, Delhi and other places in Uttarakhand use this route to buy apples from the orchardists in Rohru, Jubbal and Chopal sub-divisions every season,” informed Govind Thakur. “We have been forced to use longer route through Shimla-Solan to reach the apple markets of the region and this has also enhanced the transportation cost,” added Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-hatkoti-road-shut-apple-transportation-from-shimla-belt-hit-293017
05-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress alleges backdoor appointments in Himachal, walks out||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 4Accusing the BJP regime of flouting norms to make backdoor appointments, the Congress today staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha, demanding a White Paper on the issue.Opposition members sought a debate under rule 67 on the appointments being made by the government in violation of laid down rules. Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri along with legislators Asha Kumari, Dhani Ram Shandil, ID Lakhanpal and Rajinder Rana sought a debate on the issue in response to the adjournment notice given by them to the Speaker today morning.Speaker Vipin Parmar said the issue did not qualify for debate under rule 67. Moreover, a debate had already been held on it in response to a question raised during the question hour earlier. He added that a debate could be held on the issue under rule 130 later for which a notice had already been given by a member.“All the appointments are being made from two Assembly segments, ignoring rest of the state and in one constituency almost 5,000 persons had been given jobs, in violation of all norms” alleged Agnihotri. He demanded that a White Paper be issued, giving details of the jobs given to people from each of the 68 Assembly segments. He said people were being appointed on outsource basis.As the Speaker rejected the notice of the members under rule 67, Congress legislators started raising slogans and finally staged a walkout.Terming the behaviour of the Opposition as highly irresponsible, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said their only objective was to gain political mileage by misleading the house as well as people of the state. “They have got into the habit of performing a ritual of walkout by raising issues daily under rule 67, merely to make headlines,” he remarked. Thakur said he had hoped that today the house would function and important issues concerning the public would be raised.Thakur said the government was fully prepared to clear any doubt but they were behaving in an irresponsible manner. “I outright reject allegations of violation of norms in appointments and concentrating jobs in particular assembly segments levelled by the CLP leader as his only endeavour is to mislead the house and people of the state for gaining political mileage,” he alleged.Thakur said the irresponsible behaviour of the Congress in the absence of senior leadership was so evident in the house. “There appears to be a struggle for one-upmanship in the Congress even though it is their internal party matter,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-alleges-backdoor-appointments-in-himachal-walks-out-293014
05-08-2021||Shimla||RT-PCR must for tourists visiting Himachal||Amid fresh surge in Covid cases, the Himachal Government today made it mandatory for tourists to carry RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours or vaccination certificate for entering the state.The Revenue Department’s disaster management cell has issued an advisory recommending Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of violation of norms, especially in public transport and at public places.The active cases in the state have crossed 1,400, with around 200 cases being added daily. The Cabinet, at its meeting on August 9, is likely to re-impose most of the earlier restrictions on social gatherings and other functions.It has been recommended that the agencies concerned check overcrowding in shops, malls, markets, restaurants, bars, bus stations, parks, gymnasiums, marriages and sports complexes. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said some curbs needed to be put in place to check fresh spike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rt-pcr-must-for-tourists-visiting-himachal-293097
