07-08-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Tree poses threat to Nurpur residents||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Tree poses threat to residentsA tree on one side of the Municipal Council street in ward 6 of Nurpur town is posing a threat to houses in its vicinity. The roots of the tree are eroded and exposed and it can fall any time in the monsoon. Local civic authorities have been contacted several times after completing requisite official formalities but all in vain. Residents of the street have now requested the local Forest Department's officials to remove the tree. — Madan Lal, NurpurNo check on blaring music, pressure hornsThere is no check on blaring music and pressure horns being used by some people in the area, especially youngsters. The police should keep a check on people using of pressure horns, which are a major cause of sound pollution. The use of loud horns is a big nuisance for everyone. — Suresh Kumar, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tree-poses-threat-to-nurpur-residents-294015
07-08-2021||Poetry book 'Meri Parwaz' by educationist||CM Jai Ram Thakur releases poetry book 'Meri Parwaz' authored by Rashima Thakur||Himachal adopts New Education PolicyThe state government has adopted the New Education Policy (NEP) but there is a need to frame the syllabus according to the requirements of the NEP. "The bitter experience of the implementation of RUSA in haste is still fresh in our minds and the government should take pro-active stand, taking all stakeholders into confidence before implementing the NEP," says Himachal Pradesh Government College Teachers' Association.Physical efficiency test on Aug 11Students who have applied for admission in MA/MP.Ed have to report for physical efficiency test on August 11 at the Himachal Pradesh University playground along with the complete set of documents, including ID card, application form, matriculation certificate, Himachali-bonified certificate and NOC (if required for in-service candidates).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-releases-poetry-book-meri-parwaz-authored-by-rashima-thakur-294016
07-08-2021||---||Four held with heroin in Kullu||Kullu, August 6The police arrested two men and two girls and seized 52 grams of heroin from them at Hathithan in Bhuntar subdivision of the district yesterday.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said they received information that heroin was being transported in a car. Upon checking, heroin costing around Rs 2 lakh was recovered.The accused — Kalu Ram, Dev Raj, Ashu Thakur and Sapna Sharma — were arrested and the car was impounded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-held-with-heroin-in-kullu-294017
07-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal State Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation signs pact with Flipkart||The Himachal State Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Flipkart for the online sale and promotion of the products of the corporation in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.Thakur said, “Covid-19 has adversely affected the economy of rural artisans and local manufacturers and this MoU will provide an e-commerce platform to over 20,000 artisans associated with handloom and handicrafts in the state”.He said now, the artisans would get an opportunity to market their products online and get remunerative prices for their artifacts. He added that the initiative would also ensure the reach of Himachali handicraft and handloom products both national and international markets.Thakur said the MoU would also help in promoting Brand Himachal at the international level and people throughout the world would have access to the state-of-the-art products manufactured by Himachal artisans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-state-handicrafts-and-handloom-corporation-signs-pact-with-flipkart-294018
07-08-2021||Una||Case-finding campaign for TB launched in Una district||The Una district Health Department has launched ‘Active case-finding campaign’ for tuberculosis (TB) patients through the means of house-to-house survey.Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma said the campaign was initiated under the banner of ‘TB-free Himachal’ launched by the state government in 2018.Dr Sharma stated that a total of 598 teams of field-level workers have been constituted and are making house-to-house visits.The CMO said the month-long campaign began on August 1, with 17 per cent population of the district screened so far, adding that ‘Cough Corners’ had been set up at the district hospital and all civil hospitals in the district. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/case-finding-campaign-for-tb-launched-in-una-district-294019
07-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 256 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, August 6As many as 256 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 207,344. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra and Mandi.The highest number of 68 cases was reported in Chamba, followed by 60 in Mandi, 43 in Kangra, 24 in Hamirpur, 18 in Bilaspur, 10 in Lahaul and Spiti, nine in Solan, eight in Una, seven in Shimla, five in Kullu and four in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 1,727.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-256-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-294020
07-08-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Nurpur residents irked over lump sum water bill||Nurpur, August 6Resentment prevails among residents, especially poor people of Nurpur town, after they received water bills after a gap of eight months. The Jal Shakti Department supplies piped water to consumers in the town. The department has issued bills to the consumers of Rs 1,328 from August 2020 to March 2021 with monthly tariff of Rs 165.94. From April, they have to pay a revised monthly tariff of Rs 182.54 as the department has been enhancing 10 per cent tariff with each passing year for about 15 years.The water bills have become a bane for the poor who are unable to pay their bills in one go. Earlier too, the department had issued such bills in August 2020 for six months from February to July last year. A few years ago, the department used to issue these bills for three months.Praveen Sangalia, Sanjay Hans, Sahil Mehra, Hanumati Raina and Udhit Gandhi, residents of the town, demanded that the Jal Shakti Department should have a quarterly billing cycle, keeping in view the paying capacity of poor residents in the urban area.As per department sources, the state government had failed to recruit new billing clerks in the department from a long time and the existing billing staff was getting retired with each passing year. Inquiries reveal that only two billing clerks are left in the office of the Assistant Engineer, Jal Shakti Division, Nurpur, who are preparing water bills manually for the urban and rural areas in Nurpur and distributing these door to door to the consumers. The duo is going to retire next year.Promod Mahajan, the president of Nurpur Sudhar Sabha, has demanded the issuance of bi-monthly water bills like that of electricity and a provision to pay the eight-month bill in two or three installments for poor consumers.Devinder Rana, Assistant Engineer, Jal Shakti Department, Nurpur division, admitted that the shortage of billing clerks was the reason why water bills were distributed after intervals of six or eight months. He said the department was trying to transfer billing data online and this problem could only be addressed after the launch of an online system of bill generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-residents-irked-over-lump-sum-water-bill-294021
07-08-2021||---||Leopard attack kills five-year-old in Shimla||Shimla, August 6A leopard on prowl pounced on a five-year-old girl in the Kanlog area of Shimla on Thursday night around 8:30 pm.The victim has been identified as Priyanka. She was living with her grandparents in Kanlog.Archana Sharma, Principal ConservatorCages set upCages have been placed at various places and we are installing camera traps to monitor the movement of the leopard. Incidents of human-animal conflict are on the rise in the areaMassive search operations were launched by police teams and the officials of the Forest Department, during which body parts of the girl were recovered from a nearby jungle today morning, said Shimla Superintendent of Police (SP) Mohit Chawla.“I was preparing dinner around 8:30 pm when my granddaughter went out to urinate. I heard the sound of a bucket falling and thought that she had slipped and rushed out. While I was looking for her, someone shouted that Priyanka is screaming in the jungle,” said the grandmother.Asked about the gruesome incident, Principal Conservator Archana Sharma, said, “Cages have been put in place and we are installing camera traps to monitor the movement of the leopard.”She said incidents of human-animal conflict were on the rise in the area.Panic has gripped people of the area. Earlier on June 21, a leopard had entered a house in Krishna Nagar of the town and attacked a youth but the boy showed courage and had locked the leopard in the toilet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-attack-kills-five-year-old-in-shimla-294022
07-08-2021||---||MeT issues yellow warning for six districts in Himachal for August 8||Shimla, August 6With six more deaths — two in Shimla and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra and Sirmaur — reported due to rain-related issues in the past 24 hours, the death toll in the current monsoon season has touched 228 in the state.As many as 23 roads have been closed for vehicular traffic and 21 water supply schemes have been disrupted in the state.The local MeT department has issued yellow warning of heavy rains at isolated places in Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for August 8 and predicted wet spell in the region till August 12.Moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of the state with Jogindernagar receiving 42 mm of rain, followed by Baijnath and Kasauli (31 mm each), Gaggal 27 mm and Dhaula Kaun 25 mm. Other areas that received rainfall are Dharamsala, Jubbarhatti, Palampur and Mandi, Manali, Pandoh, Sundernagar, Shimla, Kasol and Kothi and Nadaun.Himachal received 45.1 mm rains in the previous week against normal downpour of 67.7mm, a deficit of 33 per cent, while the cumulative deficit during the season was 7 per cent.There was no major change in the minimum and maximum temperatures. Keylong was the coldest, registering a low of 11.5 degree C, while Una was the hottest and recorded a high of 35.5 degrees C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-issues-yellow-warning-for-six-districts-in-himachal-for-august-8-294023
07-08-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Kangra: Disability no deterrent, Jawali woman follows her passion||Nurpur, August 6Kavya Varsha (28), a differently abled woman who is confined to bed since her birth, has converted her disability into an opportunity. She is inspiring other differently abled people of the area to hone their skills. Her message to them is to ‘earn laurels and not sympathy’.Varsha, who hails from Darkati village in Jawali subdivision of Kangra district, has a passion for writing poems and scripts for short films. So far, she has scripted short films like ‘Pocket Money’, ‘Pillow’, ‘Doctor Hi Banena Hai’ and ‘Corona veSrsus Life’. Her recently scripted short film ‘Pillow’, released in February this year, has earned tremendous likes on YouTube. It was also conferred a Special Jury Award in the Short Film Festival in Bengaluru.Her poetry book ‘Neelgagan ko Chhune Do’ comprises 116 poems was launched in March. Her song ‘O jane jaan’ was also launched in May.Kavya had never got a chance to go to school for education. Only the index finger of her left hand is fit to work.Kavya, who suffers from spinal muscular atrophy, says that she has learnt reading and writing in English and Hindi from Google and YouTube. She adds her smart phone has played a key role in writing short film stories, poems and songs.No government agency has come forward to support her. Nevertheless, she has set an example for others by following her passion despite unfavourable circumstances.Awarded at film fest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-disability-no-deterrent-jawali-woman-follows-her-passion-294024
07-08-2021||---||Miraculous escape for bus passengers in Sirmaur district||Solan, August 6The passengers of a private bus en route to Gattadhar-Kafota in Sirmaur district had a miraculous escape this afternoon when one of its rods at the front broke following which the steering became free. The bus slipped and hung precariously on the edge of the road overlooking a 300 m valley near Borad khud on the National Highway-707.“The driver showed great insight as he applied brake and managed to prevent the bus from slipping into the nearly 300-m valley. The passengers rushed to the rear of the bus to prevent it from slipping further,” DSP Paonta Sahib Bir Bahadur. The passengers then stepped out one by one. The driver was the last one to get down. With women and children on board, the sudden mishap created panic.The DSP said there were about 20 passengers on board, including the driver, and all are safe. As per preliminary information, the tyre rod of the bus broke and the steering wheel became free following which the bus slipped and hung on the edge of the road.An onlooker said driver Ganju Singh managed to save the passengers due to his foresight.The bus drops passengers from Gattadhar to Kali Dhank in Shillai from where they take a three-km hilly pathway to reach Sataun, Paonta Sahib and other places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/miraculous-escape-for-bus-passengers-in-sirmaur-district-294025
07-08-2021||Mandi||Illegal muck dumping goes on in Himachal's Suketi river||Illegal dumping of muck is rampant in Suketi river on the NH-21 bypass near Mandi town opposite Ram Nagar area. The activity is going on in broad daylight under the nose of the district administration, which has irked the people living in the vicinity.The area residents alleged that the contractor engaged in the demolition of school building at the U block in Mandi town for construction of a multiplex and parking lot is dumping all extra material in Suketi river, posing serious threat to the ecology of the area.“The district administration is a mute spectator of the situation. However, we brought the matter to the notice of mining and forest department officials, besides Deputy Commissioner, Mandi,” they said. The agitated residents also complained on the CM helpline to seek action against those involved to stop this malpractice.Chanchal Sharma, a resident of Ram Nagar area, said the activity of the contractor is posing a serious threat to the ecology. Despite repeated requests, the authorities concerned are mum over this issue.Birbal Sharma, another resident of Ramnagar area, said, “We urge the CM to give direction to the district administration, Mandi, to take steps to check this menace.”Mandi Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari said that the forest department has been asked to fence the entire area on bypass road to check this illicit practice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-muck-dumping-goes-on-in-himachals-suketi-river-294026
07-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Deodar trees being dried up in Dharamsala to clear land||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 6Green deodar trees near the Dal Lake area in Dharamsala city are being dried up to clear land for commercial purposes. Locals have made several complaints but the Forest Department and the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation have been passing the buck for stopping the destruction of deodar trees to each other.Raghav Guleria, a resident of Dharamsala, says that they have filed complaints with the Forest Department that many big deodar trees in the Dal Lake area are being dried up in a systematic manner for the past more than a year. The people involved in the illegal activity are removing the bark of the trees or setting them on fire and using other methods to dry up green deodars that even may be over 100 years old. “We have submitted written complaints to forest officials in Dharamsala. The first complaint in this regard was submitted in November 2020 but till date no action had been taken,” he adds.Surinder Singh, a resident of the Naddi area, says, “It is painful to see huge deodar trees being dried up. Today, when the world is concerned about global warning and climate change, it is appalling that people are destroying huge deodar trees in the state. The trees are being dried up just to clear the land for commercial use. The Upper Dharamsala area is already getting converted into a concrete jungle and the authorities should act to stop this environment unfriendly activity”.Sanjeev Sharma, DFO, Dharamsala, says that a team of forest officials was sent to the spot where green deodar trees were being dried up. The team found that some people were engaged in the illegal activity. However, the land on which the trees were being dried up was private and not forestland. The Forest Department has issued three notices to the Dharamsala MC to act against the culprits. The Dharamsala MC has to take action in the matter, as the deodar trees are growing on a private land. “We have not received a reply from the Dharamsala MC regarding the action taken in the matter,” he adds.Pradeep Thakur, Municipal Commissioner, Dharamsala, says that the officer concerned of the corporation had visited the place and a report on the damage caused to the trees was being prepared. Action would be taken against the culprits, as per the law. “We can even initiate criminal action in the matter,” he adds.This illegal activity is going on for quite some time. The Himachal High court had taken suo muto notice of a complaint by environmentalist Gazalla Abdullah in this regard. The Dharamsala MC took criminal action after the court sent a team to probe into the illegal felling of green deodar trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deodar-trees-being-dried-up-in-dharamsala-to-clear-land-294027
07-08-2021||Shimla||7,303 missing persons traced in five years:  Himachal CM||Himachal Police has managed to trace 7,303 missing persons in the last five years as part of a special campaign. This was stated by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the home portfolio in the Vidhan Sabha today.He was replying to a query on the issue of a Rampur youth Suresh Kumar, who has been missing for the last one week. The issue was raised under Rule 62 by Rampur legislator Nand Lal in the Vidhan Sabha today.Thakur said out of these, 4,874 were women and 2,429 men. All had been handed over to their families. ‘The police is making all possible efforts to trace the youth, whose missing report had been lodged on July 30,” he said.He said that CCTV footage had also been checked and his telephone call details were also checked. “His last location was found to be somewhere in Jagatkhana and now the police was searching this area,” he stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-303-missing-persons-traced-in-five-years-himachal-cm-294028
07-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Shimla-Mataur road status unclear, Himachal government||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 6The issue of 223-km-long Shimla-Mataur road being two laned or four laned was yet to be decided as the detailed project report (DPR) was still being prepared. This was stated by the Chief Minister, who also holds the portfolio of Public Works department (PWD) in reply to a query by Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu on whether this road would two lane or four lane.“There is still no clarity on the 223-km Shimla-Mataur road being two or four lane as it is the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) which decides this based on the volume of vehicular traffic,” the CM said.He said the foundation stone for this road was laid by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2018 and the work was divided into six packages. “The Centre has already granted approval for upgrade of this road though it is yet to be decided if it will be two or four lane,” he stated.“Initially we were not in favour of this road being four lane as it would result in cutting of more hillside, resulting in threat of major landslides. Secondly, acquisition of more land would have added to the cost as additional money would have to be spent on granting land compensation,” he opined.Thakur said experts too had also closely examined the issue and some were of the opinion that the road could be two lane with paved shoulders at the narrow stretches. “We will once again take up the issue with the Centre as the volume of traffic on this road is huge,” he said.He said experts had suggested that another lane with different alignment could be made so that its slope is not too steep which will prevent too much of cutting, thus reducing fear of landslides.Sukhu asserted that phase I and II of this road connecting Namhol and Shimla should be four-laned as there was too much traffic congestion, especially because of cement-laden trucks. The CM admitted that this stretch required a four lane due to traffic congestion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mataur-road-status-unclear-himachal-government-294029
07-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress keen on fielding Pratibha Singh from Mandi||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 6Even though it is still not certain whether Pratibha Singh will take the electoral plunge for the Mandi Lok Sabha by-poll the Congress is keen on fielding former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife.Considering her to be the most formidable candidate to take on the ruling BJP on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur’s home turf, a delegation of MLAs, authorised by the Congress Legislature party (CLP), made a formal request to her in this regard.Following the discussion on the issue at the CLP yesterday, some legislators stressed that a formal request must be made to her to come forward to contest from Mandi. The Mandi seat fell vacant following the demise of sitting MP Ram Swaroop in March.Sources revealed a delegation of the CLP led by Mukesh Agnihotri, Ram Lal Thakur, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Jagat Singh Negi, Nand Lal and Satpal Raizada visited the residence of Pratibha to urge her to contest. The party high command has left the decision to the family about contesting from Mandi while conveying the sentiment of the MLAs. The option of contesting from Arki Assembly segment, represented by Virbhadra also remains open for Pratibha. Her son, Vikramaditya is also a first time sitting MLA from Shimla (Rural).The names of Pratibha Singh and former Minister Kaul Singh Thakur are being considered by the party for the by-poll likely to be held in September. Though Kaul Singh has shown disinterest in contesting, he has made it clear that in case the party asks him to contest he will abide by the decision.Mandi has been a traditional Congress bastion and Pratibha has won from here in 2004 and 2013. Six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh too has remained an MP from Mandi in 1971, 1980 and 2009. Even though Virbhadra’s family does enjoy a clout here with Mandi being the home district of the Chief Minister, the ruling BJP will go all out to retain the seat.In fact, Ram Swaroop had won the 2019 parliamentary polls by a record margin of 4.05 lakh votes. Even in the last Assembly election in 2017, the Congress had virtually been wiped out in Mandi as the party failed to win even one assembly segment out of a total of 10 in the district. Barring Jogindernagar, where an independent candidate won, the BJP was triumphant in nine constituencies.A Congress bastion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-keen-on-fielding-pratibha-singh-from-mandi-294030
07-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal Government to give Rs 1 crore to Olympics hockey star Varun Kumar||The Himachal Government will give a reward of Rs 1 crore and offer a government job to Varun Kumar, who was part of the men’s hockey team that won the bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in the Vidhan Sabha here today.“The hockey team has made the nation proud. It is a matter of pride that Varun, one of the members of the hockey team, hails from Dalhousie in Chamba district, though his family is residing in Jalandhar to earn a livelihood,” he said. He added that depending on Varun’s educational qualifications, he would be given the job of DSP.“Normally, as per the rules, a gold medallist is given Rs 2 crore, silver medallist Rs 1 crore and the bronze medal winner Rs 50 lakh. However, we have changed the norms to revise the reward amounts to Rs 2 crore, Rs 1.20 crore and Rs 1 crore, for the gold, silver and bronze medals, respectively,” he informed the House.Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said that an international-level astroturf would be set up at a cost of Rs 10 crore in Sirmaur district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-to-give-rs-1-crore-to-olympics-hockey-star-varun-kumar-294223
