08-08-2021||Solan||Truck loaded with apples turns turtle near Timber Trail resort; no casualty||A major mishap was averted when a truck carrying apple boxes en route the Shimla-Parwanoo route turned turtle and got stuck in a pit overlooking a steep gorge, after its driver lost control near the Timber Trail resort in Parwanoo on the Kalka-Shimla national highway on Sunday morning.The pit which was dug up to erect piers of an upcoming bridge on the highway proved to be a saving grace for the truck.The apple boxes tumbled out of the truck and rolled down, thus causing loss worth lakhs to its owner.The driver and cleaner escaped unhurt. Meanwhile, the orchardist rushed to Parwanoo to take stock of the situation.Station House Officer Daya Ram said the mishap occurred when the driver tried to negotiate a curve but the truck turned turtle on the road. The incident occurred in the morning around 7:30 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/truck-loaded-with-apples-turns-turtle-near-timber-trail-resort-no-casualty-294821
08-08-2021||KULLU||House gutted in Kullu village||A fire broke out in a two-and-a-half-storey house at Jachhani village in Bhuntar today.Flames started erupting around 5.30 am from a room on the second floor of the house. Family members were sleeping when the house caught fire. Villagers informed the fire department and tried to douse the flames. The upper floor was burnt completely while the ground floor was saved with the help of firemen.Kullu Fire Officer Durga Singh said the house belonged to Dola Singh. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. The loss of about Rs 20 lakh was estimated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/house-gutted-in-kullu-village-294525
08-08-2021||Mandi||‘Neeraj Chopra made nation proud’||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today congratulated Neeraj Chopra for winning the gold medal in the javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics-2020. He said that Chopra has made the entire country proud with his historic performance in the Olympics.He said that it was India’s second gold in an individual event in the Olympics after 13 years, which was a matter of pride for the whole country. This was a historic day for the country as it was India’s first medal in the athletics at the Olympics.Thakur said that Chopra’s achievement would inspire the youth of the country to excel in sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/neeraj-chopra-made-nation-proud-294526
08-08-2021||Nurpur||2 youths held for burglary in Nurpur||The Indora police yesterday arrested two persons for allegedly committing a burglary in a wine shop at Milwan in Kangra district on the intervening night of July 9 and 10.The police had registered an FIR in the matter on July 10. The accused had broken into the shop through the ventilator and decamped with Rs 4.57 lakh.After preliminary investigation, the police arrested Arvind Kumar, alias Arun (26), and Mohit Kumar (22), both residents of Fatehgarh village in Bulandshahar district of Uttar Pradesh, on Friday evening. They also recovered Rs 3.45 lakh from the duo. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-youths-held-for-burglary-in-nurpur-294527
08-08-2021||Palampur||Youth found dead in guesthouse in Palampur||The police recovered the body of a 23-year-old youth from a guesthouse here today. He had been reported missing since Thursday.SHO, Palampur, Sandeep Sharma said that the police received a call from the owner of the guesthouse that a resident of Bundla village, who had checked in on Thursday, was lying unconscious in his room. A police team immediately reached the guesthouse and shifted the youth to the local Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The police contacted his family members, who reached the hospital and identified the body. They said the youth had left his mobile phone at home while leaving for Palampur on Thursday and had been missing since then. They requested the police to find out who was with him at the guesthouse.The SHO said that no liquor bottles or drugs were recovered from the guesthouse room. He added that the body was today handed over to the bereaved family after a postmortem. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-found-dead-in-guesthouse-in-palampur-294528
08-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM’s promises an election gimmick: Congress||Sanjay Dutt, AICC secretary and co-incharge, party affairs in Himachal, today accused the BJP regime of making announcements without a budgetary provision in the bypoll-bound Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly segments.Addressing a press conference here, Dutt said the state government was wooing people in these constituencies. “It is clear that the announcements are a mere poll gimmick as no budgetary provisions have been made to fulfil these,” he said.He also accused the BJP regime of concentrating development funds in a few select segments.He also demanded a CBI inquiry into the death of former Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma. “It is strange that the government is making political appointments at a time when the state is reeling under a severe financial crisis,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cms-promises-an-election-gimmick-congress-294529
08-08-2021||Palampur||Illegal roads leading to Neugal dismantled||The local administration, along with police and Mining Department officials, has dismantled a road constructed by the mafia leading to an illegal mining site in the Neugal river near Thural, 30 km from here.The Tribune had carried a news report in these columns recently, highlighting large-scale illegal mining going on in the Neugal near Thural, which had also damaged a bridge on the Palampur-Hamirpur highway.Mining Department officials, along with a heavy police force, reached the spot and dug trenches on the road to block the movement of trucks and tractor-trailers to the river bed.The residents of the Thural area had protested the menace in the Neugal river near Naun and Umri villages, saying that it damaged local paths, electric installations, water channels, roads and cremation grounds.Local youth, who have launched a campaign against illegal mining in the Neugal river, welcomed the step of Mining Department.Rajiv Kalia, Mining Officer, Kangra, said the government would not allow illegal mining in Thural. He appealed to residents to cooperate with the mining officials. The government had already auctioned these points but lease documents were yet to be signed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-roads-leading-to-neugal-dismantled-294530
08-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal High Court seeks info on kids orphaned due to Covid||Shimla, August 7The HP High Court has directed the state government to furnish information regarding children who have been orphaned or who have lost one of their parents due to Covid and what action it has taken to help or rehabilitate them.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a public interest litigation and other petitions highlighting inadequate facilities and infrastructure in the state to deal with the pandemic.During the course of hearing, the issue of labour likely to enter the state for the impending harvesting season of apples was also highlighted by amicus curie BC Negi. He suggested that the state would take appropriate steps to vaccinate the labour before they come to the apple belt.The court observed, “In the course of the discussion, it transpires that labour is likely to come to the state due to the impending harvesting season of apples. The season has partly started and will go on till October and November. Therefore, the concern is that the apple plucking season may act as a catalyst for the spread of Covid.”However, Ajay Vaidya, Senior Additional Advocate General, submitted that extra efforts would be made in the districts where apple harvesting would take place. He assured the court that additional care would be taken to ensure that the labour arriving in Himachal Pradesh for the apple season is vaccinated with the available resources of the state.He informed the Court that now onwards, all tourists would be allowed to enter the state only if they have either a negative RT-PCR test report or a certificate to the effect that they had taken one or two shot(s) of the Covid vaccine. He said that more stringent measures would be taken in the coming days keeping in mind the prevailing situation and the court would be informed about these on the next date of hearing.During the course of hearing, the court was informed that reports had been received from the Deputy Commissioners. Thereafter the court listed the matter for considering the contents of the reports submitted by the Deputy Commissioners for August 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-seeks-info-on-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-294531
08-08-2021||Shimla||BJP launches health volunteers campaign in Himachal||Himachal BJP president Suresh Kashyap today launched the National Health Volunteers Campaign and held a training camp to prepare volunteers in fighting Covid-19. National convener of the campaign Rajeev Bindal was also present on the occasion.Kashyap said that BJP workers had done a good work during the first and second waves of Covid-19 and set a example in public service. The party would appoint 21,000 volunteers in 7,792 polling booths to tackle the possible third wave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-launches-health-volunteers-campaign-in-himachal-294532
08-08-2021||Palampur||SOPs not followed at temples in Kangra district||The state government has opened its temples for public but Covid-19 protocols are not being followed by pilgrims in Kangra district. Most of the devotees visiting temples do not wear masks or maintain social distancing.The state Cabinet had decided to open all religious places last month, with strict safety guidelines in place. Bajreshwari Temple, one of the 52 Shakti Peeths, in Kangra district is overcrowded with devotees these days. Devotees are coming here from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi in large numbers.In other temples like Jwalamukhi, Chamunda, Baglamukhi and Chintpurni too, the situation is similar. There is no social distancing and there is nobody to keep a check on the implementation of Covid guidelines.The number of Covid positive cases is increasing every day in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sops-not-followed-at-temples-in-kangra-district-294513
08-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||RT-PCR report or jab must for pilgrims visiting Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 7Amid the fear of the third wave, the government has made it mandatory for all pilgrims, wanting to pay obeisance at various shrines, to carry a negative RT-PCR report or a vaccination certificate of both shots.Order of Disaster Management CellThere has been a surge in the cases and to break the transmission chain, the restrictions will have to be put in place. The Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department has issued an order, saying that anyone wanting to visit a shrine during the Shrawan Navratras from August 9 will be allowed entry to the state only if they are in possession of negative RT-PCR reports, not older than 72 hours or final certificates of vaccination.With a rise in the number of active cases to almost 2,000 within a short span, the Health and Family Welfare Department has made preparations. Directions have been issued to ensure that there is no overcrowding at shrines and is provision for thermal scanning and proper sanitisation.“There has been a surge in the cases and to break the transmission chain, the restrictions will have to be put in place,” the order read. The government has already made it mandatory for tourists to carry a negative RT-PCR report or final vaccination certificates in view of the rise in cases in July.The state has 926 ventilators of which 826 are installed. There are a total of 1,239 cylinders while work is on to install oxygen plants and also enhance the testing facility.Also separate ICUs for children below 18 years have been set up. The Health Department has also stocked medicines and equipment.The Centre has sanctioned 28 PSA oxygen plants for Himachal. Besides, Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd (SJVNL) has decided to set up four more plants at Chopal (Shimla), Sarahan (Sirmaur), Jogindernagar (Mandi) and Dehra (Kangra) to ensure the adequate availability of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rt-pcr-report-or-jab-must-for-pilgrims-visiting-himachal-294509
08-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 356 new cases, no death in Himachal||Shimla, August 7As many as 356 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 207,700.However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 96 cases was recorded in Shimla, followed by 89 in Mandi, 53 in Chamba,37 in Kangra, 25 in Bilaspur, 16 in Hamirpur, 14 in Kullu, 12 in Una, six in Sirmaur and four each in Solan and Lahaul and Spiti districts.The total number of positive cases in the state till now is 207,700.The number of active cases is 1,949.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-356-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-294508
08-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||IGMC, Shimla Survey: 60 per cent children were infected in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 7A survey by the paediatrics department of the IGMC, Shimla, based on the cases reported in the hospital, revealed that over 60 per cent children were Covid positive but they recovered as their immunity was higher than adults.Dr Janak Raj, Senior MS, IGMC400 more samples to be takenThe prima facie findings of the survey with 100 samples suggest that over 60 per cent of children were Covid positive but they recovered. As many as 400 more samples will be taken for study.“Children in the age group of 0-18 years are more vulnerable to the possible third wave as the population of over 18 years is being vaccinated. The prima facie findings of the survey with 100 samples suggested that over 60 per cent of children were positive but recovered. As many as 400 more samples will be taken for a study,” said Senior Medical Superintendent of the IGMC, Shimla, Dr Janak Raj.The silver lining was that the immunity of this age group was very strong and recovery rate very high, he said and added that children were not moving out of their houses much.About 40 children were found Covid positive in the past 2-3 days in Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba and Una districts, but no death due to Covid was reported.Due to the apple season, there is influx of Nepalese labourers in the apple belt and the opening of schools for students of Class X to XII are seemingly the reason for the rise in cases, besides rise in tourist inflow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-shimla-survey-60-per-cent-children-were-infected-in-himachal-294507
08-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Decision on schools to be taken at Himachal Cabinet meeting||KULLU, AUGUST 7Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur today said as some students and teachers had tested Covid positive, the decision to keep schools open or shut them would be taken at the Cabinet meeting to be held on August 10. He was addressing mediapersons after reviewing arrangements in a Kullu hospital.He said most parents and children were in favour of keeping the schools open. A strategy would be devised to keep schools open and protect students from Covid.The minister expressed satisfaction on the arrangements at the Kullu hospital in the wake of a recent spike in Covid cases in the district. He said the hospital had catered to many Covid patients. He also reviewed the vaccination programme.Kullu CMO Sushil Chander Sharma said most of the people in the district had been vaccinated. The first dose had been given to 2,33,487 persons while about 78,000 people had received both doses.Earlier the minister held a meeting with the members of Kardar Sangh and Dev Samaj at Atal Sadan. He praised the Kardars (caretakers) for not attending the Dasehra festival last year due to Covid.He said a Dev Sanskriti Shodh Sansthan would be established in Kullu.Thakur said there was a lot of potential for religious tourism in Kullu. Tourists got influenced by the deity culture and were curious to see and know about the deities. He said Kardars, Devalus (volunteers) and the people associated with Dev Samaj had made a commendable contribution in keeping the deity tradition and culture alive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decision-on-schools-to-be-taken-at-himachal-cabinet-meeting-294510
08-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||11 schools closed in Chamba as students, teachers test positive||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 7Eleven schools in Chamba district were closed today after eight teachers, five students and one non-teaching employee were found Covid positive on Friday.The Higher Education Department has issued directions that if a Covid case is reported in any educational institution, it will be closed for two days and its premises will be sanitised.A teacher each was found positive in the Government Senior Secondary Schools (GSSS) of Jadera, Khajjiar, Sei Kothi, Kunra, Lamu, Garola, Ligga and Chakoli. A non-teaching employee of the GSSS, Sila Gharat, was also found infected.Three students of the GSSS, Holi, and two students of the GSSS, Mehla, were also positive. The schools have been closed for 48 hours. The state government had opened government schools for Classes X to XII and colleges on August 2.As per the Health Department, a total of 52 students — including 13 in Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) — were found Covid positive after the opening of the institutions. Fifteen of these students are from Kangra, nine each from Shimla and Chamba, seven from Mandi, five from Hamirpur, three from Una, two from Bilaspur and one each from Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts.Due to the spurt in Covid cases in the past few days, parents are again apprehensive about sending their children to school. The situation is likely to be reviewed during the Cabinet meeting.As per data of the Department of Higher Education, to date, 192 students of Classes VI to XII, including 121 students of Classes X to XII, have been found Covid positive. Besides, a Class VI student had died of the virus. Till today, 1,182 teachers have been infected, out of which 23 died while 24 are still positive. The total strength of teachers in upper primary, high and senior secondary schools is over 46,000. As many as 128 non-teaching employees have been found positive, 11 are still positive and six persons reportedly died due to the virus.Eight teachers affected||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/11-schools-closed-in-chamba-as-students-teachers-test-positive-294506
08-08-2021||---||Himachal CM announces SDM office at Balichowki, upgrade of schools||Mandi, August 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today announced the opening of an SDM office at Balichowki and a sub tehsil at Thachi in the Seraj Assembly constituency of Mandi district. He inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth about Rs 14.50 crore at Thachi.The Chief Minister, addressing a public meeting at Thachi, said the area would be developed from the ecotourism point of view. He announced the setting up of a 33 KV sub station at Thachi to solve the voltage problem of the area and the opening of a Horticulture Development Office and an SMS Agriculture Office at Balichowki.He announced the opening of primary schools at Shilli Largi and Demsaid, upgrade of government high schools at Mani, Bagi Bhanwas and Seri Batwara to the senior secondary level, Government Middle School at Shalaghat to Government High School, and Government Primary School at Kau to Government Middle School. He also announced the opening of a veterinary dispensary at Didal.Thakur inaugurated a science lab building at Government Senior Secondary School at Thachi built at a cost of Rs 2.48 crore, newly constructed PWD rest house at Thachi constructed for Rs 1.41 crore and projects worth Rs 3.98 crore in gram panchayats of Thachi, Panjain, Mani, Somgad, and Balichowki.He laid the foundation stones of development projects of Rs 87 lakh. He said that a drinking water scheme completed at a cost of Rs 3.98 crore would provide uninterrupted supply to thousands of people of more than five panchayats of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-announces-sdm-office-at-balichowki-upgrade-of-schools-294514
08-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, his loyalists skip Congress workers’ seminar||Hamirpur, August 7Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, former HPCC president, and his loyalists AICC member Sunil Sharma Bittu and HPCC spokesperson Naresh Thakur stayed away from a workers’ seminar organised by the District Congress Committee at the Town Hall here today.Asked about Sukhu’s absence, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore said that he would seek a report from the District Congress Committee in the matter and send it to the central party leadership for action.Earlier addressing the seminar, Rathore said that the Congress would win all four forthcoming byelections, as the BJP government’s performance in the past four years had been disappointing. He added that the government was trying to divert the attention of people from the core issues such as the price rise, unemployment and corruption.“The law and order situation is out of control and the government has no control over the bureaucracy. The way the Chief Secretary was removed was unfortunate,” he added.Rathore said that it was the dream of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh to see the Congress come to power in the state in the 2022 Assembly elections and every party worker should work to fulfil his dream, as a true tribute to him.Besides Rathore, AICC secretary and co-incharge for Himachal Gurkirat Singh Kotli, former president of the AICC Women Cell Anita Verma and MLAs ID Lakhanpal and Rajinder Rana also addressed the seminar.Kotli said that Virbhadra Singh had devoted his life to the development of the state and strengthen the Congress. He added that he was moved by the love and affection shown by the people of the state during Virbhadra’s last journey. It was time for the party workers to follow his ideals and bring the Congress back to power.He said that it was disheartening that some important office-bearers of the party did not attend the seminar. He, too, would inform the central leadership about the episode, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-his-loyalists-skip-congress-workers-seminar-294515
