11-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Opposition Congress stages a walkout in Himachal Vidhan Sabha||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 11The Congress on Wednesday staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha, objecting to the expunging of remarks made by their MLA Jagat Singh Negi. There was pandemonium in the House as Congress legislators walked to the Well of the House and stood next to the Speaker’s podium, raising slogans.The opposition was infuriated when the Speaker turned down the request of the  Leader of Opposition to let him raise the issue of expunging of Negi’s speech on the directions of Speaker Vipin Parmar.Question Hour was taken up amid sloganeering by opposition members, who staged a walkout after 35 minutes. Condemning the Congress, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the House would run as per rules. He said the Congress MLAs, including the Leader of Opposition, had threatened and dared our MLAs to come forward. He said this is nothing short of goondaism which is against the rich traditions and dignity of the House. He said Negi’s behaviour was highly objectionable, condemnable and unacceptable. He said the remarks by the Congress against the Speaker would not be tolerated. “The absence of senior leadership in the Congress, both inside and outside the House is so evident,” he remarked. He appreciated Speaker Vipin Parmar for running the House smoothly as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opposition-congress-stages-a-walkout-in-himachal-vidhan-sabha-296166
11-08-2021||Shimla||Negative Covid report or full vaccination must for all visiting Himachal from August 13||The Himachal Pradesh government has made negative Covid report or full vaccination mandatory for all people intending to visit the hill state from August 13.In a late-night order on Tuesday, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh stated, "All persons intending to visit state shall carry their Covid Vaccine Certificate (double doses) or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours or RAT negative report not older than 24 hours w.e.f. 13th August, 2021."Also read: Not allowed entry, pilgrims raise slogans against Himachal GovernmentIssuing the two-page order after the state cabinet meeting, Singh stated, "The situation of Covid in the state has been reviewed. It is observed that the number of Covid active cases and positivity rate are increasing in the state and the situation is still precarious."               In its earlier order on August 6, the state government made mandatory a negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination for visiting temples in the state during 'Shrawan Ashtmi Navratras' from August 9 to August 17.Further, it has also been decided that all schools would remain closed except residential ones from August 11 to 22. However, teaching and non-teaching staff members will attend schools, the order stated.The education department will frame Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the residential schools for containment of Covid, it added.The order further stated, "Inter-state, Inter-district and Intra-district movement of public transport buses (state/ contract carriages) is now allowed to be operated with 50 per cent of the registered seating capacity w.e.f. 13th August, 2021."      For inter-state public transport buses, the transport department shall frame mechanism for checking of RTPCR/ RAT/vaccine certificate so that only eligible persons will board the buses, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/negative-covid-report-or-full-vaccination-must-for-all-visiting-himachal-from-august-13-296159
11-08-2021||Dumping muck along the road on Paonta Sahib-Shillai road is an invitation to disaster. This trend should be stopped as rains can wreak havoc when debris flows down into the rivers and changes the course of the water. A callous approach is being adopted over this issue. — Sunil||Debris dumped along Paonta Sahib-Shillai road||Construction material piled up on roadsFrequent traffic jams are witnessed in Shimla town as a majority of the roads are being widened and pedestrian paths are being constructed. The situation has become worse during the monsoon season. The agencies undertaking the work should ensure that construction material is not piled up on the roads as it obstructs traffic movement. — Sushant, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/debris-dumped-along-paonta-sahib-shillai-road-296075
11-08-2021||The ABVP unit of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government College||Education notes: ABVP submits memo to Himachal Education Minister Govind Thakur||Faculty programme inaugurated at UITDirector, Technical and Vocational Education, Vivek Chandel said disaster management was an important field for the entire country, particularly the hilly states. He said this while inaugurating a five-day Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on "Disaster resilient infrastructure" at the UIT, Himachal Pradesh University, through virtual mode. Scientists and researchers have been working continuously on the disaster management solutions since an earthquake shook Himachal in 1905, he added. Director, UIT, Prof PL Sharma said about 180 faculty members of the Civil Engineering Department from all over the country were participating in the programme.'Efforts afoot to make HP an edu hub'The chairman of Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC), Major General (Retd) Atul Kaushik, said they had taken numerous steps to uplift the standard of education in the state. "We will do everything to ensure that Himachal Pradesh emerges as the first choice for students across the country for academics. We are committed to making our higher education institutions a driver of state and country's economic and social development," said Major General (retd) Kaushik.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/education-notes-abvp-submits-memo-to-himachal-education-minister-govind-thakur-296074
11-08-2021||Shimla||Band display by Himachal police||The police department has started a four-day band display to mark the 75th Independence Day being observed as “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. DGP Sanjay Kundu inaugurated the band display on The Ridge, which will be a regular feature from 5 pm to 6 pm for three days.“Efforts will be made to celebrate Independence Day with enthusiasm and kindle the spirit of nationalism,” Kundu said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/band-display-by-himachal-police-296073
11-08-2021||Solan||Man robbed of Rs 93,000 in Baddi||Three masked miscreants robbed Baddi contractor Ravi Kumar of Rs 93,000 and also took away his gold chain while he was in his friend’s shop at Bhud village in the Baddi industrial area around 11:30 am yesterday.According to the FIR, a car stopped outside the shop and three masked youths came out and beat him up. He was locked in the shop. They looted Rs 93,000 which he had received from a local industrial unit and his gold chain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-robbed-of-rs-93-000-in-baddi-296072
11-08-2021||Kullu||Man gets  jail for drug peddling||Kullu Special Judge-II Nitin Kumar today sentenced Prakash (32) from Nepal to 11 years of rigorous imprisonment in a case of charas peddling under the NDPS Act. The convict was imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh and in the event of non-payment of fine, he will have to further undergo another six months of imprisonment.Deputy District Attorney Joginder Singh Sokta said SI Rinchen Gyalchan, along with other police personnel, were present at a naka in Cheel Mour in the Manikaran valley on June 28, 2016. He said a person was seen coming from Manikaran side towards Bhuntar around 4.15 am with a bag in his hand. On seeing the police, he turned back. The police stopped the man and recovered 2.993 kg of cannabis from his bag.A case was registered against the accused. On the completion of the investigation, the challan was presented in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Kullu. He said the prosecution recorded the statements of 15 witnesses on the basis of evidences and arguments advanced by the prosecution, the court had convicted the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-gets-jail-for-drug-peddling-296071
11-08-2021||---||Driver dies as truck falls into gorge in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 10A truck driver was killed on the spot when an apple-laden truck fell into a gorge near Nehra on Shoghi-Mehli bypass road late last night around 3 am.The truck carrying about 500 boxes of apple was on its way to Jamshedpur in Jharkhand from Sandhu in Shimla district. The driver was identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand.Police sources said that the driver lost control over the vehicle which skidded off the road which proved fatal. A case has been registered and the body sent for postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/driver-dies-as-truck-falls-into-gorge-in-shimla-296069
11-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Fourlane samiti’s memo to Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||NURPUR, AUGUST 10Hundreds of families who are going to lose their land, houses and business establishments in the wake of land acquisition for the Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project, are a harried lot. The fourlane affected people are peeved as they say that they have got different compensation rates for the same land and same project.The Fourlane (NH-154) Sangharsh Samiti, led by its president Darbari Lal, has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur through SDM Nurpur. They have urged the CM that compensation for the houses, shops and other buildings to the affected people should be awarded as announced by the then DC, Kangra in 2018-19 so that displaced people could rehabilitate themselves.The then DC, Kangra, had approved a compensation between Rs 45,000 and Rs 59,000 per sqm keeping in view the construction quality and period.The samiti, expressing anguish over low compensation awards for acquiring lands of the fourlane affected people, said the people, who had built their houses and shops on the roadside of Pathankot-Mandi highway, were the worst sufferers. If they were to purchase new land in nearby locations, they would have to pay three times more the cost that is received as compensation.The samiti said a sizable number of people were Pong Dam oustees who had settled on the roadside of NH by constructing their houses and shops. “Now after acquiring their lands and buildings by the NHAI, they are facing another displacement after five decades,” samiti lamented.The four lane samiti has urged the Chief Minister that if the government was unable to accord fair compensation to the four lane affected people in Nurpur it should exchange their lands and buildings so that they could rehabilitate themselves easily. As per the official information gathered by The Tribune 3,781 persons are being affected in 31 revenue mohals in Nurpur section in which 933 private buildings are being acquired by the NHAI for the four lane project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fourlane-samitis-memo-to-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-296068
11-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal Government  plans  to set up Swarna Ayog||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the issue to set up a Swarna Ayog in the state was under the active consideration of the government. He advised people to have patience and not make irresponsible statements.He was replying to a question raised by Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh through a point of order. “So far, only two states have set up the Swarna Ayog and people pleading for the Ayog in Himachal have met me twice,” said Thakur. The government was studying the Ayog of Madhya Pradesh.He, however, said, “Often there are political considerations behind such a decision but I feel that it should be issue based. This is a sensitive issue and nobody should make irresponsible statements, as these can hurt the sentiments of other communities”. He added that when people took up the issue with him, they used an objectionable language.Vikramaditya said that the Chief Minister should rise above party lines and set up a Swarna Ayog in Himachal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-plans-to-set-up-swarna-ayog-296066
11-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Court buildings of Himachal Pradesh to have lifts, ramps for specially abled||Shimla, August 10With an objective of making all court buildings in the state fully accessible to the specially abled persons, Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath has directed the Registrar (General Administration Department) of High Court and all the District & Sessions Judges in the state to take immediate steps to comply with the provisions of the Disabilities Act, 2016.In an administrative office order issued in this regard, the Acting Chief Justice has further directed all the District and Sessions Judges in the state to take immediate remedial steps for making provision of ramp with railings and construction of disabled friendly toilets in all the judicial complexes.He has also directed them to make provision of lift, where the complex is multi-storied and to call for an urgent meeting of the District Court Management Systems Committee to consider the availability of the aforesaid facilities in the court buildings and also the facility of auditory and visual signage and Braille button in a lift in case of multi-storied building.The Acting Chief Justice has also directed the Registrar (GAD) to take steps for construction of disabled-friendly toilets in the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/court-buildings-of-himachal-pradesh-to-have-lifts-ramps-for-specially-abled-296057
11-08-2021||---||Target is to vaccinate all by August 15: Solan DC||Solan, August 10To ensure the vaccination of all in the district by August 15, Deputy Commissioner Kritika Kulhari today urged the people to get the Covid shot at the earliest.Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajan Uppal said: “About 80 per cent of the registered population has received the first jab while nearly 1.30 lakh is yet to get it.”All Block Medical Officers have also been directed to hold vaccination camps across the district to achieve the target. About 80 to 100 centres are being set up daily.Dr Uppal said, “Residents should allay the vaccination fears as the third wave could strike anytime.” The on-the-spot vaccination is being administered now.In Solan district, 4,97,216 people were vaccinated till last evening.It comprised 1,77,445 people in the 18 to 44 age group and 1,06,895 people in the 45 to 60 age group, besides frontline and healthcare workers.Meanwhile, in Sirmaur district, 20,000 doses were administered today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/target-is-to-vaccinate-all-by-august-15-solan-dc-296043
11-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Sewage pipes leak on Palampur highway; MC, PWD pass buck||PALAMPUR, August 10The leaking sewage pipes near the Plaza Market on the Palampur-Dharamsala highway have become a health hazard.The Palampur Municipal Corporation or the Public Works Department have taken no steps either to repair or replace the leaking lines, causing inconvenience to residents of the area.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that the pipes of some buildings have developed cracks. Since the maintenance of these lines is not under the MC, it can’t repair these. At the same time, a senior officer of the PWD says that the leaking pipes belong to private buildings, so the department will not repair these. Despite repeated complaints to the MC and the PWD, none is ready to repair these and the residents are suffering.“The sewage pipes of private hotels and buildings have been laid without the NOC from the PWD and are illegal. The MC must initiate action against the defaulters, penalise them and replace these. The leakage has also started damaging the recently carpeted road,” said a senior officer of the PWD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sewage-pipes-leak-on-palampur-highway-mc-pwd-pass-buck-296041
11-08-2021||---||Need to focus on education in regional languages: Himachal Governor||Shimla, August 10Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar has lauded the unique initiative of the state government to launch “Har Ghar Pathshala” campaign to continue the studies of the students during the Covid-19 pandemic period.The Governor held a meeting with senior officers of the Education Department at Raj Bhavan today.“We should pay more attention to our regional languages and directions should be given in Himachal as the education in regional language was also a part of National Education Policy (NEP),” he added.The Governor said that keeping in mind the NEP, there was a need to move forward in the education sector. He also stressed the need to have separate arrangements for special children. He appreciated that the state had almost achieved the target of first vaccination dose for the teachers. He also lauded the efforts of the department that online classes were being conducted regularly.Secretary, Education Rajiv Sharma, Director, Higher Education Dr Amarjeet Sharma, Director Primary Education Pankaj Lalit and Project Director Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Virender Sharma attended the meeting.Arlekar said it was a matter of pride for the state that it was far ahead in various indicators of education in the country. He stressed that everyone should have the right to quality education and added that in view of global competition, learning English was important but it should not be necessary.Rajiv Sharma apprised the Governor about the various activities of the department and achievements in the education sector. He said that written material was being made available to students in remote areas of the state where there was internet network problem. He said that emphasis was also being laid on evaluation of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-focus-on-education-in-regional-languages-himachal-governor-296040
11-08-2021||---||Rathore asks Cong workers to gear up for Mandi bypoll||Mandi, August 10Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore has asked party workers to get ready to defeat the BJP in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. Rathore was in Mandi district to visit each Assembly segment to encourage party workers to fight the byelection.He had a meeting with party workers at Mandi Sadar and Balh segments. He was accompanied by senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur and District Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhary and other local leaders.Earlier, Kaul Singh was the critic to the HPCC president but, this time, Rathore persuaded him to share the dais to address party workers here. Both leaders were seen praising each other.However, supporters of Congress leader Champa Thakur and Ashray Sharma were seen raising slogans in favour of their leaders.Rathore urged them to work collectively and reach people at the grassroot level to make them aware about the shortcomings of the Talking to The Tribune, HPCC president said, “I am working tirelessly to strengthen the party. Our motive is to oust the BJP from power in the state in the upcoming Assembly elections.”He also visited the U block in Mandi, where students are opposing the construction of a multiplex building and parking lot proposed by the government. Rathore said the government should cancel the lease deed of this project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rathore-asks-cong-workers-to-gear-up-for-mandi-bypoll-296039
11-08-2021||---||Electronic waste collection campaign started in Dharamsala||Dharamsala, August 10The Kangra district administration has started a campaign to tackle the problem of unscientific disposal of electronic waste which causes health and environmental hazards. Under this, Dharamsala has become the first city in Himachal where electronic waste will be collected from people’s homes and disposed of scientifically by experts.Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said initially, the campaign had been planned for Dharamsala and nearby areas. He said old, unused electronics items like phones and computers keep lying around in people’s houses. These are either thrown in dustbins or in open areas by people from where it generally lands up at the solid waste disposal site of the Municipal Corporation.Since electronic waste hardly generates any value for rag pickers, it keeps piling up at solid waste dumping sites of the MC, he said. Its disposal can be done only with the help of experts, due to which a separate arrangement has been made for its collection, he said.He said any individual or organisation willing to give electonic waste could contact on mobile number 809175284. A vehicle will reach their doorstep to collect the same. He said the people should come forward to encourage the initiative.The Deputy Commissioner said though the scheme to collect and scientifically dispose of electronic waste had been started in Dharamsala city and its surrounding areas, it would soon be spread to other areas of the district including rural areas. Under the Swachh Himachal Swasth Himachal Abhiyan in Kangra district, cleanliness ambassadors have also been selected, who will take the campaign to the panchayat level.He said under the cleanliness campaign, an online quiz, speech and painting competitions, slogan writing competition, debate, essay writing competition and a lecture series would also be organised by educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electronic-waste-collection-campaign-started-in-dharamsala-296038
11-08-2021||---||Moderate to heavy rain in Himachal Pradesh, Kangra wettest||Shimla, August 10Widespread moderate to heavy rain lashed the state. Kangra was the wettest with 113 mm rain, followed by Dharamsala 99 mm, Manali 33 mm, Palampur 16 mm, Ghamroor 15 mm, Naina Devi 12 mm, Paonta Sahib and Jogindernagar 9 mm, Barsar 8 mm and Mandi, Hamirpur and Nadaun 3 mm.The state received 413.6 mm average rainfall during the current monsoon season from June 1 to August 10 against normal rainfall of 473.2 degree as the rain deficit has increased from 6 to 12 per cent during the past one week.Barring Kullu district which received 41 per cent excess rains and Kangra, Hamirpur and Mandi and Shimla which received one per cent, three per cent and six per cent less rains, the rain deficit was 60 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 40 per cent in Chamba, 19 per cent in Sirmaur, 17 per cent in Solan, 15 per cent in Bilaspur, 14 per cent in Una and 11 per cent in Kinnaur district.The local MeT office has issued yellow warning of heavy rainfall at isolated places in mid and lower hills from August 12 to 14 and predicted rains and thunderstorm in mid and lower hills and rains or snow at isolated places in higher hills from August 11 to August 15.The minimum temperatures stayed close to normal. Keylong and Kalpa in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded a low of 13.1 degree and 13.9 degree, followed by Kufri 14.1 degree, Manali 16.2 degree and Shimla 16.8 degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/moderate-to-heavy-rain-in-himachal-pradesh-kangra-wettest-296037
11-08-2021||Shimla||Got 600 forest clearances: Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said he had taken up the issue of forest clearances for development projects with the Centre as at present the Supreme Court gives approval.Asked by Jagat Negi about delay in forest clearances, he said the Supreme Court had granted approval in 600 cases.“Several projects are stalled due to difficulty in obtaining permission for diverting forestland for development,” he said. He had taken up the matter with the Prime Minister.Asked by Ram Lal Thakur about the PET scan machine at the IGMC, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said land had been identified for the purpose but forest clearance was awaited.He said X-Ray machines had been installed in 118 health institutions under the PPP mode. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/got-600-forest-clearances-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-296029
11-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Not allowed entry, pilgrims raise slogans against Himachal Government||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 10Pilgrims coming from Punjab and other states to pay obeisance at temples in Una and Kangra districts during Navratras that started yesterday are creating hassles for the law enforcement authorities at the borders.Also read: Negative Covid report or full vaccination must for all visiting Himachal from August 13Today, a large number of pilgrims gathered at the Gagret border of Una district and raised slogans against the Himachal Government for not allowing them to pay obeisance at the temples. The law enforcement authorities had a tough time controlling the crowd of pilgrims. Mata Chintpurni temple in Una district and the Jawalamukhi temple in Kangra district receive a large number of pilgrims during the Navratras.The state government has decided not to allow pilgrims not carrying a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours or a two doses certificate from an authorised centre.The Kangra administration has started online services to streamline the movement of devotees. The facility of online registration on the templevisit.hp.gov.in has been provided to the devotees from other states at major temples in Kangra district such as Jwalamukhi, Bajjreshwari Dham and Chamundaji. The devotees will send their details on a form on this link. It will be mandatory to give information about the Covid negative report and vaccination in the prescribed form, after which the district administration will inform the devotee concerned through message about the timing of darshan.Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said that the decision of online registration was taken to check crowding at the temples and save the time of devotees. He added that parking, a help desk and counters for issuing slips had been earmarked within one to 2 km of the temples for the convenience of the devotees.He added that there was a complete ban on langar during the Navratras. Besides, entry to the temples during aarti was also prohibited.Jindal said that the devotees were barred from touching idols and ringing bells in the temples. Besides, separate entry and exit gates had been set up. Elaborate security arrangements had also been made in the temples, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-allowed-entry-pilgrims-raise-slogans-against-himachal-government-296026
11-08-2021||Shimla||419 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 419 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 208,616. Besides, one person died of the virus in Shimla. The number of active cases rose to 2,318.Three students of the ITI at Rajgarh in Sirmaur district tested Covid positive today.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/419-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-296021
11-08-2021||---||Educational institutions in Himachal closed till August 22||Shimla, August 10In view of the daily surge in Covid cases in Himachal, the government today decided to close all schools and educational institutions till August 22. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. The government had earlier allowed all schools, including residential institutions, to open from August 2.As a precautionary measure, the Cabinet also decided to cap occupancy in all inter-state buses to 50 per cent. “We are concerned at the surge in Covid cases and so we have decided to impose stricter restrictions,” said Thakur.The Cabinet also decided to make the negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours or a vaccine certificate mandatory for all tourists. The state is witnessing a huge influx of pilgrims to pay obeisance at the shrines, especially in Kangra, Una and Bilaspur districts.The government had imposed the same curbs earlier also but now, it had decided to impose these strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/educational-institutions-in-himachal-closed-till-august-22-296017
11-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Assembly in session: Ruckus in Vidhan Sabha over Covid management||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 10Dissatisfied with the reply of the government on Covid management, opposition Congress today staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha while Health Minister Rajiv Saizal was still replying to the debate.The issue of Covid management during the pandemic was raised by Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, Vikram Jaryal, Narinder Thakur, Vinod Kumar and Kishori Lal under Rule 130. Though the debate was initiated yesterday and a total of 17 legislators took part in it the minister replied today.The Congress MLAs raised slogans and staged a walkout saying the minister had failed to reply to the issue.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur lashed out at the opposition for behaving in such an irresponsible manner on such a sensitive matter like Covid. “The absence of leadership in the Congress is more than evident. They are trying to politicise every matter which is highly objectionable and condemnable,” he remarked.“I admit that in Himachal too the Covid spread and there were more fatalities than expected. However, the government tried its best to tackle the situation and provide best facilities,” he said.He said in Himachal there was neither shortage of beds not oxygen. In fact, patients from other states where there was paucity of beds came to the state for treatment.“As compared to pre-Covid time, the state had a mere 50 to 60 ventilators whose number has now gone up to 500. Similarly, the number of oxygen cylinders too has shot up from 1,200 to 7,500 to meet the escalated demand,” he revealed. He added that 1,500 more oxygen cylinders were being added to the existing stock to meet any eventuality.Thakur said it would have been better if the Congress had acted patiently and listened to the reply of the minister rather than leaving abruptly. Earlier, the health minister said all preparations to tackle the third wave were being made, especially for the children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-in-session-ruckus-in-vidhan-sabha-over-covid-management-296016
11-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal Pradesh University plans to appoint 200 teachers, says VC||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 10Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) is planning to recruit 200 teachers, besides non-teaching staff. It had earlier appointed 153 teachers.“We are planning to fill vacant posts in physical education, music, arts, education, population studies, environment studies, defence studies, library science and other departments,” says Vice-Chancellor Sikander Kumar.“Only competent people based on merit have been appointed in the university with total transparency and the scores and details of all candidates have been uploaded on the university portal,” he says.To the charges of irregularities in the recruitment of teachers levelled by the SFI and the NSUI, he says that appointments were made on the recommendation of the selection committee and the students’ organisations can approach court if they think merit was ignored.As many as 153 teachers have been appointed in the past three years and 83 teachers have been promoted under the career advancement scheme.The university is also planning to recruit about 300 non-teaching staff, as a large number of posts are vacant following the retirement of employees.The SFI and the NSUI have been targeting the Vice-Chancellor for alleged illegal and irregular recruitment of teachers made to please the government. The SFI has alleged that the Vice-Chancellor made appointments even during the pandemic but refused to open the university. It also alleges that meritorious candidates were ignored and many candidates, who did not fulfil the UGC norms were recruited. SFI, ABVP activists clashTension gripped the HPU campus on Tuesday as SFI and ABVP activists clashed near the library and freely exchanged blows. Some ABVP members were eating food outside the library when the SFI activists reached there. The two groups had an argument and soon they clashed. No FIR was lodged by either group till late evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-plans-to-appoint-200-teachers-says-vc-296015
11-08-2021||---||At 1.3, R-factor highest in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 10Himachal Pradesh and Punjab currently top the rate of Covid-19 transmission in India with the highest virus reproductive value of 1.3 each which indicates rising infection trends and disease resurgence.On a day when India’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped to 28,204 in a 147-day low, the government sent out warning signals to eight states with R-value equal to or higher than 1.These states are Himachal and Punjab (R-factor 1.3 each), Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (1.1 each), and Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Nagaland (1 each). Although the government today said Kerala remained an area of grave concern as 51.51% of the new cases last week came from the state, it said new pockets of cases in Himachal, Punjab and other states with rising R-factor were a matter of concern.“The reproduction number refers to how many people an infected person can further infect on an average. If the number is less than one, it means cases are declining and will disappear eventually,” Health Ministry spokesperson Lav Agarwal said.The 11 states housing 37 districts where cases have been rising for two weeks include Kerala (11 districts), Tamil Nadu (7) and Himachal Pradesh (6).Hamirpur, Kangra, Bilaspur, Chamba, Mandi and Shimla are showing a rise in cases for a fortnight, said the health ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-1-3-r-factor-highest-in-himachal-pradesh-punjab-295794
11-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Schools in Himachal to remain closed till August 22||Shimla, August 10In view of surge in Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh, the state government has decided to close all schools and educational institutions till August 22.All schools will remain closed except residential ones.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here on Tuesday. The government had earlier allowed all schools, including residential ones, to open from August 2 in view of decline in Covid cases. As a precautionary measure it has also been decided to restrict occupancy to 50 per cent in all public transport, including inter-state and intra-state.The 50 per cent occupancy rule will come into effect from August 13.The number of Covid cases today shot up to 419, fuelling fear of a third wave, resulting in stricter curbs.Read also“We are concerned over the surge in Covid cases and as such we have decided to impose stricter restrictions,” said Thakur.The Cabinet also decided to make negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours mandatory for all tourists visiting the state. The state is witnessing huge influx of pilgrims who are keen to pay obeisance at the shrines, especially in Kangra, Una and Bilaspur districts.The government had earlier issued an advisory, urging tourists and pilgrims to enter Himachal only is they are carrying a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or the two-dose Covid vaccine certificate. Now the cabinet has taken a decision to impose these restrictions very strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-schools-in-himachal-to-remain-closed-till-august-22-295776
11-08-2021||New Delhi||Himachal, Punjab among five states with R number more than 1||Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are among five states with Covid-19 reproduction number of more than 1, the union health ministry said on Tuesday.Reproduction number, or R number, is a way of rating the disease’s ability to spread. It’s an estimate of how many people the disease could infect on average. Scientists and health experts believe that an R number higher than one could mean that a disease could potentially spread faster in more vulnerable populations.Read alsoUttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh are the other states with R values of more than 1, the health ministry said at the press conference.The increasing trend of reproduction number in some states is a cause for concern, although there is stabilisation in COVID-19 cases in the country, officials said at a joint press briefing on the pandemic, adding there are significant reasons to enforce pandemic control measures.The government said Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in 86 samples in India, including 34 in Maharashtra as on August 9.The central government said 44 districts across 11 states and union territories were still reporting a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent.An official said that 37 districts across nine states, including Kerala (11 districts) and Tamil Nadu (seven districts) were showing a rising trend in daily new COVID-19 cases over the last two weeks.Kerala, the ministry said, had reported 51.51 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases reported in the last seven days.The ministry’s caution comes despite the fact that India recorded 28,204 new coronavirus infections—the lowest in over five months—the health ministry's updated data showed on Tuesday. Active cases have now dropped to 3,88,508—the lowest figure since April.  The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.—Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-punjab-among-five-states-with-r-number-more-than-1-295738
