12-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide: Anger, helplessness among families of those feared trapped; allege delay in rescue||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 12Distraught relatives of passengers of the HRTC bus buried under debris and boulders are losing hope of survival of their kin with each passing minute and cursing the administration for alleged delay in rescue operations from Chaura (Shimla) side.Also read: Kinnaur landslide in pictures: Shooting stones, mud still rolling down the hill; drones used to spot vehicles under debris as 50 still feared buriedKinnaur landslide kills 13, bus passengers among 50 trapped"The focus of the rescue agencies was on opening the national highway, and not tracing the bus. The JCB machine reached the spot around 6 pm. My father Hukam Singh boarded the bus from Powari. After sometime, we saw on Facebook that the bus was buried in the landslide. We were shocked and immediately rushed to the spot from Rampur and were stunned to see that no rescue operations had started," laments Gabbar Singh.The rescue operations had started immidiately from Negualsari side, but it took almost six hours for the administration to deploy a JCB from Chaura side, he said. "Several lives could have been saved had the rescue officials acted swiftly. Those trapped were simply left to die. Those responsible for the negligence should be punished sternly," he demanded.  Geet Ram, whose son Mehar Chand too is believed to be trapped, said his son was returning from his in-laws house and was in the bus. "Our hearts are sinking with each passing minute as hopes of survival are diminishing. Mehar has two small kids. It's impossible for me to think of a future without him," he said, his voice choking with emotions.Prab Lal was another passenger who had boarded the bus from Cholling to Rampur. His brother Ravi Kumat appeared crestfallen. "We were hopeful he will survive, but the bus could be traced only this morning... Why was the drone survey limited to the main highway," he said, blaming the administration for the alleged delay in beginning the rescue operation. A similar anger and anxiety was writ large on the faces of others whose relatives are untraced, almost a day after the tragedy on the Kinnaur-Shimla highway. They, however, are helpless.Kinnaur DC Abid Hussain Sadiq said the entire area was surveyed through drone and rescue operations were conducted in a planned manner. The anger of relatives was natural as they were worried about their kin, he said, admitting there was some dalay to start rescue work from the Chaura side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-anger-helplessness-among-families-of-those-feared-trapped-allege-delay-in-rescue-296633
12-08-2021||Shimla||Plastic waste being used as fuel: Urban Development Minister||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today said plastic waste was no longer a problem as it was being used as fuel in cement plants and for the construction of roads.The minister was replying to a question on the poor waste management in the urban areas raised by Vishal Nehria under Rule 62 in the Vidhan Sabha. Bhardwaj said the local bodies were purchasing the plastic waste from people which was being used as fuel in cement plants and in road construction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plastic-waste-being-used-as-fuel-urban-development-minister-296486
12-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Baijnath-Bharmour road project okayed||Palampur, August 11The government has cleared the 114-km Baijnath-Bharmour-Holi road project. The road will be constructed through the Dhauladhars, connecting Baijnath with Bharmour via the Jalsu Pass. This project had been hanging fire for the past 30 years.Trilok Kapoor, Chairman, HP State Wool Federation, today told mediapersons that after the completion of the road project, the distance between Baijnath and Bharmour would be reduced by 200 km. The project would be funded by NABARD and it had released Rs 13 crore for the construction of 15-km road in the first phase. He thanked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for taking interest in getting the project cleared from the Centre.Kapoor said last year, he had also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested him to declare the Baijnath-Bharmour road project as a national project. He said the Centre had approved the project report of the state government and also released Rs 13 crore for the first phase.“The road will benefit the tribal people of Chamba and Kangra districts, who live in the snowbound areas of Dhauladhars for nine months in a year and also migrate to lower areas during the winter,” Kapoor added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baijnath-bharmour-road-project-okayed-296487
12-08-2021||---||131 schools in Himachal have zero enrolment; 1,957 have less than 10 students||Shimla, August 11The government could consider winding up or merging its 131 primary schools that have zero enrolment and 1,957 schools which have less than 10 students in the state as part of the rationalisation process.This was stated by Education Minister Govind Thakur in a written reply to a query raised by Ramesh Dhwala of the BJP. He wanted to know the number of schools with zero or less than 10 enrolment and if the government was considering their rationalisation.Face Closure“Depending on the merits and demerits of each institution, we will take a call on their rationalisation once the schools open when the Covid situation becomes normal,” the minister said.Meanwhile, Revenue Minister Mahender Singh today informed the Vidhan Sabha that a total of 233 persons had been killed and a loss of Rs 753.25 crore had been suffered in Himachal since the onset of monsoon.He was replying to a query by Bikram Jaryal and Prakash Rana during the Question Hour in the Vidhan Sabha today. “We have sent the report of damage to the Centre to seek compensation for the losses suffered,” he stated. He added that the maximum damage to the tune of Rs 484.72 crore had been suffered by the Public Works Department as roads and bridges had been severely damaged.Besides this, losses suffered by the Irrigation and Public Health Department amounted to Rs 215.53 crore. “I admit that the damages are far more than the compensation received from the Centre or even from our own funds. As such, a large number of repair works have been undertaken as part of various schemes under the MGNREGA or soil conservation,” he stated.He said at times, relief or compensation given was inadequate but the government had to abide by the relief manual and could not go beyond the fixed amount.In a written reply to a query by Jagat Singh Negi, Revenue Minister Mahender Singh said Rs 90.22 crore had been spent from the Covid Disaster Management Fund till June 30. He said besides this, the Centre had provided Rs 117.63 crore and Rs 6.10 crore from the PM Cares Fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/131-schools-in-himachal-have-zero-enrolment-1-957-have-less-than-10-students-296483
12-08-2021||Solan||Contraband seized in Paonta||The police seized 1.021 kg of cannabis from Vinod Kumar (34) at Puruwala in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district this morning. A police team stopped Vinod near Chandela village and recovered the contraband from his car.Meanwhile, the Paonta Sahib police detained Pradeep Kumar and Salman and seized 13.47 grams of heroine from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/contraband-seized-in-paonta-296496
12-08-2021||Solan||13 khair trees found axed at Mandhala village in Barotiwala||As many as 13 khair trees were found axed at Mandhala village in Barotiwala this morning. A case under the Indian Forest Act and the IPC has been registered.The value of the felled trees has been estimated at Rs 2.59 lakh. Wood worth Rs 61,102 was, however, recovered as some logs were left behind. The value of the stolen wood was estimated to be Rs 1.98 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-khair-trees-found-axed-at-mandhala-village-in-barotiwala-296497
12-08-2021||Kullu||VSAT system for Lahaul police stations||Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said today that the administration was planning to install video-calling based VSAT in the police stations. The measure was being mooted to enable people to directly share their problems with the administration, especially during the winter.He said the steps were being taken to ensure the availability of satellite phones in the district. He added that it was necessary to have an effective communication system for a timely exchange of information.Neeraj said due to the non-availability of a communication system on the Gramphu to Kaza road, tourists and other people sometimes faced difficulties. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vsat-system-for-lahaul-police-stations-296499
12-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Key posts vacant at AIR Hamirpur||Hamirpur, August 11Three posts of programme officer (PO) at the All India Radio (AIR) here have been lying vacant for over one year, making the station lose its sheen. The FM radio station was set up in early 1993 to promote local culture and make people aware of the welfare programmes and policies of the government.It was the first of its kind FM stations in the state.The radion station has many listeners, including people from as far as Jammu (J and K) to Ropar and Hoshiarpur.Despite being a small station having low transmission power, its reach is wide due its strategic geographical location. However, the AIR authorities or the PIB have not taken steps to strengthen the station and improve the quality as well as the standard of programmes.The AIR, Hamirpur, is part of the AIR live broadcast at 101.8 mhz. This station lies in the home constituency of Anurag Thakur, who is now the Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting.Venudhar Reddy, Director General, AIR, said the broadcaster was suffering from staff crunch as no recruitment had taken place in the AIR since 1991. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/key-posts-vacant-at-air-hamirpur-296500
12-08-2021||There is no cleanliness in Sabzi Mandi in Shimla and its surrounding areas. Rotting vegetables or other waste is thrown on the road in and around the vegetable market. There should be a designated place to dump the waste and the vegetable vendors should also keep the place clean. The people using the stairs near the Sabzi Mandi have to walk through the the garbage strewn around. — Savita Mehta||Waste thrown near Sabzi Mandi in Shimla||Street lights on EVEN during daytimeStreetlights under the jurisdiction of the Shimla Municipal Corporation are switched on even during daytime. This reflects the callousness and indifference of the authorities. This causes a lot of wastage of power. On the other hand, in some parts of the town, the streetlights are non-functional. — Rajesh Gupta, TOTU (Shimla)What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-thrown-near-sabzi-mandi-in-shimla-296501
12-08-2021||Anmol Mishra||Project  of Rainbow International School, Nagrota Bagwan, student Anmol Mishra bags third spot||Tie-up with medicinal plant boardGovernment Pharmacy College, Seraj, and National Medicinal Plant Board, Ministry of AYUSH, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to work for documenting, development of herbal formulations of the potential medicinal plants of the Seraj Valley. Dr Arun Chandan appreciated the initiative and explained the importance of medicinal plants and how the people of the valley may be benefited from growing medicinal plants while Prof Raju L described this MoU as a unique initiative with possibilities of developing herbal formulations.Youth Day celebrated at varsityA Youth Camp was organised by the NCC 6 HP (I) Unit at Indus International University in Bathu village of Haroli on Wednesday. Fifty NCC cadets from the university and government colleges of Una and Bangana participated. University pro-chancellor Raman Ayyar was the chief guest, while NCC Commanding Officer Col MB Wankhede gave tips to the cadets to crack the Services Selection Board for joining the Indian Armed Forces as Commissioned Officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/project-of-rainbow-international-school-nagrota-bagwan-student-anmol-mishra-bags-third-spot-296502
12-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur: Selection criteria for BPL families ignored||Palampur, August 11The selection of the BPL, IRDP and Antyodaya families is underway in Kangra district these days. The government has laid down criteria for selecting beneficiaries. A letter containing the guidelines for the selection of such families has been sent to panchayats. However, still state agencies are receiving a large number of complaints pertaining to irregularities in the selection of BPL, IRDP and Antyodaya families.The government has also directed the Block Development Officers to keep a check on the panchayats while making the selection. Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that many panchayats in the district have not deleted the names of fake BPL, IRDP and Antyodaya beneficiaries from their records and have kept them in fresh lists.Palampur SDM Amit Guleria said he had also received such complaints through social media. “As per the rules, a person having two hectares of non-irrigated and one hectare of irrigated land, a four-wheeler, bank deposits and having an annual income above Rs 30,000 cannot be included in the BPL and IRDP categories,” he said.He said in case of a wrong selection, the complainant could approach him. Besides, the government could also investigate the matter by deputing a team of officers.The Tribune had in these columns highlighted irregularities in the selection of BPL and IRDP beneficiaries. Thereafter, the government had directed the authorities concerned to hold a fresh meeting of the gram sabhas to select new BPL beneficiaries or delete the names of undeserving families and complete the re-identification process of the beneficiaries at the earliest.As per a baseline survey conducted in various panchayats to identify and verify fake card holders in 2018, it emerged that 30 to 40 per cent undeserving families had managed to get their names enlisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-selection-criteria-for-bpl-families-ignored-296503
12-08-2021||---||Himachal CM releases new prison manual, focus on rehab||Shimla, August 11Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released the Model Prison Manual-2021 Himachal Pradesh here yesterday. The manual emphasises on reforms and rehabilitation of prisoners, who would learn new skills by rightly using the sentence period during their confinement. It would enable the prisoners to earn their livelihood and support their families after release from jail and they would not get attracted towards crime again.The Chief Minister said that during the conference of DGPs and IGPs held in 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had directed every state to have a model prison manual.Thakur said that the existing 21-year-old jail manual was outdated though a few amendments had been made to it. He said that new welfare schemes would be initiated in jails and prisoners would be provided with work and training to enable them to earn their livelihood according to their skills and capabilities.He added that all jails would be computerised to ensure transparency. These would be managed through the e-Prison software, which would be further connected through the ICJS system with courts, police and forensic science departments.DGP Sanjay Kundu said that modern technology and equipment would be used to strengthen the security of the jails. At present, there are two central jails, nine district jails and three sub-jails in the state.ADGP, Prisons and Correctional Services, N Venugopal said that the jail staff would be trained in smooth and effective implementation of the provisions of the new manual.A digital database of the prisoners would be prepared in jails so that strict vigil could be maintained on their movement while they are out on parole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-releases-new-prison-manual-focus-on-rehab-296492
12-08-2021||---||Mandi: Mock drill held to tackle disasters at Pandoh||Mandi, August 11The District Disaster Management Authority, Mandi, organised a mock drill session at Pandoh in Mandi district today to assess its preparedness for disaster management.Apart from central agencies like the National Disaster Response Force, officers and employees of all departments related to State and District Disaster Management Authority participated in this mock drill.Sub Divisional Magistrate Sadar Ritika Jindal conducted a rehearsal from the Disaster Control Centre.SDM Ritika said the teams related to disaster management conducted mock drill exercises at three sites at Pandoh assuming symbolic losses from different types of disasters.“In the mock drill, ways to avoid natural calamities were explained and in the event of natural calamity like earthquake, a mega mock drill was organised with the aim of effective implementation of relief and rescue plan and better coordination between various departments,” she added.She said continuous efforts are being made to make people aware of disaster management and to check administrative preparedness. These efforts will continue in the future.Officers of various departments, including public representatives of Pandoh and adjoining panchayats, and local people participated in this exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mock-drill-held-to-tackle-disasters-at-pandoh-296493
12-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Stray animals a nightmare for commuters on Paonta Sahib-Sataun NH||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 11Stray animals roaming on the Paonta Sahib-Sataun section of the national highway in Sirmaur district pose threat to motorists.A large number of abandoned cows are often seen on the road at various places in Paonta Sahib, Sataun and other areas on the highway.“Several accidents have been reported when motorists collide with other vehicles while trying to save cows,” said policemen on traffic duty. Such animals not only rummage through the waste, but also litter the area.The district administration had recently convened a meeting of the district-level coordination committee at Nahan where the issue was discussed. Deputy Commissioner RK Gautam had pointed out that a fine would be imposed on the owners of the animals as the menace had become a traffic hassle at Paonta Sahib, Kala Amb and Nahan.According to an estimate, there are about 400 abandoned animals in the district, who will be shifted to 13 Gau Sadans.Three new Gau Sadans were also being constructed for the animals. The SDMs have been directed to ensure the early completion of the sadans. There are 1,197 animals in the Gau Sadans for which the state government is providing a grant of Rs 500 per month.Each panchayat pradhan can impose a penalty of Rs 500 to Rs 700 on abandoning the animals while in the urban areas, a penalty up to Rs 5,000 can be imposed under the HP Police Act, 2007.To identify the owners of the abandoned animals, the staff of the Animal Husbandry Department tags these animals. As many as 2.88 lakh animals have been tagged in the district. It has, however, been observed that cattle owners often chop the ears of the animals before abandoning them in a bid to avoid the identification.Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Niru Shabnam said the police help was being sought to send the stray animals to sadans and impose fines on the owners. The owners are also coming forward to own their animals, who are being re-tagged and sent back to them.Fine can be imposedEach panchayat pradhan can impose a penalty of Rs500 to Rs700 for abandoning animals while in the urban areas, a fine up to Rs5,000 can be imposed under the HP Police Act, 2007||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-animals-a-nightmare-for-commuters-on-paonta-sahib-sataun-nh-296494
12-08-2021||Kullu||Kullu: 50 students donate blood at ITI, Shamshi||The Rotary Club, Kullu, in collaboration with the blood bank, organised a blood donation camp at ITI, Shamshi, 7 km from here today.More than 50 students of the institute, besides Rotarians Anuj Malik, Mohit Chawla and Rajesh Sood and club secretary Anshul Prashar, donated blood.Club president Aman Bhalla said they would organise blood donation camps in villages. He thanked Shamshi ITI Deputy Director and Principal Sunil Sharma and his team. He also thanked Dr Heera Lal of the blood bank and his team for special support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-50-students-donate-blood-at-iti-shamshi-296495
12-08-2021||---||Work to restore Shillai national highway in Himachal halted||Solan, August 11Work to restore the national highway at Kali Dhank in Shillai sub division of Sirmaur was halted today by the private company undertaking its widening due to the involvement of private land.Since private land has to be demarcated and acquired, the work has been put on hold temporarily.Sub Divisional Magistrate Paonta Sahib Vivek Mahajan said, “The revenue staff has already begun work to demarcate the private land and efforts are afoot to begin the road restoration work at the earliest after completion of all formalities.”Work was underway on war footingThe work was underway on a war footing till yesterday to restore the road at Kali Dhank where seven earth excavation machine had been pressed into service. The administration was hoping to restore the road in the next few days as the commuters were put to inconvenience due to its closure.A 150-m road had caved in at Kali Dhank on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai highway on July 30. The movement of vehicular traffic had been suspended through this route and buses were plying through arterial routes to facilitate the residents of Kamrau and Shillai area who had been badly hit.“In a bid to facilitate the residents, another arterial route through Dak Pathar in Uttarakhand to Haripur-Jong-Kafota has been made functional for the local buses after holding discussions with the Deputy Commissioner at Vikas Nagar today. This route will provide connectivity to the people of the affected area to Paonta Sahib,” informed the SDM Vivek Mahajan.He said HRTC buses have started plying on this route.Villagers from 40 panchayats were inconvenienced due to the closure of this road. They either used the longer arterial routes or trudged a three-km hilly path to reach the other side of the highway bypassing the affected site at Kali Dhank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-to-restore-shillai-national-highway-in-himachal-halted-296488
12-08-2021||---||Rescue shelters to be constructed in flood-ravaged Mandi villages, says DC||Mandi, August 11Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar today visited the Udaipur area in the district that was affected by a flash flood following heavy rains on July 27.He visited Chokhang, Naingar and Chogjing villages in Udaipur subdivision and Changut village in the remote Miyar valley, met the flood-affected people and listened to their grievances.On July 27, a flash flood created havoc in Changut village; a huge tract of agricultural land along with vegetable produce was washed away and a few houses were damaged. Due to the flash flood in a local nullah, the residents of Changut village spent two sleepless nights in a cave.They are urging the state government to rehabilitate them at some other place, as they have lost their agricultural land in the flash flood.The Deputy Commissioner said that rescue shelters would be constructed at Changut and Karpat villages. He directed the officials concerned to take immediate steps in this direction. He assured the affected families of all possible help. The necessary directions had been given to the Electricity Board, PWD, Jal Shakti, Agriculture and Horticulture departments in this regard, he added.Neeraj also took stock of the progress of the restoration work on the Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road at Madgran, Jahlma and Shansha villages where four bridges were washed away in the flash flood on July 27. SDM, Udaipur, Rajkumar Thakur and other officers accompanied the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rescue-shelters-to-be-constructed-in-flood-ravaged-mandi-villages-says-dc-296489
12-08-2021||Palampur||Rain shelter not rebuilt in Palampur, locals fume||Residents of SSB Chowk, Khilroo, Differpatt and Sughar areas have expressed resentment over the failure of the Palampur Municipal Corporation (MC) and the Public Works Department (PWD) to reconstruct a rain shelter that was dismantled six months ago.The rain shelter at the SSB Chowk, which is a busy roundabout on the Palampur-Dharamsala highway, was razed. Local people were given an assurance that a new shelter with floodlights would be constructed.Before the MC elections in March this year, the Palampur MC had directed the Executive Engineer, PWD, to dismantle the rain shelter at the SSB Chowk, also a busy bus stop. However, the MC neither provided funds to the PWD nor constructed a rain shelter.Local residents Rita Devi, Rakesh Kumar, Jai Singh, Uttam Chand, Sheela Devi, and Vinay Kumar said that they were facing inconvenience during the rainy season. They had approached the local SDM, PWD officials and the MLA, but in vain. They said only a few buses were operating after restrictions were lifted and they had to wait for buses in the open even when it rained.BM Thakur, Executive Engineer, PWD, said he had invited tenders for the construction of the rain shelter but as no funds were received from the MC despite requests, he had to cancel the process. However, keeping in view inconvenience caused to people, the PWD would reconstruct the rain shelter using old material within a week. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-shelter-not-rebuilt-in-palampur-locals-fume-296490
12-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Ruckus in Himachal Vidhan Sabha as Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri not allowed to raise issue||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 11Tempers ran high in the Vidhan Sabha today with treasury benches and opposition members engaging in heated exchanges as both sides even challenging each other to step out to settle scores.There was complete pandemonium in the house as Congress legislators trouped to the well of the house and stood next to the Speaker’s podium, raising slogans. The opposition got infuriated when Speaker Vipin Parmar turned down the request of Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri to let him raise the issue of expunging of Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi’s speech given in the house yesterday.Trouble was brewing since yesterday with BJP members taking strong exception to remarks made by Negi against the RSS. With the Speaker not allowing Agnihotri to speak, the Congress MLAs started raising slogans. The question hour was taken up during the sloganeering by opposition members, who finally staged a walkout after 35 minutes.Condemning the Congress, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the house will run as per rules and not as per the wishes of the opposition. “I am shocked at the manner in which Congress MLAs, including Leader of Opposition, had threatened and dared our MLAs to come forward to settle scores,” he remarked. He added that this was nothing short of goondaism which is against the rich traditions and dignity of the house.He said the behaviour of Negi was highly objectionable, condemnable and unacceptable. “When opposition members threaten and use derogatory language three is bound to be reaction by our MLAs. They gave notice under Rule 67 for a debate on price rise but not they are resorting to such unruly behaviour,” he said. He added that rather than speaking on the topic, Negi deviated and started making remarks against the RSS, which is absolutely wrong.The Chief Minister said the Congress had even insulted the chair of the Speaker. This, he said, would not be tolerated. “The absence of senior leadership in the Congress, both inside and outside the house, is so evident,” he remarked. He appreciated the Speaker Vipin Parmar for running the house smoothly as per rules.Speaker Vipin Parmar said the house will run as per rules and the entire speech of Negi had not been expunged. “The objectionable remarks he made against the RSS was wrong. I am proud of my association with the RSS, just like the PM, ministers and BJP MLAs are as it has instilled in us a spirit of nationalism, values, confidence and commitment,” Parmar stated.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj condemned Negi for stepping out from his seat and threatening BJP MLAs. “Even if the opposition has some issues, they can raise it personally with the Speaker and not by behaving in such an unruly manner,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ruckus-in-himachal-vidhan-sabha-as-leader-of-opposition-mukesh-agnihotri-not-allowed-to-raise-issue-296498
12-08-2021||---||327 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, August 11As many as 327 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 208,990. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Shimla and Kangra.The highest number of 82 cases was reported in Chamba, followed by 64 in Kangra, 63 in Mandi, 35 in Hamirpur, 27 in Kullu, 23 in Shimla, 13 in Lahaul and Spiti, nine in Chamba, five in Una, four in Solan and two in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 2,556 while the number of total deaths increased to 3,523.The daily surge in Covid cases has left the state government worried, which has imposed restrictions on tourists and pilgrims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/327-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-296484
12-08-2021||---||Rescuing those trapped in Kinnaur govt’s priority: Chief Minister||Shimla, August 11Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said all possible efforts were being made to rescue people buried under the debris of the landslide near Nigulsari in Kinnaur district.He said some vehicles, including a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, are under the debris and about 60 people are feared trapped.He said that teams of the Army, NDRF and ITBP, CISF, police and the district administration have reached the spot and the rescue and relief operations were in progress on a war footing.“Efforts are on to evacuate remaining people buried under the debris. Arrangements have been made for providing medical treatment to the injured and district administration had been directed to provide all possible help to the injured,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, too, have expressed condolences over the incident. They spoke to the Chief Minister to enquire about the incident and assured that the Government of India would provide all possible support for the ongoing rescue operation.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said he was deeply saddened over the incident. He added the government would provide all help to the affected families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rescuing-those-trapped-in-kinnaur-govts-priority-chief-minister-296485
12-08-2021||Aditi Tandon||Chandigarh, Himachal top elderly care index||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 11Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Rajasthan are offering the best elderly care, reveals the first national “Quality of Life for Elderly Index” that assesses preparedness of states/UTs for the challenges posed by the ageing Indian population.Rajasthan with the score of 54.61 leads the rankings in the aged category; Himachal (61.04) is the top ranker in the relatively aged states category with Uttarakhand and Haryana bagging the second and third spots and Punjab eighth.Among UTs, Chandigarh is the leader with a score of 61.81. It also leads India on the income security for elderly pillar with the highest score of 61.54 as against the national average of just 33.03. Himachal and Haryana are among better performers on income security with scores of 55.70 and 49.56. Most states finished below the national average on this parameter.On social well-being, Himachal is among the top four performers with Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Mizoram. The index, prepared by the Institute for Competitiveness, maps the states/UTs on four pillars of elderly well-being — financial, social, health and income security.The rankings have been published in four categories — aged states (elderly population more than 5 million), relatively aged states (elderly population below 5 million), UTs and northeastern states.Nationally, the health system pillar of the elderly has the highest score of 66.97, followed by 62.34 in the social wellbeing category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-himachal-top-elderly-care-index-296443
12-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide kills 14, bus passengers among 50 trapped||Tribune News ServiceRampur (Shimla), August 12A massive landslide near Nigulsari in Kinnaur district on Wednesday killed 14 persons, including a child and five women, and injured 13 others while 50 are feared buried under the debris.The tragedy struck around 12.30 pm. Several vehicles, including a truck and 42-seater Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, were hit by the landslide. The bus was on its way from Reckong Peo in Kinnaur to Shimla.The incident was reported by the bus driver, who was seriously injured. The bus and at least three other vehicles, including a Bolero and Tata Sumo, were buried under the debris while the truck was hit by a boulder and plunged into the Sutlej.Kinnaur SP Saju Ram Rana said 10 bodies had been recovered from the rubble so far. He said the rescue operation was being carried out by ITBP, police and NDRF personnel while 10 ambulances and four earth-movers were also at the spot.Due to darkness the operations were halted for sometime during the night but were resumed at 6 a.m and wreckages of HRTC bus has been spotted. Over 100 personnel of ITBP, Army and police are engaged in operations. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is expected to visit the slide site shortly.State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said the landslide occurred at Chaura village on National Highway-5 in Nigulsari area, 170 km from Shimla.Video captures horrorA video clip of the landslide showed boulders falling down the mountainside into the Sutlej river below. This was followed by a big chunk of the mountain collapsing on the National Highway 5 and into the river.Earlier, the Tata Sumo was located under the debris and its eight passengers were found dead, he said.Also read: Rescuing those trapped govt’s priority: Chief MinisterA car was partially damaged while another was fully damaged. The rescue teams were trying to pull them out with the help of a crane, officials said. The rescue had to be halted late in the evening as boulders were rolling down the mountainside, posing grave risk to rescuers.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who apprised PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah of the situation, said both of them had assured full support to the state. The PM announced an ex gratia of Rs2 lakh each from the PM’s National Relief Fund to the next of kin of landslide victims while Rs50,000 each would be given to the injured.Toddler, 5 women among victimsRohit, Kayao, ShimlaVijay Kumar, Jhol, HamipurMeera Devi, Nanspo, KinnaurNitisha, Sungra, KinnaurPrem Kumari, Labrang , KinnaurKamlesh Kumar, Rechuta, SolanVanshuka (toddler), Sapni, KinnaurGyan Dassi, Sapni , KinnaurDevi Chand, Palingi, KinnaurOne body yet to be identified||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-kills-14-bus-passengers-among-50-trapped-296437
12-08-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh, Himachal, Rajasthan lead 1st national ranking on quality of life for elderly||Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Chandigarh lead the first national rankings on the Quality of Life for Elderly Index. This was released on Wednesday by the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister.The Index has been created by the Institute for Competitiveness to assess the challenge of ageing in India and determine the preparedness of states to deal with a rising elderly population.India is currently enjoying the demographic dividend but will be growing older, with persons above the age of 65 becoming the fastest-growing age group by 2050. Greying is not very rapid in India, as only 8.6 pc of its population are elderly. However, by 2050 the elderly population will grow by three times to 319 million, accounting for 19.5 pc of the total population.Further, there will be a significantly higher proportion of women than men in the higher age cohort due to higher life expectancy, marking an increase of 21.07 years over 19.10 years in their male counterparts.“India needs to grab the current opportunity to continuously evolve the systems and start putting positive change in motion for the next decades. The Index on Quality of Life for Elderly 2021 represents a beginning,” says the report, which separately ranks states and UTs on the elderly wellbeing index.Rajasthan is the top scorer in the aged states category defined as states with an elderly population of more than 5 million.Himachal Pradesh leads in the Relatively-Aged States section (below 5 million population).Mizoram leads in the North Eastern States category and Chandigarh among all UTs.The report identifies the regional patterns of ageing across the Indian States and assesses the overall ageing situation in India. The report presents a deeper insight into how well India is doing to support the well-being of its ageing population.The Index framework includes four pillars: Financial Well-being, Social Well-being, Health System and Income Security, and eight sub-pillars: Economic Empowerment, Educational Attainment & Employment, Social Status, Physical Security, Basic Health, Psychological Wellbeing, Social Security and Enabling Environment.Chairman, Economic Advisory Council to the PM Bibek Debroy said, “India is often portrayed as a young society, with a consequent demographic dividend. But, as with every country that goes through a fast process of demographic transition, India also has a greying cum ageing problem. EAC-PM requested Dr Amit Kapoor and his team at Institute for Competitiveness to report on an issue that is often not mentioned- the problems faced by the elderly.”The health system pillar of the elderly observes the highest national average of 66.97 at an all-India level, followed by 62.34 in the Social Well-being category.Financial Well-being observes a score of 44.7, which is lowered by the low performance of 21 States across the Education Attainment and Employment pillar, which showcases scope for improvementStates have performed particularly worse in the Income Security pillar because over half of the States have a score below the national average, i.e., 33.03 in Income Security, which is the lowest across all pillars. These pillar-wise analyses help states assess the state of the elderly population and identify existing gaps that obstruct their growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-himachal-rajasthan-lead-1st-national-ranking-on-quality-of-life-for-elderly-296199
12-08-2021||Bhanu Lohumi||10 dead, 50 feared buried as massive landslide hits bus, other vehicles in Himachal’s Kinnaur||Tribune News Service Rampur (Shimla), August 11Ten persons, including one child and five women, were killed and thirteen others injured, while about 50 persons are feared buried under the debris after a massive landslide trapped an HRTC bus, a truck and other vehicles near Neugal Sari, about 170 km from here, in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Wednesday.The tragedy struck around 12.30 pm this afternoon. The incident was reported by the driver of the HRTC bus, who was seriously injured. The ill-fated 42-seater HRTC bus was on its way from Rekong Peo to Haridwar when the landslide occurred. The bus and three light vehicles were buried under the debris, while the truck was hit by a shooting boulder and plunged into the Sutlej River.One vehicle was fully damaged and a Swift car was partially damaged while the truck, which was hit by a huge boulder, plunged into the river and the driver died on the spot.The road was cleared for small vehicles in the late evening. However, there was no trace of the bus and a Balero till the filing of the report. The rescue operation, meanwhile, is in full swing and a team comprising ten ambulances, four earth removers, 52 ITBP personnel, 30 police and 27 NDRF personnel are on the spot.The rescue operation would continue all night till all the persons were recovered, said Kinnaur SP Saju Ram Rana.However, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who could not reach the spot due to inclement weather and fog said that it was feared that the number of persons trapped in the vehicles buried under landslide could be around 60.Earlier, the rescue operation was hampered as the shooting boulders continued to roll down, posing grave risk to rescue teams but situation improved after two-three hours and heavy machinery and men were deployed to expedite the rescue operation.Meanwhile, two of the deceased were identified as Rohit (23) of Kaiya village in Rampur tehsil in Shimla district and Vijay Kumar (32) of Jhol village in Hamirpur district, while eight bodies, which were recovered from the wreckages of a Tata Sumo, are yet to be identified.The injured included Prashant, Varun Menon, Rajender, Daulat, Charan Jeet Singh, Mahinder Pal (bus driver), Gulab Singh (bus conductor), Saveen Sharma, Chander Gyan, Arun, Anil Kumar, and Kaizang Negi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah expressed shock over the accident and assured full help to the state. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who apprised the Prime Minister and the Home Minister of the situation, said both of them assured full support to meet any exigency.BJP national President Jagat Prakash Nadda, State BJP president Suresh kashyap, BJP state incharge Avinash Rai Khanna, sCongress in charge Sanjay Dutt too expressed grief over the incident.Panic gripped the region as the administration was getting numerous calls about missing persons from their relatives, which indicated that the number of persons buried under debris or feared dead could be more. A large number of people have gathered at the spot and the police have cordoned 50 metres area and barred entry of people, including pedestrians.The Deputy Commissioner Kinnaur Abid Hussain Sadiq and SP are on the spot, supervising and coordinating the rescue operation. Several people have been killed in landslides in the state this monsoon season.Earlier on July 25, shooting boulders triggered by a landslide hit a tourist vehicle near Batsari, about 8 km from Sangla, on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district, killing nine persons, including four women and three members of a family.On July 27, at least eight people died, two were injured and two went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over the Tozing Nullah in Udaipur of Lahaul-Spiti district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-dead-50-feared-buried-as-massive-landslide-hits-bus-other-vehicles-in-himachals-kinnaur-296170
