13-08-2021||Shimla||Congress notice for removal of Speaker not technically eligible for being taken up||The notice given by the Congress MLAs, seeking removal of Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar was not taken by the House, terming it technically unsustainable.Suresh Bhardwaj, Parliamentary Affairs Minister, said it was unprecedented that they have given a notice for removal of Speaker.“It is very unfortunate that they have given this notice signed by 17 MLAs,” he said.“The notice is being given on the last day of the assembly which is technically wrong as there has to be a minimum period of 14 days before it can be taken up,” said Bhardwaj.CPM legislator Rakesh Singha said instead of aggravating the situation by rejecting the notice, a middle path should be adopted to save the situation from worsening.He said if the House insists on rejecting it, he would not like to associate with it.As an afterthought, Bhardwaj said it has been decided not to take up the resolution so there was no need to reject it.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the House was running very smoothly but the remarks made by one Congress MLA infuriated ruling party MLAs.“The Congress MLAs stood next to the podium of the Speaker and made remarks against the Speaker by name was very unfortunate and wrong,” said Thakur.The CM said the Speaker had only asked the Congress MLAs to follow rules and procedures to maintain the sanctity of the House.“Neither was there any situation nor basis for this notice. They are facing mental bankruptcy,” he remarked.He hoped that in future the House would run smoothly and the sanctity of the chair of the Speaker is maintained.“The required number of one third members do not support the notice so it does not qualify for being taken up,” said Thakur.He added that the notice has to be given 14 days before but the Congress has given it on the last day and it is not technically sustainable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-notice-for-removal-of-speaker-not-technically-eligible-for-being-taken-up-297115
13-08-2021||---||Congress seeks removal of Himachal Assembly Speaker||Shimla, August 13The Congress on Friday moved a resolution seeking removal of Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Vipin Parmar.Congress legislators boycotted the House proceedings and gave notice under Rule 274(1) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct Business in the Assembly, seeking removal of the Speaker from the august post. They termed the behaviour of the Speaker partisan. They said that while sitting in the chair of the Speaker he could not talk of following a particular ideology. Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri said the Congress would not accept the unfair and biased attitude of the Speaker.Senior party MLA Asha Kumari said the Speaker is not running the House as per rules and is not giving the opposition an opportunity to raise important issues. "What is most astounding is the statement by the Speaker that he is not bound to follow the Rules and Procedure and Conduct of Business in Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly.”Party MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan said the notices given by the Congress MLAs are rarely taken up in the business of the House.They even alleged that he was giving advantage to the MLAs of the ruling party in the business, flouting all Assembly rules.They said the Congress MLAs had no faith left in the office of the Speaker, who had failed to uphold democratic values and protect the constitutional rights and privileges of the members of the legislative assembly for conducting the business of the House as per rules, so he should be removed from the post immediately.Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh Assembly was adjourned sine die or for an indefinite period after the 12-day Monsoon Session ended on Friday.The session started on August 2 and continued till August 13 with a total of 10 working days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-seeks-removal-of-himachal-assembly-speaker-297103
13-08-2021||Dipender Manta ||Video: Landslide blocks flow of Chenab in Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti; 11 villages run risk of being submerged||Trinune News Service Mandi, August 13A major landslide occurred near Nalda village in tribal district of Lahaul & Spiti on Friday morning, blocking the flow of Chenab river in the region.As a result, it has posed a serious threat to the people of 11 villages living down steam in the area.The district administration has appealed to the people living in the lower areas close to the river to climb to upper heights to avoid any human disaster. A team of the district administration has been rushed to spot to review the situation.A lake has been formed near Jasrath village, where one house has been submerged, while the nearby agricultural land damaged. Threat is looming the entire village, where the volume of lake is increasing rapidly.The incident was reported on Friday morning when a huge portion of of the hill slided into the Chenab and blocked the river flow completely.Also read: Kinnaur landslide toll climbs to 15; 20 still missingLandslide-prone sites identified on Shimla highwayThe district administration has sought help from Army experts to conduct an aerial survey to channelise the flow of water in time as otherwise it could lead to a major disaster in the region.Viral video: Boulders hit Himachal transport bus in Kinnaur; narrow escape for passengersDeputy Commissioner, Lahaul & Spiti, Neeraj Kumar told The Tribune that evacuation process was underway to move villagers to safe places. At least 11 villages are under threat because of the disruption in the flow of the river.He said the state government had been urged to ask the Army to conduct the aerial survey at the earliest.The DC said no loss of life was reported in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/video-landslide-blocks-flow-of-chenab-in-himachals-lahaul-spiti-11-villages-run-risk-of-being-submerged-297095
13-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide: Himachal CM meets injured, announces Rs 5L for kin of deceased||Tribune News ServiceNugalsari (Kinnaur), August 12Four more bodies were retrieved today from the wreckage of an HRTC bus buried under the debris of a massive landslide between Chaura and Nugalsari (Kinnaur), taking the death toll to 14. Around 20 to 25 persons are still missing.Bus was carrying 24 passengersRolling stones were falling from the hilltop and we (driver and conductor) parked the bus and went to take stock of the situation. The moment we returned, stones started falling where the bus was parked. While we were asking other people to reverse their vehicles, a massive landslide occurred. The ill-fated bus had 24 passengers — Mahinder Pal, Driver of the HRTC busRescued in third attempt: Car driverThe rescue operations were resumed this morning and a team of 17 battalion of the ITBP traced the wreckage of the bus between the National Highway No. 5 and the road below and retrieved four bodies. Shooting stones and boulders rolling down after brief intervals hampered the rescue operations on the 150-metre stretch.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who visited the landslide site, said that the rescue work was going on in full swing but rolling stones and shooting boulders were posing a risk and hindering the smooth operations.There is no authentic information about the number of persons trapped in the HRTC bus. It may take one or two more days to complete the rescue operations as machinery could not be deployed on steep slopes and the rescue work had to be done manually. "The bus has been traced while other vehicles have also been pulled out of the debris," he added.The CM also visited the Community Health Centre at Bhawanagar. He also met the next of kin of the deceased and the family members of those missing. He announced an immediate relief of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 each to the injured persons, besides free medical treatment.The deceased have been identified as Rohit, Vijay Kumar, Meera Devi, Nitisha, Prem Kumari, Kamlesh Kumar, Vanshuka, Gyan Dassi, Devi Chand, Radhika, Bhupender and Lakshman Thapa. The relatives of the persons feared trapped in the bus were camping at the landslide site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-himachal-cm-meets-injured-announces-rs-5l-for-kin-of-deceased-296886
13-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Landslide-prone sites identified on Shimla highway||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 12Containing landslides on the Parwanoo-Kaithlighat section of the Kalka-Shimla highway, where the fourlaning work is under way, has become a major challenge for the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Measures afootThere are nine sites from Dharampur to Parwanoo, including Sanwara, where measures like wire-netting and hydro-setting will be undertaken to stabilise the slope. A Rs6-crore estimate has been worked out to put in place additional measures since a number of vehicles queue up to pay toll. — Suresh Sharma, Project DirectorSeveral sites have become vulnerable to landslides in the monsoon where, apart from putting on hold the traffic, the fear of causing loss to human lives is looming large.Landslides have been reoccurring at Chakki Ka Mor on the Parwanoo-Solan section as well as between Solan and Kaithlighat for the last few weeks. Though excavation has been halted since July, excavated slopes all along the highway are posing threat to the motorists.The work has been deferred at such sites on the NH-5 where the strata is fragile and the probability of landslides is high. “Some sites are vulnerable ahead of Salogra on the Solan-Kaithlighat stretch and various precautions are being adopted to minimise the risk during the rain,” said Suresh Sharma, project director.He added, “Measures like benching can reduce the slope angle if available space is more instead of undertaking vertical cutting,” said an official of the company engaged in four-laning of the highway. “Excavation on the slopes at times causes cracks in the hills and over a period of time seepage of water triggers landslides,” added the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-prone-sites-identified-on-shimla-highway-296887
13-08-2021||Mandi||Chandigarh-Manali national highway  restored after 14 hrs||The Chandigarh-Manali highway was restored for normal traffic between Mandi and Kullu around 10:30 am after a gap of almost 14 hours. This highway was blocked for traffic movement on Wednesday night around 8:15 pm, when a landslide occurred near Pandoh in Mandi.In that incident, landslide hit a truck crossing the area, which fell down in a deep gorge. The driver of the truck was trapped under the debris. He was rescued by district administration’s team and rushed to zonal hospital Mandi for medical treatment, where his condition is stated to be stable.Hundreds of vehicles remained stuck in the area the whole night. The district administration diverted traffic on alternate route via Kataula for the movement of light vehicles. The National Highways Authority of India expedited the restoration work of the highway by engaging its workforce and machinery at landslide spot near Pandoh and restored the highway around 10:30 am. Additional Superintendent of Police Mandi Ashish Sharma said that the people traveling on the Chandigarh-Manali highway are advised to drive cautiously, while traveling particularly between Mandi and Kullu. Due on the ongoing construction work of fourlaning, the entire stretch between Mandi and Aut becomes prone to landslide during rainy days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-national-highway-restored-after-14-hrs-296888
13-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Landslip fallout of Nathpa-Jhakri power project tunnel work?||Tribune News ServiceNugalsari (Kinnaur), August 12The disastrous fallout of construction of tunnel of 1500 MW Nathpa-Jhakri hydropower project has started manifesting in the shape of frequent landslides. The fragile hills through which the tunnel has penetrated have become more vulnerable to landslides and Nugalsari and some other stretches which have witnessed massive landslides fall in line of the tunnel.Living under threat of natural calamitesThe people of Kinnaur are living under the threat of natural calamities as the area falls in seismic zone V and is prone to earthquakes. Increase in frequency of landslides and flash floods have further added to their anxiety and fear of the people. Paramjeet, who works in a dhaba, said that the vibration from blasting is felt within two-three km distance.The tribal people of Kinnaur are dejected over frequent landslides in the area, causing extensive damage to ecology and claiming human lives and feel that innocent people are paying the cost of development.The hills are already vulnerable. Besides climate change, there has been spurt in construction and human activity in the region over past three decades. Reckless felling of trees in the name of development, cutting of hills for road connectivity, controlled blasting for construction of tunnels and craze for harnessing hydro-power potential of river and its tributaries have further destabilized the fragile ecology.The people of Kinnaur are living under the threat of natural calamities as the area falls in seismic zone V and is prone to earthquakes. Increase in frequency of landslides and flash floods have further added to their anxiety and fear of the people, said Paramjeet, who works in a dhaba adding that the vibration from blasting is felt within two-three km distance.The power projects have become bane of the region as people believe that tunnels cause irreversible damages to the environment. The local people have been agitating against big hydro-power projects but the government is keen to harness about 10,300 MW hydel potential of Sutlej basin.Mega Nathpi- Jhakri (1500 MW), Rampur Hydel Project (412 MW), Karchham-Wangtoo project (1200 MW), Baspa project (300 MW), Bhabha project (120 MW) and some other projects have already been commissioned. Most of these are run-of-the-river (RoR) projects, believed to have low environmental cost as the river or stream is put through tunnels and made to fall on the turbine from a height.Blasting done for construction of tunnels triggers landslides with greater frequency in the geographically fragile Kinnaur region. The government should study the reports of the Geological Survey of India about the soil strata and make an environment assessment report of every project, besides taking local people into confidence, said convener of Him Lok Jagriti Manch, R S Negi, a retired IAS officer.Landslides damage farms, block roads and lead to drying up of springs. Blasting also impacts buildings while deforestation on the project site and diversion of the water source further impact the local environment and biodiversity. NGOs like Himalaya Niti Abhiyan, Him Lok Jagriti Manch and Himdhara are opposing power projects.“The claims of controlled blasting are only an eyewash and fragile hills in areas where tunnels have been constructed have become more vulnerable and crumbling,” said a resident of Nathpa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslip-fallout-of-nathpa-jhakri-power-project-tunnel-work-296889
13-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Call to widen Mandi-Kullu road via Kataula||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 12People of Mandi and Kullu districts have urged the government to widen the Mandi-Kullu road via Kataula. The 51-km road is narrow and steep. Due to the fourlaning work on the Chandigarh-Manali highway between Mandi and Kullu, the need for the widening of the road is being felt. The Chandigarh-Manali highway witnesses frequent landslides from Mandi to Aut every year. The district administration Mandi and Kullu diverts traffic via Kataula. Hoteliers of Kullu Manali said there was an urgent need to widen the road for heavy vehicles. It would provide an easy access to tourists reaching Kullu-Manali. “Being narrow, the road is not suitable for Volvo and other buses,” they said. Rajender Kumar, a resident of Mandi, said the government should get funds approved for the project from the Centre.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, said due to the fourlaning, the condition of the Chandigarh-Manali highway was pathetic. “We urge the government to widen the Mandi-Kullu road via Kataula,” he added.Jitender Gupta, XEN, Public Works Department, Mandi Division-1, told The Tribune that the 28-km stretch from Mandi to Tihri via Kataula was widened a few years ago but the 23-km road from Tihri towards Bajaura is a single lane. “The PWD had sent a report of the project to the Centre but the approval is awaited,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-widen-mandi-kullu-road-via-kataula-296890
13-08-2021||---||Positivity rate over 2 pc, sero survey in Himachal soon||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 12The Covid situation in the state is aggravating with the positivity rate crossing 2 per cent, active cases totalling 2,668 and the number of deaths rising to 3,526.The data from the state Health Department reveals that the positivity rate was rising for the past 45 days. The positivity rate was 1.1 per cent between June 28 and July 4 but it rose to 1.9 per cent between August 2 and 8. Now, the positivity rate has crossed 2 per cent, as 300 to 400 Covid cases were reported daily for the past four days. Today, 354 cases were reported.The Health Department has decided to undertake a sero survey in the state to see how many people have developed anti-bodies. Earlier, a sero survey undertaken only in Kullu district revealed that 62 per cent people had developed anti-bodies.“The positivity rates in Mandi, Chamba, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti Spiti seem to be the most worrisome,” says a Health official. The positivity rate of 6.1 per cent in Mandi district is the highest, followed by 4.4 per cent in Chamba, 3.7 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti and 3.1 per cent in Kullu.The Central Government, too, has expressed concern over the rising Covid cases in the state. The state Cabinet at its meeting recently decided to close all schools, except residential ones, till August 22 after some students tested positive for Covid.The state government has made a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or both vaccine doses certificate mandatory for tourists and pilgrims coming to the state. Hill stations such as Shimla, and Manali have been flooded with tourists after the Covid restrictions were eased, sparking the fear of transmission of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-over-2-pc-sero-survey-in-himachal-soon-296891
13-08-2021||Shimla||354 new cases,  three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 354 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 209,344. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra and one in Bilaspur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/354-new-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-296919
13-08-2021||---||Nurses go on strike at Rabon, vax drive hit||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 12Nurses and ward sisters working at a makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Rabon today proceeded on an indefinite strike in protest against the non-payment of wages and other incentives.The strike in the home turf of Health Minister Rajiv Saizal caused much embarrassment to the health authorities. The stir severally hit the inoculation drive in the district, as the nurses were assigned vaccination duties at various centres. Outsourced by JK Enterprises, these nurses and other staff refused to budge till their demands were fulfilled.“Delayed salaries have become a norm. Despite repeated demands, we are being denied our right. Even the PF granted to us is less. Whenever we raise our voice, we are threatened that our services will be terminated,” said a protesting nurse.Due to the sudden strike, doctors of the Regional Hospital had to take up vaccination duties.Dr Mukta Rastogi, district health officer, said, “No prior information was given by the staff about the strike. We would have deployed other staff at vaccination centres if we knew about the strike.”“They refused to go for vaccination duties to Parwanoo, affecting the campaign,” said Dr Rastogi.She said no written complaint had been received from the staff about the delay in wages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurses-go-on-strike-at-rabon-vax-drive-hit-296920
13-08-2021||Solan||Visitors to face curbs in Solan from today||The District Magistrate today issued orders making it mandatory for all visitors entering the district from the inter-state barriers from tomorrow to carry a two doses vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.The orders were issued in view of the decision of the State Executive Committee regarding Covid-19 restrictions and precautions required to contain the pandemic.All schools in the district, except residential ones, would remain closed up to August 22 though the teaching and non-teaching staff would be required to come to their institutions. The movement of public transport buses would be permitted with 50 per cent of the registered seating capacity. Any violation of the norms would invite proceedings under the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/visitors-to-face-curbs-in-solan-from-today-296921
13-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Bill on land Act amendment referred to select panel of Himachal Vidhan Sabha||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 12With the matter pending before the Supreme Court, the Bill on amendment in HP Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1973 was referred to the Select Committee of the Vidhan Sabha today.Revenue Minister Mahender Singh tabled the amendment in the Vidhan Sabha today. However, after a detailed discussion on the issue in which CPM legislator Rakesh Singha, Arun Kumar of the BJP and Congress MLA Ashish Butail participated, the minister agreed to refer it to the Select Committee of the Assembly.The contentious issue of allowing change of land use of tea gardens for other purposes has been in focus. The previous Congress regime had tried to allow use of tea gardens for tourism in the name of tea tourism. However, the present BJP regime is keen to plug any scope for sale or change of land use of tea gardens that have been retained over and above the limit under the Land Ceiling Act.Butail suggested that since Kangra Valley Tea Plantation Association had moved the Supreme Court, the Bill should be referred to the Select Committee till the decision from the apex court is not made.“However, the land comprised in a tea estate which are within the permissible area prescribed under section 4 of the HP Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1973, should not be governed by the above provision,” he advocated.He contested that the owners of tea gardens who had not taken benefit of the Land Ceiling Act to retain excess land over and above the prescribed limit should be kept out of the purview of this amendment. He added that the government must retain the powers to acquire land under tea with itself as this land could be required for development works.Singha said though he was a member of the committee, which recommended the amendments in the Act, he was not aware of the matter pending in the Supreme Court. He said he was not fully convinced about this amendment as the limit to retain land varied from 10, 15 and 30 aces in tribal areas.“I am of the opinion that the government as well as the Assembly should have the right to acquire land of those people who were allowed to retain land in excess of the limit under the Land Ceiling Act,” he remarked. He too advocated that the Bill should be referred to the Select Committee as it would be appropriate to wait for the court verdict in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bill-on-land-act-amendment-referred-to-select-panel-of-himachal-vidhan-sabha-296922
13-08-2021||---||Reconsider decision to hold Chintpurni mela: HC to Himachal Govt||Vijay AroraShimla, August 12The High Court has directed the government to re-consider its decision to organise Maa Chintpurni Sawan Mela in Una district as a large congregation of devotees may act as a catalyst for the spread of Covid-19. The court also directed the government to consider it, preferably by tomorrow.To be held on Aug 16Chintpurni Sawan Mela will be held on August 16A Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the orders on a PIL and other petitions, highlighting inadequate facilities and infrastructure to deal with the pandemic.During the course of hearing, the amicus curiae contended that as the government had closed schools again by reviewing its earlier decision, Maa Chintpurni Sawan Mela going to be held on August 16 should also be suspended for the time being as lakhs of devotees would visit the temple.However, the counsel for the state defended the decision saying that the DC, Una, had taken a conscious decision and this was not a mela in the true sense, as devotees were permitted only to visit the temple and all other activities had been suspended.The court observed that “keeping in mind the precarious situation, it would be appropriate if the government re-examines the issue and takes a decision in the larger interest of the public and to ensure that the pandemic does not cause any further damage”.The government counsel informed the court that so far, 20 children had been orphaned due to Covid and 19 of them had been placed under foster care in their extended families. They were entitled to a financial assistance of Rs 4,400 per month; Rs 2,500 per month is given to the foster parents for the maintenance of the child and Rs 1,500 per month is being given as RD in the name of the child till he/she attains the age of 18.He said that one child was eligible for availing of family pension from the government, hence he could not be placed under foster care. He stated that 717 semi-orphan children had been identified, who had lost one of the parents due to Covid.At present, there was no provision under the foster care scheme for providing financial assistance to semi-orphan children. However, out of the 717 children, 37 had been covered under Mother Teresa Asahaya Matri Sambal Yojana under which Rs 6,000 per child is paid every year.Only semi-orphan children are covered under this yojana who had lost their fathers due to Covid but their mothers were alive and their family income does not exceed Rs 35,000 per annum. The counsel submitted that the government would make more efforts to offer a better standard of living to these children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reconsider-decision-to-hold-chintpurni-mela-hc-to-himachal-govt-296923
13-08-2021||---||Team to reach Bara Bhangal for I-Day function today||Ravinder SoodPalampur, August 12A team of 25 officials of the state government on way to Bara Bhangal to celebrate the sub-divisional level Independence Day function today reached Dardi village at the height of 10,000 feet above sea level.The team is headed by SDM Baijnath Salem Aazam. The officials will have a night’s halt in the village and then proceed to landlocked Bara Bhangal tomorrow morning. As per schedule, the team will reach Bara Bhangal by night by covering a distance of 60 km on foot. The number of professional trackers are also accompanying the team.The SDM told the Tribune on the phone that his team accompanied by medical officer, Block Development Officer and Tehsildar was quite enthusiastic. All the members are medically fit also hale and hearty.The Baijnath administration will hold the Independence Day function at Bara Bhangal for the first time since Independence. The SDM will unfurl the National Flag at Bara Bhangal.Salem Aazam will be the first SDM to reach the village after independence. The SDM will also hold a “Khula Darbar” in Bara Bhangal to listen to public grievances. The total population of the valley is around 660. Most of the residents migrate to Bir and Baijnath before the onset of the winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-to-reach-bara-bhangal-for-i-day-function-today-296925
13-08-2021||Solan||Parwanoo ESIC inspector caught taking Rs 4,500 bribe||A team of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau led by Solan DSP Santosh Sharma today arrested an inspector of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Parwanoo, for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 4,500 from an employee of an industrial unit at Sector 1 in Parwanoo after routine inspection.The DSP said that inspector Rajender Kumar was arrested red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 4,500 on the premises of the industrial unit. He had initially demanded Rs 5,000 but the deal was struck for Rs 4,500. A factory official, however, lodged a complaint with the bureau, which arrested Rajender Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parwanoo-esic-inspector-caught-taking-rs-4-500-bribe-296926
13-08-2021||Dharamsala||Dharamsala: Link road washed away,  villagers protest||The residents of Dhar Kandi village located about 10 km from Dharamsala today sat on a dharna outside the office of DC Kangra and raised slogans against the government. The residents, including a large number of women, are demanding that the road link to their area should be restored at the earliest.Sushma Devi, one of the protestors, alleged that the road link to about 18 villages in Dhar Kandi area was washed away in landslides that struck the region on July 12. The authorities have not been able to restore the link to the region so far. She alleged that several residents are also without power and water.“The authorities are not showing any urgency in providing basic facility to people due to which we have been forced to protest at the district headquarters,” she said. The protestors said that they would continue to protest in front of the DC office till the road link to their area was not restored. Sources said 93 residents have been housed in a hotel by the district administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-link-road-washed-away-villagers-protest-296927
13-08-2021||Solan||Award for Sirmaur ex-DC Dr RK Pruthi||Dr RK Pruthi has been chosen for the Prerna Srot Samman for his contribution to development works, including women empowerment, while working as the DC, Sirmaur. He is now serving as Director, Agriculture. The award will be given during the state-level I-Day event in Mandi district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/award-for-sirmaur-ex-dc-dr-rk-pruthi-296928
13-08-2021||Shimla||Experts must study Kinnaur strata: CPM legislator Rakesh Singha||CPM legislator Rakesh Singha today demanded that experts must be summoned to study the geological strata in Kinnaur to identify the vulnerable points.Singha was participating in the condolences paid in the Vidhan Sabha to the landslide victims at Nigulseri in Kinnaur. “What happened yesterday was unfortunate but we need to take steps to ensure that such catastrophes do not happen again,” said Singha. He suggested that a team of experts must be assigned the task of studying the strata and identifying the cracks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-must-study-kinnaur-strata-cpm-legislator-rakesh-singha-296929
13-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide toll 14, over 20 missing, hope fades||Tribune News ServiceNeugalsari (Kinnaur), Aug 12With the hope of survival of persons trapped in the HRTC bus buried in a massive landslide near Neugalsari diminishing, distraught relatives seem to have reconciled with the reality. They are now waiting for the bodies to be traced so that the last rites of their dear ones can be performed.Edit: Tragedy in the hillsThe death toll in the landslide went up to 14 with the recovery of four more bodies today. Thirteen persons have been rescued so far, while over 20 are still missing. Relatives allege the focus of rescue agencies was on reopening the national highway and not tracing the bus. A JCB machine reached the accident spot from the Chaura side around 6 pm, they say. A case should be registered against the officials concerned for the delay, a victim’s relative said. Geet Ram said his son Mehar Chand, who was returning from his in-laws’ house, was still trapped in the bus. “Our hearts are sinking with each passing minute as hopes of survival are diminishing,” he said.Ravi Kumar said his brother Prab Lal could not be traced so far. The family was waiting with a bated breath for a news about him, he said.Congress MLA from Kinnaur Jagat Singh Negi said action should be taken against officials found responsible for the delay.Kinnaur DC Abid Hussain Sadiq said the entire area was surveyed using drones and rescue operations were conducted in a planned manner.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who visited the spot, said shooting stones hampered the rescue work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-toll-14-over-20-missing-hope-fades-296845
13-08-2021||Bhanu Lohumi ||Kinnaur landslide on camera: Shooting stones, mud still rolling down the hill; drones used to spot vehicles under debris as 50 still feared buried||Tribune News Service Kunnaur, August 12For the families of those feared trapped in the debris, every passing hour is full of anxiety and uncertainty about the safety of their loved ones.Also read: Anger, helplessness among families of those feared trapped in Kinnaur landslide; allege delay in rescue operationKinnaur landslide kills 13, bus passengers among 50 trappedThe relatives have rushed to the spot and their hope to see their loved ones alive is fading. A massive landslide near Nigulsari in Kinnaur district on Wednesday killed 14 people, including a child and five women, and injured 13 others while 50 others are feared buried under the debris.The tragedy struck around 12.30 pm. Several vehicles, including a truck and 42-seater Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus, were hit by the landslide. The bus was on its way from Reckong Peo in Kinnaur to Shimla.The situation is tense and many back home are waiting for updates of their loved ones on mobile phones. The rescue operation has not been easy and is being hampered from time to time as shooting stones and mud are still rolling down the hill. “Thirteen bodies have been recovered so far and 13 injured have been rescued,” said ITBP Deputy Commandant Dharmender Thakur, adding that the wreckage of the HRTC bus had been spotted and the NDRF is trying to reach the spot.  Thakur said: “It has been scary and difficult moments for the them as the earth is still sliding. They have made different teams  one on top, between and bottom do that in case of a slide we inform each other.”DC Kinnaur said that after giving it a halt at night for sometime, they resumed the rescue operation at 4 am  on Thursday. He said that drone were used to spot the wreckage and bodies, However, it had been difficult to see because everything is under the debris and it was extremely difficult to exhume the  bodies as nothing is visible. Also, one-way vehicular traffic has been restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-on-camera-shooting-stones-mud-still-rolling-down-the-hill-drones-used-to-spot-vehicles-under-debris-as-50-still-feared-buried-296615
