14-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Govt gave undue benefit to Pawan Hans Ltd, resulting in wasteful expenditure of 25.36 crore: CAG||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 13The state government extended undue favour to Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL) while hiring a helicopter for use, resulting in wasteful expenditure to the tune of Rs 25.36 crore.This has been revealed in the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for the year ended March 31, 2019, which was tabled in the Vidhan Sabha today by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the finance portfolio.“An unjustified and arbitrary award of a 10 per cent annual increase in rates resulted in an avoidable expenditure of Rs 18.39 crore,” the report on Social, General and Economic sectors (non-public sector undertakings) states. It says that the adjustment of excess/ deficit flying hours on an yearly basis instead of over the term of the contract, resulted in a wasteful expenditure of Rs 6.97 crore on unutilised flying hours.The CAG report pointed out that undue favour was given to the PHL by inserting and modifying conditions that excluded other bidders, allowing it to qualify the technical evaluation ignoring the serious issues of its poor safety record and allowing extension of the contract despite unsatisfactory service delivery.The CAG report has prominently listed the shortcomings and the failure of the Horticulture Department in allocation and fund utilisation. “The State Disaster Response Funds to the tune of Rs 21.60 crore were irregularly diverted to subsidy on pesticides provided to horticulturists. The report also makes adverse remarks on the failure of the Horticulture Department to formulate a policy with clear milestones for horticulture promotion.About 12 per cent of the allocated funds (2014-19) was not utilised and the fruit processing units established using a subsidy of Rs 3.21 crore remained non-functional.The CAG report also highlighted the unfruitful expenditure made on the testing of school uniform and undue favour to the laboratory. “Testing of school uniform cloth was awarded directly to a laboratory in violation of the financial rules and principles of financial propriety and economy in public procurement which resulted in an uneconomical expenditure of Rs 1.62 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-gave-undue-benefit-to-pawan-hans-ltd-resulting-in-wasteful-expenditure-of-25-36-crore-cag-297296
14-08-2021||---||333 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, August 13As many as 333 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 209,677. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Chamba and Mandi.The highest 96 cases were recorded in Mandi, followed by 90 in Kangra, 59 in Chamba, 27 in Shimla, 24 in Bilaspur, eight each in Hamirpur and Lahaul and Spiti, seven each in Mandi and Sirmaur, five in Solan and one each in Una and Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 2,748 while the death toll increasedd to 3,528.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/333-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-297297
14-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur landslide: Three more bodies found, toll rises to 17||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 13The death toll in the Nugalsari landslide in Kinnaur district rose to 17 today with the recovery of three more bodies. However, the bodies are yet to be identified. The administration released a list of 13 missing persons.Machinery was deployed at the landslide site with great difficulty, as shooting stones were hampering the rescue operation being carried out by the teams of the NDRF, ITBP and the police.It took a Porcelain excavator almost 12 hours to reach the spot where the wreckage of an HRTC bus was found but the rescue operation was obstructed as big boulders started rolling down, said Abid Hussain Sadiq, Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur. He added a team of engineers would survey the hilltop tomorrow to suggest remedies to stop stones from falling.Meanwhile, the wreckage of a Mahendra Bolero SUV is still untraceable while two totally damaged cars have been recovered but no body has been found.The relatives of the people feared buried under the landslide debris are still camping at the site. Those listed as missing are Ravinder Singh, Surya Vansh, Gulpanchi, Jagat Oli, Rakesh Kumar, Mehar Chand, Khem Lal Gurang, Daleep Singh, Santosh Kumari, Karunesh, Jwala Devi, Biraj Nath and Prabhu Lal.Meanwhile, a woman and a boy travelling in an HRTC bus to Reckong Peo from Mandi were injured as shooting stones hit the bus while it was crossing the sliding zone where the landslide had occurred.The injured identified as Anita Kumari (40), a resident of Nichar, and Anubhav Negi (19), a resident of Kalpa, were referred to the community health centre at Bhawanagar. As many as 253 persons have lost their lives in rain-related incidents in the current monsoon season since June 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-landslide-three-more-bodies-found-toll-rises-to-17-297298
14-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala MC gets work on Tibetan colony stopped||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 13The construction of a Tibetan settlement on forestland at Bhagsunag in Dharamsala in Kangra has been stopped following the intervention of the Dharamsala MC.The MC also wrote to the Forest Department for further action in the case. Pradeep Thakur, Commissioner of the Dharamsala MC, says that after local people brought the matter to his notice, he visited to the place and found that a Tibetan settlement was being constructed on forestland. “The construction work was also a threat to many green deodar trees in the area. I got the construction work stopped. As an illegal building was being raised on forestland, the Municipal Corporation has written to the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Dharamsala, for further action in the matter,” he adds.DFO Sanjeev Sharma says that a team has been sent to the site and if any construction on forestland is found, a case under the Forest Act will be registered against the culprits. The team is yet to submit its report, he adds.The Upper Dharamsala area comprising McLeodganj, Bhagsunag and Dharamkot has witnessed green deodar trees being axed for the construction of commercial buildings. About 200 cases of illegal construction on forestland on the road from McLeodganj to Dharamkot have been registered against Tibetans and are pending in various courts.Residents said green deodar trees were dried up in the Dal lake area. On their complaint, the Forest Department has written to the Dharamsala MC to act in the matter, as the land on which the trees stood is a private land.The Himachal High Court has also taken serious note of illegal felling of green deodar trees in McLeodganj. A tree officer was appointed in the Dharamsala MC to look into the matter. However, due to the failure of the authorities concerned to take strict action against the culprits, illegal felling of green trees is continuing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-mc-gets-work-on-tibetan-colony-stopped-297299
14-08-2021||Una||Run to mark I-Day held in Una||The Una Nehru Yuva Kendra today organised a district-level ‘Fit India Run’ in Amb subdivision to mark the launch of the 75th year of Independence. This was part of the nationwide campaign launched by the Union Government as ‘Amrit Mahotsav’.HIMUDA vice-chairman Parveen Sharma flagged off the run at Amb, which culminated at the Government College. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/run-to-mark-i-day-held-in-una-297300
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Residents resent PWD failure to repair Anni-Jaon-Ladhagi-Tarala road||Kullu, August 13Residents of Ladhagi, Buchher, Lafali and Tarala villages in Anni subdivision of this district are facing inconvenience as no bus has come to their area for about a month.A small portion of the Anni-Jaon-Ladhagi-Tarala road at Rumasi had caved in due to rain 26 days ago, making it unsafe for heavy vehicles.The villagers resented that the bus service had been stopped beyond Rumasi and the people of the area had to either walk two to five km or travel in a small vehicle, while risking their lives and by paying more than the normal fare.They said the authorities of the Public Works Department (PWD) had been informed, but they paid no heed to their demand.Bus service not availableThe bus service beyond Rumasi has been stopped. We have to either walk 2-5 km or travel in a small vehicle, risking our lives. Also, we have to pay more than the normal fare. — VillagersThe residents alleged that people were suffering because of the negligence of the department.Critical patients and the elderly were the worst sufferers, said the residents. They added that they would be forced to protest if the Public Works Department (PWD)failed to to repair the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-resent-pwd-failure-to-repair-anni-jaon-ladhagi-tarala-road-297301
14-08-2021||Three e-carts procured under the green initiatives of ICAR’s National Higher Education Project’s institutional development plan have been introduced at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry procures e-carts||Workshop on wound managementNearly 100 resident doctors and nurses attended a two-day workshop on wound management organised by the department of surgery, MM Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti. The workshop was organised in association with URGO Education and Training Alliance, France. Dr Kiranjeet Kaur, Principal, said continuous skill enhancement of doctors and nurses would go a long way in improving the patient care. Many patients come to the hospital with long-standing wounds and doctors need in-depth knowledge and precise surgical skills to tackle such wounds. Dr Ravinder Singh, an eminent surgeon of the region, was the guest of honour.Webinar on mathematicsA webinar was organised by the Himachal Ganita Parishad for teachers and students of classes IX to XII. Around 1,000 students and teachers from different schools of the state attended the webinar. Prof TK Das, Professor and former Registrar of University of Delhi, was the chief guest and Professor PK Sharma, head, department of mathematics, NIT, Hamirpur, was the resource person at the webinar. The students were taught how to solve typical mathematical problems by using innovative ways and tricks. Professor Das appreciated the efforts of the parishad in improving the level of mathematics education by organising such activities. Prof PL Sharma, president, Himachal Ganita Parishad, said they were committed to improving mathematics education at all levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dr-ys-parmar-university-of-horticulture-and-forestry-procures-e-carts-297302
14-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||RT-PCR report condition no deterrent for tourists visiting Himachal's Parwanoo||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 13The condition of carrying a negative RT-PCR test report or a two dose vaccination certificate did not deter tourists from entering the state at Parwanoo today.The District Magistrate had made this mandatory for visitors from today, following which police teams were deployed to check the documents at the three inter-state barriers at Parwanoo.This decision was taken at the state executive meeting in view of the surge in Covid cases in the last few days.“Barring 20 to 25 vehicles, whose occupants were not carrying either vaccination certificates or negative RT-PCR test reports, all tourists entering the state at Parwanoo had requisite documents,” said Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta.Most visitors have required documentsBarring 20 to 25 vehicles, whose occupants were not carrying either vaccination certificates or negative RT-PCR test reports, all tourists entering the state at Parwanoo had requisite documents. —Yogesh Rolta, Parwanoo DSPHe added that people who had taken a single jab of the Covid vaccine had been directed to undergo a rapid antigen test at the barriers and they were permitted entry only after its negative test report.In a bid to manage the traffic, the strength of police personnel has been doubled at the three inter-state barriers — on the Expressway, at the old barrier near Kalka and another one located at Sector 1. The police staff permitted the visitors to enter after due checking of the two certificates. Since no entry was made in the registers, the vehicles had a smooth ingress and there were no traffic hassles.“Eight policemen were deputed at the main barrier on the Expressway and four at the old barrier which face the maximum ingress of visitors. Since no record has to be maintained, the checking of documents was managed well by the staff,” said Rolta.He said more staff would be made available after August 15 which would help tackle the increasing rush of vehicles owing to the apple transportation season.About 2,000 to 2,500 vehicles enter Parwanoo on weekdays though some decline has now been registered with the educational institutes opening in the neighbouring states. A large number of landslides has, however, dissuaded people from venturing towards the hills, said police personnel.The staff of buses plying on inter-state routes were also directed to ensure that passengers who boarded the buses had RT-PCR test reports and certificates for both doses of vaccine. “It is being ensured that buses maintain the 50 per cent occupancy norm and those carrying more passengers are given a strict warning,” added Rolta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rt-pcr-report-condition-no-deterrent-for-tourists-visiting-himachals-parwanoo-297303
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 4.64-cr project approved to preserve Himachali Pahari cow breed||Una, August 13The Union Government has cleared the decks for launching a project aimed at protection and propagation of indigenous Himachali Pahari cow breed. A sum of about Rs 4.64 crore will be funded by the Union Government for the three-year project.Himachali Pahari is draught cow breed of the state, locally known as Pahari, Gauri and Himdhenu. The breeding tracts mainly include Chamba, Kangra, Kinnaur, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur, Lahul and Spiti districts of the state.In an official press release, Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar today said the Indian Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources, Karnal, declared the Pahari as an indigenous breed and the Union Government had agreed to fund the project.Kanwar said about 7.59 lakh cows, which account for about 42 per cent of the total cows in the state, belong to the Pahari breed, having a share of 10.73 per cent in the total milk yeild. The minister said the project would be set up at the Animal Breeding Centre in Bagthan village of Sirmaur, the native village of Dr YS Parmar, the first CM of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-4-64-cr-project-approved-to-preserve-himachali-pahari-cow-breed-297304
14-08-2021||Mandi||Himachal minister Ram Lal Markanda, Chief Secy, DGP visit Chenab blockade site||A high-level team led by Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda and comprising Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh and DGP Sanjay Kundu today reviewed the blockade of the Chenab caused by a massive landslide at Nalada village in Lahaul and Spiti district.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the flow of the river was gradually improving. However, people had been advised to avoid going near the riverbank and to landslide-prone areas.He said that a team of experts from the Defence Geo-informatics Research Establishment (DGRE) and geologists would tomorrow visit the landslide site where a huge hill portion had caved in and fallen into the Chenab. Later, the district administration would take necessary steps as per the advice of the team to avoid a major disaster.Neeraj said people living in downstream villages, whose houses are situated close to the Chenab, had been evacuated to a safe place.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-minister-ram-lal-markanda-chief-secy-dgp-visit-chenab-blockade-site-297305
14-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Congress accuses Speaker of being partisan, demands his removal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 13In an unprecedented move, opposition Congress today moved a resolution seeking removal of the Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar for behaving in a partisan and partial manner.The Congress legislators boycotted house proceedings and gave notice under Article 179(c) of the Constitution of India and Rule 274(1) Rules of Procedure and Conduct Business in Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly, seeking removal of the Speaker from the august post. They termed the behaviour of the Speaker partisan. “He has failed to uphold the dignity of the august house and his office in conducting the business of the house,” they alleged.Congress legislators entered the house when the business for the day started. The moment the Speaker announced beginning of question hour, the Congress MLAs handed over the notice seeking removal of Speaker. Immediately after this they left the house without raising slogans. They sat outside the Vidhan Sabha, demanding removal of the Speaker.Moves a resolutionWhile sitting on the chair of the Speaker, how can he speak of having an affiliation with a particular ideology. The Speaker is expected to be neutral and not take sides on political considerations but unfortunately he has consistently been doing so. — Mukesh Agnihotri,CLP leader“While sitting on the chair of the Speaker inside the Vidhan Sabha, how can he speak of having an affiliation with a particular ideology,” remarked Congress Legislature party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri. He said the Congress would not accept such unfair and biased attitude of the Speaker. “The Speaker is expected to be neutral and not take sides on political considerations but unfortunately he has consistently been doing so,” said CLP leader.Senior MLA Asha Kumari said the Speaker was not running the house as per rules and was not giving the opposition opportunity to raise important issues. “What is most astounding is the statement by the Speaker that he is not bound to follow the rules and procedure and Conduct of Business in Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly.Congress MLAs said the notices given by the Congress MLAs are rarely taken up in the house and the Speaker gave advantage to the MLAs of the ruling party in the business, flouting all Assembly rules.They said the Congress MLAs have no faith left in the office of the Speaker who has failed to uphold democratic values and protect the constitutional rights and privileges of the members of the legislative assembly for conducting the business of the house as per rules, so he should be removed from the post immediately.Today was the last day of the 10-day monsoon session which commenced on August 2. Congress remained very aggressive and invariably staged walk out almost daily against issues like Covid management, removal of Chief Secretary Anil Khachi and remarks against the RSS besides other issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-accuses-speaker-of-being-partisan-demands-his-removal-297306
14-08-2021||Shimla||Resolution for removal of Himachal speaker Vipin Parmar not taken up by House||The notice given by the Congress MLAs, seeking removal of Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar, was not taken by the house, terming it technically unsustainable even though it had been rejected through vote voice earlier.After the proceedings for the day were over, Suresh Bhardwaj, Parliamentary Affairs Minister, said, “It is very unfortunate that they have given this notice signed by 17 MLAs on the last day of the Assembly, which is technically wrong as there has to be a minimum period of 14 days before it can be taken up,” said Bhardwaj.Following this, the Speaker put the rejection of the Congress notice aside, seeking his own removal through voice vote. Mediation by CPM legislator Rakesh Singha — who said instead of aggravating the situation by rejecting the notice, a middle path approach be adopted, saved the situation from worsening. He said if the House insists on rejecting the Congress notice, he would not like to associate with it. As an afterthought, Bhardwaj said now it has been decided not to take up the resolution so there was no need to reject it.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “The Congress MLAs stood next to the podium of the Speaker and made remarks against the Speaker by name, which was very unfortunate and wrong,” said Thakur. He said the Speaker had only asked the Congress MLAs to follow rules. “The required number of one third members do not support the notice so it does not qualify for being taken up,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resolution-for-removal-of-himachal-speaker-vipin-parmar-not-taken-up-by-house-297308
14-08-2021||Hamirpur||Bridge shuttering on Kiratpur-NerChowk highway collapses in Bilaspur, 2 die||Two labourers from UP were killed after a part of the shuttering of an under-construction bridge on the Kiratpur-NerChowk highway collapsed in Bilaspur yesterday.The construction work on the bridge connecting Mandi to Bhari and Rishikesh was in progress when a part of the shuttering collapsed and two labourers fell down. They sustained serious injuries and died on the way to hospital.Bilaspur SP Devakar Sharma said the police were investigating. He said the bodies were handed over to their relatives after post-mortem.Meanwhile, Congress leader Sandeep Sankhyan demanded the registration of a case against the construction company. He said the two workers were not given any safety gear. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bridge-shuttering-on-kiratpur-nerchowk-highway-collapses-in-bilaspur-2-die-297309
14-08-2021||Solan||Himachal CM announces BDO office at Darlaghat||In a bid to woe the electorate ahead of the Arki Assembly by-election, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today announced opening of Block Development Officer (BDO) at Darlaghat in Arki Assembly constituency.He addressed a public meeting at Arki after performing inaugurations and foundation stones laying ceremonies of developmental projects worth Rs 41.33 crore.Ticket aspirants former MLA Govind Ram Sharma and chairman HP Cooperative Federation vied to get the CM’s attention as they flanked him at the stage.The Chief Minister thanked the electorate of Arki for supporting the BJP wholeheartedly during last Lok Sabha elections. While accusing the previous Congress Government of ignoring health sector in the state, the Chief Minister said there were only two oxygen plants in the state whereas now 10 plants were functional and 28 more were being set up. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-announces-bdo-office-at-darlaghat-297310
14-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor releases book High on Kasol written by Aditya Kant||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar released a book titled High on Kasol written by senior journalist Aditya Kant at the Raj Bhavan here today. He said drug addiction was a social evil that affects the whole society.The Governor said, “Everyone needs to work together in this direction so that the young generation can be saved from this evil”. He added that the author had made a commendable effort in raising this burning issue. The book should also be translated into Hindi and regional languages so that the message could reach more people.He said drug peddlers were targeting educational institutions and addiction was spreading in Himachal. Aditya Kant apprised Arlekar that Punjab Governor VP Badnore and Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat had earlier released the book in their states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-releases-book-high-on-kasol-written-by-aditya-kant-297311
14-08-2021||Parking of vehicles on both sides of the road in the BCS area is resulting in traffic jams. There is no checking by the police to prevent the haphazard parking of vehicles. The road is narrow near Diamond Restaurant and parking of vehicles on both sides leads to traffic congestion. The traffic police should allow parking only on one side. — Smita Sharma||Haphazard parking cause of traffic  jams||Need to increase police station staff strengthThe need to enhance the staff strength of the police stations in Solan is being felt, given the rising crime and population of the town. The staff strength has not been increased as per the increase in the population of the town. A large number of the police force have to attend to VIP duty daily, leaving a little staff to attend to emergencies. — Mukesh Kumar, SolanWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune Invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-parking-cause-of-traffic-jams-297314
14-08-2021||Solan||Shoolini University, Himachal Pradesh University sign MoU||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Shoolini University and HP University’s Institute of Legal Studies to encourage exchange of academic information, materials and research.The MoU was signed by Prof Atul Khosla, Vice-Chancellor, Shoolini University, and Prof Sikander Kumar, Vice Chancellor, HPU, today.Prof Khosla said the partnership would foster an exchange of academic publication besides enhancing joint research programmes like seminars, conferences and workshops. Both institutions agreed to promote the exchange of academic information and visits by faculty for academic engagements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-himachal-pradesh-university-sign-mou-297316
14-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Landslide in Lahaul blocks Chenab flow||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 13Two days after the Kinnaur tragedy, a landslide near Nalda bridge in Lahaul-Spiti on Friday morning blocked the flow of the Chenab for almost two hours, posing a serious threat to 11 villages located downstream.2 villagesHit by flooding; residents of downstream areas evacuated8 slides this monthDue to the collection of water in the area, four houses in Tarang village were submerged and agricultural land was also damaged.Residents of some villages were evacuated as a precautionary measure, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said.Mokhta said Tarang and Jasrat villages were hit due to the floodwater. Five cowsheds, a sheep and a calf were also washed away, and 30 bigha of agricultural land was inundated. After a couple of hours, the river started to flow over the landslide and the temporary lake ceased to exist.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said in the state Assembly that he had spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the river blockage. Shah assured him of all possible help, he added.Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the situation was under control now. Evacuated people had been accommodated at a safe place. He said a team of experts would visit the area to assess the cause of the landslide and recommend necessary precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-in-lahaul-blocks-chenab-flow-297211
14-08-2021||Shimla||Viral video: Boulders hit Himachal transport bus in Kinnaur; narrow escape for passengers||Two people were wounded in a rockslide in Himachal's Kinnaur district on Friday, officials said. Boulders sliding downhill hit a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on its way to Reckongpeo from Mandi. Several passengers had a narrow escape, officials said. The incident occurred in the same area where a landslide had claimed several lives earlier.  The victims have been identified as Anita Kumari and Anubhav Negi, officials said. A video of the incident has since gone viral.Video: Landslide blocks flow of Chenab in Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti; 11 villages run risk of being submergedThe wounded are being treated at the community health centre in Bhawanagar.Meanwhile,  the death toll in the landslide has climbed to 17 with the recovery of three more bodies on Friday, a senior disaster management official said.The district administration has released details of 13 missing persons.Rescue operations resumed this morning to trace the 20 others still missing in the landslide that occurred near Chaura village in the district on Wednesday.Also readLandslide-prone sites identified on Shimla highwayVideo: Landslide blocks flow of Chenab in Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti; 11 villages run risk of being submergedWhile 10 bodies were recovered on Wednesday, four were found on Thursday from the landslide site. Besides, 13 people were rescued on Wednesday itself.State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said the search and rescue operation resumed around 5.30 am.The authorities had suspended the search operation on Thursday night.A Bolero and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced, Mokhta said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris.                             The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the members of local police and home guards. Meanwhile, machines reached the spot where the wreckage of HRTC bus was found. Earlier, rescue work was being done manually. The target is to recover all the bodies by tonight, said Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/viral-video-boulders-hit-himachal-transport-bus-in-kinnaur-narrow-escape-for-passengers-297091
