18-08-2021||New Delhi||R-Value remains over 1 for Himachal, shows study||The reproduction number for coronavirus remains worryingly over 1 for Himachal Pradesh even though the R-number steadily declines for the rest of the country, a recent study by Chennai's Institute of Mathematical Sciences showed. A study by researchers at the institution shows that the reproduction number, or R number—a parameter used to measure the spread of disease and shows how quickly an illness is spreading in a certain population—has been on a steady decline for India after it fell under 1 in the first week of August. “India’s R has fallen to around 0.9,” Sitbara Sinha, who is leading the research, told PTI, citing their data.Entry into Himachal only through registration on e-covid softwareIf R is under 1, it means the number of newly infected people is lower than the number of infected people in the preceding period and the disease incidence is going down.However, Himachal Pradesh continues to have an R value of above 1, although it reduced in the last few days, while Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand still have R very close to 1, Sinha said. The R-value of Kerala, which has the highest number of active cases in the country, is now below 1 after a gap of seven months, signalling a relief to authorities who have been struggling to bring down the injection levels in the state.The northeastern states seem to have finally come out of the second wave, Sinha said.The R-value between August 14-16, calculated by the researchers now stands at 0.89.The R-value for Maharashtra, another state which has a high number of cases, is 0.89, the data shows.Among the major cities, the R-value of Mumbai was lowest (0.70 from August 10-13), followed by Delhi (0.85 from July 31 to August 4), Bengaluru (0.94 from August 15-17), Chennai (0.97 from August 15-17). However, the R value remains high for Kolkata (1.08 from August 11-15), Pune (1.05 from August 10-14),The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects, on average. In other words, it tells how ‘efficiently’ a virus is spreading.A smaller R indicates the disease is on a decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase.After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by the patients infected by SARS-CoV2  coronavirus, the R-value started to decline.During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection while lakhs were infected.In its bulletin on Wednesday, the Ministry of Health said India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679.The national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 percent, the highest since March 2020. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 52 consecutive days.From June 20 to July 7, the R-value stood at 0.78. However, it slowly started increasing—it was 0.88 from July 3-22, 0.95 from July 24-27, 0.96 from July 27-31.It breached the value of 1.03 for the first time after the second wave during August 6-9. However, since then it has slowly started to decline.The value was 0.92 from August 6-9, rose to 0.99 between August 12 and 14. But it slipped to 0.89 between August 14 and 17.Earlier this month, the central government said 37 districts across nine states, including Kerala (11 districts) and Tamil Nadu (seven districts) are still showing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the previous two weeks even as the nationwide daily new infections continued to register a decline.It said the R-value is more than 1 in five states—Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh which remains a cause of concern. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/r-value-remains-over-1-for-himachal-shows-study-299011
18-08-2021||Dharamshala||Kangra: 90% vaccinated with first Covid dose||Almost 90 per cent people in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district have been given the first dose of Covid vaccine, officials said on Wednesday."So far, 10,83,285 people have been given the first dose of Covid vaccine in the district, while 3,42,590 people have been given both the doses," Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said.In the next four days, “it is our endeavour that not a single eligible person above 18 years of age should be left behind in the district,” he said, adding that the aim is to vaccinate all with at least one dose."Almost 90 per cent of people in the district have been given with one dose," Jindal said.He urged people who have not taken a single dose to get it done at the nearest centre by Saturday.There have been 686 positive cases of Covid in the district in August so far and out of this 448 people were unvaccinated, 141 people had received their first dose and 97 people had received both doses, he said.Jindal said that arrangements have been made to vaccinate people at the village level even without slot-booking so that no one faces any problem to participate in the vaccination campaign.“The government and administration are taking effective steps to deal with Covid and the cooperation of the general public is highly required in this,” Jindal said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-90-vaccinated-with-first-covid-dose-299008
18-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala war museum awaits completion||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 17The war museum project, brought up in Dharamsala during the stint of the previous Congress government, is yet to be completed though more than Rs 14 crore has been spent on it.Kangra DC hopes Work will begin soonKangra DC Nipun Jindal admitted that there had been an inordinate delay in the opening of the museum. Recently, the Himachal Pradesh Electronic Development Corporation had allotted the tender for the completion of the top floor of the museum to a Gurgaon company. The company had finalised the design to which ex-servicemen of the region had some reservations. Now, the issue had been sorted out and the final proposal sent to the corporation. He hoped that the work would be started soon and the top floor would be thrown open to the public within a month, he said.The DC said he was reviewing the progress of the project on a weekly basis.Sources said the process to recruit the staff, including a curator, a gardener and clerks, for running the museum had also been started. However, who would pay for the staff and maintenance of the museum was still unclear. The DC said the matter was under the consideration of the government.At present, only the first floor of the museum has been furnished with busts of war heroes from Himachal Pradesh and Kangra district and models of gallantry medals like the Victoria Cross that was awarded during the British rule, Param Vir Chakra, Vir Chakra and other gallantry awards. The first floor of the museum also has the photos of the gallantry award winners from the state.There are 60,000 ex-servicemen and an equal number of servicemen in Kangra district in the armed forces, the highest from any district in the country. The state has about 1,20,000 servicemen and an equal number of ex-servicemen in the forces. As many as 54 articles donated by the Army, including a tank, HP-32 aircraft and rifles, are to be displayed in the museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-war-museum-awaits-completion-298756
18-08-2021||---||Himachal apples lose sweetness to glut, poor quality||Shimla, August 17The apple market has seen a significant slump over the past two weeks. A box of quality apple, fetching over Rs 3,000 a fortnight back in the main mandis of Shimla district, is now going for Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,000. “The market is going down continuously,” said NS Chaudhary, president of the state arhtiya sangh. “The main reason for the sharp decline in the prices is the lack of quality. Only around 25 per cent of the produce has good size and colour, the rest of the produce is either hailed, or the size is very poor,” said Chaudhary.While the quality produce is still fetching a reasonably good price, the poor quality apple is finding few takers. “The arhtiyas are struggling to sell the apple lacking quality. The buyers are showing little interest in hailed apple,” he said.Comparatively, the growers were getting good prices last year. “The crop was less last time and the quality too was good, so the price were good. This time there’s heavy crop and because of that, there’s problem with the size of the fruit,” said Chaudhary.The growers too are worried over the declining prices. “While the growers’ cost of production has increased significantly this year due to rise in prices of packaging material, labour and transportation, the price of their produce is declining continuously,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association of the state. “It’s not a good sign at all for the growers. If the trend continues, the growers will struggle to make money,” he said.Earlier, pears too failed to fetch good prices this year compared to last year when pear growers got good prices. “Like apple this time, there was a heavy crop of pears. Besides, there was flood in Maharashtra and Gujarat at a time when the fruit was marketed,” said Chauhan.Meanwhile, the efforts of the Agricultural and Marketing Board and some growers to introduce crates as an alternative to cartons have not yielded the desired results.“The response for using crates so far has been much below our expectations. We will get a feedback on this to ascertain the reason for it,” said Agricultural and Marketing Board MD Naresh Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-apples-lose-sweetness-to-glut-poor-quality-298757
18-08-2021||---||Storm damages apple crop in Mandi||Mandi, August 17 The storm caused considerable damage to the apple crop in Seraj area in Mandi district on Sunday, and has put the orchardists in distress. The apple crop in the region was ready for harvesting, but the sudden change in weather and strong winds damaged the orchards in the area. Govind, Tilak Raj and many other apple orchardists from Seraj said under Gatu panchayat, the storm had damaged 90 per cent of the crop. The maximum damage was caused to the crop in the nearby panchayats of Jhred and Bagdanath, affecting the livelihood of apple orchardists in the region. They said the state government should help the affected farmers as they were dependent on apple cultivation for income. The Horticulture Department officials at Mandi have constituted a team to assess the loss and send a report to the state government for providing compensation to the affected farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/storm-damages-apple-crop-in-mandi-298758
18-08-2021||---||17 firefighting vehicles flagged off in Himachal||Shimla, August 17Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today flagged off 17 firefighting vehicles of the Fire Services Department to fire stations and fire substations situated in different parts of the state.The Chief Minister said these vehicles would be provided to fire stations, Kinnaur, The Mall Road, Shimla, Paonta Sahib, Bilaspur, Kullu, Baddi, Parwanoo, Nalagarh, Una and Chamba, fire substations, Jhanduta and Gohar, and fire posts, Jubbal, Patlikuhal, Sansarpur Terrace, Padhar and Jogindernagar.He said the state government had spent Rs 21.26 crore for purchasing firefighting vehicles and other equipments and Rs 17.46 crore for constructing various buildings of the Fire Services Department during the past three years. He said this would provide better firefighting services in the rural areas of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-firefighting-vehicles-flagged-off-in-himachal-298759
18-08-2021||Solan||HRTC workers go on 10-day strike||Piecemeal workers of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) today went on a 10-day tool down strike, protesting non-induction in the corporation on regular basis, despite completing six to eight years of service.About 25 piecemeal workers sat at the HRTC workshop here today. They said, “Despite completing six to eight years as piecemeal workers in the HRTC, we have not been regularised. The corporation followed the regularisation policy till 2017, but it has failed to implement it now.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-workers-go-on-10-day-strike-298760
18-08-2021||Shimla||SFI activists booked in Shimla||The Shimla police have registered an FIR against activists of SFI for obstructing the car of Vice-Chancellor Sikender Kumar during a protest on the Himachal University campus yesterday. No arrest has been made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-activists-booked-in-shimla-298761
18-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two sites on lake banks in Himachal notified for water sports||Una, August 17The Himachal Pradesh Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry has notified two sites on the banks of the Gobind Sagar reservoir of the Bhakra dam at Androuli and Lathiani villages for water sports activities, said Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar in a press note issued here yesterday.Kanwar said that a technical team from the Water Sports wing of the Directorate of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (DMAS), Manali, had inspected both sites located in the Kutlehar Assembly segment some time ago and given its consent for running water sports and allied adventure activities there.He said that Baba Garib Nath temple at Androuli village, which gets partially submerged in the Gobind Sagar during the monsoons, and the Lathiani Ghat are picturesque locations and would soon be developed for water and adventure sports to boost tourism in the region.Kanwar added that water sports activities would be outsourced to private operators, who would have to abide by the provisions of the Himachal Pradesh Water Sports and Allied Activities Rules 2021. He added that the peaks of Solasingi Dhar at Piplu and Gharvasada villages in the Kutlehar Assembly segment had recently been found conducive for paragliding after successful sorties by instructors from the DMAS, Manali.The minister said that the state government was making sincere efforts to tap the huge potential Kutlehar has for tourism, including adventure sports. He expressed hope that the promotion of tourism in the area would boost the local economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-sites-on-lake-banks-in-himachal-notified-for-water-sports-298762
18-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Una police to seize ill-gotten properties of mining mafia||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 17The Una police have started an initiative to ascertain the ill-gotten properties of the mining mafia active in the district so that these could be seized.Sources said that the police had started financial investigation into illegal mining cases to ascertain ill-gotten wealth. SP, Una, Arjit Sen told The Tribune that financial investigation had been started in five cases of illegal mining. “We are trying to ascertain moveable and immoveable assets generated by people involved in illegal mining. We are trying to link their illegally amassed assets with mining operations being carried out by them. After that we shall refer such cases to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for further action,” he added.The SP said that the Una police had carried out forward investigation into some illegal mining cases and found that the material mined was usually transported to Ludhiana city. In Ludhiana, some people had created a dump yard for selling material mined illegally from various places in the region. “Anybody can come and purchase material at such dump yards. No bills are issued and the GST is not paid on such illegally-mined material,” he added.Sen said that after financial investigation, the police could confiscate the properties of some people involved in illegal mining. Till date, the properties of those convicted under the NDPS Act had been confiscated but similar action would also be taken in illegal mining cases as well, he added.The Una police have registered 400 cases of illegal mining in 2021 and 380 cases of these have been compounded and a fine of Rs 36.72 lakh had been realised. The remaining 20 cases had been sent to court.After the police and other state departments acted tough on illegal mining, the stone crusher owners proceeded on strike. However, they ended the strike after the government assured them that their demands would be considered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-police-to-seize-ill-gotten-properties-of-mining-mafia-298764
18-08-2021||---||Death toll in Nugalsari landslide rises to 28||Shimla, August 17The death toll in the Nugalsari landslide incident in Kinnaur district rose to 28 with the recovery of three more bodies today. The rescue operations would continue tomorrow.The rescue teams of the ITBP, NDRF, police, Home Guards and the Fire Department recovered the three bodies. However, it was a herculean task for them to extract the bodies that were buried under the debris on a cliff, below the road, which was not visible from any side.“It was the seventh day of the rescue operations and we did everything from climbing almost a 360 degree slope with a Porcelain excavator, using rope links, drones, fire extinguishers as shooting stones were a continuous hurdle,” said Abid Hussain Sadiq, Deputy Commissioner.A Mahendra Bolero SUV had been found buried under the debris but there was no one in it. Fire engines were pressed into rescue operations yesterday and the debris was flushed out to locate the bodies. Till now, 13 persons trapped under the landslide debris had been rescued and 11 of them were seriously injured but they are safe now and recovering. All 28 bodies had been identified. As per the list released by the Kinnaur district administration, all 14 bodies had been recovered but the rescue operations would continue tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/death-toll-in-nugalsari-landslide-rises-to-28-298765
18-08-2021||Shimla||300 new cases, six deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 300 Covid cases were recorded today, taking the tally to 210,719. Besides, six persons died—two in Shimla and one each in Mandi, Kangra, Chamba and Bilaspur. The highest 69 cases were reported in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-new-cases-six-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-298766
18-08-2021||Pangi (Chamba)||Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurates  bridges at Pangi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects of about Rs 23 crore at Killar in Pangi subdivision of Chamba district.He inaugurated a taxi stand at Killar, Rs 4.02 crore motorable bailey bridge over the Saichu nullah on the Sahali- Dhanala road, Rs 2.31 crore motorable bailey bridge over the Harbin nullah on the Saichu- Chasak-Bhatori road and Rs 2.41 crore single lane bailey bridge over the Kulal nallah on the Mindhal- Kulal road.Thakur announced the opening of a Jal Shakti division at Killar and a subdivision at Sach, besides primary health centres at Surah and Kariyuni and upgrade of middle schools at Mingal and Luj to high schools.He released the logo of tourism map regarding important tourist spots in the valley. He said that the area would be developed for tourism under the Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein programme.Thakur distributed solar plants to six people on behalf of Himurja. He said that Rs 144.35 crore had been spent in Pangi on various development schemes under the integrated tribal development sub plan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-inaugurates-bridges-at-pangi-298767
18-08-2021||Chamba||Car falls off hill in Chamba, three killed||Three persons were killed when the car they were travelling in fell off the hill at Bhanera on the Chamba-Jot road on Monday evening. The police sent the bodies to Chamba medical college for a postmortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/car-falls-off-hill-in-chamba-three-killed-298768
18-08-2021||Mandi||No threat to Lahaul villages, say experts||The threat posed to villages due to the blockage of the Chenab in Lahaul-Spiti seems to have been averted with most of the debris has been removed.A team of experts, headed by Director, Central Water Commission, NN Rai visited the site on Sunday to assess the situation and suggest measures to avert any mishap.The team comprised Piyush Ranjan, Director, CWC, Shimla; Rohit Sharma, Assistant Commissioner, Keylong; Col Arun from the Army; Sandeep Kumar Rawal, inspector, NDRF; and Ramchandra Negi, Naib Tehsildar, Udaipur.A major landslide blocked the flow of the Chenab near Nalda village in Lahaul-Spiti, causing panic among villagers, living downstream on August 13. As a precautionary measure, the local authorities had evacuated people along the river due to the formation of a lake. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-threat-to-lahaul-villages-say-experts-298769
18-08-2021||Hamirpur||Himachal wrestling coach returns honour||Parshuram awardee and wrestling coach Jagdeesh Kumar reportedly returned Rs 55,000, a cap and a shawl presented to him by Education Minister Govind Thakur at the district-level I-Day function in Bilaspur.He alleged the quality of the shawl and the cap was not good and he left the stock at the office of the District Sports Officer, where he was called for a cup of tea after the I-Day ceremony.Jagdish said he had suggested the Sports Officer to make the quality of the cap and the shawl better, while the officer showed disrespect to him. He was posted as physical education teacher at a school at Panjgain in Bilaspur. He had complained against the District Sports Officer to the DC too.Ravi Shankar, District Youth and Sports Officer, said a tea party was hosted in the honour of players and Jagdish was given respect. Other players, who were also presented the same stock, were satisfied with the honour. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-wrestling-coach-returns-honour-298770
18-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Worried, Afghan students in Himachal institutes unwilling to go back||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 17Afghan students pursuing various courses in universities and institutions in Shimla and suburbs are apprehensive about the future of their country after the takeover by the Taliban.Most of them are in touch with their families back home, who want them to stay put in India till the situation normalises.Some students, who have completed their courses, are unwilling to go back and want their visa to be extended and are pinning hopes on the Government of India.“We are worried about the future of our families as the Taliban has taken over the reins of power against the wishes of people. The financial crisis is looming large, economy has crashed and people are concerned about their jobs and safety and planning to leave the country,” says Mishab, a fourth semester student of MA (Political science) in HP University.“I am in touch with my family on the phone (parents, three brothers and three sisters in Jalalabad). Though, no incidence of inhuman treatment has been reported, nothing can be said about the future as the behaviour of Taliban members is unpredictable and they have no experience of running the country and our families want us not to return,” he added.There are 14 Afghan students pursuing courses in political science, journalism and mass communication, public administration and MBA in the HPU while the number of students in APG Shimla University is 19.“The situation is not good at all. People are living in fear and women are at a higher risk as the Taliban may impose restrictions like wearing burqa on them,” said Arib Ahmed, a student of APG Shimla University, whose family is in Kabul. “Embassies are closed, flights have been cancelled, utter chaos prevails and we are requesting the Indian Government to extend the visa,” said Arib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/worried-afghan-students-in-himachal-institutes-unwilling-to-go-back-298771
18-08-2021||Mandi||MLA: Mandi school building to come up first||After criticism from public over the demolition of primary school building at U block, where multiplex building is proposed in middle here, BJP MLA from Sadar Anil Sharma said today that the state government should construct primary school building first and thereafter multiplex building.He said that with the construction of parking and shopping malls at U block, there will be a problem in transporting material for the construction of school building.“People are accusing me on social media that contractor of this project is my relative. I have nothing to do with the contractor and it was my proposal for the development of Mandi town,” the MLA said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-mandi-school-building-to-come-up-first-298773
18-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal police reshuffle: New SPs in 8 districts||The government today transferred SPs of eight districts. Assistant IGP (Headquarters) Monika Bhutunguru will be the new SP of Shimla, replacing Mohit Chawla, who will be the SP, Baddi.Sakshi Verma, Commandant, 4th Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), Jangalberi in Hamirpur, will take over as Assistant IGP at Police Headquarters in Shimla. SP, Baddi, Rohit Malpani has been transferred to the CID (Cyber crime).Khushal Chand Sharma, SP, Sirmaur, will replace SP, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan, who will go as the Commandant, 1st IRB, Bangarh in Una, while SP, State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Omapati Jamwal, will be the SP Sirmaur.SP, Kinnaur, Saju Ram Rana will replace SP, Bilaspur, Diwakar Sharma, who will go as the SP, Police Training College, Daroh in Kangra, while Commandant, 1st IRB, Bangarh, Akriti, will be the new SP of Hamirpur, replacing Karthikeyan Gokulachandran, who will go as the SP, State Vigilance.Virender Sharma, SP, Vigilance, will be the new SP, Solan, replacing Abhishek Yadav, who will go as the Commandant, 1st HP Armed Force, Junga, while Ashok Rattan, SDPO, Nurpur, will be the new SP, Kinnaur.The SP, 1st HP Armed Police, Junga, Anjum Ara will go as the SP, state vigilance, while SP (leave reserve), Police Headquarters, Ranjana Chauhan will be the SP Lokayukta and Dr Virender Singh Tomar (awaiting posting) is the new Commandant, 5th Indian Reserve Battalion (Mahila), in Bassi, Bilaspur. Gaurav Singh ( awaiting posting) will be the SP (EOW), CID, Shimla.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-reshuffle-new-sps-in-8-districts-298774
18-08-2021||Una||Class XI admissions start at Saloh school||Admissions to Class XI at Central School, Saloh, in Haroli subdivision, for science and commerce streams have begun. This was stated here yesterday by school management committee chairman and Una DC Raghav Sharma.The DC said the minimum marks in the matriculation examination for admissions to both streams had been fixed at 55 per cent, adding that the interested students could get themselves registered by August 23 on the school campus. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-xi-admissions-start-at-saloh-school-298775
18-08-2021||Over 400 delegates under the aegis of Sanawar Model United Nations (SNAMUN’21) met to share their concerns over the turmoil in Afghanistan. As many as 38 schools||Students’ talk on Afghanistan issue||SFI protests attack on activistsThe SFI activists staged a protest outside the office of the VC after they were allegedly attacked by the ABVP activists. The SFI alleged that the conspiracy to attack their activists was hatched in the VC office, and blamed the VC, for the attack. The SFI said the ABVP activists were roaming around on the campus with sharp weapons because they had the support of the VC and the ruling BJP.NSS camp at Sanjauli collegeThe NSS volunteers at Government College, Sanjauli, were shown ‘Shershah’, a biopic of Captain Vikram Batra. In the ongoing seven-day NSS camp, the volunteers were addressed by economics Assistant Professor TR Sharma. In his address, he made the volunteers aware of the major economic advancements and developments over the past two decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-talk-on-afghanistan-issue-298805
18-08-2021||In contrast to the government claims of construction of cow shelters||Stray cattle menace on Narkanda-Rampur road||— Sachin, RampurBuild cold stores in Bharmour, Tissa, ChambaCold stores should be constructed in Bharmour, Tissa and Chamba to facilitate fruit and vegetable growers of the region. These stores will help get good prices for the produce as it will help control the supply line to the market. In the absence of cold stores, fruit and vegetables get damaged and affect the income of the growers. — Farmers, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-cattle-menace-on-narkanda-rampur-road-298806
18-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal government transfers SPs of eight districts||In a major reshuffle in its police department, the Himachal Government transferred Superintendents of Police of eight districts on Tuesday.Assistant Inspector General of Police (headquarters) Monika Bhutunguru would be the new SP of Shimla replacing Mohit Chawla, who will now be SP Baddi.Sakshi Verma, Commandant 4th Indian Reserve battalion, Jangalberi, Hamirpur, will take over as Assistant Inspector general Police at Himachal Police Headquarters in Shimla. SP Baddi Rohit Malpani has been transferred to post of SP (Cyber crime) CID.Khushal Chand Sharma SP Sirmaur would replace SP Kangra Vimukt Ranjan who will go as Commandant 1st Indian Reserve Battalion, Bangarh in Una while SP State Vigilance and Anti Corruption Omapati Jamwal will now be SP Sirmaur.SP Kinnaur Saju Ram Rana will replace SP Bilaspur Diwakar Sharma, who will go as SP, Police Training College, Daroh, Kangra while Commandant 1st Indian Reserve Battalion, Bangarh, Akriti would be the new SP of Hamirpur, replacing Karthikeyan Gokulachandran, who goes as SP (SIU) State Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau.Virender Sharma SP State Vigilance and Anti corruption Bureau will be the new SP Solan, replacing Abhishek Yadav, who will go as Commandant 1st HP Armed Force, Junga, while Ashok Rattan, Sub Divisional Police Officer, Nurpur, would be the new SP Kinnaur.The SP 1st HP Armed Police, Junga Anjum Ara will now be SP State Vigilance and Anti Corruption while SP (Leave Reserve) Police Headquarters Ranjana Chauhan would be SP Lohayukta. Virender Singh Tomar, who’s awaiting posting, is the new commandant 5th Indian Reserve battalion (Mahila) in Bassi district Bilaspur. Gaurav Singh, who’s also awaiting posting, will be SP (EOW) CID, Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-transfers-sps-of-eight-districts-298509
