20-08-2021||---||Gujarat trekker drowns in rivulet near Bharatpur in Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, August 20One trekker died accidentally near Bharatpur area in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti on Friday. The deceased was identified as Rushabh M. Shah, a native of Gujarat.According to sources, a group of trekkers was on a trekking expedition. Due to heavy rain in the region, the flow of water was high in the rivulet near Bharatpur and the trekker was drowned while crossing.The body of the victim has been extricated and will be transported to the district hospital Keylong for a post-mortem.SP Lahaul Spiti Manav Verma said the victim was on trekking expedition in the area when he died accidentally.The water streams these days are flooded in Lahaul-Spiti because of incessant rain. On July 27, as many as 10 persons were washed away in Tozing Nullah in Lahaul-Spiti.The district administration Lahaul-Spiti has already issued an advisory for the common public to avoid unnecessary traveling to the district till August 23, because of warning of heavy rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gujarat-trekker-drowns-in-rivulet-near-bharatpur-in-lahaul-spiti-299903
20-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal schools to remain closed till August 28||Himachal schools will remain closed until August 28, the state government announced on Friday in a development that comes amid an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.A new order issued on Friday said that teaching and non-teaching staff however will continue to report to work as usual.  R-Value remains over 1 for Himachal, shows studyResidential schools will continue to function as usual.Schools briefly reopened in the state earlier this month but were ordered shut after a rise in Covid cases. Action would be taken against anyone violating the directions and not following Covid appropriate behavior as per provision 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (disobeying a public servant’s order) of the Indian Penal Code, the order said.The state has been reporting 300 cases a day on average over the last few days. A recent study by Chennai's Institute of Mathematical Sciences showed Himachal’s Covid reproduction number---a measure experts use to predict the spread of disease---stood at over 1.  If R is under 1, it means the number of newly infected people is lower than the number of infected people in the preceding period and the disease incidence is going down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-to-remain-closed-till-august-28-299889
20-08-2021||Shimla||Centre prepared to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19: Anurag Thakur||The Centre is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 and a provision of Rs 23,123 crore has been made for this purpose, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said on Friday.He said special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care amid apprehension that the third wave may affect children more than others.Thakur, who is on a five-day ‘Jan Ashirwaad Yatra’ in his home state Himachal Pradesh, was speaking to reporters here. This is his maiden visit to the state since being sworn in as a Union Cabinet minister last month.The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19. A provision of Rs 23,123 crore has been made to deal with it, said Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports.Special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care as experts fear that the third wave may affect children more than others. The Centre has also set aside Rs 35,000 crore for free Covid vaccination, he said.Some experts have warned that the third wave of Covid-19 may affect children more while others have said there is little reason to believe this theory. However, experts concur that there is a need to improve paediatric Covid services in the country.So far, India has reported 3,23,58,829 Covid-19 cases and 4,33,589 deaths due to the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry.Thakur said when the second wave of the pandemic hit the country, no one knew oxygen cylinders would be needed. Now, there are plenty of oxygen cylinders in the country.He said he is lucky to have had the opportunity to work under a visionary leader like PM Modi.He said he was among the three-four people who used to attend meetings with Modi on handling the Covid situation in the country and witnessed the PM’s relentless efforts to deal with the pandemic.India faced a brutal second wave of Covid-19 in April-May. During this period, the country reported a large number of daily deaths, while overstretched hospitals scrambled to maintain a steady supply of oxygen for patients.Thakur started his ‘Jan Ashirwaad Yatra’ from Parwanoo in Solan district on Thursday. He will cover a distance of 623 km across four Lok Sabha constituencies and 37 assembly segments in eight districts in the hill state.Accompanied by state minister Suresh Bhardwaj and Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap, Thakur said that a total of Rs 4,200 crore will be spent on various health sector projects in Himachal Pradesh.He said Rs 437 crore will also be spent on the PGI Satellite Centre in Una.Sharing his vision for Himachal Pradesh, Thakur said over the next 10 years, the art and culture of the state will be promoted not just in India but also abroad.There is a need to promote and showcase the art and culture of Himachal Pradesh which varies from Kinnaur’s kettle to Chamba’s ‘thaal’ and handkerchief and from Kangra’s paintings to ‘natis’ (dances) of different areas, he said.As far as the folklore of the hill state is concerned, its melodious music has a special significance, he added.Replying to a question about building a sports stadium in Shimla, Thakur said stadiums will be built at all those places where land is available for the purpose.He said he wants to build stadiums that can not only be used for sports but will also be tourist attractions.He said the cricket stadium built in Dharamsala during his tenure as BCCI president is an added attraction for tourists.“At least five lakh people visit the Dharamsala cricket stadium every year and the number of tourists visiting Dharamsala has also increased a lot after the construction of the stadium,” the minister said.Replying to a question, Thakur took a dig at the Congress, saying, “I hope Congress will elect its president by 2024.”           Asked about plans to join state politics, he said he is happy with his current responsibility and that he will do whatever he can for Himachal Pradesh while discharging his duty as a Union minister.Earlier in the day, Thakur flagged off the ‘Fit India Run” at Peterhoff here. The event was organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/centre-prepared-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-anurag-thakur-299839
20-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal: Woman dies, 2 sustain injuries as car meets with accident near Nako in Kinnaur||One woman was killed while two others sustained injuries when the car they were travelling in met with an accident about eight kilometres from Nako on Chango-Nako Road in Kinnaur district at around 8:30 am on Friday.The deceased was identified as Thapchet Dolma, w/o Chhering Tandup, village Hango.The injured including Dokler, w/o Sonam, village Hango and Chhering Kalzang (driver) s/o Tashi Dorje, village Hikkam in Kaja, were under treatment in Community Health Centre Chango, said police sources adding that investigations are in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-woman-dies-2-sustain-injuries-as-car-meets-with-accident-near-nako-in-kinnaur-299832
20-08-2021||Mandi||Man dies in landslide near Luhri in Mandi||One person died in a landslide near Luhri under Karsog assembly segment of Mandi district on Thursday evening, while another got critically injured.The deceased was identified as Nandlal, native of Pirnu village under Karsog assembly segment of Mandi.The injured victim was rushed to IGMC Shimla for medical treatment. The injured victim was identified as Ram Krishan, native of Tewan village in Mandi.According to the police, both the victims were on their way when suddenly a massive landslide occurred in the area.Both the victims were trapped under the debris and were extricated with the help of JCB machine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-dies-in-landslide-near-luhri-in-mandi-299828
20-08-2021||---||Anurag Thakur to strive for providing best facilities to budding sporting talent||Shimla, August 20Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Friday said his endeavour would be to ensure tapping youth’s talent and provide best facilities to the budding talent across the country.Addressing a press conference here, he said PM Narendra Modi had made Olympic medal winners our ambassadors to inspire youth to excel in sports. Also read: Centre prepared to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19: Anurag Thakur He said sports classes in schools and colleges would no longer be a formality.He said that in the 75th year of Independence his resolve is to showcase Himachali art and craft at the global level. “I want to link our art and culture to tourism and employment generation so that Himachal attracts global attention and becomes a favourite world-class destination,” he said.He said he would try his best to revive Chamba rumaal, Kangra miniature paintings and Kullu and Kinnauri shawls. He said the Himachali folklore is a repository of our rich tradition, culture and performing arts. When asked about speculation on his return to state politics, he said he believes in doing justice to the responsibility given to him.“I have tried to do the best and deliver whether it was as a Lok Sabha MP, Minister of State for Finance or now as cabinet minister,” he said. Thakur was accorded a warm welcome en route his arrival here after being elevated in the Modi cabinet. “I am overwhelmed by the love and blessings showered on me. This has exceeded my expectations,” he said.  He said Modi-led BJP government had tried to ensure ‘Sanka Saath Sabka Vikas’ and Himachal alone had received allocation of Rs 4,200 crore for various institutions like AIIMS, satellite PGI, six medical colleges and for strengthening super-specialty.He said he would try to strengthen the DTH services to improve connectivity in tribal areas of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-to-strive-for-providing-best-facilities-to-budding-sporting-talent-299816
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Anurag Thakur kicks off ‘Jan Aashirwad Yatra’ from Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur today kicked off his five-day ‘Jan Aashirwad Yatra’ from Himachal Bhawan in Sector 28 here.Sanjay Tandon, co-incharge of Himachal Pradesh BJP, city BJP president Arun Sood and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma welcomed the Hamirpur MP on his arrival at the venue.Also read: BJP slammed over ‘manhandling’ anti-farm law protesters in ChandigarhBJP HP unit president and MP Suresh Kashyap, Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and former president of state BJP and MLA Rajiv Bindal were among those who participated in the procession. Addressing a gathering here, Thakur said his government was working for all sections of society.Tandon said the purpose of the event was to make people aware of the welfare policies of the government and at the same time know the problems being faced by them. He said the yatra would cover a distance of 623 km through all four Lok Sabha constituencies of Himachal Pradesh. The yatra left the city for Parwanoo.Social distancing went for a toss as the entrance of the venue was jampacked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-kicks-off-jan-aashirwad-yatra-from-himachal-bhawan-in-chandigarh-299515
20-08-2021||The stretch between Kufri and Dhalli has been witnessing a lot of traffic jams due to apple-laden vehicles. The vehicles move at a very slow pace and it is not easy to overtake them. This leads to either a traffic jam or very slow movement of traffic||Slow movement of traffic between Kufri and Dhalli||Patience required on roadLocals are often seen honking at vehicles from outside. Local drivers get angry and impatient at the slightest mistake committed by tourists while driving. If the same mistake is committed by a local, then there is hardly any reaction. One needs to have more patience. — Dalip Thakur, NahanWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/slow-movement-of-traffic-between-kufri-and-dhalli-299730
20-08-2021||MCA students of Government College||Students registered for projects||Candidates must register onlineAll candidates coming to Himachal Pradesh from other states/UTs for appearing in the screening test/personality test being conducted by the commission from August 23 to 27 will have to register themselves on Covid e-registration software (https://covid19epass.hp.gov.in/).Change in examination centreOne of the examination centres for the BEd exam, scheduled for August 21, has been changed from Millennium BEd College, Mugla Hardaspur, Chamba, to Millennium BEd College, Labkana village, PO Saru, Chamba. The candidates allotted this centre need to report at the new address. The exam is being held in 56 centres across the state and 1,6091 candidates have been issued admit cards. For more information, candidates can call at 0177-2830891.Ensure quality work: SFIThe Students' Federation of India (SFI) unit of Government College, Sanjauli, submitted a memorandum to Mayor Satya Kaundal, demanding that the Sanjauli-IGMC pathway, which is being constructed under the Smart City project, should be made with proper planning and quality work. The SFI said it had been noticed that the retaining walls on the pathway were not good enough. The SFI demanded a parking lot on the campus for students.Plantation by NSS volunteersNSS volunteers organised a plantation drive in the adopted Chamyana village as part of the NSS camp, which is underway at the Government College in Sanjauli. Around 200 saplings were planted by the volunteers. Programme officers Meenakshi Sharma and Vikas Nathan guided the workers and students during the plantation drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-registered-for-projects-299729
20-08-2021||---||Horticulture census in Himachal Prades after 40 yrs||Shimla, August 19It is after 40 years that a complete horticulture census will be undertaken in Himachal Pradesh to gather a comprehensive and detailed picture of the sector.The Common Service Centre (CSC), a special purpose vehicle under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, has signed an MoU with the state Department of Horticulture for conducting the census.Information regarding fruit cultivation and other horticultural activities will be collected in the census to provide a comprehensive and detailed picture of the sector of the state. It will be the only source of detailed production data for floriculture, nursery, and specialty crops of the state and is of utmost importance to improve the horticultural economy.As per the MoU, the CSC will assist the Horticulture Department to carry out the census in a systematic manner through the last mile network of the Common Service Centres in the state. “The CSC will develop an online platform to carry out the census and will organise training sessions for the enumerators to complete the survey within a year,” said an official.Last time, the horticulture census in Himachal Pradesh was conducted in 1982. It is for the first time in 40 years that such a census will be conducted through the CSC in all 12 districts of the state. The complete horticultural land and activities will be covered under the survey.Himachal Pradesh is the only state where 89.96 per cent population lives in rural areas. Therefore, agriculture and horticulture are the most important activities which provide direct employment to about 62 per cent of the total workforce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/horticulture-census-in-himachal-prades-after-40-yrs-299728
20-08-2021||---||Solan: Anurag Thakur embarks on Jan Ashirwad Yatra||Solan, August 19Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Sports and Youth Affairs Anurag Thakur today received a rousing welcome in Solan district from Parwanoo to Shimla on his maiden visit to the state after being elevated as the Cabinet minister.His visit marks the beginning of a five-day Jan Ashirwad Yatra where he will travel 623 km across various districts and all four Lok Sabha constituencies.BJP co-incharge for Himachal Sanjay Tandon welcomed him at Himachal Bhawan at Chandigarh where leaders from Sirmaur had gathered with party activists to accord him a warm welcome.Leaders and activists jostled with each other to gain proximity to the leader. Being the party’s national programme, it was being monitored by the national leaders.Addressing the crowds which had gathered at Parwanoo, Dharampur, Solan and Kandaghat, Thakur said, “It is a matter of pride that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given representation to a small state like Himachal in his Cabinet. I thank the PM for elevating me as a Cabinet minister at a young age.”He added, “Himachal has been significantly represented at the national level with the national president JP Nadda too hailing from the state.”Thakur used the opportunity to strike a chord with the farmers and said, “In the last one and a half years Rs 1,50,000 crore have been granted to the farmers as Kisan Samman Nidhi. Even the smallest farmer has benefited from this scheme.”State BJP president Suresh Kashyap, Power Minister Sukhram Chawdhary, former MLA Dr Rajiv Bindal, Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, state president Mahila Morcha Rashim Dhar Sood, chairperson, State Women Commission Daisy Thakur were among those present on the occasion.Covid norms were thrown to the winds as activists jostled with each other to greet the union minister with bouquets. They burst crackers and raised slogans to welcome their young leader.The Union minister also visited a vaccination centre at Dharampur where he enquired about the number of doses taken by the people. He also stopped to talk to a child who had come with his mother and promised to open an anganwari centre soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-anurag-thakur-embarks-on-jan-ashirwad-yatra-299693
20-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Affiliation papers submitted by 3 
Himachal  institutions were fake||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 19Three of the nine fake institutions, running in the name of Nilet in Una, Chamba, Sirmaur and Kangra districts which received scholarships worth over Rs 28 crore for students, had submitted fake affiliation certificates of the renowned universities in Bengaluru and Punjab.Scholarship scamThe documents, recovered from the Education Department and the main accused - then Superintendent Grade-II Arvind Rajta, besides three directors of Nilet institutions, including the wife of Rajta, revealed that the three institutions had submitted fake affiliation certificates to the Education Department for running courses.During investigations, CBI teams visited the universities and found that these had issued no such affiliation certificates to the institutions and the investigation to find out more irregularities is under way, sources in the CBI said. There was ample evidence against the accused.No physical verification of infrastructure and student strength was done and the funds were allotted on the basis of the list submitted by the institutions. During the raids at Nilet institutions, the CBI had also found that the institutes were running in one or two rooms.The probe revealed that some centres were running without affiliation and scholarships were taken in the name of students, who did not exist. A person, trained in the software used for disbursement of scholarships, was deputed as the dealing hand. Moreover, fake accounts were opened.The CBI had registered a case on May 8, 2019. The scam started in 2012-13 when the scholarships for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes for pre-matric and post-matric students under 36 schemes were not paid to students and 80 per cent scholarship money was paid to private institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/affiliation-papers-submitted-by-3-himachal-institutions-were-fake-299694
20-08-2021||Vijay Arora||Probe financial irregularities by Una MS, CMO, HC orders Himachal Chief Secy||Shimla, August 19Taking a serious not on the issue of financial irregularities in the allotment of pharmacy shop in regional hospital, Una, the High Court has directed the Chief Secretary to initiate appropriate inquiry, including criminal proceedings, against the Medical Superintendent-cum-Member Secretary, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Una and Chief Medical Officer-cum-Member of the Samiti, Una for violating the law and causing financial irregularities.‘Shop given on rent at lower price’The court also directed that henceforth the above said officers will not deal with any financial matter in any aspect whatsoever and the functioning of these officers will hereafter be conducted by the Deputy Commissioner, Una, until the inquiry and the criminal proceedings are completed.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed this orders on a writ petition filed by Una District Chemists & Druggists Alliance (UDCDA).The petitioner has alleged that in the year 2017, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Regional Hospital, Una after calling bids by publishing notice, allotted a pharmacy shop on the campus of Regional Hospital, Una for a monthly rent of Rs 1 lakh with 10 per cent increase after three years and security money of Rs 2 lakhs was to be deposited.But after three years on March, 18, 2020, the shop had been allotted at a monthly rent of Rs 9, 800, only that too without there being any clause for increase of rent and above all, to a person, who is not even a pharmacist.The petitioner further alleged that the tender has been awarded without issuing any notice or publishing it in any newspaper.While quashing the tender the court observed that “publication calling for a tender of such a high value should have been given appropriate coverage to ensure that the participating bidders offer the highest rate to the government, but the authorities have deliberately avoided the procedure.”The court further observed that “the act of granting the tender of a pharmacy shop to a non-pharmacist has put the lives of the public in danger.”It further observed that “It is not only an error committed by them but is a deliberate act of causing a financial irregularity and a procedural violation that has led to miscarriage of justice.”The court further directed the allottee to hand over the vacant possession of the shop to Deputy Commissioner and directed the state to submit compliance report by August 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-financial-irregularities-by-una-ms-cmo-hc-orders-himachal-chief-secy-299695
20-08-2021||---||Youth Congress workers’ fast enters 16th day||Mandi, August 19Youth Congress workers, including women, have been on a chain hunger strike for the past 16 days at Keylong demanding that the government should consider their long-pending demand.They are requesting the government to fill the posts of specialist doctor in the District Hospital, Keylong, to provide better medical facilities to the residents of Lahaul Spiti.Kunga Bodh, vice-president of the District Youth Congress, and Shashi Kiran, president of the women wing of the Congress, said, “The residents are not getting the basic health facilities like X-ray, ultrasound and CT scan due to the unavailability of radiologists. X-ray, ultrasound and CT scan machines are lying idle. The patients have to travel a long distance from Lahaul to reach Kullu for tests.”“Due to the poor health services in Lahaul-Spiti, critically ill patients are being referred to Kullu hospital. The posts of gynaecologist, general surgeon, orthopaediatrician, ENT, paediatrician and eye specialist have been lying vacant for a long time,’’ said Shashi Kiran.She said, “Due to lack of the adequate health staff, especially specialist doctors, the people were suffering a lot. There is an urgent need to fill all vacant posts on priority for the welfare of people.”“We have been sitting on a chain hunger strike at Keylong to attract the attention of the government. It was the poll promise of the BJP in the last Assembly elections to provide better medical facilities here, but nothing has been done,” she said.“We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to look into the matter and fill the vacant posts on priority. It will be a huge relief for the residents,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-congress-workers-fast-enters-16th-day-299696
20-08-2021||---||2 killed, one injured in accident||Shimla, August 19Two brothers were killed on the spot and a boy sustained injuries when the apple-laden vehicle they were travelling in fell into a gorge near the Lelupul petrol pump in Theog subdivision of Shimla district late last night around 3 am.The ill-fated vehicle (HP 30 A 0292), was on its way to Shimla from Chopal when the tragedy struck. The deceased were identified as Anup (27) and Pratap Singh (33) of Bagda village in Theog. The injured, Deepak (15), was referred to the IGMC, Shimla.Locals heard screams and informed the police. Pratap was driving the vehicle. The investigations are underway, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-one-injured-in-accident-299697
20-08-2021||Dharamsala||Bilaspur cop dismissed from service||Munish Dhiman, a constable posted in Bilaspur, has been dismissed from service as he was accused in a case under the NPDS Act.SP Bilaspur Divakar Sharma, said Munish Dhiman was accused of selling chitta to a boy during Nalwari fair in Bilaspur in March. On further investigation, another accused Arif was caught and chitta, opium and cash were recovered from him.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bilaspur-cop-dismissed-from-service-299698
20-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal state receives 2,100 Type A cylinders||The state received 2,100 Type A cylinders through PM Cares fund, giving a boost to its efforts to ramp up the infrastructure to deal with the anticipated third wave of Covid-19.“These cylinders are smaller than Type D and bigger than Type B cylinders,” said Dr Ramesh Chand, state nodal officer, Corona Emergency. Dr Chand said these light weight cylinders, fitted with oxygen masks and regulators, have 20 litre capacity. “These cylinders weigh around 12-13 kg, so it’s easy to shift these wherever required,” said Dr Chand.It may be mentioned here that when the second wave was sweeping the state in April and May, acute shortage of cylinders, especially Type D, was felt. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had to urge the Prime Minister to provide 5000 Type D cylinders to the state.Besides, the district administrations issued directions to people to surrender unused cylinders lying at their homes or business premises to enhance the stock of the cylinders. According to the Chief Minister, the stock of Type D cylinders at the moment stands at 7,500 and 1,500 more are being procured.The latest consignment of 2,100 Type A cylinders will make the situation more comfortable as far as the availability of cylinders is concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-state-receives-2-100-type-a-cylinders-299699
20-08-2021||Kullu||Volvo bus gutted near Kullu||A private Volvo bus (UP-81BT-5690) parked on the roadside near the Mahadevi Teerath temple, 5 km from here, for over a year caught fire today. The bus reportedly belongs to Sukhvendra Singh of Aligarh.The bus caught fire around 10.45 am and nearby shopkeepers called the Fire Department. The fire engine reached there and doused the flames but the bus was damaged. The police also reached there to investigate the incident. Kullu Fire Officer Durga Singh said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volvo-bus-gutted-near-kullu-299700
20-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Insulin pump used at 10,000 ft to treat 12-yr-old diabetic girl in Lahaul & Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 19Dr Jatinder Kumar Mokta, Professor, Medicine, IGMC, Shimla, achieved a rare feat for the treatment of a type 1 diabetes patient by using for the first time an insulin pump at an altitude of 10,000 feet in Lahaul & Spiti.Dr Mokta said, “An insulin pump was installed to a little girl aged 12 years at Keylong on March 12 this year. A regular followup of the girl revealed that her fasting glucose level had come down and ranged between 110-130 mg/dl and post-meal glucose was between 150-170 mg/dl. She has now been playing with her friends and her parents are very happy.”“It was a major challenge to keep the insulin safe for medical treatment in the freezing temperature but I devised a locally applicable indigenous method to keep the insulin at an appropriate temperature in the freezing winter,” he said.He said, “Earlier this year, the girl had visited me at the IGMC, Shimla. She had been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at the age of six and had been taking multiple insulin injections since then. Her mother used to visit her daily at her school to inject the day-time insulin.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/insulin-pump-used-at-10-000-ft-to-treat-12-yr-old-diabetic-girl-in-lahaul-spiti-299701
20-08-2021||---||Covid cases rising, Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur hints at stricter curbs||Shimla, August 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today hinted that the government could impose stricter restrictions and reconsider opening of schools which have been closed till August 22 in view the abrupt spike in Covid cases. He was presiding over a video conference with DCs and SPs here today to review the Covid situation. He directed all Deputy Commissioners to focus on contact tracing, especially in rural areas.“At present, there are around 2,700 active cases of coronavirus and it is a matter of concern that there has been a major surge in a very short period,” the Chief Minister said. He added that most of the cases had been reported from the rural areas whereas there were very less cases in the urban areas, including major tourist places which indicates that there had been no impact of tourist flow to different parts of the state.He said that social gatherings, marriage functions and feasts appeared to be the main reasons behind spread of the pandemic. “Almost 29 per cent of the people have taken the second dose and by November, 2021 all the people of the state would be administered vaccine,” he stated.He said there were adequate oxygenated general beds, oxygen concentrators, testing kits and ventilators. The work on setting up 28 additional PSA plants was in progress.Thakur directed the district administration of Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Chamba and Kinnaur to make a provision for testing of labourers keeping in view the ongoing apple season in these districts. He said that the state had performed well in vaccination drive with zero per cent wastage.He said Hamirpur, Kullu, Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts have already achieved cent per cent target of first dose and target had been fixed to vaccinate all persons above the age of 18 plus within 10 days.He said that funds and manpower would be increased for the police department to strengthen the checking mechanism at the borders and other areas.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said keeping in view the rise in cases in rural areas, panchayats and sub divisional level teams should be made more active. He said that a Covid Officer should be deployed for 10-12 panchayats for monitoring of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-rising-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-hints-at-stricter-curbs-299702
20-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Order creates scare, mining operations in Una to shut||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 19Heavy penalties ranging up to Rs 4 lakh that would now be imposed in Una district on any vehicle or excavator found to be mining illegally in Swan river is likely to bring river mining to a halt. The stone crusher owners are now alleging that they might have to close down operations in the wake of new regulations.Dimple Thakur, president of stone crusher owners association of Una, alleged that the entire mining industry of Una might have to shut operations due to current orders issued by DC Una. He said that mining Act of Himachal states that no mining can be carried out mechanically. It only allows mining manually. Practically it was not possible to carry out mining and fill even a single tipper manually.So, as per the orders issued by DC Una, any tipper JCB machine even found mining in legally allotted leased land, it would be penalized with fine up to Rs 4 lakh. In repetition of offence half of showroom price of machinery would be imposed as fine. The order has created scare among the owners of JCB machines, tractor trolley owners and tipper owners in Una district. They are now not ready to use their machinery for mining, he said.Thakur wondered why Una district has been targeted specifically with such heavy penalties on mining. The only beneficiary of the mining being stopped in Una district would be mining mafia of Punjab. Irony is that while Himachal mining lease holders would not be able mine in Swan river just a few hundred meters away the mining mafia of Punjab was mining with JCB and Poklane machines in Swan river.With the mining in Una stopping in operations, people of Himachal would have to procure material at higher prices from Punjab. Now the material mined from Swan river in Punjab would be legal in Una district while any material taken out using JCB machines by Una industry would be illegally and attract huge fines, he said.Thakur alleged that about 5,000 youth employed in mining industry in Una are likely to be rendered jobless.Meanwhile, the tractor trolley owners who used to ferry sand and gravel in Una district have gone off road leading to shortage of sand and gravel in the region. The shortage has affected many private and public developmental projects.The cost of sand has also increased by about 50 per cent. The cost sand has increased from Rs 18 per square feet to Rs 30 per square feet. Deputy Commissioner Una Raghav Sharma, as per the NGT orders, had yesterday notified that any vehicle or excavator found to be mining illegal in Swan would attract penalty up to a maximum of 4 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/order-creates-scare-mining-operations-in-una-to-shut-299703
20-08-2021||Solan||Solan district exceeds vaccination target||Around 7.23 lakh people in the district have been administered Covid vaccine in the special drive that began on August 11.As against the target to vaccinate 6.12 lakh people, 7.23 lakh have received the vaccine in the district. This figure also includes the floating population of factory workers and migrants. District Immunisation Officer Dr Gagan Rajhans said 723,805 people (595,538 given the first dose and 128,267 second dose) had been vaccinated till Tuesday evening.As many as 357,174 people in the 18 to 44 years age group have been given the first jab while 7,003 have received both doses. In the 45 to 60 years age group, 124,999 people have received the first jab while 70,431 have got both doses. In the 60 plus category, 54,674 people have received the first dose while 36,000 got both doses.The special immunisation drive was initially planned to vaccinate all registered people till August 14 but it was later extended for a few more days. Solan topped the drive in the state by vaccinating 164,718 people.In Sirmaur district, 87 per cent of the population has been vaccinated. As many as 3,43,083 persons have got the jab. Chief Medical Officer, Sirmaur, Dr Sanjiv Sehgal said Dhagera health block with 80,403 people having received the jab had surpassed the target of vaccinating 77,905.In Pacchad health block, 63,263 people had received the jab and 86 per cent target had been achieved while in Rajpur block, 99 per cent vaccination had been completed. In Sangrah block, 67 per cent people have been vaccinated while in Shillai 53 per cent had been administered the jab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-district-exceeds-vaccination-target-299704
20-08-2021||Shimla||297 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 297 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, taking the tally to 211,277. Besides, one person died in Mandi. The highest number of 113 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 49 in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/297-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-299705
20-08-2021||Subhash Rajta||Nek Chand’s son keen on mini Rock Garden in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 19If the proposal of the legendary Nek Chand’s son is accepted, Shimla could have a miniature Rock Garden of its own. “I am sending the Shimla MC a proposal to display the sculptures in the Rock Garden style at a small space between The Ridge and the Mall Road, near the live screen on the Mall Road,” said Anuj Saini, the legendary sculptor’s son. “We will also do the landscaping of the place to give it a nice look,” he said.Decades-old giftNek Chand had gifted some sculptures to the Shimla Municipal Corporation about four decades back. About 10 to 15 of these were installed at different places in Shimla. With these sculptures crumbling and coming apart over the years, the Municipal Corporation has sent these pieces to Anuj Saini, Nek Chand’s son, for repair. Incidentally, Nek Chand had gifted some sculptures to the Shimla Municipal Corporation about four decades back. About 10 to 15 of these were installed at different places in the city. With these sculptures crumbling and coming apart over the years, the Municipal Corporation has sent these pieces to Anuj Saini, Nek Chand’s son, for repair. “I will repair and restore these sculptures to their original shape in the next two months and send them back to the Shimla MC,” said Saini.Saini recalled that his father had gifted these sculptures to the Shimla MC when he had gone there for an exhibition. “He had gone to Shimla in the late 80s, I think. After the exhibition, he gifted these sculptures to the MC,” said Saini.Unlike before, Saini wants these sculptures to be displayed at one point. “It will be really nice if these are all displayed at a single place. Having them installed at different places is not ideal as far as safety and maintenance is concerned. Besides, I think not many knew these were sculpted by Nek Chand. If they are displayed together, we can make a mention that these were crafted by Nek Chand,” he said.Shimla MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli, however, wasn’t sure if they could find a place to display all these sculptures at a single place on The Ridge or the Mall. “We haven’t thought about where to place these so far. Anyway, we will place them at prime places, preferably in parks on The Ridge and The Mall Road,” said Kohli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nek-chands-son-keen-on-mini-rock-garden-in-shimla-299706
20-08-2021||---||Expect heavy rain in Himachal's 10 districts||Shimla, August 19The local MeT office has issues a yellow warning of heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti from August 21 to 23 and predicted a wet spell in the region till August 25.Intermittent rain lashed some parts of Himachal. Paonta Sahib received 25 mm of rainfall, Sundernagar 9 mm, Chavari 8 mm, Mandi 7 mm, and Dalhousie, Arki and Sangrah 4 mm each.The state received cumulative seasonal rainfall of 434.7 mm against the normal rainfall of 555.6 mm, a deficit of 22 per cent.Till now, 294 persons have died in rain-related incidents in the current monsoon season and the cumulative loss to the state has mounted to Rs 795.16 crore.Meanwhile, the minimum temperatures rose by one to two degrees and Keylong was the coldest at 11.2°C. There was no significant change in the maximum temperatures and Bhuntar was the hottest at 34°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expect-heavy-rain-in-himachals-10-districts-299707
20-08-2021||Solan||400 take part in Sanawar UN meet||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla today said, “It is of utmost importance to educate the youth about international organisations so that students develop a comprehensive view on international issues.”   He said this while concluding the 3-day Sanawar Model United Nations online  conference hosted by Lawrence School, Sanawar. The conference witnessed nearly 400 delegates representing 38 schools, including four from abroad.  The theme was  “Not moving forward is to move backward.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/400-take-part-in-sanawar-un-meet-299708
20-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Hotel occupancy 10% in Kullu-Manali||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 19Flash floods and landslides in Himachal Pradesh have seriously impacted the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali, as room occupancy in hotels has reduced below 10 per cent. The industry is on the verge of collapse, as its business has been severely hit since the Covid-19 outbreak in the state in March last year.According to Kullu and Manali hoteliers, they did good business in July but this month the tourist footfall has reduced drastically. The room occupancy in hotels has fallen below 10 per cent. MR Baba, a hotelier in Manali town, says, “We have little tourism business in Manali because of misinformation spread among tourists and restrictions imposed by the state government. We are facing a financial crisis though we had opened our hotels last month”.Kishan Thakur, an hotelier in the Manikaran valley, says, “Landslides and flash floods in different parts of the state have caused direct losses to the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali. The flash floods in Dharamsala and Lahaul and Spiti have created fear in the minds of tourists about their safety. As a result, they have shelved their plans to visit Kullu and Manali in August”.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, says, “The hotel industry of Kullu and Manali has been bearing the brunt of the pandemic since March last year. The incidents of landslide and flash flood have severely affected the tourist footfall this month and the room occupancy in hotels has fallen below 10 per cent”.“We were expecting good business September onwards but a sudden spike in Covid cases has forced the state government to reimpose restrictions,” he adds. Anup Thakur appealed to the state and Central governments to declare a financial package for the ailing tourism industry of the state to save it from collapsing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hotel-occupancy-10-in-kullu-manali-299709
20-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Registration checking at Himachal's inter-state barriers||Solan, August 19The police today checked online registration of people entering the state through various inter-state barriers in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district.The state government had issued directions making online registration manadatory for those entering the state from today in view of the surge in Covid cases. On an average, 300 new cases are being reported daily from the last fortnight.Policemen have been deputed at various inter-state barriers at Yamuna Pul, Meenas, Haripur Khol and Behral to check registration of those entering the state, said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.Home guards, too, have been deputed to man all barriers as the area faces a huge influx of vehicles from Uttarakhand, Haryana and Punjab.With the Paonta Sahib-Shillai national highway yet to be restored, buses going to Shillai from Paonta Sahib are using the Vikas Nagar route in Uttarakhand and this has further added to the vehicular influx at the inter-state barriers.Though efforts are being made to streamline the traffic, but a queue of vehicles could be seen lined up at the Yamuna Pul barrier with the registration being checked by policemen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-registration-checking-at-himachals-inter-state-barriers-299710
20-08-2021||---||National Scholarship Portal to be opened for 2021-22 session||Shimla, August 19The Department of Higher Education will open the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) https://scholarships.gov.in for the session 2021-22 for applying and submitting online application forms under various state, central and minority-sponsored scholarship schemes and the DBT Mission, a spokesperson of the department said here today.He said it had been decided in consultation with all stakeholders, ministries, departments to implement various measures to secure the portal and Aadhaar-based demographic authentication of institute/district nodal officers (INOs/DNOs).The facility of the Aadhaar-based authentication of L1 and L2-level officers had been made live on the NSP Portal and the OTP generated during the process would be sent to the mobile number registered with the Aadhaar of INO/DNO.He said a feature of Aadhaar demographic authentication based on beneficiary, students name, gender and year of birth given in Aadhaar had been introduced on the portal.He requested all heads of institutions, schools, colleges, universities, deputy directors of higher education, Himachal Pradesh, to take note of the decision and initiate appropriate action accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/national-scholarship-portal-to-be-opened-for-2021-22-session-299711
20-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Startup makes biodegradable cutlery from apple tree waste||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 19The apple tree prune waste, generated annually in orchards and used as a fuel, is now being put to use for making biodegradable plates, cutlery and packaging material by a local startup.Tonnes of wood waste from apple trees, which are pruned every year to get rid of the unwieldy growth, are being utilised for the environment-friendly production. With its no other use, the pruned twigs and branches are normally burnt as a fuel during winters by villagers.Himjoy Enterprises is founded by a Himachali couple, Bhanu Uday Singh Kanwar and Devangini Kanwar. They are from the apple belt of Kotkhai. Bhanu, a civil engineer, quit his job to return to his apple orchards.They have successfully developed the prototype of biodegradable plates using apple tree prune waste with the help of CSIR-NIIST, Kerala. They have also received a financial grant from IIT, Mandi, to further develop the technology for the commercial use.“The apple prune waste is generated on annual basis in apple farms, which is burned by the farmers, so we thought of putting it to some use,” said Bhanu. Both, central and state government are working to minimise the use of plastic and plastic-based products. “The innovation can be helpful for everyone as plastic products are non-biodegradable and have chemicals,” he said.Now, after the successful development of the prototype of biodegradable plates, the startup will be looking to establish their first manufacturing unit to develop various biodegradable products. This will help protect the environment, create jobs and increase revenue of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/startup-makes-biodegradable-cutlery-from-apple-tree-waste-299712
