22-08-2021||Mandi||Former telecom minister Sukhram admitted to Delhi's Max Hospital, says family||Former telecom minister Pandit Sukhram has been admitted to Delhi’s Max Hospital for a prostate-related ailment, his family said on Sunday.He’s scheduled for surgery on Monday.His grandson Ashray Sharma said his 94-year-old Congressman grandfather had been feeling sick over the last few days.  “We hope he recovers soon,” he said.Sukhram travelled Mandi Parliamentary constituency, his home base, extensively for the 2019 Parliamentary elections while campaigning for his grandson Ashray Sharma, who lost the seat to Bharatiya Janata Party’s Ramswaroop Sharma.A five-time legislator and a three-time parliamentarian, Sukhram represented Mandi in the Himachal assembly from 1963 until 1984, when he was elected to Parliament and served as minister of state for defence production and supplies, planning and food and civil supplies under former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. Sukh Ram later became Union minister of state (independent charge) for communications, a position he held from 1993 to 1996.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-telecom-minister-sukhram-admitted-to-delhis-max-hospital-says-family-300688
22-08-2021||Shimla||Khalini-Kanlog road in Shimla blocked for 4 hours after tree falls||The Khalini-Kanlog road in the heart of the city was blocked for almost four hours on Sunday after a tree fell on the road, crushing a parked truck.The incident occurred around 4 am on Sunday morning. Large number of vehicles were stranded on both sides of the road. The tree has been cut and road has now been opened for vehicular movement. No human casualty was reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/khalini-kanlog-road-in-shimla-blocked-for-4-hours-after-tree-falls-300605
22-08-2021||Solan||Paonta Sahib, Shillai National Highway opens after 23 days||Twentythree days after a 150-metre road caved in at Kali Dhank on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai National Highway-707, the stretch was opened for movement of small vehicles today.Vehicles have been permitted to ply on the road from 6 am to 7 pm, while the road will be closed for traffic, except ambulances, at night. A trial run of buses and small vehicles was undertaken on the repaired road today. Earth excavation machines have been stationed at the site, where a shed for the police and the staff of the private company engaged in widening the road, has been set up to monitor the traffic.A team of officials comprising SDM Vivek Mahajan, HRTC representative, DSP Bir Bahadur and an official of the private company examined the restored portion of the highway.The SDM said, “Small vehicles can ply from 6 am to 7 pm as per the report submitted by the officials. Buses can also ply on the road, but the passengers will have to cross the affected stretch on foot to ensure there is less load on the newly repaired stretch.”A report would also be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner for further instructions, said the SDM.The opening of the road had come as a relief to the residents of the Shillai, Kamaru and Kafota area, who were being forced to take a detour from Vikas Nagar in Uttarakhand or trudge through three-km hilly terrain to reach the other side of the highway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-shillai-national-highway-opens-after-23-days-300568
22-08-2021||Shimla||200 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 200 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 211,632. Besides, one person died in Hamirpur.The highest 51 cases were recorded in Mandi, followed by 41 each in Chamba and Kangra, 24 in Hamirpur, 12 each in Bilaspur and Shimla, seven in Kinnaur, five in Kullu, three each in Lahaul and Spiti and Solan and one in Una. The number of active cases reduced to 2,276. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/200-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-300438
22-08-2021||---||CM mourns death of former Chief Engineer||Shimla, August 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has mourned the death of OP Mahajan, who breathed his last in Shimla on Friday evening.A retired Chief Engineer of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB), he had recovered from Covid in March. His condition suddenly deteriorated on Friday. He was 84 years old.The Chief Minister has prayed to the almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members to bear the irreparable loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-mourns-death-of-former-chief-engineer-300426
22-08-2021||---||Subsidy on edible oil for BPL, APL families raised||Shimla, August 21The state government has decided to raise subsidy on edible oil for BPL families from Rs 10 per litre to Rs 30 per litre and for APL families from Rs 5 per litre to Rs 10 per litre for the next four months, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.He said that the decision would ensure additional financial benefits of Rs 13 crore to the consumers of the state in four months and benefit over 18.71 lakh card holders.Thakur said that the country had witnessed a sharp increase in the prices of edible oil in the past two to three months due to import-related issues, which were beyond the control of the state government.The Chief minister added that the government through the public distribution system was providing about 32 lakh litres of edible oil to the consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/subsidy-on-edible-oil-for-bpl-apl-families-raised-300433
22-08-2021||Solan||10 vehicles collide at Kandaghat||Traffic was halted for half an hour at Kandaghat on the Solan-Shimla section of the NH-5 today as an apple-laden truck developed a mechanical defect and rammed into a car that hit eight other vehicles plying behind at 9:40 am today.Two occupants of a car, which was right behind the truck, escaped with minor injuries. The mishap occurred when the driver of the ill-fated truck, which was en route to Solan, failed to apply brakes and rammed into a car belonging to the Director Environment.A cop, who was regulating the traffic, ran to save himself from the speeding truck. The mishap was caught in a CCTV camera. Additional SP Ashok Verma said, “Ten vehicles were damaged in the mishap.” A case has been registered against the truck driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-vehicles-collide-at-kandaghat-300434
22-08-2021||Mandi||Rs 4-cr irrigation scheme for Spiti village||An irrigation facility will be constructed at Rs 3.99 crore for cultivation of agricultural land at Langcha village in the Spiti region of Lahaul-Spiti. Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda laid the foundation stone of the irrigation scheme yesterday.The scheme will irrigate 107 hectares in the area and will benefit the farmers of Langcha village.Markanda said people of Langcha village had been demanded for an irrigation scheme for a long time.At Kaza, the minister laid the foundation stone of a common housing building to be built at Rs 87.72 lakh and the foundation stone of a helipad to be built under Kungri panchayat at Rs. 54.57 lakh. Markanda also inaugurated a 70-ft bridge connecting Mane Siluk village completed at a cost of Rs 78.47 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-4-cr-irrigation-scheme-for-spiti-village-300435
22-08-2021||Shimla||Mercury falls after widespread rains||Moderate to heavy rain lashed several parts of HP and the maximum temperatures plummeted. The MeT office issued a warning of thunderstorm and lightning in mid and lower hills for tomorrow and predicted rain and thundershower in lower and mid hills, and rain and snow in higher hills for the next six days from August 22 to August 27.Sujanpur Tira was the wettest with 107 mm rain, while Palampur and Hamirpur received 54 mm and 38 mm rain, followed by Berthin (23.5 mm), Baldwara (22 mm), Dharamsala (21 mm), Manali and Kandaghat (20 mm), Gaggal (19 mm), Pachhad and Naina Devi (18 mm), Solan, Dharampur and Gaggal (17 mm), Sundernagar (16 mm), Jogindernagar (15.5 mm), Paonta Sahib and Shimla (15 mm), Kasauli (14 mm), Nagrota Suriyan and Nahan (13 mm). The maximum temperatures dropped by 4°C-10°C, and Una was the hottest at 28.5°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mercury-falls-after-widespread-rains-300436
22-08-2021||Nurpur||Gun seized from drug addict||The Nurpur police seized a Germany made 6 mm bore revolver from the possession of a drug addict near Suliali late Thursday evening.The accused, identified as Surjeet Singh (24), a resident of Bardi village near Suliali, came to a bank Thursday and had an altercation with employees, who noticed him carrying a firearm. The bank authorities informed the police. A police team stopped Surjeet while he was on his way back home and recovered the revolver from him.The police arrested him and booked him under Section 25 of the Indian Arms Act. He was today produced in court, which remanded him in police custody. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gun-seized-from-drug-addict-300429
22-08-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Bhuntar airport runway awaits extension||Kullu, August 21The matter of extension of the runway of the Kullu-Manali Airport at Bhuntar has been hanging fire for long. Many proposals and surveys concerning the runway extension have been conducted but these have remained only on paper.A team of senior officials of the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation had on March 6 carried out a survey to explore the possibility of runway extension. There is a proposal to increase the length of the runway from 1,052 metres to 1,712 metres by diverting the Beas.At present, an ATR-72 aircraft by Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, having 70 seats was being operated to Kullu. The aircraft is allowed to ferry only around 20 passengers from Kullu due to the load stipulation because of a short runway. The airline generally charges above Rs 22,000 for a Kullu to Delhi ticket and over Rs 20,000 for Kullu to Chandigarh travel to meet its expenses.High airfaresTravel agents say that the extension of the runway is a must to enable medium-size aircraft to operate and ferry more passengers. They say that this will encourage other airlines to start operations in this sector, thereby reducing the airfares, which in turn will promote tourism and boost the economy of the region.They add that Alliance Air is charging exorbitant fares because of the monopoly and the airfares are out of the reach of the common man.Kullu-Manali Airport Director Neeraj Kumar Srivastava says that the possibility to extend the runway has been deliberated upon and a plan has been sent to the higher authorities. He adds that the state government will have to procure the land for the runway extension as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) does not bear the land acquisition cost.Bhupender Thakur, patron of the Kullu Travel Agents Association, says that a team of experts from the IIT, Roorkee, had earlier evaluated the feasibility of the runway extension and the state government had agreed to provide the required land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhuntar-airport-runway-awaits-extension-300430
22-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Illegal constructions on the rise in Palampur||Palampur, August 21Illegal constructions are on the rise in Palampur these days. The newly-formed municipal corporation (MC) has no manpower to check illegal constructions.Earlier, the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department had the powers to approve the site plans of commercial and domestic buildings but now the responsibility is with the MC. However, till date the civic body has not developed facilities to pass the site plans of the buildings under its jurisdiction.A number of shops have come up on forestland at Ram Chowk at Ghuggar on the outskirts of Palampur town. The construction of these shops is still going on. Interesting, the place is a reserved forest and all types of constructions on this land is prohibited.The Divisional Forest Officer, Palampur, says that he has served a notice on encroachers and necessary action is being taken against the culprits. Besides, illegal buildings have also come up on riverbeds in Palampur. The Dhauladhar range in Kangra district falls in the seismic zone-V and is prone to flash floods.Earlier also hotels, malls and shopping complexes were built on the banks of a local water stream, two tributaries of the Beas passing through Palampur in gross violations of rules. The constructions have squeezed the width of the riverbeds at many places.A retired TCP officer says that there should be a ban on constructions on riverbeds. It is a matter of concern that such building plans have been approved. He adds that rules should be implemented strictly as a woman TCP officer was murdered in Solan three years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-constructions-on-the-rise-in-palampur-300431
22-08-2021||---||Fake message promising free laptops goes viral||Shimla, August 21There has been a spurt in cases of cyber crime during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, as people are working and studying from home through online mode.A fake message is being circulated through SMS and WhatsApp claiming that “The government is giving free laptops to all students of India. Register your number on PM-Laptop app. App link - http://tiny.cc/Govtlaptop”. It is also being asked in the message to spread it further, so that more students can get laptops.Investigations of the link by the state cyber police station, Shimla, revealed that the file attached with the link had malicious, ‘android Trojan agents/warm malware virus’ and several encrypted files, said Inspector General of Police, CID, Atul Fuljale. “Do not share your personal information on the link,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-message-promising-free-laptops-goes-viral-300432
22-08-2021||---||Kangra to be developed as sports hub: Anurag Thakur||Dharamsala/Mandi, August 21Sports has given him an identity and the sector is close to his heart, said Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs Anurag Thakur while speaking to mediapersons here today. “I will work to develop Kangra district as a sports hub and that will also develop tourism and boost employment in the area,” he said.Earlier, Anurag was accorded a rousing welcome at the border near Baijnath in Kangra district by party leaders and workers this afternoon. Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Forests, Sports and Youth Affairs, brought hundreds of BJP workers in cars from Nurpur to welcome Anurag.Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and Rajya Sabha member Indu Goswami along with their supporters, too, separately welcomed Anurag at the Kangra border. Many party workers jostled to take a selfie with the Union minister in the Baijnath area.Mandi railway lineOur government has started the work on the Bhanupali-Leh railway line. As soon as the work is completed up to Bilaspur, the construction of the railway line to Mandi will start. — Anurag Thakur, Union MinisterIn Palampur, veteran BJP leader and former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar welcomed Anurag at the Vivekanand Medical Research Trust. In Dharamsala constituency, he was welcomed by MLA Vishal Nehria and his supporters.However, the warm welcome accorded to him has surprised many. Sources said that BJP workers, who were feeling sidelined under the present set-up, saw hope in Anurag after his elevation as a Cabinet minister in the Union Government. They said that the Dhumal faction threw its weight to make his visit to the state a success.In Mandi, while addressing mediapersons, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur were ensuring good governance and as a result the people of the state were getting the benefits of Centrally-sponsored schemes.“Our government has started the work on the Bhanupali-Leh railway line. As soon as the work is completed up to Bilaspur, the construction of the railway line to Mandi will start,” he added.He said, “I am on a five-day visit to the state to participate in the Jan Aashirwad Yatra. I will cover 38 Assembly segments and four parliamentary constituencies. I am receiving a good response from the public, which is the result of good governance”.Anurag said, “I will do my best to serve the people of the state as well as the nation. It is true that the people of Himachal have huge expectations from me as I am a Union Cabinet minister. I will make every possible effort to come up to their expectations”.He said that the Congress was unable to digest that the Prime Minister had given an opportunity to young leaders to serve the people of the country. “The Central Government is also promoting sports and spending a considerable amount of money on players’ training. As a result, Indian players performed better in the Olympics this year and brought laurels to the nation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-to-be-developed-as-sports-hub-anurag-thakur-300422
22-08-2021||Shimla||Higher property tax for Shimla buildings made in 2021||Shimla residents will have to pay a higher property tax for the buildings built in 2021 and beyond. The proposal to apply a higher factor to calculate property tax on properties built in 2021 and later was approved in the Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Planning Committee’s meeting today. The matter will now go to the General House for the final approval.However, the application of a higher factor is not going to make much of a difference to the tax that the people are already paying. “The new method will enhance the amount by around Rs 100 only. So, people need not worry about it,” said MC Mayor Satya Kaundal. The MC is expecting an additional income of around Rs 20 lakh per annum from the properties taxed using the higher factor value.The meeting rejected the HPTDC proposal for one-time settlement of the land on which a lift has been constructed on the Cart Road. “As per the agreement, we have been demanding a 30-per cent share of the total income from the Lift. The HPTDC, however, wants to purchase the land instead of giving us our share. The meeting has rejected HPTDC’s proposal and the MC will keep demanding its due share,” said the Mayor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/higher-property-tax-for-shimla-buildings-made-in-2021-300423
22-08-2021||---||Himachal's Jari made subdivision, Bhuntar a development block||Shimla, August 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of 14 developmental projects worth about Rs 40 crore for the Kullu Assembly constituency from here today. He could not go to Kullu due to inclement weather conditions.The CM announced a subdivision at Jari and a new development block at Bhuntar. He said that the stage-I forest clearance for the construction of a ropeway up to Bilji Mahadev had been sent and this would boost tourism development in the area.He announced that the road to Bijli Mahadev would be widened if land was made available for the purpose. He also announced the upgrade of Government Middle School at Neuli to high school, Rs 5 lakh for the development of a park below the national highway near Ram Shila, Rs 3 lakh for the maintenance of the Seogi road, and Rs 3 lakh for the construction of a sarai at Mata Neuli Ranni. He also laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 35.05 crore.Boost for tourismThe stage-I forest clearance for the construction of a ropeway up to Bilji Mahadev has been sent and this will boost tourism in the area. —Jai Ram Thakur, CMThakur said that the state government during its about three and a half years rule had ensured equitable and balanced development even though Covid-19 had consumed around two years.He said he had taken up the matter of the construction of the Bhubhoo Jot tunnel with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior central leaders, at it would reduce the distance between Jogindernagar and Kullu by over 60 km.He announced the opening of a health sub centre at Karingcha, upgrade of Government High School at Doghri to senior secondary, Rs 25 lakh each for developing the Smana to Gurugug and Jathani to Mathasour roads, Rs 15 lakh for the construction of a bypass to Shishamathi and Serveri and Rs 10 lakh for the construction of a sarai at Bhalayani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-jari-made-subdivision-bhuntar-a-development-block-300424
22-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal High Court: Pay arrears to freedom fighter’s widow from 1974||The Himachal Pradesh High Court has dismissed an appeal filed by the Central Government and directed it to pay all arrears of pension, including interest, to the widow of a freedom fighter with effect from 1974.A division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewa Dua passed the order on an appeal filed by the Central Government, challenging the order by a single judge on the petition.Petitioner Brahmi Devi had sought directions to the Centre and the state government to grant freedom fighter’s pension to her, being the widow of Dhani Ram, who had served in Dogra Regiment as a sepoy till 1946 and participated in World War II.Awarded the Pacific Star, the Defence Medal and the War Medal, Dhani Ram, along with similarly placed people, were declared as freedom fighters of the nation.In 1973, Himachal Pradesh issued a letter to award Tamrapatras to the freedom fighters in Bilaspur, Mandi, Hamirpur and Kullu districts and the petitioner’’s husband name was there along with another freedom fighter Lance Naik Lashkari Ram.On August 15, 1973, a Tamrapatra was awarded to Dhani Ram, who was acknowledged as a freedom fighter by the Bilaspur Deputy Commissioner and was issued an identity card. However, the state did not consider his request for the grant of pension to him. He went on making representations till his death on May 2, 2010. Thereafter, his widow had been pursuing his claim.The single judge Bench had allowed her petition on September 29, 2016, observing that “it is proved on record that the husband of the petitioner was a freedom fighter and therefore, she is entitled for the grant of freedom fighter pension from the due date, i.e. April 4, 1974”.It had directed that the pension shall be released within eight weeks, failing which, the respondents shall be liable to pay nine per cent interest on the pension. — IANSThe backgroundOn August 15, 1973, a Tamrapatra was awarded to Dhani Ram, who was acknowledged as a freedom fighter by the Bilaspur Deputy Commissioner and was issued an identity card. However, the state did not consider his request for the grant of pension to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-pay-arrears-to-freedom-fighters-widow-from-1974-300425
22-08-2021||Shimla||Big relief for HPU clerks promoted from Class IV||The Executive Council (EC) of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) today decided to waive the condition of producing six months computer certificate for employees promoted from Class IV to Class III posts of clerk.The EC meeting presided over by Vice-Chancellor Sikender Kumar also decided to create three new chairs in the names of first woman teacher of the country Savitri Bai Phule, Sant Guru Ravidas and former Himachal Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. It allowed M.Phil, LLM, M.Tech and Ph.D students to submit their dissertation/ thesis by December 31 without any additional fee.The EC approved temporary affiliation to BBM College at Malkwal in Kangra district for 2021-22 in respect of physics, chemistry, biology, earth sciences and mathematics for B.Sc and M.Sc. It approved the recommendations of the committee for the identification of posts of persons with disabilities under Section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.The EC also approved the appointment of teachers done by the university, besides the recommendations of the meeting of the Committee on Reservation, Implementation/ Revision of reserved vacancies under the 200 marks model roster of reservation for the recruitment of teachers in the university.The EC also gave nod to the creation of one seat each for newly appointed Assistant Professors in every department of the university and Assistant Professors of the colleges affiliated to the HPU in addition to the sanctioned seats for PhD. The EC decided to send recommendation to the government for the appointment of 10 deputy registrars, 20 assistant registrars, and 25 section officers in the university. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/big-relief-for-hpu-clerks-promoted-from-class-iv-300437
22-08-2021||Rajesh Sharma||Stone laid 7 yrs ago, handball court incomplete||Una, August 21The foundation stone of a handball court at the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex in Una city was laid in October 2014 by the then Industries Minister Mukesh Agnihotri. Seven years have passed but the Public Works Department (PWD) has not completed the work on the stadium.As per information provided by the District Sports Office, the government had sanctioned Rs 13 lakh during 2013-14 for the construction of the stadium and a suitable site adjacent to the indoor sports complex was earmarked. Consequently, the foundation stone was laid, but funds were not sufficient to complete the work.Additional Rs4.6L given for project The Sports Department had sanctioned additional Rs4.6 lakh during 2018-19 to complete the work on the project. The amount was deposited withthe Public Works Department. — Kuldip Sharma, Officiating district sports officerDistrict Handball Association general secretary Parveen Dubey says that the Sports Department has erected iron railings on the boundary of the handball court and locked the gates on the plea that the court could not be used as the PWD had not handed it over to the department. For the past seven years, training sessions were held there, he adds.Association treasurer Munish Rana says that the handball centre at Una, which was once active and had produced many national-level players, has been ruined due to the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned. The old corrugated tin roof removed from the indoor stadium has been stacked at the handball court and it is lying there for the past three years. Moreover, wild plantation is growing in the court, he adds. Miscreants had made large holes in the wire mesh on the railings, even before the court was made operational.Officiating District Sports Officer Kuldip Sharma says that the department had sanctioned additional Rs 4.6 lakh in 2018-19 for the completion of the work and the amount was deposited with the PWD.PWD Assistant Engineer Arvind Chaudhary says that he was not apprised of the matter as he was given the additional charge of Una subdivision recently. However, he promised to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-laid-7-yrs-ago-handball-court-incomplete-300427
22-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Amb’s Major Ankesh gets Sena Medal||Una, August 21Major Ankesh Jarial, a resident of Amb in Una district, was awarded the Sena Medal for Gallantry at a function organised at Rashtrapati Bhawan in New Delhi on the occasion of Independence Day. Major Ankesh is at present serving in Rashtriya Rifles and posted in South Kashmir.According to his citation, on the night of June 30, 2020, on the basis of inputs from local sources regarding the presence of militants at a location in Anantnag district, Major Ankesh led a team of soldiers and cordoned off the terrorists, who were planning an attack.The terrorists began firing indiscriminately. The Army team retaliated and neutralised the two terrorists.Major Ankesh’s mother Kiran Lata said that she was proud that her son had led his team and fought the terrorists bravely for the nation. She added that during a telephonic conversation Major Ankesh told her that he had dedicated the medal to his late father BN Jarial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ambs-major-ankesh-gets-sena-medal-300428
22-08-2021||Solan||No railing, bus skids off road in Solan, 32 hurt||As many as 32 passengers, including 11 women, escaped with minor injuries when an HRTC bus (HP 12 C 6631) they were travelling in rolled down a road and fell into a 200-foot gorge at Thedpura on the Joharjee-Nalagarh road today.In the absence of a railing, the bus skidded off a link road, which had become slippery after rains in the area for the past 24 hours. Locals gathered there to help in the rescue work as soon as the news about the mishap spread. The injured were taken to a local health centre.“The police are probing the cause of the accident and a case has been registered against the bus driver,” said Navdeep Singh, DSP, Baddi.The injured included 10-year-old Arushi and 16-year-old Vishnu, who hail from local villages in Kasauli tehsil. Other persons who received minor injuries hailed from Kasauli and Arki tehsils besides migrants from Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-railing-bus-skids-off-road-in-solan-32-hurt-300339
