23-08-2021||Hamirpur||Anurag Thakur calls Mehbooba’s Taliban remarks ‘anti-India’||Union minister Anurag Thakur has termed "anti-India" and "absurd" PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti's statement referring to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to call upon the Centre to restore Jammu and Kashmir's special status.Addressing reporters here on Sunday night, he claimed that the PDP and its allies had been upset since their exit from power and the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are on the path of development under the BJP government, the Union Information and Broadcasting Minister said.Addressing Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) workers in south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Saturday, Mehbooba had asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status.Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister had warned the Centre "not to test us" and asked the government to "mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood".Thakur said Mehbooba's statement is "anti-India" and "absurd".He claimed that the PDP and its allies had been upset since their exit from power and the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir.They should understand that whatever happened in the past would not be repeated. Both Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are on the path of development and would continue to thrive under the BJP rule. They would become model states of India, he said.Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports, said sports would be given priority under the New Education Policy and all modern facilities would be provided to the budding sportspersons.He said sports would be promoted across the country through 'Khel Maha Kumbh'. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-calls-mehboobas-taliban-remarks-anti-india-301015
23-08-2021||ibune News Service
||BJP failed to fulfil promises, alleges Himachal Congress co-incharge||Mandi, August 22 Sanjay Dutt, co-incharge of the Congress in Himachal Pradesh, alleged that the BJP had failed to fulfil its promises made to public in its election manifesto, after coming to power in the state and at the Centre.  He said the BJP had promised in its manifesto ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections that it would increase public spending in the education sector to 6 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). However, the latest figure shows that in 2019-20, the Union Government spent 3.1 per cent of the GDP.  “The BJP had set up a goal to achieve 5 trillion US Dollar economy till 2025 and 10 trillion US Dollar economy till 2032 but at present, it is showing an opposite picture. The GDP has declined as compared to the figures in the last 20 years,” he said.  “The BJP had promised to create two crore jobs in India every year but around 9 million jobs were lost between September 2019 to December 2020.  “The farmers are struggling for their rights but the Union Government ispaying no heed. The inflation has increased manifold,” he added. “Instead of addressing these issues, BJP leaders are doing a Jan Ashirwad Yatra, which will only spread Covid-19,” said Sanjay.  “Similarly in the state, the BJP is silent over the death of former BJP MP from Mandi Ramswaroop Sharma, while his family has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to take up the matter with the Centre to investigate it thoroughly,” he added. “To woo the voters, now Thakur is making announcements of development projects in those Assembly segments where elections are due. The BJP government has failed to ensure development equally across the state,” said Sanjay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-failed-to-fulfil-promises-alleges-himachal-congress-co-incharge-300890
23-08-2021||Chamba||NGO: Remove enroachments from Chamba Chowgan||Hailing the administration’s decision to remove encroachments from the government land, the Chamba Welfare Association, an NGO, hoped the move would also pave the way for the lifting of structures from Chowgan number-3. The area is considered as the midway through the path to Bhagot crematorium.  MLA Pawan Nayyar, along with officials, took a stock of encroachments in the town. NGO chief AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri said the move would help restore the grandeur of the area. The office-bearers urged the administration to remove encroachments near historic temples. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-remove-enroachments-from-chamba-chowgan-300891
23-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Govt committed to building Bhubu Jot tunnel between Jogindernagar in Mandi district and Kullu: Minister||Kullu, August 22 Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur here said that the state government was committed to constructing the 3.2-km Bhubu Jot tunnel between Jogindernagar in Mandi district and Kullu through the Lug valley.  The minister performed bhoomi pujan for laying the foundation stones of three water supply schemes costing Rs 7.37 crore at Kadaun in the Lug valley.  Thakur assured people that the tunnel would be constructed at all costs and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was taking keen interest in the project. The tunnel, when constructed, would reduce the distance between Jogindernagar and Kullu by around 65 km and reduce the travel time by 2 hours. Bhubu Jot remains covered with heavy snow during the winter and the proposed tunnel would provide all-weather road connectivity to commuters, especially military vehicles. The minister said that the Chief Minister had already included Lug valley in the ambitious Nai Raahein, Nai Manzilein scheme to develop untouched destinations for tourism purpose and also released funds for it. He added that the Lug valley would be developed as a major tourist destination to provide employment opportunities to local people and boost the economy of the region. He said that many villages would benefit from the water schemes and the problem of drinking water would be solved. He added that tap water had been provided to 75 per cent households in Kullu district  under the Jal Jeevan Mission and remaining households would be covered by July 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-committed-to-building-bhubu-jot-tunnel-between-jogindernagar-in-mandi-district-and-kullu-minister-300892
23-08-2021||Mandi||Rural Dev Dept in Dharampur faces staff crunch||CITU leader Bhupender Singh said the Rural Development Department in the Dharampur Assembly segment of Mandi district was facing an acute shortage of staff. As a result, development works related to gram panchayats were getting affected. He said, “As many as 85 posts are vacant in the department at Dharamur. It is a cause for concern for residents, especially those enrolled under the MGNREGA to earn their livelihood. Due to the shortage, the MGNREGA-related development works are getting affected”. “Three posts of Junior Engineer, 30 of Gram Rojgar Sevak, 34 of Technical Assistant and 18 of Panchayat Secretary are vacant,” he said. “Due to this, people enrolled under MGNREGA are getting work only for 70 days on an average against the provision of employment for 120 days,” Singh added. He said Jal Shakti Minister Mahender  Thakur should raise the issue with CM Jai Ram Thakur to fill the vacant posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rural-dev-dept-in-dharampur-faces-staff-crunch-300893
23-08-2021||r Correspondent
||Items of Una SHGs to be sold under ‘Sombhadra’ name||Una, August 22 The Una administration has launched ‘Sombhadra’ as an umbrella brand name for all products being made by women self-help groups (SHG) supported by the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) in the district. The brand namewas launched by Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma at the temporary sale outlet set up at the Una municipal park under the theme “Vocal for local”.   The Swan river, which originates at Marwari village in Gagret subdivision, traverses almost 55 km along the entire length from North to South of the district. This river, along with its network of 73 tributaries,  has sustained the flora and fauna, besides shaping agricultural practices and lifestyle of the local civilisation for centuries. The Swan river has been referred to as river Sombhadra in ancient Indian scriptures.  The DC said members of the self help groups were given training in food processing and in making soaps, detergents and handicrafts made from bamboo and clay. He said these items would be marketed under the name ‘Sombhadra’ henceforth, adding that the registration of products made by each SHG was being done by the DRDA.  Raghav Sharma said online sales of products on the platforms of Amazon and Flipcart would also be initiated at a later stage. He said in order to maintain a uniform packaging for products, the packing material would be designed and provided by the DRDA to the groups. He said one sale outlet for the products made by the SHGs would be opened in each of the five developmental blocks of the district in the first phase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/items-of-una-shgs-to-be-sold-under-sombhadra-name-300894
23-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Strengthen party: HPCC chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore to workers||Kullu, August 22 Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore has claimed that the Congress will win all four seats in the upcoming bypoll.  Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Rathore said in view of bypoll for one Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats in the state, he had already visited Mandi district and now was touring Kullu. He said discussions were held with office-bearers and workers to win the bypoll and emphasis had been laid on strengthening the party.  Rathore said the public was completely fed up of the BJP government in the state. “Inflation is touching the sky, ration is disappearing from depots and the government is not doing anything to give relief to the masses. In the current scenario, it is impossible for the BJP to win the bypoll,” he added. The HPCC chief alleged that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur only makes announcements and his government was taking the credit of works done during the Congress regime.  On Saturday, a group of Congressmen had expressed their displeasure over some issue with the state president during his visit to Anni. On this, Rathore said every worker and office-bearer could represent their views and this won’t mean that there was factionalism in the party. Meanwhile, Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur said the Congress was capable of winning the election. He said he was also working to strengthen the party by contacting the workers at the booth-level. He said, “People will oust the BJP from the state and the Centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strengthen-party-hpcc-chief-kuldeep-singh-rathore-to-workers-300895
23-08-2021||---||114 new Covid cases, six deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, August 22A total of 114 new Covid cases were recorded today. Six persons — two each in Shimla, Kangra and one each in Chamba and Mandi — succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours.The highest number of 31 cases were recorded in Shimla, followed by 24 in Mandi, 22 in Chamba, 12 in Solan, 11 in Kangra, eight in Hamirpur, three in Una and one each in Sirmaur, Mandi and Bilaspur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/114-new-covid-cases-six-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-300896
23-08-2021||---||Committed to expansion of Gaggal airport, says Anurag Thakur||Dharamsala, August 22Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Sports and Youth Affairs today said that Dharamsala was like second home for him. “Even when I was not in politics, I used to spend a lot of time in Dharamsala,” he said. The union minister said that he was overwhelmed by the welcome accorded to him by people across the state.Will bring big projects to stateI am committed to working for the development of Himachal and bringing big projects to the state. I will continue to work for it now as a Cabinet minister in the Union Government. — Anurag Thakur, Union MinisterWhile addressing a press conference here today, he said that there was no political party at the national level that can challenge the Modi-led government.Anurag said he was committed to the expansion of Gaggal airport as it was the most viable airport project in the state.About providing rail link to Hamirpur, Anurag said unfortunately the state government could not provide support to project due to financial restraints. “I am committed to working for the development of Himachal and bringing big projects to the state. I will continue to work for it now as a Cabinet minister in the Union Government.”During his stay in Dharamsala, Anurag met various party leaders and ministers and took feedback regarding various projects of union government going on in Kangra district.In Circuit House where the union minister stayed overnight many BJP leaders from Kangra came and met him in person. In the morning also many constituency level leaders exhibited show of strength in front of the Union Minister.Anurag said the Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) campus that would soon start coming up in Dehra would benefit the economy of the area and generate direct and indirect jobs for the youth. The union ministry of sports would bring up a sports complex in CUHP campus at Dehra, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/committed-to-expansion-of-gaggal-airport-says-anurag-thakur-300897
23-08-2021||Mandi||Include Chhoti Kashi Mandi under Smart City project: Residents||The Citizen Council, Mandi, has urged Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs, to include Chhoti Kashi Mandi under the Smart City project.  OP Kapoor, president of Citizen Council, said, “Mandi is a city of archaeological importance. It has always been the centre of trade. This city has the capacity to fulfil the criteria needed for the Smart City project.” “We urged the minister to instal ‘moksha’ furnaces under the green cremation system in the main cremation ground of the city. We requested him to construct a lake in the Beas river near Mandi to attract tourists and to connect the archaeological temples of the Ghats of Chhoti Kashi,” he added. “Due to the construction of Pandoh dam in Mandi, the damage caused to the climate in the low-lying areas has not been compensated for to date,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/include-chhoti-kashi-mandi-under-smart-city-project-residents-300898
23-08-2021||---||20 injured in bus-truck collision on Shimla NH||Solan, August 22 Passengers of a private bus (HP 51 A 3651) had a miraculous escape when the vehicle overturned after being hit by an apple-laden truck (RJ 14 GJ 1031) coming from behind. The bus stopped against a crash barrier which prevented it from plunging into a deep gorge near Jabli on the Kalka- Shimla National Highway-5 this morning around 11:30 am. Twenty persons, including four children, were injured in the accident.  According to DSP Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta, the truck driver lost control of the vehicle and it rammed into the bus moving ahead of it. Both vehicles, which were en route Solan- Parwanoo, overturned on the road. No traffic jam was, however, caused as the road is wide enough at the spot. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained. Nineteen of the 32 passengers in the bus were injured, six of them seriously. They were referred to Regional Hospital, Solan after being administered preliminary treatment at Community Health Centre, Dharampur. Another person, who was sitting in a tinned shed at the spot, was also seriously injured as apple boxes fell on him after the truck overturned. Truck driver and two other people travelling with him fled before the arrival of the police.  Four children were among those injured. This included a two and a half year old boy Jaswant from Bohli village and a two year old girl from Sarahan in Sirmaur. Besides, a 17-year old girl Garima from Kumarhatti and 13-year old boy Priyansh from Kuthar village were also injured. Other injured included eight women. Several apple-laden vehicles of other states like Uttrakhand and Rajasthan have met with accidents on this highway in the last fortnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-on-shimla-nh-300899
23-08-2021||Shimla||Man crushed to death in Theog||A 38-year-old man was crushed to death when an apple-laden tempo turned turtle in Theog on Sunday morning. Sushil was rushed to a hospital in Theog, where he was declared brought dead.Sushil had loaded 100 boxes of apples in the tempo, which was on its way to the Dhalli fruit market.He was following the tempo in his car. Noticing the tempo moving backward at Palai Kainchi, Sushil got down from his car. He tried to stop the tempo by putting stones but it turned turtle and he was crushed under it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-crushed-to-death-in-theog-300900
23-08-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority  ranked second best in country||Shimla, August 22Himachal Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), constituted with the objective of regulating and promoting the real estate sector, has been ranked second best amongst all the RERA authorities across the country.BASIS OF RANKINGThe ranking is based on Himachal RERA’s effectiveness in executing its orders by instituting execution proceedings within one and a half year of its inception. The main objective of the HP RERA is to regulate and promote the real estate sector and ensure that sale of plots, apartments or buildings is done in an efficient and transparent manner.The primary objective is to protect the interest of home buyers in the state. About 38 new real estate projects and 52 agents were registered with the authority within a short period. The authority has decided a large number of cases by hearing the parties online without calling them to visit its office in view of Covid restrictions.All the hearings of complaints are being conducted virtually and the parties are not required to physically visit the RERA office which makes it more convenient for the stakeholders to pursue their cases. More than 260 virtual hearings have been conducted.In these cases, an amount of Rs 6. 55 crores was ordered to be refunded to the house allottees. Out of this sum, about Rs 76 lakhs has already been recovered from the promoters.The HP RERA has also taken initiative to settle matters amicably between parties as a result of which Rs 52 lakhs has been refunded. Apart from refund, a penalty of more than Rs 2.27 crores was also imposed on the builders and promoters for contravention of provisions of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016.Till today 14 execution petitions have been filed by allottees and nine execution petitions have been registered suo moto against promoters and builders. A total of Rs 35 lakhs has also been realised as penalty from the builders and promoters.The authority has formulated regulations no. 2, 4 and 5 to facilitate and regulate the filing of quarterly progress reports (QPRs) and annual progress reports (APRs) online. The allottees and home buyers are at liberty to see the progress of homes and apartments through these QPRs.The new website of RERA is under process of development through the NIC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-real-estate-regulatory-authority-ranked-second-best-in-country-300901
23-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Railways curtails service in Kangra areas, passengers in lurch||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 22The Railways is curtailing its services on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar route, leaving many villages in Dehra with no connectivity. The villages have no road link as these fall in the Pong Dam wildlife sanctuary.Sole link to villagesTrains from Pathankot to Jogindernagar are the only link to our village. Now, the trains, passing through our village, rarely stop here. People have to walk about 10 km to catch a bus. Vippan Kumar, Lunsu Village PradhanHike in minimum fareVippan Kumar Pradhan of Lunsu village said the trains from Pathankot to Jogindernagar were the only link to their village. People used to go to Kangra or even Dehra by train. Now, the trains, passing through their village, rarely stop there. People have to walk about 10 km to catch a bus. They have submitted a petition to the Railways authorities seeking stoppage of the trains at their village.Raghav of Nandpur village in Dehra also alleged that the trains were not stopping at their village due to which the locals faced problems in reaching nearby stations for daily chores. Many people, who go for work to nearby areas, were dependent on the train service. The government should intervene, he said.Sources here told The Tribune that at one time, seven trains used to ply on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar track daily. The track, established in 1928 by the British, was the main link to the hinterland in Kangra district. The Railways then reduced the frequency of trains to five in the last few years, citing viability issues. Last year, the train service to region was stopped due to the lockdown. Now the Railways has resumed just two trains. Even these trains skip many stations. The Railways had also increased the minimum fare from Rs 5 to Rs 30.DRM, Railways, Ferozepore, Seema Sharma said the decision to ply trains was to be taken by the railway board. At present, just two trains were plying on the track, she said.When asked about the complaints of people that trains were not stopping at many stations, the DRM said if people had any complaints, they should submit these and the railway board would take a decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/railways-curtails-service-in-kangra-areas-passengers-in-lurch-300902
23-08-2021||Subhash Rajta||54% people above 45 yrs suffer from hypertension: Study||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 22Himachal is rapidly working its way up the hypertension ladder. As per the data released by the Banaras Hindu University and the Grid Council after analysing the Longitudinal Ageing Study of India (LASI) among adults over 45 years across the country, a whopping 54.1 per cent of the population (above 45 years) suffers from hypertension and 42.1 per cent are in pre-hypertension stage in the state. Worryingly, the figures are much higher than the national average – 44.9 per cent (hypertension) and 39.7 per cent (pre-hypertension).Need to strengthen health servicesThe health services at the primary level must be strengthened. People above 30 years of age should be vigilant about their blood pressure. — Archisman Mohapatra, Executive Director, Grid councilWhile most states have logged high percentages, the numbers Himachal has thrown up has stumped the researchers. “For a hilly state like Himachal, where people lead an active lifestyle, the numbers are quite surprising,” said Archisman Mohapatra, executive director, Grid Council. “We need to look at other risk factors such as diet, smoking and consumption of alcohol,” said Mohapatra.He further said that given the number of people suffering from pre-hypertension was also high, the state was heading towards a health crisis, if the required measures were not taken. “The health services at the primary level must be strengthened. Medicines must be available at the PHC and the sub-centre level, and people above 30 years of age should be vigilant about their blood pressure,” he said.Among the northern states, Himachal is second to only Punjab (60.1 per cent) in terms of the hypertension figures. All other states including J&K (50.1 per cent), Haryana (52.3 per cent) and Delhi (50.7 per cent) have logged lower percentage than Himachal.Incidentally, Himachal had fared poorly in an ICMR study on diabetes, too, a few months back. As per that pan-India study, the state had ranked seventh in terms of the prevalence of diabetes – 11.5 per cent people were found diabetic as against the national average of 10 per cent. Also, the study had indicated that obesity, too, was on the rise in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/54-people-above-45-yrs-suffer-from-hypertension-study-300903
23-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Hamiprur: Martyr Rohin Kumar conferred Sena Medal||Hamiprur, August 22 Martyr Rohin Kumar of Galore village of the district — who was martyred in a cross-border firing in Poonch sector of J&K on July 31 — was decorated with Sena Medal  posthumously. Rohin was a soldier of 14 Punjab Regiment of the Army.  The 24-year-old was hit by a mortar fired from Pakistan near Balakot sector in the Poonch area on the LoC. Critically injured, Rohin was taken to the nearest medical facility of the Army where he died.  Rohin was expected to return home for Raksha Bandhan. His parents were making arrangements for his marriage that was scheduled to be held in October this year.  His father Raseel Singh said  losing his son was painful but he was also proud of him. He said that the honour bestowed on Rohin proved that he had done served the nation with courage.  Sanjeev Kumar, president of the Galore Khas grampanchyat, said Rohin had done supreme sacrifice and the entire area was proud of him, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamiprur-martyr-rohin-kumar-conferred-sena-medal-300904
23-08-2021||---||Start MIS for apple, demand growers in Himachal||Shimla, August 22  Following the unabated slump in the apple market over nearly two weeks, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti has demanded the introduction of Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) on the lines of Kashmir to save the apple growers from massive losses.  The samiti has asked the government to procure apple through its agencies like the HPMC and Himfed at the fixed rate of Rs 60 per kg for Grade A apple, Rs 44 for Grade B and Rs 24 for Grade C apple. Currently, the government agencies procure only Grade C apple at Rs 9.50 per kg.  Claiming that farmers are getting prices as low as Rs 300-1400 per box in the market, which is the lowest in the last 15 years, the samiti said growers were not even recovering their cost of production. “Given the ever increasing cost of production and declining prices, the growers are facing a major crisis. The government needs to step in with the MIS scheme on the lines of Kashmir to save the growers,” said Sanjay Chauhan, secretary, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti. The samiti further alleged that the APMC laws were being flouted with impunity in the market yards and growers were being exploited. “Not only the growers are getting poor prices for their produce, arhtiyas are collecting Rs 50-60 per box from the growers in the name of labour, bank charges etc. All this is violation of the APMC laws,” said Chauhan.  He said if the government did not take any corrective measure, the livelihood of lakhs of families involved in apple business will come under threat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/start-mis-for-apple-demand-growers-in-himachal-300905
23-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Vendor market in Solan opens for allotment||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 22Street vendors under the Solan Municipal Corporation (MC) have a reason to cheer as the Rs 1.5-crore vendor market is now open for allotment.55 shops yet to be constructedThis has come as a big relief for hundreds of vendors who have been operating from various places on the Mall Road to sell vegetables, fruits and other items. They have been forced to shift from one place to another as the administration has been cracking the whip on them for creating traffic hassles.Though the plan to provide shops to the street vendors was conceived years ago under a central scheme, its implementation got delayed for various reasons. With the Municipal Council having been upgraded to a Corporation, more funds are supposed to be made available to develop this town into an organised area.The foundation stone of this vendor market was laid in 2017 by local MLA DR Shandil but the work is proceeding at a snail’s pace. The construction of 55 shops has been completed now after much delay, while the work to construct another 55 shops is yet to begin.Political squabbling between the BJP and the Congress is being seen as a prime cause for the delay. Its design too was altered several times. A parking area constructed at its ground floor was inaugurated in 2015 by Dr Rajiv Bindal while he was the Health and Family Welfare Minister. Initially, it was supposed to be a double-storey parking lot.Besides, an open developed area was supposed to be provided to street vendors initially but when constructed, it was not found fit by a central team which had funded the project. The open space was hence covered but it has left little space between two shops. Little natural light is available and this is being seen as another deterrent by residents.The process to allot 55 shops on its first floor has begun now with nine shops having been allotted.Solan MC Commissioner LR Verma said a survey was conducted to verify 148 registered vendors, of whom 97 had been verified. The process to allot shops has begun and is likely to be completed soon. He said a sum of Rs 1 crore was provided by the Union Government and Rs 50 lakh by the state government for this project.Notably, the land where the vendor market had been set up at Saproon is yet to be vested in the name of the Municipal Corporation as it has not been transferred from its parent department till now. The structure constructed was also not as per the approved map, informed sources in the MC.Vendors who have started operations have displayed their vegetables and fruits outside, given the small shops and darkness in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendor-market-in-solan-opens-for-allotment-300906
23-08-2021||Ambika Sharma 
||Mushroom based on sugarcane bagasse more nutritious: ICAR||Tribune News Service Solan, August 22 The use of sugarcane bagasse for making compost for button mushroom  fetches  a higher yield and protein content in comparison to traditional methods of making compost  using  wheat, paddy and mustard straw.  The Indian Council of Agriculture Research-run Directorate of Mushroom Research (DMR), Solan, has perfected the technology of using sugarcane bagasse for making compost for button mushroom.  The cost of production will also be substantially reduced using this technology.  The Director, DMR, VP Sharma says, “Scientists  evaluated four raw materials for the preparation of compost for button mushroom i.e. wheat straw, paddy straw, mustard straw and sugarcane bagasse.” “The results of the three-year evaluation at different centres of the All-India Coordinated Research Project on Mushroom showed that   sugarcane bagasse was the  best-suited material for compost preparation along with wheat straw,” he adds. The sugarcane bagasse has the highest protein content and the largest diameter, followed by wheat straw and rice straw. “The overall yield was higher in sugarcane bagasse. Mushroom produced on sugarcane bagasse was found to have usual nutritional profile that is 35 per cent protein, low fat, high potassium, no starch and vitamin B and D and C, besides other health benefits,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mushroom-based-on-sugarcane-bagasse-more-nutritious-icar-300907
23-08-2021||With uncertainty prevails over the dates of by-elections to Mandi Lok Sabha||Bypoll delay in Mandi Lok Sabha, Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies boon for electorate||Elevation forces realignmentRealigning of political equations was amply visible in the Jan Ashirwad Yatra of Union minister Anurag Thakur. BJP leaders, including some Cabinet ministers, who had hesitated to even welcome his appointment as the Information and Broadcasting, Sports and Youth Affairs minister, were seen vying for proximity with the young leader. Ironically, party leaders had been clearly distancing themselves from his programmes in the past. The overwhelming support received by him from the masses now has clearly proved his rising political stature. It might have inconvenienced some in the BJP but it has clearly given a new lease of life to the party in the state.RT-PCR condition dilemmaFaced with the dilemma of not imposing strict Covid restrictions, the Himachal Government was forced to make RT-PCR negative report or vaccine certificates mandatory for tourists and others wanting to enter the state. Each time such conditions are laid, the hoteliers are left fuming. However, with Himachal topping in terms of positivity rate, the BJP regime was left with no option but to impose curbs to check transmission. No doubt, the hotel and hospitality sector continue to reel under Covid impact but then ensuring safety of citizens is certainly more important than guaranteeing profit to hoteliers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypoll-delay-in-mandi-lok-sabha-fatehpur-arki-and-jubbal-kotkhai-assembly-constituencies-boon-for-electorate-300925
23-08-2021||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released the book 'Mohra'||Himachal CM releases book ‘Mohra’ written by Dr Dev Kanya Thakur||Activists tie rakhis to ITBP jawansThe women activists of the ABVP celebrated Raksha Bandhan by tying rakhis to the jawans at ITBP’s sector headquarter in Shimla. ABVP's Gaurav Attri said the activists were ready to offer their services as and when required by the armed forces.NSS camp ends with cultural eventThe seven-day NSS camp concluded at Government College, Sanjauli, with a cultural programme. The volunteers participated with enthusiasm. During the programme, culture of various states was presented through folk dances such as Rajasthan's Ghoomar, Maharashtra's Lavani and Koli, and Gujarat's Garba. The principal congratulated the volunteers and the programme officers on successful conduct of the camp.ABVP complains of poor ERP in HPUClaiming that Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) being used in HPU was substandard, the ABVP said students were facing problems, as it caused irregularities in exam results and fee depositing. The ABVB also demanded resumption of student elections in the university, which were stopped in 2014. The ABVP said sports quota should be resumed for admission in colleges and the university and Wi-Fi and Internet should be strengthened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-releases-book-mohra-written-by-dr-dev-kanya-thakur-300926
23-08-2021||The number of road accidents is rising in the state||No check on use of phones while driving||Covid protocol flouted in busesThe prescribed Covid protocol is not being followed in buses. Overcrowding and no use of masks and sanitisers is becoming the new norm. If people fail to take precautions, we will be in the same position as we were during the second wave. — Devender Sharma, shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-check-on-use-of-phones-while-driving-300927
23-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Rain triggers landslips in Shimla, roads closed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 22With Shimla receiving 77 mm rain in less than 20 hours, incidents of landslides were reported at several places in the district.Four vehicles, including a truck, were damaged after an uprooted tree fell on these on the Khalini-Kanlog road during the early hours today. The traffic on the stretch remained closed for over three hours. In another incident, a house was damaged in Phagali area. Ten roads — four in Mandi, two in Shimla and one each in Hamirpur, Kangra, Kinnaur and Kullu — were still closed. Widespread rainfall occurred across the state. The local MeT office has warned of heavy rain in mid and lower hills of Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur on August 26 and predicted a wet spell in the region till August 28. Due to the flushing of about 1,000 cusecs water from Karchham and Nathpa dams in Kinnaur district, the flow of water increased in the Sutlej and people living in the vicinity were advised to stay away from its banks.One person died in a rain-related incident in Chamba, taking the toll to 302 this monsoon season. Since June 13, 51 persons were killed in landslides, 10 in flash floods and 28 drowned. The total loss to public property was estimated at Rs 800 crore.The main road to Shimla was also blocked following uprooting of a tree near 103 tunnel in the evening. The traffic was diverted. It was restored later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-triggers-landslips-in-shimla-roads-closed-300764
23-08-2021||Solan||35 injured as apple-laden truck collides with bus near Jabli on Kalka-Shimla highway||As many as 35 people sustained injuries when a private bus (HP 51 A 3651) by which they were travelling was hit by an apple laden truck (RJ 14 GJ 1031) coming behind it near Jabli on the Kalka-Shimla National Highway-5 following which both the vehicles overturned on the road on Sunday morning.The accident occurred around 11:30 am.The truck driver lost control of the vehicle and it rammed into the bus which overturned and clung to the crash barrier thus saving it narrowly from slipping into the gorge below.Both vehicles were en route Solan-Parwanoo when the mishap occurred.There were 32 passengers in the bus out of which ten sustained serious injuries while three people in the truck too were injured.They were shifted to the Community Health Centre Dharampur for treatment, informed DSP Yogesh Rolta who visited the spot soon after the accident.Notably, several apple-laden vehicles of other states like Uttarakhand and Rajasthan have met with accidents on this highway in the last fortnight.Police officials opine that lack of experience to drive on the hill roads was causing such accidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-injured-as-apple-laden-truck-collides-with-bus-near-jabli-on-kalka-shimla-highway-300629
