24-08-2021||Satya Prakash||SC makes Himachal govt pay Rs 25,000 for inordinate delay in filing SLP||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 24Pulling up the Himachal Pradesh Government for citing Covid-19 as reason for 636-day delay in filing an appeal against a 2018 order in a case registered under the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act, the Supreme Court has imposed costs of Rs 25,000 on it.“To say the least, we are shocked at the conduct of the petitioner-State and the manner of conduct the litigation in such a sensitive matter. There is not even a semblance of explanation for delay,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Monday.The Bench also directed that an enquiry be conducted to fix responsibility of the officials concerned and recover the amount from them. The certificate of recovery should be filed before this court in four weeks, it said.The top court noted that the special leave petition (SLP) was filed with a delay of 636 days and when asked about the reason for the inordinate delay, state’s counsel said it was because of Covid.After the Bench pointed out that the high court’s order was passed on December 5, 2018 and the world got affected by Covid-19 in 2019-20, the counsel’s answer changed his answer and said he had not received the papers.The Bench, however, said, “We…would not like to dismiss the petition on limitation because of the seriousness of the issue involved. But that is no excuse why the State should not be made accountable of such inordinate delay and the persons responsible for the same,” it said.While condoning the delay, the court imposed costs of Rs 25,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group ‘C’ (Non-Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-makes-himachal-govt-pay-rs-25-000-for-inordinate-delay-in-filing-slp-301514
24-08-2021||The poorly designed vendor market at Saproon in Solan has forced the vegetable vendors to sit outside the market. This has defeated the very purpose of setting up this market and ridding the town of roadside vendors. Is there any accountability for this grave mistake?. —Rakesh||Vendor market at Saproon poorly designed||No chairs for patients, attendants At the IGMC, one can see patients and attendants resting or sleeping on the floor while waiting for their turn to see the doctor. There aren't enough benches or chairs at the hospital for patients and attendants. The hospital administration should look into it. — Dhirender Chauhan, Shimla What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendor-market-at-saproon-poorly-designed-301212
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||1 booked for raping minor||Nurpur, August 23On the complaint of the father of a five-year-old girl of nearby village, the Nurpur police today registered a case against a boy hailing from the Gujjar community for allegedly raping her.As per the police, a team from woman police station, Dharamsala, is investigating the case after the medical examination of the girl. The police have registered a case under Section 354, 376, 511 of the IPC and Section 10 of the POCSO Act.The police are yet to verify the age of the rape accused, who is studying in Class XII and has been absconding after committing the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-booked-for-raping-minor-301207
24-08-2021||Shimla||Solar plants to mitigate power crisis in Chamba||The state government is setting up grid solar power plants and micro hydel projects in tribal areas to scale up energy efficiency and mitigate power crisis in winters.A 250 watt solar energy system is being provided to the people of the Pangi valley in Chamba district to provide electricity to poor families.HIMURJA is setting up the solar energy plant, which provides power to five LED tubes of 9 watt, which last for more than five hours, and LED television of 40 watt works up to four hours and also charges mobile phones.In 2020-21, about a thousand BPL families were provided a 250 watt grid solar power plant with an expenditure of approximately Rs 3.83 crore in the Pangi valley. About 2,162 BPL families would be distributed the off-grid solar power plants.HIMURJA has set a target of distributing and setting up of power plants by November in the valley. The programme to achieve this year’s target for setting up the off-grid solar power plant in the valley was launched by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in Chamba.Two service centres have also been set up for the maintenance of the plants. Local people have been trained and hired for the purpose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solar-plants-to-mitigate-power-crisis-in-chamba-301208
24-08-2021||Mandi||Drive for 100% jabs in Mandi||The district administration will start a special campaign in Mandi from August 24 to 27 to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination.The first dose of the Covid vaccine will be given to all eligible people, who have missed vaccination till now. Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari said, “To achieve the 100 per cent vaccination target, an effective strategy has been formulated. A panchayat-wise vaccination plan has been prepared in the district”.“Instructions have been given to all departments concerned to cooperate actively. Panchayat-level Covid management committees will play an important role in deciding people’s participation in the campaign. Panchayat representatives and secretaries will also have the responsibility to bring people to the vaccination centres,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drive-for-100-jabs-in-mandi-301209
24-08-2021||Nurpur||Biker killed in accident||A migrant identified as Maniketan (32), son of Jagat Ram of Gharjara in Chhattisgarh, was killed on the spot late last evening when his motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle at Hill Top near Damtal. The pillion rider, who along with the deceased was coming from Kartarpur (Jalandhar), sustained serious injuries and was rushed to a private hospital at Pathankot. The accident victims were residing at Bhadroya in a rented room.The body was sent to the Nurpur Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination. A case was registered against the unidentified driver. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/biker-killed-in-accident-301198
24-08-2021||---||Over 3K street vendors given loan in Himachal: Minister Suresh Bhardwaj||Shimla, August 23Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said here today that more than 3,000 people had been given collateral-free loans worth Rs 3 crore under the PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi.“The state has 5,790 street vendors registered with the department of which more than 3,000 have benefited by this scheme,” he said. Bhardwaj said the councillors and officials concerned would reach out to street vendors to make them aware of the scheme.The minister directed officers of the Urban Development Department to communicate with banks to dispose of the pending cases. The scheme aimed to provide working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest for one year.“The interest subsidy of 7 per cent is also provided on timely or early repayment of the loan,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-3k-street-vendors-given-loan-in-himachal-minister-suresh-bhardwaj-301199
24-08-2021||---||Sell apple through open auction, Himachal traders warned||Shimla, August 23Traders will have to sell apple through open auction or their licence will be revoked. Sending out a clear and stern message to traders operating from its fruit and vegetable mandis in district Shimla and Kinnaur, APMC chairman Naresh Sharma said ‘underhand’ trading will not be allowed and the traders will have to function as per the rules laid out by the APMC Act.The APMC issued a stern circular to the presidents of all arhtiya associations after it came to light that one trader at Parala mandi was selling apple ‘underhand’. Surprisingly, some arhtiyas came out in his support and claimed that 90 per cent traders in the mandi were selling the produce ‘underhand’ with the consent of the farmer. They argued that they resort to this method to fetch good price for the growers when the market is low and there are not enough buyers around.The triggerThe APMC, however, rejected their argument, saying that the APMC Act allows only open auction. “Traders can’t say they are resorting to underhand selling with the consent of growers. They have to sell through open auction, no matter what the growers say,” said Sharma.Understandably, the growers are also against ‘underhand’ selling of their produce. “Underhand selling is both wrong and illegal. The traders should not indulge in this. No grower would want his produce to be sold in a secretive manner,” said Harish Chauhan, an apple grower.Already under stress due to massive slump in the market, the growers are facing many other issues in the market. They have been complaining that up to Rs 30 per box are being deducted as labour charges by the traders from them. “We have fixed labour charge at Rs 10 per box. We have noticed growers complaining about it in the media and social media but we have not received any official complaint. If there is a complaint, we will take action,” he said.He further said that the APMC was looking into deduction of bank charges by the traders from the growers. “We are looking into it,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sell-apple-through-open-auction-himachal-traders-warned-301200
24-08-2021||---||Himachalboard's improvement exams postponed, pupils anxious||Shimla, August 23Students of Class XII who passed out from Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education but wanted to take the examinations for improvement of grades have been left in the lurch as these would continue till the last week of September which can affect their admissions for higher studies. These examinations started from August 20.After the declaration of results on the basis of the formula prepared by the board, a large number of students were not satisfied. They had alleged that the assessment had not been done in a fair manner as marks for practical examinations were given without conducting the same, resulting in discrepancies.Keeping in view the resentment among students, the education board had offered that they could appear in examinations for improvement of grades.Consequently, the board released a date sheet for such examinations from August 17 but the same was changed and postponed to August 20, which added to the anxiety of students as the process of admissions in higher classes and professional courses has already started. Admissions may be closed by the time the results are declared.Students and parents have demanded that the results should be declared expeditiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachalboards-improvement-exams-postponed-pupils-anxious-301201
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||393 get degrees in convocation of Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur||Palampur, August 23The 16th convocation of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur, was held here today.As many as 393 students, including 262 graduates, 110 postgraduates and 21 PhDs, were awarded degrees. Eight students were awarded gold medals.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar presided over the convocation while Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was the chief guest.The Governor appealed to the young scientists and degree holders to become job givers instead of job seekers.Chief Minister Thakur said about 90 per cent of the population lives in rural areas with agriculture as the main occupation. The research in agriculture becomes all the more important in strengthening economy.He said the research on agricultural production techniques, crop varieties, land and water management, use and conservation of biological resources, water storage and disease and pest control techniques for different areas were vital not only to ensure the optimum use of natural resources and increase crop yield, but also strengthen the economy of the farmers.SJVN Chairman honoured Shimla: Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and CM Jai Ram Thakur today honoured SJVN Ltd Chairman and Managing Director Nand Lal Sharma during the 16th convocation of CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University at Palampur. Sharma, an alumnus of the university, was honoured for his administrative services and his contribution to the power sector, particularly at the SJVN. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/393-get-degrees-in-convocation-of-himachal-pradesh-agriculture-university-palampur-301202
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Sheds built for veggie, fruit vendors lying unused in Palampur||Palampur, August 23Sheds constructed by the Palampur Municipal Corporation to rehabilitate fruit vendors and vegetable sellers have been lying vacant for the past couple of years. As they have remained unoccupied, they are now being used as cowsheds and motor garages by locals.In fact, the MC had planned to shift over 100 fruit and vegetable vendors sitting in different parts of the town to decongest the markets. These vendors have also encroached on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway, leading to regular traffic jams.However, in the past 10 years, the MC has not been able to shift these vendors to the sheds because of red tape and political pressure. The sheds constructed by the MC at the cost of lakhs of rupees have now been abandoned.The gurdwara and cinema road, where a large number of fruit and vegetable vendors are sitting, has turned into an accident-prone area. Besides traffic jams, a number of accidents have taken place here. No traffic policeman has been deployed there.A senior officer of the Municipal Corporation said the corporation had prepared a new plan to rehabilitate all roadside vendors and a new place would be provided to them soon so that they could earn their livelihood. This would also decongest the roads of the town.It has also come to light that the Palampur MC is charging Rs 50 per day from these vendors. Since the vendors are making timely payment to the MC, they claim it as a right to operate along the highway.According to information, the width of the road has been reduced to five metres near the gurdwara road as a number of fruit and vegetable shops have come up on both sides in the past few years. The NHAI has also failed to take any action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sheds-built-for-veggie-fruit-vendors-lying-unused-in-palampur-301203
24-08-2021||Shimla||IGMC, Shimla, conducts two kidney transplants||Two kidney transplant operations were conducted at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital here today under the supervision of a medical team from the All-India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi. The IGMC had started kidney transplant just before the outbreak of Covid-19 last year.“The first 10 transplants will be done under the supervision of AIIMS doctors. It will help our doctors to build confidence and skills. Thereafter, our doctors will do the procedure on their own,” said Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Rahul Gupta.Dr Gupta said that the availability of kidney transplant services at the IGMC would benefit the people of the state. “A kidney transplant outside the state costs around Rs 15 lakh. Here it’s being done for Rs 3 lakh to Rs 3.5 lakh. Besides, it is covered under the state government’s Himcare insurance scheme,” he added.Secretary, Health, Amitabh Avasthy also visited the IGMC to meet the doctors, who performed the transplant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-shimla-conducts-two-kidney-transplants-301204
24-08-2021||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission will conduct computer-based tests for several posts from August 23 onwards. On August 24||Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission will conduct computer-based tests||Admission starts at Nauni varsityStudents interested in applying for undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in horticulture, forestry, biotechnology, agribusiness and business management at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, can submit their application at the university portal https://www.yspuniversity.ac.in/yspuniversity. The last date to apply for UG programmes - BSc(Hons) Horticulture, BSc (Hons) Forestry and B Tech Biotechnology (for both normal and self-financing seats) is September 20. Students applying for MSc/MBA(Agribusiness)/MBA and PhD programmes must do so by September 25. Admissions will be made on the basis of the scorecard of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) entrance exam.Open varsity for students: SFIThe SFI has submitted a memorandum to HPU's executive council, demanding that the university campus be opened for students as early as possible and the vaccination facility should be provided for students on the campus. The SFI also urged the university to conduct the exams of non-teaching staff and panchayat sahayaks without any delay.Sanskrit Day celebratedThe Sanskrit Department of the Government College in Sanjauli organised online Sanskrit Day celebrations, in which all students of the department participated. The students threw light on the importance of the language and its importance in the lives of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-public-service-commission-will-conduct-computer-based-tests-301205
24-08-2021||KULLU||Experts to look into avalanche risk at Trilokinath village in Lahaul||Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda held a meeting with the officials of Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) and local residents at Trilokinath village in Lahaul today to find a scientific remedy for the threat of avalanche in the area.The minister said that Trilokinath is a famous religious and beautiful place. He said that the opinion of experts is necessary for carrying out new construction for tourism development. He said that a lot of damage to the property was caused in Trilokinath due to avalanches in 1991, 1996 and 2015. He said that there was a persistent threat of avalanche in the region and remedial measures will be taken according to the experts opinions.The study of the region will take some time to find a permanent solution to protect the village and the famous Trilokinath temple.SASE official Neeraj Sharma said that data about snowfall will have to be collected first. He urged the residents to inform about avalanches so that the required data can be procured. He said that the area will be studied thoroughly and a complete database of snowfall will be prepared during winter months. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-to-look-into-avalanche-risk-at-trilokinath-village-in-lahaul-301206
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Developing sports infra priority: Anurag Thakur||Hamirpur, August 23The development of sports infrastructure and the promotion of art and culture of Himachal Pradesh will be his first priority, said Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Sports and Information and Broadcasting, while interacting with mediapersons here yesterday.He said that the Central Government had given a lot of funds to the state and for projects, including three medical colleges, AIIMS at Bilaspur, IIIT at Una and a satellite medical centre of the PGI, Chandigarh, at Una. He added that the country had done a commendable job during the pandemic though it was a great challenge.Anurag congratulated Shaili Singh, who missed a gold medal by a narrow margin and won a silver medal in the under-20 champion at Nairobi.The Union minister addressed a rally at Gandhi Chowk here and assured people that he would continue to work for the betterment of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/developing-sports-infra-priority-anurag-thakur-301210
24-08-2021||---||Congress steps up efforts to win Mandi LS byelection||Mandi, August 23The Congress held a Yuva Sammelan here today to gear up the youth to work hard at the grassroot level to ensure party candidate victory in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. The BJP and the Congress have stepped up efforts to win the election.The sammelan was attended by senior Congress leaders like Sanjay Dutt, co-incharge in Himachal, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, former minister Kaul Singh Thakur, Congress MLA from Shimla Gramin Vikramaditya Singh, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Sohan Lal Thakur, District Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhari and others.Sloganeering by supportersAddressing Youth Congress workers, national in-charge of the Indian Youth Congress Krishna Allavaru said, “During the BJP regime at the Centre, the inflation had gone up manifold, which is directly impacting the life of the common man. The prices of petrol and diesel have touched new high. Similarly, the price of cooking gas cylinder has increased .”Congress MLA Virkamaditya said the BJP had divided people on the name of caste and it was time to give it a befitting reply.Kaul Singh Thakur targeted Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur by saying, “Jai Ram Thakur is an accidental Chief Minister, who is putting the state under heavy debt.”Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the BJP government had failed on all fronts and now people were looking up to the Congress as a ray of hope.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore urged them to work collectively to dethrone the BJP. Sanjay Dutt said the youth had potential to ensure change the power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-steps-up-efforts-to-win-mandi-ls-byelection-301211
24-08-2021||Palampur||Cong flays Himachal Govt over vacant posts in Tanda medical college||Ajay Mahajan, senior Congress leader and president, District Congress Committee, Kangra, today expressed concerns over the poor health services in Tanda medical college, following vacant posts of superspecialists in departments. He sought the intervention of the Chief Minister and requested him to fill all posts without any delay.Addressing mediapersons here, he said the Tanda medical college was the biggest medical institute in the lower hills of the state, which caters to the medical needs of the one-third population. Besides, the institute is also producing graduates, postgraduates and super-specialist doctors every year.But in the absence of proper faculties, research, teaching and health services in the institution had been hit in past one year. The situation moved from bad to worse when the government relieved six super-specialists to join AIIMS, Bilaspur. In the past one year, no efforts were made to fill these posts.He said even in hospitals in Palampur, Nurpur, Dharamsala, Kangra and Dehra Gopipur, the posts of doctor were lying vacant. The matter was also raised in the Assembly by the Congress MLAs but in vain. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-flays-himachal-govt-over-vacant-posts-in-tanda-medical-college-301213
24-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Lahaul residents oppose power projects on Chenab river basin||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 23After flash flood incidents in Lahaul Spiti and Kinnaur this year, people are opposing the setting up of power projects on the Chenab basin in Lahaul Spiti. The state and the Central governments have proposed dozens of power projects on the basin to generate electricity but the residents of area are opposing the move.The residents were huddled together recently under the banner of the Lahaul Spiti Ekta Manch at Keylong to chalk out a strategy to oppose the decision.Sudarshan Jaspa, president of Lahaul Spiti Ekta Manch, told The Tribune, “This tribal district is eco-fragile where setting up of power projects may prove disastrous. The power projects will adversely affect the ecology of area, which may result in melting of glaciers rapidly, resulting in natural calamities.46 projects proposedAs many as 16 mega and 30 micro power projects are proposed in Lahaul Spiti at different locations on the banks of Chenab and other rivers in the area, which will only bring doom to the area. —Sudarshan Jaspa, President of lahaul spiti ekta manch“As many as 16 mega and 30 micro power projects are proposed in Lahaul & Spiti at different locations on the banks of Chenab and other rivers in the area, which will only bring doom to the area if these projects are executed,” he remarked.“The adverse effects of power projects were seen in Uttarakhand state and in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, where landslide and flash flood incidents had wreaked havoc. The people of Lahaul Spiti are apprehensive that the setting up of these proposed power projects will badly affect the ecology of area. So, we are not in favour of the decision to set up power projects here,” he said.“We urge the Chief Minister to think over this issue and shun the idea of setting up of power projects in Lahaul-Spiti,” he added, adding “We are united on the issue and will oppose the decision of government tooth and nail,” said Jaspa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-residents-oppose-power-projects-on-chenab-river-basin-301191
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Ropeways, ski slopes to come up at Lahaul||KULLU, AUGUST 23Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda held a meeting with officials of Ropeway Shimla and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS), Manali, at Keylong today to develop facilities for adventure tourism and winter sports in Lahaul-Spiti.The minister said the Rohtang tunnel had created new avenues for Lahaul valley. The connectivity will boost tourism and adventure sports. He said discussions were held with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari about setting up ropeways and developing international-level ski slopes.The ABVIMAS had been developed by the tourism department as a consultancy agency to study the feasibility of ropeways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ropeways-ski-slopes-to-come-up-at-lahaul-301192
24-08-2021||---||Ex-MLA Baldev Sharma ’s Shimla house damaged in landslide||Shimla, August 23A multi-storey building of former BJP MLA Baldev Sharma was endangered as the retaining wall of the building developed cracks and its foundation was shaken in a massive landslide at Hathnidhar, about 12 km from here, in the wee hours today.The lives of about 15 families residing in the building are at risk as the landslide was reportedly caused after a huge rock fell due to deep digging by a person, who is constructing a house in its close vicinity.Construction work the reasonMLA’s brother Raghunath Sharma has filed a complaint against the person constructing a house and the police have registered a case under Sections 336 and 427 of the IPC.The foundation pillars of the building were hit and broken, a wall developed cracks and the shutter was damaged. The tenants of the building came out and, fearing a slide, took shelter in neighbours’ houses, said Raghunath.The alternative road from Jutog to Hiranagar from Hathnidhar was closed due to a landslide and people are worried as more landslides could damage the water tank built on the hill.Three more deaths (one each in Hamirpur, Mandi and Una) were reported in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 305. Meanwhile, the bodies of two persons, who were drowned in the Tins river in Rohru on August 15, have been recovered and the victims have been identified as Dikshit and Dila Ram, hailing from Kofar and Panjhar villages of Nerwa tehsil in Shimla district.As many as 73 roads—29 in Mandi, 22 in Shimla, 11 in Hamirpur, five in Kangra, three in Kullu and one each in Chamba, Solan and Sirmaur district—are closed and the total loss to public property during the monsoon has increased to Rs 865.85 crore, including loss to the tune of Rs 518.59 crore to the PWD and Rs 221.18 crore to the Jan Shakti Department.Light to moderate rain occurred at some places even as sky remained heavily overcast in Shimla and adjoining areas while dry weather prevailed at most places in lower hills.Bijahi was the wettest with 36 mm rain while Gohar and Bhoranj recorded 33 mm and 30 mm rain, followed by Baldwara 26 mm, Nagrota-Surian 23 mm, Dalhousie 18 mm, Dehra Gopipur and Pachhad 14 mm, Dharampur, Khadrala and Shimla 13 mm , Tissa12 mm, Salooni and Mashobra 12 mm, Guler 11 mm and Dharamsala and Chamba 10 mm.The day temperatures rose by two to three degree while minimum temperatures dropped marginally. The local MeT office has predicted rain and thundershowers in mid and lower hills and rain and snow at isolated places in higher hills from August 24 to August 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-mla-baldev-sharma-s-shimla-house-damaged-in-landslide-301193
24-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Declared vermin, only 5 monkeys killed in Himachal in 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 23The Central Government has sought the details of the impact of the order declaring monkeys as vermin, as only five simians were killed in the state in the past five years, according to Forest Department records.The Himachal Government has sought the extension of the earlier order of the Central Government declaring monkeys as vermin to enable their scientific culling. As per the Forest Department records, only five monkeys have been killed as people avoid killing them for religious and other purposes. However, there have been instances when groups of monkeys were found dead after having been poisoned.“We will be responding to the observations made by the Union Ministry of Forest and Environment so that the order declaring monkeys as vermin can be extended,” said Archana Sharma, Chief Wildlife Warden and Principal Chief Conservator (Wildlife). She added that the December 2019 census showed a decline in the population of monkeys indicating that the strategy of the state had been helpful.As per the December 2019 census, the population of monkeys is about 1.36 lakh. She said that the monkey menace still persists in some areas such as Shimla city and there was need to declare them as vermin for some more time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/declared-vermin-only-5-monkeys-killed-in-himachal-in-5-yrs-301194
24-08-2021||---||228 new Covid cases, five deaths in Himachal||Shimla, August 23As many as 228 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 211,979. Besides, five persons died of the virus—two in Mandi, and one each in Chamba, Shimla and Kangra.The highest number of 80 cases was recorded in Mandi, followed by 32 in Kangra, 24 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 20 in Chamba, 16 in Bilaspur, 10 in Kullu, eight in Una, six in Kinnaur, five in Lahaul and Spiti and three in Solan. The number of active cases reduced to 2,030.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/228-new-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-301195
24-08-2021||---||Single-lane traffic to avert mishaps on Parwanoo NH||Solan, August 23In a bid to avert accidents due to reoccurring landslides and shooting stones on the Parwanoo-Kaithlighat section of National Highway (NH)-5, vehicular traffic is chanelled through single lane during the rains.Though the frequency of landslides has reduced substantially in the last couple of years, big boulders and debris which often fall after the rains at places like Koti, Sanwara, etc, posing risk to commuters. Several motorists have had a narrow escape in the recent past and the risk is more during the late evenings and at night.Boulders pose riskThough the frequency of landslides has reduced substantially in the last couple of years, big boulders and debris which often fall after the rains at places like Koti, Sanwara, etc, posing risk to commuters.“In a bid to avoid accidents, especially among the two-wheeler riders, there are directions signs at lane closing points facing the hill side during the rains. Though there were barely two sites on the Parwanoo-Solan stretch of National Highway-5 which were vulnerable to such incidents, movement of vehicular traffic has been chanelled through the lane facing the valley side,” informed Suresh Sharma, Project Director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).The breast walls measuring 1.5 m to 3 m have been erected while four-laning the Parwanoo-Solan section of NH-5 as laid down in the project design. Since the hilly slopes have been vertically cut for several meters, the exposed portion often becomes vulnerable to landslides after the rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/single-lane-traffic-to-avert-mishaps-on-parwanoo-nh-301197
