25-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked near Pandoh in Mandi following massive landslide||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 25The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for traffic movement near Pandoh in Mandi district on Wednesday following a massive landslide in the region.As a result, a large number of people have been stuck in the area.Due to the ongoing construction work of the Kiratpur-Manali four-lane in the region, the Pandoh area is witnessing frequent landslides  during rains.The National Highway Authority of India has engaged its workforce and machinery in the area to clear the highway.Police have diverted traffic of light vehicles via Kataula road between Mandi and Kullu. While heavy vehicles are stuck on both sides of the landslide spot in the area as the alternative route between Mandi and Kullu via Kataula is narrow and steep, which is unfit for the movement of heavy vehicles.Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari said efforts were on to clear the highway for traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-near-pandoh-in-mandi-following-massive-landslide-301909
25-08-2021||Water accumulated around the under-construction building of the Mandi Municipal Corporation in Mahajan Bazaar in the heart of town is posing a serious health threat to shopkeepers working nearby and other areas. The Municipal Corporation should ask the contractor to channelise the water out of the area to avert any health crisis. Even though water has been accumulating here for a while now||Accumulated water around under-construction building of Mandi MC a health hazard||Farmers hit as Tomatoes fetching low pricesJust like apple, the rates of tomato, too, have crashed a lot. A crate is being sold for Rs200, which was fetching Rs400 a week back. There should be some mechanism to check such a massive fall in the prices so that farmers do not suffer heavy losses.— Ramanand Sharma, solanWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/accumulated-water-around-under-construction-building-of-mandi-mc-a-health-hazard-301761
25-08-2021||A two-day Yogananda International Conference was organised on contemporary issues in social sciences (YICCISS ) by the Faculty of Management Sciences and Liberal Arts (FMSLA)||Conference on social sciences||Online workshop on mathematicsAn online two-day workshop on ‘How to crack NET/JRF in Mathematics-Tips and Tricks’ was inaugurated by Himachal Ganita Parishad on August 23 for postgraduate students of the Department of Mathematics, Himachal Pradesh University. Around 90 postgraduate students of M.Sc. first and second year participated in the workshop. Prof (Dr) Ruchi Das, Head of Department of Mathematics and Dean, Faculty of Mathematical Sciences, University of Delhi, was the Chief Guest. Prof Das emphasised on strengthening basic concepts and clearing CSIR-NET/JRG exam while doing postgraduation. This will help students in getting good placements in academic organisations, she said. rof PL Sharma, president of Himachal Ganita Parishad, said the workshop would benefit the M.Sc students of the department.Open university for students: SFIThe SFI submitted a memorandum to the HPU administration demanding that the university be opened for the students at the earliest as exams are scheduled shortly. The SFI said the HPU had invited applications for non-teaching staff and panchayat assistant in 2018 but the exams for the same had not been held to date. This despite the fact that university had charged heavy fee for applying for the post. The SFI also demanded that students should be given relaxation in various fees that the university charged as it was closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/conference-on-social-sciences-301759
25-08-2021||---||Decks cleared for Rs 1,813-cr water scheme for Shimla||Shimla, August 24Decks have been cleared for the Rs 1,813-crore Satluj water supply scheme for meeting the water requirements of the state capital till 2050 as the Cabinet today approved the draft negotiation package for the World Bank-funded project.Cabinet approval granted The Cabinet on Tuesday gave approval for the negotiations by the Urban Development Department with the World Bank and Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India for funding Shimla Water Supply and Sewerage Services delivery programme for improvement of water services in Greater Shimla Area.The Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur gave approval for the negotiations by the Urban Development Department with the World Bank and Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India for funding Shimla Water Supply and Sewerage Services delivery programme for improvement of water services in Greater Shimla Area.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj revealed that out of $250 million (Rs 1,813 crore), the World Bank will provide financial assistance to the tune of $160 million (Rs 1,160.32 crore) and the remaining amount of $90 million (Rs 652.68 crore) will be borne by the Himachal Government. He added that Principal Secretary, Department of Urban Development, had been authorized to finalize and sign the negotiation package with the World Bank.The minister said the Department of Urban Development has been able to secure this funding from the World Bank and Ministry of Finance despite fiscal constraints posed due to Covid-19.The main component of the water scheme include augmentation of Shimla water supply from river Sutlej with additional 67 MLD to meet the water demand of the state capital up to year 2050. The scheme will help meet the bulk water supply requirement to Shimla peri-urban areas and meet the demand of Special Area Development Authorities (SADA) of Kufri, Shoghi, Ghanahatti and additional planning areasand improved sewerage services within the MC areas.“The project envisages lifting water from Sutlej near village Shakrodi, involving lifting to a height of 1.6 km and pipe laying of 22 km to augment 67 MLD water at Sanjauli,” revealed Bhardwaj.The project also seeks to replace the distribution pipe network across MC Shimla to upgrade it to 24x7 water supply system. Additionally, the sewerage network in areas of Mehli-Panthaghati, Totu and Mashobra will be provided. This will be a flagship project for the state as it seeks to provide best in class water supply and sewerage system in Shimla that will cater to requirements of the town up to year 2050.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decks-cleared-for-rs-1-813-cr-water-scheme-for-shimla-301668
25-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Mandi youth recalls tragic scenes in Afghanistan||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 24Naveen Thakur, a Sarkaghat youth of Mandi district, experienced tragic scenes in Afghanistan after capture of power by the Taliban there. His family members and relatives were ecstatic when he arrived at his native place at Sarkaghat safely on Monday night.Talking to mediapersons, Naveen said there was utter chaos in Afghanistan right after the capture of power by the Taliban. Each person was fearing for his life. “I saw people and children being crushed in stampede losing their lives. Many people were seen tossing their children towards British and US soldiers at Kabul airport hoping for their safety,” he said.“It is very risky to reach the airport in Kabul to catch the flight because midway there was life threat from Taliban, who are keeping a close vigil on the movement of each person,” he added.“Trouble started from August 15 onward when we came to know that the power had been captured by the Taliban. Since then, the struggle was on to ensure safety and to reach home at Sarkaghat in India” said Naveen.“As soon as the Taliban captured power, our company officials left the place. Our campus was cordoned by the Taliban security guards, who assured us of our safety. Despite the assurance from Taliban security guards, we were skeptical. Thankfully, they did not harm us,” he remarked.“When we contacted our company officials for our evacuation, they called the Denmark embassy. We were moved to a hotel near airport, where British soldiers were there to provide security. There was no food and we survived on biscuits for two days,” he remarked.“On August 22, we were transported in a flight to Tajikistan from where I reached India in an Air India flight,” he said.On arrival at his home late at night on Monday, Naveen received a warm welcome from his family and relativesNaveen thanked the Centre and the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-youth-recalls-tragic-scenes-in-afghanistan-301669
25-08-2021||NURPUR||Arya Government College, Nurpur,  gets Rs 1 cr to improve facilities||Arya Government College, Nurpur, has been selected under the state government-sponsored ‘Utkrisht Mahavidyala Yozna’ (UMY) and will be provided Rs 1 crore. It is among the nine government colleges across the state that have been selected for the UMY this year.Aruna Sharma, principal of the college, said a proposal for the improvement and creation of new infrastructure was being submitted to the Director, higher education.She said Rs 20 lakh would be spent on creating new sports and cultural infrastructure, Rs 30 lakh on complete digitalisation of college office, Rs 25 lakh in carrying out civil works for the repair, Rs 10 lakh on establishing placement and career guidance cell and Rs 5 lakh each on academic upgrade and research on small projects by the college teachers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arya-government-college-nurpur-gets-rs-1-cr-to-improve-facilities-301671
25-08-2021||---||Final chance to get relief for land acquisition on Parwanoo-Solan section of NH||Solan, August 24People, whose land has been acquired for the widening of the Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway No. 5, were today given final 15 days to obtain compensation from the Land Acquisition Officer-cum-SDM, Solan.“Such landowners should apply to my office for compensation. If they don’t apply, the compensation amount will be deposited in the government treasury,” said Ajay Yadav, SDM, Solan. The cases pertain to the landowners, who either reside in other states or have died.Yadav said that Rs 460 crore was to be disbursed to the landowners and more than Rs 430 crore had already been disbursed. A sum of Rs 2.5 crore was given yesterday and about Rs 26 crore was yet to be disbursed.The work to widen the 39-km stretch from Parwanoo to Solan to four lanes had begun in September 2015. Assigned for 30 months, the project overshoot the deadline of March 2018. Though the work as per the initial scope was completed in June this year, works such as the construction of a viaduct bridge near Parwanoo and an underpass at Saproon in Solan district were yet to be completed and were in an advanced stage.The Rs 748 crore project is likely to see cost escalation with new additions such as a viaduct bridge near Parwanoo. As against the initial cost of Rs 3 crore, which was to be incurred on widening this portion to four lanes, Rs 19 crore would be spent on the bridge construction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/final-chance-to-get-relief-for-land-acquisition-on-parwanoo-solan-section-of-nh-301672
25-08-2021||---||Now, special bus from Solan to IGMC,  Shimla||Solan, August 24To facilitate patients going to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, a new HRTC bus route was started from Solan by Health and Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal in Solan today.The minister said, “The service will facilitate the residents going for treatment to the IGMC, Shimla, from Solan.”The bus will take off from the old bus stand at 7:20 am and return from Shimla at 4:40 pm.The locals had been demanding the special bus service as the patients had to first board a bus from Solan to Shimla till the inter-state bus terminus and then take two connecting local buses to reach the IGMC.It was posing inconvenience to the patients, who had to waste time first going to the ISBT, which was located far away.Since the IGMC is the nearest specialty healthcare institute, a large number of patients visit it on a daily basis.The state government had failed to set up a new hospital building at Solan despite making announcement in the first year of its tenure in 2018. With the limited space in the existing building, several central schemes to improve healthcare failed to be initiated in Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-special-bus-from-solan-to-igmc-shimla-301673
25-08-2021||Ravinder Sood
||Palampur bus stand cries for attention||Palampur, August 24 The local bus stand, constructed at a cost of Rs 5 crore 30 years ago, is in a bad shape. The compound of the bus stand needs overhauling.  More than 500 buses reach the bus terminal daily. There are potholes at the entry point of the terminal that make it difficult for people to reach the area during rain. The HRTC authorities are not sensitive about the situation. When it rains, the bus stand compound gets waterlogged, making it difficult for passengers to reach the ticket counters. The Transport Minister, during his visit to the bus stand in April, had directed HRTC officials to repair the damaged portions of the bus stand immediately, but no funds have been sanctioned. Adding to the woes, heaps of garbage can be seen near the bus stand, as there is no mechanism to lift the trash daily. The waiting room also cries for attention and there is no restroom on the bus stand premises. A senior official of the HRTC admitted that the bus stand is in a dilapidated state. “The maintenance is under the HP State Bus Stand Management Authority,” he said. The official said, “An estimate and a proposal to release the funds for repairs have been submitted to the higher authorities. The work will start as soon as the funds are released.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-bus-stand-cries-for-attention-301674
25-08-2021||ibune News Service||Himachal Govt to fill 4,000 posts of teacher||Shimla, August 24The Himachal Government has decided to fill 4,000 posts of teacher, including 820 posts of drawing teacher and 870 of physical education teacher, in the Education Department.The Cabinet at a meeting held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today decided to fill 4,000 posts of different categories of teachers. Of the 4,000 posts, 2,640 would be filled in the Elementary Education Department and 1,360 in the Higher Education Department on a contract basis. It was decided to expedite batch-wise recruitment on different posts.The Cabinet approved the opening of a new Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Ladaghat in Sadar tehsil of Bilaspur district. It also decided in principle to extend the benefits of gratuity in case of retirement and death to the employees of urban local bodies who had been covered under the New Pension Scheme. The Cabinet gave nod to a new development block office at Churag in Mandi district and an Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya at Bagsiad (Sharan) in the Seraj Assembly segment of Mandi district. It also approved the creation of a new elementary education block office at Salwahan in Mandi district by carving it out from the Elementary Education Block at Balh and Sundernagar.The Cabinet decided to upgrade Government Middle School at Darwin to high school and Government High Schools at Lamu and Badgran in Chamba district to senior secondary schools.It also decided to upgrade the primary health centre at Baldhar in the Karsog area of Mandi district to a 30-bed community health centre and the community health centre at Rakkar in Kangra district to a 24x7 emergency health institution.It also gave permission to hand over the construction work of an additional building of the blood bank, mortuary, space for handling of biomedical waste, canteen and a cafeteria of the super specialty block of the IGMC at Chamiyana, near here, to HSCC Pvt. India Ltd. An MoU would be signed between the Health and Family Welfare Department and the executing agency for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-to-fill-4-000-posts-of-teacher-301675
25-08-2021||Shimla||281 new Covid cases, four deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 281 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 212,260. Besides, four persons died of the virus—two in Mandi and one each in Kangra and Sirmaur.The highest 90 cases were recorded in Mandi, followed by 48 in Chamba, 45 in Shimla, 37 in Kangra, 20 in Kullu, 18 in Hamirpur, 10 in Lahaul and Spiti, seven in Bilaspur, three in Kinnaur, two in Una and one in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/281-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-301676
25-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Completion of Una-Talwara railway line priority: Anurag Thakur||Una, August 24The early completion of the Una to Talwara broad gauge railway line, which is at present functional till Daulatpur Chowk, is one of his priorities. He will talk to the Railways Minister if there are hindrances in the allocation of land for track laying in Punjab. There is need to promote the art, culture and folk media of Himachal at the national and international levels, said Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information Broadcasting and Sports at a public rally at Una town last night.Anurag’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra entered Una district around 8.30 pm from Lathiani village in Bangana subdivision of the district yesterday and travelled throughout the night, culminating at Mehatpur on the inter-state border with Punjab at 3.30 am today.Thousands of people welcomed Anurag. He paid obeisance at religious places and shrines, including Baba Bal Radha Krishna Temple at Kotla Kalan village and the gurdwara at Dehlan village where gates were opened at 1.30 am for him to pay obeisance.The Union minister was accompanied by state Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar, BJP state president and MP Suresh Kashyap, Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti, HIMUDA Vice-Chairman Parveeen Sharma and HPSIDC Vice-Chairman Ram Kumar.Anurag, while addressing people at Bangana, Una and Mehatpur, said that Himachal is known as Dev Bhumi for its shrines and Veer Bhumi due to the valour and sacrifices made by its men in uniform. He added that he would make all efforts to make it popular as Khel Bhumi.He said that the sports infrastructure in the state would be developed and an appropriate environment would be provided to the youth to produce international-level players.Youths raised slogans in favour of Anurag and burst firecrackers all along the route of the yatra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/completion-of-una-talwara-railway-line-priority-anurag-thakur-301677
25-08-2021||Chamba||People who gave land for roads honoured in Chamba||In a series of programmes organised to commemorate ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the 75th anniversary of Independence, a function was held at Government Primary School, Sarahan, in Chamba district today. Chamba MLA Pawan Nayyar, who was the chief guest, inaugurated the programme by lighting a lamp. He said the development of any area could be judged by the network of roads. Remote villages were being connected with road on priority. The Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana had proved to be a boon for rural people. The MLA honoured those  donated their land for the construction of road to villages of Sarahan panchayat with shawls and caps. He announced Rs 25,000 and cricket kits for Yuvak Mandal, Sarahan. He also distributed gas cylinders and stoves to women under the Mukhyamantri Grihani Yojana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-who-gave-land-for-roads-honoured-in-chamba-301678
25-08-2021||r Correspondent
||Congress leader Sanjay Dutt: BJP’s yatra can trigger third wave in Himachal||KULLU, AUGUST 24 All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and co-incharge for the party affairs in Himachal Sanjay Dutt has alleged that the Jan Ashirwad Yatra by a BJP leader will be responsible, if the third wave of Covid strikes the state.  During a press conference here today, he said keeping in mind the rise in inflation, unemployment and failure of the government in all spheres, the BJP should instead hold ‘Jan Pashchatap Yatra’. He alleged that no Covid protocol was being followed by BJP supporters during the yatra. The secretary said the reason behind the mysterious death of former Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma was not known yet and the government was trying to cover it up. Even family members of the leader had raised doubts and the people wanted to know what made him to take the extreme step.  He demanded that a CBI inquiry should be conducted into the matter.  The Congress was prepared for the byelections for one Lok Sabha and three Vidhan Sabha constituencies. He was overwhelmed to see the enthusiasm of the youth during a meeting of the state executive here. He said these youth would be the game changer and oust the BJP government. He added that the support of the public was also with the Congress due to the deteriorating financial condition of the state. Dutt said the CM was making announcements in the areas where byelections were due without any budgetary provisions. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had announced a provision of budget worth crores for 69 national highways in the state but there was nothing on the ground and the conditions of the roads were pitiable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leader-sanjay-dutt-bjps-yatra-can-trigger-third-wave-in-himachal-301679
25-08-2021||Mandi||BJP MLA Anil Sharma accuses Himachal CM of development bias||BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma has accused Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur of bias over development in Mandi district.He alleged that a huge amount of the district budget was being spent on the development in Seraj, the home constituency of the CM, and Dharampur, the home constituency of Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur in the district.“The lowest amount of budget is being spent on the Mandi Sadar segment, which shows that the CM is biased over development,” he added.Anil said, “According to official figures in 2021-22, a budget of Rs 12.20 crore was sanctioned for Mandi district, Rs 7.76 crore for Kangra and Rs 7.79 crore for Shimla. Of the Rs 12.20 crore, the Mandi Sadar segment got merely Rs 38 lakh, Dharampur Rs 69 lakh and Seraj Rs 6 crore.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-mla-anil-sharma-accuses-himachal-cm-of-development-bias-301680
25-08-2021||Satya Prakash
||Himachal Pradesh told to pay Rs 25K for delay in filing SLP||Tribune News Service New Delhi, August 24 Pulling up the HP Government for citing Covid-19 as reason for 636-day delay in filing an appeal against a 2018 order in a case registered under the POCSO Act, the Supreme Court has imposed costs of Rs 25,000 on it. “To say the least, we are shocked at the conduct of the petitioner state and the manner of conduct the litigation in such a sensitive matter. There is not even a semblance of explanation for delay,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Monday. The Bench also directed that an inquiry be conducted to fix responsibility of the officials concerned and recover the amount from them. The certificate of recovery should be filed before this court in four weeks, it said. The top court noted that the SLP was filed with a delay of 636 days and when asked about the reason for the inordinate delay, state’s counsel said it was because of Covid. After the Bench pointed out that the HC’s order was passed on December 5, 2018, and the world got affected by Covid in 2019-20, the counsel changed his answer and said he had not received the papers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-told-to-pay-rs-25k-for-delay-in-filing-slp-301681
25-08-2021||Solan||Poppy husk seized  from truck in Paonta||The Majra police in Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district seized 8.6 kg of poppy husk from a truck during routine checking at Sanwala on the Paonta Sahib-Shillai highway last night.The contraband was found concealed in a chamber of the truck and as per preliminary probe, driver Rashid had bought it from Rajasthan, said Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur.“A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the driver. He has been arrested and further probe is underway,” said Bahadur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poppy-husk-seized-from-truck-in-paonta-301682
25-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Absconding murder accused arrested||KULLU, AUGUST 24The police yesterday arrested Khage Nipone alias Kharag Singh Bahadur (32) of Nepal, accused in the murder case of Ram Chander of Uttar Pradesh. He was killed on the night of August 19 in Thella village of the Garsa valley in Bhuntar.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said victim Ram Chander was working as a mason in the house of Harish Kumar and the accused was working as a caretaker in an apple orchard around the house. They had a clash over some matter.He said Dharamjeet of Santkabir Nagar in Uttar Pradesh registered a complaint on August 20 that while he and Ram Chander were sleeping, the accused entered their room and started hitting Ram Chander with an iron rod due to which he sustained injuries and died on the spot.The SP said the accused fled the place with his two children. The children reached back home and, on investigation, it was found that a person from Satring village, working as a mason, had brought them back. On interrogation of the mason, it was found that the accused was still in the area.The accused was found hiding in a field along the nullah near Satring village. He said the accused was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/absconding-murder-accused-arrested-301683
25-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Schools in Himachal to remain closed till September 4||Shimla, August 24With the Covid situation in the state far from satisfactory, Himachal Government on Tuesday decided to extend closure of all schools till September 4 to ensure break in the transmission chain.The decision was taken by the cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai ram Thakur, here today. Earlier, the Government had ordered closure of schools till August 28 and with the next two days being a holiday, schools were to open on August 30.A presentation was made on Covid-19 situation in the State and preparedness to effectively tackle the possible third corona wave before the cabinet. Contrary to expectations that the cabinet would give nod to stricter Covid restrictions, barring extending closure of schools till September 4, no such thing has been done.Though the daily new Covid cases remain below 250 but the high fatality figure of six and five in the last two days has certainly caused concern. The existing restrictions including mandatory RTPCR negative report not older than 72 hours or vaccine certificates to enter the state will remain enforced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-schools-in-himachal-to-remain-closed-till-september-4-301472
