26-08-2021||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan reaches Shimla to celebrate wedding anniversary||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has left for Shimla on a five-day trip with family. He intends to celebrate the silver jubilee anniversary of his wedding that falls on August 28.Initially, the family had proposed a trip to London and Paris, but that had to be dropped because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation.Sources in the Chief Minister's Office said that he travelled by a special flight to Chandigarh, from where the family flew by helicopter to Shimla. He is expected to return on August 30.The 49-year-old Chief Minister married Bharathi Reddy in 1996, and have two children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/andhra-pradesh-chief-minister-ys-jagan-reaches-shimla-to-celebrate-wedding-anniversary-302430
26-08-2021||Mumbai||'A Himachali boy...': Kangana Ranaut praises Karan Johar's 'Shershaah', calls it 'glorious tribute' to Captain Vikram Batra||Actress Kangana Ranaut has heaped praises on the film 'Shershaah' which has been produced by Karan Johar, with whom she has been in a feud for a very long time.Kangana took to her Instagram story on Thursday, where she posted a picture of Param Vir Chakra awardee Captain Vikram Batra, who attained martyrdom in the 1999 Kargil War.She wrote: "National hero Vikram Batra was a Himachali boy from Palampur, very popular and loved soldier. When the tragedy happened, news spread like wildfire in Himachal, it slid through our hearts. As a kid, I remember being tormented for days."Kangana then shared a picture of actor Sidharth Malhotra, who plays Captain Vikram Batra in 'Shershaah', which is co-produced by Karan's Dharma Productions.Also read:She wrote: "Sharing a picture of Sidharth Malhotra from the film. What a glorious tribute @sidmalhotra. Congratulations to entire team. It was a big responsibility and you all excelled #shershaah."The actress, who is often surrounded by controversies, hit the headlines in 2017 when she called filmmaker Karan Johar "intolerant" towards outsiders and a "flagbearer of nepotism" who only backed industry kids, on his popular chat show 'Koffee With Karan'. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-himachali-boy-kangana-ranaut-praises-karan-johars-shershaah-calls-it-glorious-tribute-to-captain-vikram-batra-302368
26-08-2021||---||Traffic on Chandigarh-Manali road in Mandi restored following landslide||Mandi, August 26Traffic on the Chandigarh-Manali highway has been restored.The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for traffic between Mandi and Kullu at 7 Mile near Pandoh in Mandi district following a massive landslide on Thursday.A large number of vehicles were stuck on both sides of the road. The National Highway Authority of India pressed its men and machinery to clear the highway for traffic.For the past two days, Mandi district has been witnessing heavy rain, which is resulting in landslides on the Chandigarh-Manali highway.Due to the ongoing construction work of Kiratpur-Manali four-lane, the Chandigarh-Manali highway between Mandi and Kullu has become prone to landslides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-on-chandigarh-manali-road-in-mandi-restored-following-landslide-302331
26-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||A first in two decades, Chandigarh gets Himachal-based Joint Director, Sports||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 25Not hailing Chandigarh, not even from Haryana or Punjab, the UT’s new Joint Director, Sports (JDS), is from Himachal Pradesh, who has finally been selected after a long wait of over 20 months.Dr Sunil Rayat, Assistant Professor, Physical Education, Government Degree College, Amb (Himachal Pradesh), has been shortlisted by the UT Administration over other candidates to look after the sports-related activities in Chandigarh.He has been appointed for a year, extendable up to three years. It’s for the first time in over two decades that an official from Himachal Pradesh has been appointed to the post. Rayat is said to have got his doctorate degree from Panjab University in 2019 and holds specialisation in boxing.Perhaps, it’s a coincidence that the Union Sports Minister is also from Himachal Pradesh and Chairman of the UT Administrator’s Advisory Council for Sports is also the co-incharge of BJP party affairs, Himachal Pradesh.Notably, last time (in 2016), the department did not seek the appointment of the JDS from the Himachal Pradesh cadre.Meanwhile, with this additional post (JDS), now all top three officials (Secretary Sports, Director Sports and Joint Director Sports) of the Sports Department are officer-in-charge on deputation basis.According to a Sports Department circular, the appointment of a Class I officer (Joint Director) will be made by way of transfer/deputation. The person was asked not to be above 55 years (as on January 1, 2020) and a postgraduate in physical education or equivalent in any sport, with administrative experience, especially in the field of sports.The post has been lying vacant since November 2019 and since then, the department had been working on filling the post. The department also claimed to have approached the UPSC to set up a criteria as the UT follows the Punjab Civil Service rules, wherein a minimum of 15 years of service in administration or field of sports is required. However, in the latest circular, nothing has been mentioned about the years of experience.However, since Chandigarh does not have any rules or policy for promoting its own coaches, the chair was to be filled by a person from outside the cadre. The UT follows Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993. As per the Clause, the post of the JDS should be filled by a Class-I officer of the state or the Centre having an experience and background of sports or sports administration. No criteria or re-drafting has been framed to promote coaches even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.The appointment, meanwhile, has raised silent objections from the local coaching fraternity. However, sources said the appointment had been made to avoid individual interests of other contenders. “There were as many as three contenders from Chandigarh, who were interviewed for this post. However, the panel recommended the applicant from Himachal Pradesh,” said a source.Pending works at Sports DepartmentObjections raisedThe appointment, meanwhile, has raised silent objections from the local coaching fraternity. However, sources said the appointment had been made to avoid individual interests of other contenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-first-in-two-decades-chandigarh-gets-himachal-based-joint-director-sports-302255
26-08-2021||The remote Aalmi area of Khundel panchayat in Chamba is deprived of a road. The inhabitants have to trudge a long distance to reach the main road. The government should construct a road to link this area to the city on priority. In case of any emergency||Aalmi area of Khundel panchayat in Chambaawaits road||No check on number of people in liftThere’s no check on the number of people entering the lift, from the Cart Road to the Mall, in Shimla. Keeping in view the Covid threat, the occupants of the lift should not be more than half of the total capacity. However, the lift is packed to the capacity most of the time. Worse, many do not even wear masks inside, causing inconvenience to others. — Navya Verma, Sanjauli||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aalmi-area-of-khundel-panchayat-in-chambaawaits-road-302069
26-08-2021||At Himachal Pradesh University||Himachal Pradesh University gets 12 teaching departments||Online exams for classes IX to XIIThe first term examination for classes IX to XII will be conducted from the first week of September through the online mode till the schools are opened. The duration of the examination will be three hours and the ratio of multiple choice questions and subjective questions will be 40:60. The tentative date sheet of the examination commencing from September 4 had been released, said Director, Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma.ICAR exam for admission to agri varsitiesThe All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) - 2021 for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) will allow the students to take admissions in specified postgraduate and doctoral programme in any government university accepting the exam and AICE/JRF/SRF (PhD) throughout India. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 crisis and its impact on universities for accreditation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-gets-12-teaching-departments-302070
26-08-2021||Solan||Bus tyre sinks, passengers have a close shave||About 30 passengers of a private bus (HP-64-1225) had a close shave when one of its front tyre sank in loose earth towards the valley side of the road while the driver was giving a pass to other vehicles.It hung precariously towards the gorge on the Oachghat-Narag road this morning around 9:15 am.The incident created panic among passengers who were alarmed to know that the front tyre of the bus was off the road.The driver, however, managed to steer the bus on the road soon.Onlookers blamed the dilapidated condition of the road for the incident and a tragedy was averted as the bus could have plunged into the gorge.Additional Superintendent of Police, Sirmaur, Babita Rana said theincident happened around 9.15 am, near Nahar school, where the bus skidded and its tyre sank in the loose soil.The bus had already left the spot by the time the police arrived and there was no complaint, the Additional Superintendent of Police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bus-tyre-sinks-passengers-have-a-close-shave-302071
26-08-2021||---||Rohru girl selected for India T20 squad||Shimla, August 25“I am getting a lot of calls from mediapersons, and several of them are calling from Mumbai. My daughter Renuka Thakur has made me and our area proud,” says Sunita Thakur, a resident of Parsa village in Rohru in Shimla district. “Her hard work and our sacrifice to see her play for India has finally paid off,” she said joyfully.Renuka, a fast bowler, has been selected for the three-match T20 series to be held in Australia next month. She is the second Himachali woman cricketer after Sushma Verma to make it the senior Indian women cricket team.For girls in this part of the world, cricket is almost out of bounds. Volleyball, kabaddi and kho kho are the sports they play at the school. “Actually her father was a huge cricket fan and he wanted our children to play the sport. But he died when Renuka was just three,” says Sunita. “Somehow, Renuka also developed a strong liking for cricket and started playing with boys in the village,” she adds.When Renuka was around 12 years old, her uncle noticed that she was good in cricket and convinced her mother to send her for trials to a girls’ cricket academy in Kangra. “She was selected and with that started her cricket journey,” says Sunita. “It was difficult for us to support Renuka financially. It’s a costly game and shoes, and clothes cost a lot. After years of toil, her hard work has paid off,” says the proud mother.Pawan Sen, Renuka’s coach at the women cricket academy at Dharamsala, said, “She was the second highest wicket-taker in the women’s senior one-day tournament in 2019. She had been knocking on the doors of the Indian team for sometime now. Finally, she has got her chance, and I am sure she will do well in Australia,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohru-girl-selected-for-india-t20-squad-302072
26-08-2021||Dharamsala||66 of 138 govt colleges in Himachal without principals||Around 48 per cent posts of principal in government colleges in the state are lying vacant. The Himachal Pradesh Government College Teachers Association (HGCTA) has alleged that so many vacant posts of principal are affecting the general administration of government colleges.HGCTA vice-presidentDDO powers given to senior teachersIn these colleges, the Directorate of Higher Education has assigned the DDO powers to senior teachers to draw and disburse the monthly salaries.ND Jasrotia, vice-president of the association, in a press note issued here, said that the regular online teaching of second and third year students of government colleges had started on August 16. “At least 66 of 138 government colleges in HP do not have principals. In these colleges, the Directorate of Higher Education has assigned the DDO powers to senior teachers to draw and disburse the monthly salaries. How can a senior colleague working as a DDO control the working of his fellow colleagues in such a situation,” he added.Jasrotia said that it was for the first time that such a situation had arisen in colleges. Senior teachers assigned the DDO powers had to take routine classes also, besides looking after the day-to-day office affairs.He said that on the one hand, the government would celebrate Shiksha Parv on the completion of one year of the implementation of the New Education Policy-2020 on September 8, on the other, 48 per cent posts of college principals were vacant.The government had not convened even one Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) meeting since July 2018 for college principals. Many eligible teachers had superannuated without getting their due one-time promotion in their lifetime and the principals already holding the post were retiring, the association stated.“There are only a handful of Grade A government colleges in the state. Most of other government colleges have either not applied for accreditation or do not fulfill the requirements due to the lack of infrastructure and a regular principal. While 66 government colleges are without principals, 19 colleges have officiating heads. The remaining 53 institutions have regular principals. Of these 53 institutions at least the principals of four colleges are going to retire by the year end,” said Dr RL Sharma, general secretary, HGCTA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/66-of-138-govt-colleges-in-himachal-without-principals-302073
26-08-2021||---||Himachali apples best, says Preity Zinta in video||Shimla, August 25Apples of Himachal are the best in the world, says actress Preity Zinta in a short video that went viral on social networking sites Instagram and YouTube.“I am here in Himachal, above Shimla (upper Shimla), at my family farm,” she said, while giving a short virtual tour of the farm full of apple-laden trees.She said, “The apple season is underway and it is raining. I am happy and reliving my childhood memories. “This is farm life and it’s nice to come here after so long andnow I have officially become a farmer and will always come here,” the actress added.She took to her Instagram handle to give a tour of her farms to her fans and said, “The minute it stopped raining, I ran out and made this video. Coming back to the family farm in apple season after years is an emotional and exhilarating experience. Growing up, this place was dominated by the larger than life presence of my grandfather, grandmother and maternal uncle and aunt. We spent the best days of my childhood here.”“Apple season is always special. But there were so many rules like no eating in the grading halls, not disturbing or distracting the labour that diligently plucked apples in special baskets called kiltas, no playing with apples or throwing them around,” she said in a post. “However, my favourite part was apple plucking and collecting the largest and the smallest apples of the season and of course, glasses of freshly squeezed apple juice,” she said.The actress’ love for healthy, organic living is well known and earlier also in a video she had thanked her mother for a full-fledged kitchen garden while plucking capsicum and tomato from her kitchen garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachali-apples-best-says-preity-zinta-in-video-302074
26-08-2021||Shimla||MeT issues heavy rain warning in five districts of Himachal||The MeT office has issued a yellow warning of heavy rainfall at isolated places in Chamba, Kangra, Mandi and Sirmaur on August 27 and in Bilaspur, Kangra and Mandi on August 28. It has predicted a wet spell in the region till August 31.Mandi received 75 mm of rain, followed by Guler 66 mm, Sundernagar 55 mm, Gaggal 50 mm, Nagrota Suriyan 47 mm, Gohar 42 mm, Bangana 32 mm, Janjehli 25 mm, Bharari and Karsog 20 mm each, Sujanpur Tira and Baldwara 18 mm each, Narkanda 16 mm, Mashobra and Baijnath 14 mm each, Ghamroor 13 mm, Pandoh, Hamirpur, Jogindarnagar and Bilaspur 12 mm each, and Dalhousie and Dharamsala 10 mm each.However, there was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures. Keylong was the coldest at 13°C while Una was the hottest at 38°C.Till now, 309 persons have lost their lives in rain-related incidents since June 13 during the current monsoon season while 11 persons are still missing. The estimated loss caused to the state is Rs 876.55 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-issues-heavy-rain-warning-in-five-districts-of-himachal-302075
26-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Tulip garden dream at Dharamsala falls flat||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 25The picturesque town located in the foothills of the Dhauladhars would have had one more feature to lure tourists. After the famous HPCA cricket stadium, tulip garden, had it come up, would have been an added incentive for tourists to visit the place. However, conceived in Dharamsala with funding from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) during the stint of the previous Congress government, the dream has fallen victim to politics.Sudhir Sharma, Ex-Cong Minister‘Like any other park’The idea was to develop a tourist attraction on the lines of the famous tulip garden in Srinagar. The present government has changed the project concept. It’s now like any other park. The name and concept of the tulip garden has been changed. The garden was visualised keeping in mind Indira Gandhi Tulip Garden in Srinagar, with a view to attracting tourists to Dharamsala. The park was to be developed in two phases involving an investment of Rs 22 crores during the stint of previous government.However, no tulips would be seen growing in the garden now. Now, after a lapse of about five years it has been developed as Dhauladhar Biodiversity Park.Sources here said that the after the change in government in the state in 2017, then local BJP MLA and now MP from Kangra, Kishan Kapoor objected to the work being done in tulip garden. On his objections, the Tourism Department changed the concept of the project and developed it as a Biodiversity Park.The garden now has a children park, grounds, a variety of vegetation and gift shops. Parking area was nearing completion. The park has been developed by the Tourism Department with funding of about Rs 7 crores provided by the ADB. It would now be handed over to the eco-tourism society of the Forest Department before it is opened up for public.DFO Dharamsala, Sanjeev Sharma, when contacted, said, “The Tourism Department has offered us to take over the park. We have asked them to make some changes in the infrastructure. They have agreed to affect the changes. Once they make the changes the forest department’s ecotourism society would take over the project and throw it open for general public”, he said.Sudhir Sharma, former minister and AICC secretary, who had conceived the idea of Tulip garden in Dharamsala, flayed the current government for changing the concept of the park. While talking to The Tribune, Sudhir Sharma said that the project funded by the ADB was to come up in two phases and involve an investment of Rs 22 crores. The idea was to develop a tourist attraction in Dharamsala in the form of the famous tulip garden in Srinagar. The present government has changed the project concept. The second phase of the project has been dropped. It is now like any other park of the city. There was no pointing in spending Rs 7 crores from the ADB grants on developing an ordinary park, he said.BJP MLA from Dharamsala, Vishal Nehria, when contacted, said that the name of the park has been changed from Tulip garden to Dhauladhar Biodiversity Park as the land on which it was being developed belonged to forest department. It being the forest land the name and nature of Tulip garden had to be changed, he said.“We would still try to develop Tulips also that can survive in Dharamsala,” Nehria said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tulip-garden-dream-at-dharamsala-falls-flat-302076
26-08-2021||Solan||Two held with 22 snakes in Nalagarh||The Nalagarh police today arrested two tribals Vijay and Kaku residing at Preet Nagar for illegally keeping under captivity wild animals, including 22 snakes, and their trophy articles for sale.A joint search conducted by the police and wildlife officials following a tip-off from the wildlife crime control bureau at Bangala colony at Nalagarh led to the recovery of 22 snakes, one parrot, three hunting dogs and remnants of various animals being kept in violation of the Wildlife Protection Act.The seized snakes include spectacled cobra, Indian rattlesnake, Indian Krait, Indian wolf snake and checkered keelback water snake. The remnants of wild animals, which are highly valued, include the claws of leopards, horns of sambhar deer, claws of monitor lizards, head of snakes, etc.,DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that a case under the Wildlife Protection Act had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-with-22-snakes-in-nalagarh-302077
26-08-2021||Shimla||Protect interests of apple growers: Kuldeep Rathore to Himachal govt||Congress president Kuldeep Rathore today accused the Adani group of fleecing apple growers and asked the state government to protect their interests.Also read: Adani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointed Rathore, while addressing mediapersons here, said that the government should save the apple farmers of Himachal. “This year, the Adani group has reduced the purchase price of apples by Rs 16 and influenced the Rs 5,000 crore market of the state. The decision has compounded the miseries of the apple growers as Covid and unexpected snowfall in May had broken the backbone of the small farmers of the state,” he added.He alleged that the apple prices had been reduced with tacit approval of the government. “The cost of one apple box is around Rs 450 to Rs 500 while it is selling for around Rs 600 in the market. Since 1984, successive state governments have been giving subsidies on insecticide, fungicide and other medicines along with agricultural equipment but the BJP government has discontinued all these benefits,” he said.Rathore said that due to unseasonal snowfall and hailstorm, the orchardists had suffered huge losses but neither the Chief Minister nor the Horticulture Minister visited the affected areas.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protect-interests-of-apple-growers-kuldeep-rathore-to-himachal-govt-302078
26-08-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 198 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 198 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the total to 212,458. Besides, one person died in Kullu. The highest 52 cases were in Mandi, followed by 35 in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-198-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-302079
26-08-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind likely to address special Himachal Assembly session||Shimla, August 25President Ram Nath Kovind is likely to address a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee anniversary of statehood on September 17.Normally, the President spends some time at the Retreat, also known as Rashtrapati Bhawan at Mashobra, near here, every year.He will be arriving here on September 16 on a five-day programme and will address the special session of the Assembly on September 17. He is scheduled to visit the Indian Audit and Accounts Academy, Yarrows on September 19 and likely to return to Delhi on September 20.The government has put on hold the golden jubilee celebrations in view of Covid. If the situation remains under control, the government could hold the Swarnim Rath Yatra in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-ram-nath-kovind-likely-to-address-special-himachal-assembly-session-302080
26-08-2021||Shimla||32 ICU patient monitors presented to Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was presented 32 ICU Patient Monitors by the ICICI Foundation and ICICI Bank for use in hospitals here today.Thakur thanked the ICICI Foundation and ICICI Bank for this noble gesture and said this contribution would go a long way in supplementing the efforts of the government in providing better medical services to the patients in the state.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/32-icu-patient-monitors-presented-to-himachal-cm-302081
26-08-2021||---||Chandigarh-Manali National Highway thrown open||Mandi, August 25The Chandigarh-Manali highway was thrown open after almost 12 hours for normal traffic movement between Mandi and Kullu today. This highway was blocked between Mandi and Kullu due to a major landslide near Pandoh in Mandi district. As a result, commuters in large numbers either traveling to Kullu from Mandi or coming to Mandi from Kullu were stuck for hours.According to the police, the landslide occurred at around 3:30 am near Pandoh, blocking the highway. The National Highways Authority of India engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the highway and opened it partially for traffic movement around 12 pm. However the highway was restored for normal traffic around 4 pm today.SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said that to avoid traffic chaos on the road, the traffic movement of light vehicles was diverted on alternate route via Katuala between Mandi and Kullu. The heavy vehicles were stopped in Mandi until the clearance of the highway for traffic movement.The SP has urged people to drive cautiously, particularly while travelling between Mandi and Kullu because the road stretch between Mandi and Aut is prone to landslides during the rainy season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-national-highway-thrown-open-302082
26-08-2021||---||Another Mandi man back from Afghanistan||Mandi, August 25Rahul Burari heaved a sigh of relief after he arrived at his native place Sarkaghat today. He was stuck in Afghanistan after capture of power by the Taliban.Rahul was working as a security guard with a US company in Afghanistan. He was worried about his safety ever since the Taliban had captured power.Recalling the sufferings of the people, Rahul said that there were chaotic scenes on the streets and people were seen struggling to get out of the trouble-torn Afghanistan.Narrating his ordeal, Rahul said he along with other Indians was transported to the airport in 10 vehicles, which were escorted by Taliban security guards. “We feared death at the hands of Taliban fighters, but they did not harm us. After five days of struggle, we were transported to the airport and we heaved a sigh of relief,” said Rahul.“The US company helped us reach Dubai, from where we reached London. From London, I came to New Delhi,” he added.“I am delighted after meeting my parents, wife and children, who were worried about my safe return to India,” said Rahul. The family and relatives of Rahul gave him a warm welcome and thanked the state and Central governments for his safe return.“We are thankful to CM Jai Ram Thakur and the Central government that my son has returned home safely. This is the biggest gift of my life,” Balwant Burari, Rahul’s father, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/another-mandi-man-back-from-afghanistan-302083
26-08-2021||---||Labourer killed in Lahaul landslide||Mandi, August 25One person was killed, while another was injured at Kaurik village in tribal district Lahaul Spiti today evening due to massive landslide in the area.According to police, two labourers were engaged in some ITBP work at Kaurik village today when suddenly a massive landslide occurred in the area and both of them were buried under debris.“One person was found dead on the spot, while another injured victim was rushed to a nearby hospital,” said the police officer.The officer said that the police are trying to establish the identity of the deceased. The district administration has deployed police personnel and revenue officials for further action on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/labourer-killed-in-lahaul-landslide-302084
26-08-2021||---||Protest on for specialist doctors in Lahaul Spiti||Mandi, August 25The wait is getting longer for the residents of tribal district Lahaul Spiti for the appointment of specialist doctors at district hospital Keylong in the district. The residents are urging the state government to fill all vacant posts of specialist doctors at Keylong hospital so that they can avail better medical care facilities at their doorstep.The protest of the Youth Congress for this demand has entered the 22nd day today. The protesters are sitting on a chain hunger strike at the district headquarters Keylong. The protest is being supported by local residents to pressurise the state government to make appointment of specialist doctors at the hospital.Kunga Bodh, vice president, Youth Congress Lahaul Spiti said, “We have been sitting here for the past 22 days but the state government has paid no heed.”“Better healthcare is the right of each citizen and the state government should come forward to provide us medical facilities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protest-on-for-specialist-doctors-in-lahaul-spiti-302085
26-08-2021||Vijay Arora||Surat Negi’s nomination as HP Forest Corporation member stayed||Shimla, August 25The HP High Court has stayed the nomination of Surat Negi, Vice-Chairman of the HP Forest Corporation, as a member of the HP Tribes Advisory Council. A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua passed the interim order yesterday on a petition filed by Jagat Negi, Kinnaur MLA.Jagat Negi has stated in the petition that the state government nominated Surat Negi as a member of the Tribes Advisory Council, and on October 17, 2018, appointed him as the Vice-Chairman of the HP State Forest Corporation.He alleged that he raised objections with the Chairman of the Tribes Advisory Council regarding Surat Negi’s nomination as a member of the Tribes Advisory Council as he was also the Vice-Chairman of the HP Forest Corporation and holding an office of profit, which is a disqualification for the members under rule 4(b) of the HP Tribes Advisory Council Rules 1976.Jagat Negi has alleged that Surat Negi was again nominated as a member of the Tribes Advisory Council. He applied for information under the RTI Act with respect to his objection and the opinion of the Law Department and he was verbally intimated that the objection with respect to the office of profit was not maintainable. The petitioner has prayed to quash the notification regarding the nomination to the Tribes Advisory Council only with respect to the nomination of Surat Negi as a member of the council.The court said, “Prima facie, it appears that the present post being held by him is opposed to law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/surat-negis-nomination-as-hp-forest-corporation-member-stayed-302086
26-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Adhere to rules while alloting outlets, HP High Court directs oil corporation||Shimla, August 25The HP High Court has directed the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) to make allotment of its retail sale outlets of petroleum products by strictly adhering to the prescribed rules/guidelines framed by Indian Roads Congress (IRC) and/or Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH).A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya passed this judgment last week on a petition challenging the allotments of its two outlets situated at Bohan village in Jawalamukhi tehsil, Kangra district, and Mohal Thara, Dulehar subtehsil, Una district, on the grounds that these are allotted in violation of the guidelines framed by the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH).It was further contended that a distance between 1,000 meters and 300 meters is required to be maintained from the intersection of the national highways/state highways/ major district roads (MDRs), whereas in the present case, the requisite distances from the intersections of the National Highway and also from a village road have not been considered.While quashing the allotments, the court observed that “the absence of the applicability of any such guideline shall lead to a chaotic condition. The state highways and MDRs or for that matter other roads are lifelines of the state and by allowing the establishment of fuel stations or any other structure at the whims and fancies of individuals will result in catastrophe.”It further observed that the “IOC is under legal obligation to act with reasonableness to avoid arbitrary rule which cannot be countenanced in any developed legal system”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adhere-to-rules-while-alloting-outlets-hp-high-court-directs-oil-corporation-302087
26-08-2021||---||Work on 214 roads in Sirmaur over: Shimla MP||Solan, August 25The work on 214 roads approved under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana in Sirmaur district has been completed while the work on the remaining 38 roads is in the advanced stage of completion. As many as 252 roads have been approved under the Central scheme and Rs 682 crore spent on them, said Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap while speaking at the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav organised by the Public Works Department (PWD) at Nahan today.Kashyap said that Rs 170 crore was being spent to complete the work on 38 roads. Under the Central scheme, 1,674 km of roads had been being constructed in Sirmaur district. As many as 274 habitations would be provided road connectivity under the scheme while 272 habitations had already been provided connectivity.The MP said that under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, people were beinggiven information about developmental works undertaken by various departments. He added that the scheme was a visionary idea of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who wanted to provide connectivity to rural areas for their development. He said that the road network in the district was being strengthened to enable farmers to easily transport their crop to market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-214-roads-in-sirmaur-over-shimla-mp-302088
26-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Over 5,000 sheep stranded in Mantalai area in Parbati valley||Kullu, August 25About 5,000 sheep of more than 50 rearers are stranded in pastures in the 13,000-ft-high Mantalai area in Parbati valley after the route for their safe return was damaged due to the breaking of a glacier in Tunda Bhuj.The shepherds take their livestock to the pastures in the higher reaches in summers and return in September on the onset of winters. Earlier, shepherds used to cross through a wooden footbridge over the Parbati river at Tunda Bhuj but the bridge was damaged in 2014. After this, the shepherds used to take their sheep, goats and horses through the hills of Tunda Bhuj. However, the alternative route, too, has been damaged due to the breaking of a glacier.The shepherds appealed to the administration for help as they will have to return within two weeks to low-lying areas. They said that it was very risky to cross through the damaged route. They said that a few years ago, a herder had died after falling from the alternate route. They added that due to the changing weather patterns, the area could witness snowfall anytime.The shepherds have been demanding the repair of the broken wooden footbridge at Tunda Bhuj for the last seven years, but the government, administration, forest department and local panchayat have not taken any initiative. The Forest Department had started the exercise of building a bridge at Tunda Bhuj a few years ago, but it could not be completed.Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said a team, comprising members of a local rescue group, had been sent to the region today to take stock of the situation. He said later experts would be sent to find a solution. He said abutments of the wooden bridge were present on the spot and a possibility of temporary arrangement would be explored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-5-000-sheep-stranded-in-mantalai-area-in-parbati-valley-302089
26-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Forest nod yet to be received, Mandi National Highway project delayed||Palampur, August 25The strategic Pathankot-Mandi road widening project linking Pathankot with Leh has been delayed because of the delay in the grant of forest and environment clearances. The project has been hanging fire since 2018NHAI spokesperson90% land for first phase acquiredNinety per cent of the land for the first phase of the project has been acquired, which is a basic condition for the bidding process. However, as forestland is involved, construction cannot be done without an NOC from the state and Union governments. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had approved the construction of the first phase of the project between Pathankot (Kandwal) and 32 Miles in Kangra district in March this year and had released Rs 145 crore on account of compensation to be paid for the land acquired. Out of the amount released, Rs 71 crore had already been disbursed among the affected parties and the balance amount would also be distributed in the next one month, NHAI sources said.However, as no headway has been made in getting the forest and environment clearances from state and union governments, the project is on hold. Global bids for the first phase of the project were opened by the NHAI on March 26 and construction work of the highway valuing Rs 1,002.11 crore was awarded to a Gurugram-based construction company.“As much as 90 per cent land for the first phase of the project has already been acquired, which is one of the basic conditions for the completion of the bidding process. However, as forestland is also involved, construction cannot be taken up without an NOC from the state and Union governments,” said a spokesman for the NHAI.The 219-km Pathankot-Mandi road project of the Union Government has strategic importance as it links Pathankot with Leh, Ladakh and other forward areas. Considering defence requirements, the Central Government wants to complete it early.The spokesman said the NHAI was focused on ensuring minimum cutting of hills, avoiding environmental degradation causing inconvenience to people residing along the highway and avoiding dislocation of business establishments. Therefore, the width of the road had been reduced at several points. The distance between Pathankot and Mandi would be reduced from 219 km to 171 km when the four-lane road is completedUnion Road and Surface Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari had laid the foundation stone of the first 40-km stretch from Pathankot to 32 Miles in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/forest-nod-yet-to-be-received-mandi-national-highway-project-delayed-302090
26-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Lockdown, flash floods hit business, shopkeepers pack up in McLeodganj||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 25Covid lockdown and lack of foreign and domestic tourists have led to permanent closure of about 10 per cent shops in McLeodganj.McLeodganj, also known as Little Lhasa, wears a deserted look these days due to the shutting down of many shops. Adil, a shopkeeper, said, “We have been selling handmade Tibetan artefacts and Thanka paintings for the past 30 years. Most of our customers were foreigners who visited McLeodganj. For the past two years, there are no foreign tourists and our business has been badly hit.”Norbu said the lockdown had hit vendors like him very badly. “There was some improvement in tourist inflow in July, but soon videos of flash floods in Bhagsunag went viral on social media. That again deterred tourists from heading towards this area. We don’t know when things will normalise,” he said.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of the Smart City Hotel Association of Dharamsala, said many shops had been shut in McLeodganj due to lack of business. Being a popular tourist destination, rentals here were very high. Those running cafeterias and gift shops were the worst-hit as they were totally dependent on tourists for their income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lockdown-flash-floods-hit-business-shopkeepers-pack-up-in-mcleodganj-302159
26-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal apples are the best says actress Preity Zinta as she gives virtual tour of her family farms on Instagram||Himachal apples are the best in the world, says actress Preity Zinta in a short video that went viral on social networking sites, including Instagram and YouTube.“I am here in Himachal above Shimla at my family farm,” she said while giving a short virtual tour of the farm full of apple laden trees.She looked excited while showing the beautiful apples and informed her viewers that nowadays apple season is on and it is raining.Also read: Adani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointed“I am happy and reliving my childhood memories. This is farm life and it’s nice to come here after so long and now I have officially become a farmer and would always come here,” the actress said.A post shared by Preity G Zinta (@realpz)  The Bollywood star took to her Instagram handle to give a tour of her farms to fans and said, “The minute it stopped raining I ran out and made this video. Coming back to the family farm in apple season after years was an emotional and exhilarating experience. Growing up, this place was dominated by the larger than life presence of my grandfather, grandmother and mamaji and mamiji. We spent the best days of my childhood here.”“Apple season is always special. But there were so many rules like no eating in the grading halls, not disturbing or distracting the labour that diligently plucked apples in special baskets called Kiltas, no playing with apples or throwing them around,” she said in a post.However, my favourite part was apple plucking and collecting the largest and the smallest apples of the season and of course glasses of freshly squeezed apple juice, she added.The actress’ love for healthy organic living is well known and earlier also in a video she had thanked her mother for a full-fledged kitchen garden while plucking capsicum and tomato from her kitchen garden.Preity Zinta was born on January 31, 1975. She studied at the Convent of Jesus and Mary boarding school in Shimla. After her schooling, Zinta pursued her English Honours degree from St. Bede’s College here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-apples-are-the-best-says-actress-preity-zinta-as-she-gives-virtual-tour-of-her-family-farms-on-instagram-301966
