27-08-2021||Shimla||186 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 more deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally increased to 2,12,913 on Friday with 186 fresh cases, while the death toll climbed to 3,569 as three more people succumbed to the disease, a health official said.The latest deaths were reported from Kangra district, he said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has come down to 1,965 from 2,077 on Thursday, the official said.As many as 293 more patients recovered from Covid-19, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,07,356, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/186-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-more-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-302876
27-08-2021||Lalit Mohan||Central University of Himachal Pradesh writes to GSI, Kolkata, for land survey of Jadrangal campus||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 26The Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) authorities have written to the Geological Survey of India (GSI), Kolkata, to send a team for the technical evaluation of the land proposed for the university campus at Jadrangal in Dharamsala.Sources say that a GSI team from Shimla had last month surveyed the site proposed for the CUHP campus at Jadrangal. In its report, the team stated that the proposed land was unfit for the construction of the campus. It recommended a detailed survey to be conducted by the GSI, Kolkata, to evaluate the technical feasibility of the land for the construction of the campus.Meanwhile, a political controversy has erupted over the report of the GSI, Shimla, not finding the land proposed at Jadrangal in the Dharamsala Assembly constituency suitable for campus construction.Sat Prakash Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, says that the university has written to the GSI, Kolkata, to constitute a team for the survey. He adds that the CUHP is committed to constructing the campus in Dharamsala once the land is made available to it.“At present, we intend to start the construction of the campus at Dehra on about 24 hectares non-forestland and about 81 hectares forestland provided for the CUHP. The construction of the campus has already been delayed by around 12 years and we don’t want to delay it further. As soon as the government provides us land in Dharamsala, the construction of the campus will begin,” he says.Meanwhile, AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma has questioned the intention of the government to construct a CUHP campus in Dharamsala. He has accused BJP leaders of Dharamsala, including local MLA Vishal Nehria and Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor, of failing to protect the interests of the area.Sharma says that if high-rise hotels, a mini-secretariat and the international-level cricket stadium can come up in Dharamsala, why did the GSI not find the place fit for the CUHP campus. “It is clearly a conspiracy to shift the entire campus to Dehra,” he adds.Sharma says earlier the central authorities had rejected the land proposed for the campus in Dharamsala and now the land at Jadrandal has been rejected. “How is it that the land at Dehra has been found suitable for the campus construction and the land located 40 km away in Dharamsala is unfit,” he adds.Nehria says that he has talked to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on the issue. “I shall be going to Delhi to talk to the Union HRD Minister to request him that at least 30 per cent campus should be constructed in Dharamsala. I have also conveyed to the Chief Minister that the CUHP campus can be built on 25 acres non-forestland at Jadrangal that has already been allotted to the university,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/central-university-of-himachal-pradesh-writes-to-gsi-kolkata-for-land-survey-of-jadrangal-campus-302525
27-08-2021||Our Correspondent||NIT-IIT, Gandhinagar, pact for research, training||Hamirpur, August 26The IIT, Gandhinagar, in Gujarat will provide advance technical research facilities to the students of the NIT here. An MoU in this regard was signed by Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT, and Surya P Mehrotra, in-charge of External Relations of the IIT, Gandhinagar, virtually today.The IIT, Gandhinagar, agreed to provide technology, training and research facilities to the students and the faculty members of the NIT here. As per the MoU, two meritorious students of the NIT will be provided facilities under the exchange of students for Summer Research Internship Programme at the IIT.Awasthi said that the IIT, Gandhinagar, would foot all expenses on boarding and lodging and research facilities of both students and faculty members selected under the programme. The IIT would also provide a stipend to the students, who complete the programme successfully. The students would also have the facility to complete the semester at the IIT, Gandhinagar, and credits earned during the period shall be transferred to the NIT, Hamirpur, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-iit-gandhinagar-pact-for-research-training-302526
27-08-2021||Shimla||269 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 269 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 212,727. Besides, three persons died of the virus—two in Kangra and one in Shimla.The highest number of 69 cases was recorded in Mandi, followed by 43 in Kangra, 38 in Shimla, 36 in Hamirpur, 28 in Chamba, 14 in Bilaspur, nine each in Kinnaur and Solan, eight each in Sirmaur and Kullu, four in Lahaul and Spiti and three in Una. The number of active cases rose to 2,077 while the total deaths increased to 3,566. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/269-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-302527
27-08-2021||---||Andhra Pradesh CM in Shimla for 25th wedding anniversary||Hyderabad, August 26Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has left for Shimla on a five-day trip with family. He intends to celebrate the silver jubilee anniversary of his wedding that falls on August 28.Initially, the family had proposed a trip to London and Paris, but that had to be dropped because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation.Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said he travelled by a special flight to Chandigarh from where the family flew by a helicopter to Shimla. He is expected to return on August 30. The 49-year-old CM was married to Bharathi Reddy in 1996 and has two children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/andhra-pradesh-cm-in-shimla-for-25th-wedding-anniversary-302528
27-08-2021||Shimla||President five-day Himachal visit to begin on Sept 16||President Ram Nath Kovind will address a special session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha to mark the golden jubilee year of statehood.Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar said the President would address a special session of the Assembly here on September 17 at 11 am. He said the details of the programme were yet to be finalised. The President is scheduled to arrive here on a five-day tour on September 16.“This will be the third occasion when the President will address the special session of the Assembly,” he added. He said APJ Abdul Kalam had addressed the Himachal Assembly on December 23, 2004, and Pranab Mukherjee on May 24, 2013.Parmar said the Chief Minister, ministers and legislators will be present at the special one-day session to mark the golden jubilee statehood anniversary. Himachal became a full-fledged state on January 25, 1971 and ever since the day is observed as the Statehood Day.“During the function we would like to remember and pay tributes to all former chief ministers and others who made a contribution in helping Himachal surge ahead on the path of development,” said Parmar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/president-five-day-himachal-visit-to-begin-on-sept-16-302529
27-08-2021||Mandi||Chandigarh-Manali NH blocked for 3 hrs||A fresh landslide at 7 Mile near Pandoh in Mandi district blocked the Chandigarh-Manali highway for almost three hours today. As a result, a large number of vehicles, which were either heading towards Kullu from Mandi or vice versa, were stuck.It was the second consecutive day when a major landslide occurred at 7 Mile near Pandoh in Mandi. Yesterday, the area had witnessed a major landslide near Pandoh, which blocked the traffic movement between Mandi and Kullu for almost 12 hours.According to the police, this highway was blocked due to a landslide around 8.15 am today. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the debris from the road. The traffic was restored at 11.30 am.This highway has become prone to landslides between Mandi and Kullu due to the ongoing construction work of the Kiratpur-Manali fourlane project. There is deep cutting of the hillside, which results in landslides during monsoon.Mandi district is receiving incessant rain for the past two days, triggering landslides in the area. ASP Ashish Sharma told The Tribune that the highway was restored after nearly three hours.Frequent landslides on the highway have affected the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali badly because tourists feel unsafe while travelling on the road, especially during the monsoons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-nh-blocked-for-3-hrs-302530
27-08-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||In lower Kangra, PWD suffers Rs 14 cr loss due to rainfall||Nurpur, August 26The Public Works Department (PWD) has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 14.58 crore during the ongoing monsoon season in the lower Kangra areas of Nurpur, Indora, Jawali and Fatehpur divisions.Excessive rain and flash floods in local rivulets have caused an extensive damage to public property during the past one-and-half months.As per official information gathered from the PWD authorities, a large number of link roads, including main district and village roads, retaining walls and culverts, have been damaged due to torrential rain and landslides. The road connectivity in the low-lying rural areas has been repeatedly disrupted, causing inconvenience to commuters. Also, a number of village paths and link roads have been washed away. Roads allegedly constructed using the poor quality of material have suffered an extensive damage.A maximum loss of Rs 12.06 crore has been caused to public property in Indora division, especially in the Mand area, followed by Rs 5.50 crore in Fatehpur and Rs 5.16 crore in Jawali division. The Nurpur PWD division has reported a loss of Rs 3.80 crore.Executive engineers of Nurpur, Indora, Jawali and Fatehpur said the initial loss details had been submitted to the higher authorities and if rain continues to lash the area, additional reports would have to be prepared after the monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-lower-kangra-pwd-suffers-rs-14-cr-loss-due-to-rainfall-302531
27-08-2021||Subhash Rajta||Adani stores in Himachal witness steady apple supply||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 26Despite apple growers expressing disappointment over the procurement prices announced by the Adani group two days back, the company’s stores saw a steady arrival of the fruit on the first day on Thursday.Also read: Adani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointed“We started procuring apple from midnight and have received 13,000 crates at our Rohru plant and 15,000 crates at Rampur. By midnight, we are expecting 700-800 tonne apple at our three stores, which is around 35,000 to 40,000 boxes,” said Pankaj Mishra, plant head, Rohru store.Trying to offer high remunerationIf we aren’t offering good rates, why will so many farmers come to us? We fix prices after surveying local and bigger mandis. Our effort is to offer 10 to 20% higher remuneration to them than mandis. —Pankaj Mishra, Rohru plant headThe arrival, which Mishra claims is better than they had on the first day of the last season, is surprising. Many apple organisations and groups, had slammed the Adani group for “poor prices” and had even given a call to boycott it this season. Even social media is buzzing with comments against the corporate and boycott call. “We fix prices after surveying the local and bigger mandis. Our effort is to offer 10 to 20 per cent higher remuneration to farmers than the mandis. And we have been doing that successfully over the past 10 years,” he said.Also read: Keep tabs on illegal practices in market yards, Himachal officials toldProtect interests of apple growers: Kuldeep Rathore to Himachal govtAnother official had told The Tribune a day before that their prices were not market-driven and are fixed after discussion with the farmers.Meanwhile, growers had mixed views about the prices. “Compared to mandis, we are happy with the prices we are getting here. One crate is fetching us around Rs 800 to Rs 900, which translates into around Rs 1,600-1,700 per box. In mandis, a 25-27 kg box is selling between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,400,” said Yashwant Chauhan, who gave his apple at the Rohru store. “We just hope the prices here don’t go down any further,” he added.However, a grower at the Rampur plant was not happy. “I have been selling apple for the last 10 years but the rates this time are not good at all. Given how much input cost has risen, the growers will struggle to make decent profits,” said Shrawan Kumar, a grower from Kinnaur.Harish Chauhan, president of the Apple, Vegetable and Flower Growers’ Association, feels it’s the lack of options which is forcing the farmers to sell their produce to the Adani stores. “There’s a slump in the mandis, so where will the growers go. Small and marginal growers can’t hold back their produce, so they are content with whatever price they are getting.” “Unless the government intervenes, farmers will be at the mercy of mandis and corporates. It’s high time that Kashmir-like Market Intervention Scheme should be introduced in the state,” Chauhan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adani-stores-in-himachal-witness-steady-apple-supply-302532
27-08-2021||Shimla||Keep tabs on illegal practices in market yards, Himachal officials told||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today chaired a meeting on the marketing of apple produce with the Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation, Agriculture Produce Marketing Corporation, HIMFED and HP State Agriculture Marketing Board here.He issued directions to officials concerned to check illegal practices in market yards.APMC chairman Naresh Sharma said strict action was being taken against those found guilty of illegal practices in the market yards. He said CCTV cameras would be installed in the market yards for curbing such practices.The minister also directed the HP State Agriculture Marketing Board to regulate the transportation of apple and sensitise growers about the market so that they do not panic. “Good quality apples are getting good price in the market, so horticulturists should have faith in the government,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keep-tabs-on-illegal-practices-in-market-yards-himachal-officials-told-302533
27-08-2021||Mandi||2.5K fish found dead in Mandi farm||A large number of trout fish were found dead inMandi’s Arthi village on Wednesday.According to affected fish farmer Bachitar Singh, when he visited his farm in Arthi village on Wednesday, he found dead fish floating on the surface of water. The samples were taken by the veterinary doctors to ascertain the actual cause of death.Bachitar said around 2,500 fish were found dead in his farm, which caused him revenue loss in lakhs. Themarket price of trout fishis Rs 550 per kg.Meanwhile, Khem Singh, assistant director, Fishery Department, Mandi, said the fish may have died due to polluted water. Generally during monsoon, floodwater enters into farms, harming the trout fish directly, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-5k-fish-found-dead-in-mandi-farm-302534
27-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu BJP leader booked for attempt to murder||Kullu, August 26The police have arrested three persons in an attempt to murder case, while raids are being carried out to nab a BJP leader, main accused, and his accomplice.Congress leader and former panchayat president Paras Ram Negi and his wife Kais panchayat president Youm Devi were reportedly attacked by nearly 15 persons at Chharudu on the Kullu-Naggar road and they were grievously injured while they were going in a car back home in the evening.The video of Youm Devi went viral after the incident in which she is alleging that Khimi Ram, alias Kewalu, and Siddhu had attacked them. Khimi Ram is Kullu BJP media co-incharge.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said an attempt to murder case had been registered. He said five assailants had been identified. Raj Kumar of Chanaugi, Chander Kiran Sharma of Puid and Vijay Kumar of Bradha village had been arrested.He said further investigations were underway and the culprits would not be spared under any circumstances.Earlier, the video of scuffle between two groups on the Kullu courts complex on Tuesday circulated in social media in which Youm Devi had slapped Khimi Ram. A cross-FIR was registered by both groups. However, Khimi Ram with his accomplices allegedly attacked the duo, injuring them. Their vehicle was also damaged.The office-bearers and members of the Manali Congress Committee accompanied by the residents of Gahar and Kais panchayats held a demonstration in Dhalpur and submitted a memorandum to the Kullu SP. In the ultimatum, they demanded that the accused should be arrested within 24 hours or they will be forced to intensify the agitation.Manali Congress Committee president Hari Chand Sharma said the violence showed that the law and order situation had deteriorated. The condition of both victims is critical and they had been referred to Ner Chowk hospital.Meanwhile, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur met the victims and inquired about their well-being at Ner Chowk Medical College. He assured that financial assistance would be provided to the family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-bjp-leader-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-302535
27-08-2021||---||Woman missing, villagers protest in Jogindernagar||Mandi, August 26People of Bhararu panchayat and its nearby villages staged a massive protest on the Ram Leela ground in Jogindernagar in the district today to force the police to locate the missing woman Jyoti of Guduhi village.The protest was held under the leadership of Kushal Bhardwaj, Zila Parishad member of Bhararu in Mandi.Bhardwaj said, “The victim Jyoti has been missing since August 8 but the police are clueless. Her family is in trauma. The victim had arguments with her husband and later she found missing from home along with her dog. The dog had returned home after five days.”“We are demanding an investigation in the case by the police whether the victim is alive or killed or kidnapped by someone. One minor girl of Bhaura village had also committed suicide a few days ago. It is stated that a boy used to call her on the phone. It should be investigated whether the youth had incited the victim to commit the suicide,” he said.“However, the police and the local administration have assured us to conduct a fair inquiry into the case.According to Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vishal Sharma, the police are collecting the evidence and checking the call details of Jyoti. “We have submitted a memorandum to the DGP to look into the matter,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-missing-villagers-protest-in-jogindernagar-302536
27-08-2021||Dharamsala||Tibet Policy Institute holds prayer for Himachal ex-CM Virbhadra Singh||To mark the 49th day of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s death, the Tibet Policy Institute (TPI) of the Central Tibetan Administration held a prayer service and a daylong conference on Tibet and the erstwhile Bushahr kingdom’s historic relations.Dawa Tsering, director of TPI, hailed Virbhadra as a lifelong friend and supporter of the Tibetan movement. He also spoke on the rich historical bond shared by Tibet, especially the Guge Kingdom of Ngari and Bushahr.“He was also close to the Dalai Lama and had been steadfast in providing support to Tibetan refugees. This affinity is based on a treaty signed between the two peoples in the past. We remain grateful to him and, therefore, we are organising the prayer service in his memory,” Dawa said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibet-policy-institute-holds-prayer-for-himachal-ex-cm-virbhadra-singh-302537
27-08-2021||Mandi||Cong submitted fake bills of Rs 12 cr: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur targeted the opposition by saying that the state Congress had submitted false bills of Rs 12 crore to its central leadership during Covid for allocation of masks and sanitisers.“It showed that Congress leaders of state do not even hesitate to plunder their own party. One can easily imagine what could be the consequences if Congress was in power during Covid period in the state,” he said.“The Congress was demanding debate on Covid during session. The government had given them chance to discuss the issue. But they did not participate,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-submitted-fake-bills-of-rs-12-cr-himachal-cm-302538
27-08-2021||The road in the Sainj market||Need to repair potholed road in Shimla||Lack of parking space irks commutersIt’s impossible to stop your vehicle on the stretch from Panthaghati to Khalini even for a moment. There’s absolutely no space to park vehicles. If a person gets down from the car even for a minute, he/she has to walk to his destination as the one driving the car can’t wait and has to keep moving. The authorities concerned should seriously think about a viable solution to this nagging problem. — Santosh Verma, SanjauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-repair-potholed-road-in-shimla-302541
27-08-2021||Dr Shraddha Negi||Kinnaur doctor shines in AIIMS PG exam||Seminar on crime against womenA two-day seminar on crime against women will be held at Government College, Sanjauli, on August 27 and 28. Renowned professors and researchers from North India will participate in the seminar. Principal CB Mehta said such a big event was being held in the college after almost two years, and it would boost academics.Yoga assn thanks Edu MinisterThe Himachal Pradesh Yoga Sports Association has expressed gratitude to Education Minister Govind Thakur for sanctioning 60 posts of yoga teachers in school. The association demanded that yoga teachers should be posted in colleges too. Association secretary Vinod Yogacharya and their delegation had met the Education Minister a few days back regarding their demands and the latter had taken prompt action.HPU faces problems in ERP systemVice Chancellor of the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) Sikandar Kumar has issued directions to resolve the issue with the ERP system to ensure students do not face any inconvenience. In a meeting held with the company managing the ERP system, the Vice Chancellor said if the problems were not rectified within the next 15 days, action would be taken against them. The company officials assured to fix the problems at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-doctor-shines-in-aiims-pg-exam-302542
27-08-2021||---||Plan to privatise Kalka-Shimla rail track for 30 years: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Niti Aayog, as part of its plan to monetise public sector assets, proposes to provide the Kalka-Shimla railway track to a private concessionaire for a period of 30-50 years, according to a report by the Centre’s public policy think tank.The plan for the 118-year-old railway track — a UNESCO World Heritage Site — has been prepared in Niti Aayog’s report ‘Volume II: Asset Pipeline’. According to the report published this month, the concessionaire will be responsible for operation, maintenance and development of the railway track. The report has a similar plan for the remaining mountain rail tracks of India, which are World Heritage Sites — Darjeeling Himalayan Railway located in the foothills of the Himalayas in West Bengal and the Nilgiri Mountain Railways located in the Nilgiri Hills of Tamil Nadu. “These locations are domestic tourism hubs with a heritage-based appeal to these railways,” said the report.The proposal, however, has a word of caution for interested parties and has said they will also be responsible for preserving the heritage status of the tracks. “Any development/upgrade will be subject to concessionaire provisions,” it added.However, even as the plan has been prepared, officials in the Ambala division said they were unaware of any communication being sent in regard to the report in the recent past. “In August 2020, the Ministry of Railways had included Chandigarh among 12 clusters for passenger trains to be operated as private entities through the public-private partnership,” said GM Singh, railway manager, Ambala division, under which the Kalka-Shimla section falls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-privatise-kalka-shimla-rail-track-for-30-years-report-302625
27-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||‘No more hydel projects’ cry echoes in Kinnaur||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 26The echo of “no more hydel projects” is reverberating in Kinnaur with villagers from across the tribal district converging at Reckong Peo to oppose indiscriminate digging of the fragile hills in the name of development.Villagers today gathered at the district headquarters of Reckong Peo in large numbers to send a strong message to the authorities and power companies that people won’t allow any more power projects.Holding banners and placards reading, “Save Kinnaur: No means no”, the villagers made it amply clear that they would not allow the coming up of the proposed 804 MW Jangi Thopan hydel project. Representatives of mahila mandals, youth bodies and panchayati raj institutions turned up to register their angst against environmentally degrading activities, especially hydel power generation.Environmentalists and NGOs, including Him Lok Jagriti Manch, District Forest Rights Sangharsh Samiti and Kinnaur and Jangi Thopan Powari Affected Sangharsh Samiti, extended support to the locals.Kinnaur has some of the biggest hydel projects, including 1,000 MW Karcham Wangtoo and 300 MW Baspa projects. All these projects besides the 1,500 MW Nathpa Jhakri project are located on the Sutlej.Shanta Kumar Negi, president, Hungrung Sangharsh Samiti, said people had come together as they wanted “vikas” and not “vinaash”. The power companies would face a stiff opposition, he said.“The recent disasters at Badseri and Nigulsari are warning signals against destabilising the hills,” says RS Negi, president, Himlok Jagriti Manch. “Though gram sabha NoC is needed to set up a project, but this is done after all permissions are obtained and huge investments are made, leaving panchayat helpless,” said Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-more-hydel-projects-cry-echoes-in-kinnaur-302502
27-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Post Himachal landslides, Kinnaur tribals vow to defy hydel projects||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 26The echo of “No more hydel projects in Kinnaur” is reverberating in the hills of Kinnaur with villagers from across the tribal district converging at Reckong Peo to oppose indiscriminate digging of the fragile hills for power generation.Also read: Rockslide in Himachal's Kinnaur kills nine touristsKinnaur landslide on camera: Shooting stones, mud still rolling down the hill; drones used to spot vehicles under debris as 50 still feared buried10 dead, 50 feared buried as massive landslide hits bus, other vehicles in Himachal’s KinnaurVillagers from across Kinnaur district on Thursday gathered at the district headquarter of Reckong Peo to send a strong message to the government authorities and power companies that people will not allow any more power projects.Himachal in the past months has witnessed scary landslides in which many persons were killed.Various environmentalists and NGO’s, including Him Lok Jagriti Manch, District Forest Rights Sangharsh Samiti and Kinnaur and Jangi Thopan Powari Affected Sangharsh Samiti extended support to the locals in their fight to protect their ecology.Holding banners and placards of “Save Kinnaur: No Means, No” the villagers made it amply clear that they would not allow the coming up of the proposed 804 MW Jangi Thopan hydel project.The tribal district of Kinnaur has some of the biggest hydel projects, including the 1,000 MW Karcham Wangtoo and 300 MW Baspa projects. All these projects besides the 1,500 MW Nathpa Jhakri project are located on the Satluj river.Shanta Kumar Negi, president of the Hungrung Sangharsh Samiti, said people of Kinnaur had joined together as they wanted vikas and not vinaash (development not destruction). They said now a strong message will go to the power companies that they will face opposition from every individual as slogans of “Ek Kinnaur- Ex Awaaz.” “The recent disasters at Badseri and Nigulsari are warning signals against destabilisng the hills by setting up more hydel-project,” says RS Negi, retired IAS and president of the Himlok Jagriti Manch.He says the government must not allow more projects in Kinnaur as the locals are vehemently opposed to it. He said hydel-power has also become economically unviable as generation cost is very high but power rates are low.  “Though it is mandatory to obtain a NOC from the Gram Sabha to set up a project but this is sought right at the end when all formalities and permissions have been obtained and huge investment made, leaving the Panchayat helpless,” explains RS Negi. This he said will have to change as now the people of Kinanur will not remain spectators to their ecology being ruined in the name of hydro-power generation.The villagers also aired their grouse at transfer of tribal land to non-tribal from outside, violation of their rights under the Forest Rights Act and grant of nautor land to them as per law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-himachal-landslides-kinnaur-tribals-vow-to-defy-hydel-projects-302345
27-08-2021||Subhash Rajta||Adani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 24The Adani Group has announced prices for procuring apple for its CA stores. Compared to last year, the prices announced for premium apple are around 20 per cent less this time – the opening price for the premium apple last year was Rs 88 per kg. This time, it is Rs 72. The apple growers are not happy and some are even threatening to boycott the corporate giant. Read: Adani stores in Himachal witness steady apple supplyAlso read: Protect interests of apple growers: Kuldeep Rathore to Himachal govt“It’s very disheartening and the apple growers should boycott the organisation this time,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association. “Also, their price-fixing mechanism is arbitrary. Neither is there any government official nor any representative of farmers when the prices are fixed,” said Chauhan.Also read: Himachal apples are the best says actress Preity Zinta as she gives virtual tour of her family farms on InstagramManjeet Shilu, plant head of the Adani CA store at Bithal, said the prices offered by the corporate were good, especially considering the fact that growers do not have to pay for packing and grading. “We have a pool of around 17,000 growers who give us apple. We hold discussions with them before fixing the prices to get a sense of what they are expecting,” said Shilu. “And since we have announced the prices, we have not received even a single call from farmers to complain about the rates. Only those growers are complaining who never give apple to Adani stores,” he said.Nevertheless, many growers are not convinced. “The rates they have announced are definitely poor. Farmers are getting better prices for good quality apple in mandis,” said Lokinder Bisht, president of the Progressive Growers Association. Alleging that the farmers are being exploited by the corporates, who have been given huge subsidies by the government to set up CA stores, Bisht said the government should instead give incentives to growers to set up small-volume cold stores so that they can control the supply chain whenever there is glut in the market and the prices crash.Just a day back, Kisan Sangharash Samiti had demanded the introduction of Market Intervention Scheme on the lines of Kashmir to ensure that prices do not fluctuate too much. “If the government buys substantial amount of apple at reasonable prices, like it does through Nafed in Kashmir, the market will remain more or less stable and market forces will not be able to exploit the growers,” said Bisht.According to the rates announced today, the produce having less than 60 per cent colour will be sold for Rs 12 to Rs 15. For the record, the cost of production per kg of apple is around Rs 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adani-group-announces-apple-rates-himachal-farmers-disappointed-301670
