28-08-2021||Shimla||Tikait, local arhtiya engage in heated exchange of words in Solan||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait got into a heated argument with a local arhtiya who objected to the blocking of a road by farmers protesting against falling apple prices in Solan district of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday.A video clip of the heated exchange has gone viral.Before the altercation could escalate, the situation was brought under control by police personnel present there.The arhtiya (commission agent) later told the media that his work was affected because of the farmers blocking the road. “If they want to hold an agitation, they may do so in any field,” he added.Taking to mediapersons in Shimla later, Tikait alleged that the man was drunk and that he had stones in his hands and threatened to damage their vehicles.Solan Superintendent of Police Virender Sharma told PTI that no action was being taken against any person as the police had not received any complaint. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tikait-local-arhtiya-engage-in-heated-exchange-of-words-in-solan-303309
28-08-2021||---||Two killed, two injured as apple-laden truck falls into gorge in Shimla’s Kotkhai||Shimla, August 28Two orchadists were killed and two others were seriously injured when an apple-laden truck they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Nihari in Kotkhai area of Shimla district late last night around 1 am.The ill-fated truck carrying over 350 boxes of apple was on its way from Chidgaon to Solan when the tragedy struck. The deceased were identified as Dhyan Singh (51) and Tikkam Ram (62).The injured, identified as Jagjeevan Sharma and Rahul Thakur, were rushed to the IGMC, Shimla.An investigation is under way, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-two-injured-as-apple-laden-truck-falls-into-gorge-in-shimlas-kotkhai-303295
28-08-2021||---||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait says no agenda for bypoll, he is in Himachal to support farmers||Solan, August 28Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said he had no agenda for the upcoming bypoll in Himachal and was visiting the state only to ensure that big corporates did not loot apple growers of the state.Also read:Rakesh Tikait addresses farmers' rally in ChandigarhPunjab farmers to attend UP mahapanchayatTikait was interacting with media at Solan where he met apple growers.Tikait, who is on a day’s visit to Shimla, said an agitation would be initiated, if need be, against the corporates for offering abysmally low rates to apple growers.Tikait asked the agrarian community to unite against the big corporates, who, he said, were sitting at their doorstep and were all set to rob apple growers.While commenting on the ongoing agitation against the farm bills, Tikait said they would continue the protest till farmers “got independence from these laws”.The BKU leader said it was lamentable that 18 ministries looked after agrarian products and there was no single ministry to deal with agriculture.Tikait said that Himachal being a hill state the farmers should get transport subsidy, hill allowance and agri-based industries. Units for bulk procurement of agrarian produce should be set up here to ensure remunerative payment to the farmers, he added.He said he would visit areas where hailstorm had caused losses to the farmers.A minor protest was also registered by locals while he was leaving for Shimla as people told his supporters not to raise slogans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-says-no-agenda-for-bypoll-he-is-in-himachal-to-support-farmers-303239
28-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCs||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 27The rates of Rs 12 to Rs 72 per kg for various varieties of apples offered by Adani Agrifresh Limited at its three collection centres in Shimla district have forced growers to turn to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) at Solan and Parwanoo to sell their produce.Also read:Adani Group announces apple rates, Himachal farmers disappointedAdani stores in Himachal witness steady apple supplyEnquires from the APMCs at Solan and Parwanoo have revealed that various varieties of apples are selling at rates from Rs 400 to Rs 2,000 per box.Ravinder Sharma, secretary of the Solan APMC, says that apples are selling at rates between Rs 400 and Rs 2,000 per box and the sale of 13 lakh boxes for more than Rs 200 crore has been recorded till now.13 lakh boxes of fruit sold About 25 kg to 33 kg of apples are packed in boxes of various sizes. The growers have managed to sell the fruit for Rs 90 to Rs 125 per kg through the APMCs and at markets in Delhi and other places in the region, say growers in Shimla.The size and colour of apples play the key role in deciding their rates and the undersized fruit of all colours is selling at the lowest price of Rs 12 per kg, as per the rate list declared by Adani Agrifresh Ltd for August 26 to 29 for Shimla district. It has three collection centres at Rewali, Sainj and Rohru in Shimla district, says Govind, a grower at Kotkhai, who has come to Solan to sell his produce.Also read: Police hold meeting with Punjab farmers laying siege to Adani logistics park in LudhianaHe adds that Adani Agrifresh Ltd has graded apples in five categories and the fruit with 80 to 100 per cent colour is being offered rates between Rs 42 and Rs 72 per kg while that having 60 to 80 per cent colour is being offered prices from Rs 27 to Rs 57 per kg.All types of apple having less than 60 per cent colour are being bought at Rs 15 per kg while undersized apples are fetching Rs 12 per kg.The growers say that it is unfair on the part of Adani Agrifresh Ltd to fix the price of even the most premium variety at mere Rs 72 per kg, as these apples after packed and sold by them are selling for more than Rs 250 per kg. “It is unfair to exploit the growers by fixing such low rates and categorising the fruit to offer lower rates,” they add.A grower also has to spend money on packaging and transportation of the produce to the collection centres and such low rates will cause him losses. “We have put the plucking of the fruit on hold till the rates improve, as the prevailing trend will not benefit the growers,” adds another grower at Kotkhai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/offered-low-rates-by-adani-apple-growers-in-himachal-turn-to-apmcs-303041
28-08-2021||Shimla||186 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 186 new cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 212,913. Besides, three persons died of the virus in Kangra district.The maximum number of 42 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 39 in Shimla, 33 in Kangra, 28 in Hamirpur, 12 in Chamba, 10 in Bilaspur, nine in Kullu, six in Lahaul and Spiti, three in Solan, and two each in Una and Kinnaur. No case was reported in Sirmaur. The active cases declined to 1,965 .—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/186-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-303042
28-08-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal colleges to open from Sept 1 with 50% seating capacity||Tribune News serviceShimla, August 27Offline classes in colleges will resume from September 1, coinciding with the commencement of the 2021-22 academic session for undergraduate classes. The admissions to BA, BSc, BCom, BBA and other undergraduate courses for second and third years were completed on August 16.The admissions to the first year are in progress and scheduled to be completed by August 31, followed by the resumption of regular classes from September 1.College principals have been asked to prepare micro-plans as per their requirement, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma. He said online classes would discontinue from September 1, implying that physical presence would not be optional.Date sheet for schoolsClassrooms will have to be sanitised and classes will begin with 50 per cent seating capacity. The colleges will have to strictly adhere to SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) and Covid-appropriate behaviour. The timings for different classes will be staggered to avoid crowding. Thermal screening, wearing of masks and maintenance of distance will be mandatory.The first-term examinations of Classes IX to XII will be conducted from September 4 to September 13 and a tentative date sheet has been released. The department has prepared both plans — for online examinations in case schools are not opened and offline examinations in case schools are opened, he added.Teachers told to make micro-plansCollege principals have been asked to prepare micro-plans as per their requirement. Online classes will discontinue from September 1, implying that physical presence will not be optional. —Amarjeet Sharma, Director, Higher educationThe offline examinations will be held with 30 per cent reduced syllabus and in case of online examinations, password-protected PDF files will be uploaded on “Har Ghar Pathshala” and Deputy Directors will share the password with heads of the institutions, said Sharma.The duration of the examination will be three hours and the ratio of multiple-choice questions and subjective questions will be 40:60. The tentative date sheet is open for revision, depending on the Covid situationand restrictions imposed by the government.The schools, opened for Classes IX to XII, are closed till September 4 and September 5 is a Sunday. The decision regarding the opening the schools will be taken next week, official sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-colleges-to-open-from-sept-1-with-50-seating-capacity-303043
28-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked near Pandoh again||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 27The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked following a massive landslide at 7 Mile near Pandoh between Mandi and Kullu in the district on Thursday night.The landslide occurred around midnight and traffic movement between Mandi and Kullu was halted. The highway could not be restored to traffic movement till the filing of the report.Hundreds of vehicles, including of tourists, are stranded in the area. Long queues of trucks, Volvo buses and other vehicles were seen on both sides of the road near the landslide spot, waiting for the restoration of the road.HEAVY RAIN IN MANDI FOR PAST FOUR DAYSOfficial sources said the highway was expected to be restored by Saturday noon provided the weather remained favourable. Mandi district has been witnessing heavy rain for the past four days, which is a major cause for landslide taking place virtually every day.Due to the ongoing conwork on the Kiratpur-Manali road, the construction company has undertaken deep cutting of the hillside. As a result, the entire stretch from Mandi up to Aut has become prone to landslides.Rajesh Kumar and Manoj Kumar of Delhi, who were travelling to Manali from Mandi, said, “The road block has made our journey very cumbersome. We are stuck here since morning and we don’t know when the highway will be restored to traffic”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-near-pandoh-again-303044
28-08-2021||---||Baddi pharma firm workers strike work, want termination revoked||Solan, August 27Employees of Morepen Laboratories at Bhud village in the Baddi industrial area, today, struck work in protest against termination of some workers and non-acceptance of their pending demands.The employees raised a banner in the morning and sat on a protest at the gate of the company’s office.They also handed over a memorandum of demands to the management and warned of intensifying the stir if their demands were not met.Among the demands raised by them in the memorandum were the cancellation of termination of employees, regularisation of services of those who had been working for seven to 10 years and grant of 35 leaves in a year.Manish Karol, Labour Officer, Baddi, said though some employees struck work around 11:30 am in protest against the non-fulfillment of their demands, he had not received any complaint from the workers of the Morepen Laboratories.Other demandsIn a memorandum submitted to the company management, the workers have also demanded the regularisation of services of those who have been working for seven to 10 years and 35 leaves in a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-pharma-firm-workers-strike-work-want-termination-revoked-303045
28-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Apple growers forced to sell apples along Solan NH||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 27Apple growers are forced to sell their produce from temporary sheds erected on the Kather bypass on the Solan-Shimla section of National Highway (NH)-5, as the Solan-based Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) has not witnessed expansion even 17 years after its inauguration.Also read: Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsApple trading has registered an exponential increase from this committee in the last few years. “As against 6 lakh boxes which were traded in the corresponding period last year, as much as 13 lakh boxes worth more than Rs 200 crore have already been sold this year till now,” said committee’s secretary Ravinder Sharma.Traders operate from the open sheds erected along the highway where they also face rain and slush whenever it rains. Since this NH leads to the capital town of Shimla, it faces an immense traffic during the peak summers which also coincides with the apple trading season.Despite that the committee is earning substantial revenue from this trade, the expansion of facilities has failed to keep pace with the flourishing apple trade.“Space constraint for unloading and loading of apples triggers its illegal sale by unauthorised traders as there is no defined yard. Though the genuine bidders operate within the yard, those operating unauthorisedly indulge in illegal trade unscrupulously. Such traders also dupe the growers and also cause loss of revenue to the APMC,” said Vishal, an apple trader.The problem can’t be solved until permanent sheds are set up and the marketing yard is defined, say traders.“Sixty temporary sheds have been set up by the traders on a two hectare area provided by the APMC along the highway for apple trading. There is an immense demand to give license to more traders but given the paucity of space, no fresh licenses were being issued either at Solan or at Parwanoo,” informed committee’s secretary Ravinder Sharma.Though no permanent structure has yet been created here and facilities like temporary electricity connections for all sheds, toilets and bath facilities, drinking water, etc., are being provided at the place during marketing season claim the officials but rain and slush often inconvenience the traders.ADetailed Project Report (DPR) worth Rs 10.69 crore for construction of permanent structure, including auction platform along with all the required facilities, has been prepared and it was awaiting approval from the Chief Engineer, Shimla. Work will commence after its approval and completion of all requisite formalities, said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-growers-forced-to-sell-apples-along-solan-nh-303046
28-08-2021||Shimla||SJVN to help Shimla MC restart lab, beautify parks||The SJVN will help the Shimla Municipal Corporation restart its diagnostic lab on The Ridge. It will also help in developing and beautifying parks on The Ridge and on the Mall Road. “The SJVN has agreed in principle to provide Rs 35 lakh to us to restart our diagnostic lab on The Ridge. Also, the power company has assured us to provide funds for the development and beautification of parks located on The Ridge and the Mall Road,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.The MC lab on The Ridge has not been functional for a few years now. “We have completed the civil work of the lab and we are hoping to install machines for basic blood tests in a month or so,” said Kohli. He said the availability of a lab at such a prime location will be quite beneficial to people. “We will charge very nominal rates for tests. People will not need to go to hospitals or private labs for basic blood tests,” said Kohli.Besides, the SJVN has shown interest in developing and beautifying parks. “The SJVN has sent us an MoU, which we will sign soon. Basically, we have indentified five parks, including the Rani Jhansi park, the Daulat Singh park and the one coming up at Oakover, for development under this agreement,” said Kohli.He said the SJVN would provide Rs 15 lakh per annum for three years for this purpose. “The agreement could be increased for two more years after the completion of the first three years,” said Kohli. “At the Oakover Park, we are planning to build a fountain or waterfall to make it more appealing to people,” he said.Meanwhile, the auction of MC parking lots in wards saw a lukewarm response. Only two parking lots received bids. “People have been using these parking lots without paying us anything. Now, we have decided to barricade these parking lots. Only those residents will be allowed to park their vehicles who pay the fee of Rs 800 per month,” said Kohli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-to-help-shimla-mc-restart-lab-beautify-parks-303047
28-08-2021||Kullu||Manali hospital gets ambulance||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur provided an ambulance from the MLA funds to the civil hospital, Manali, and inaugurated an X-ray machine costing Rs 5 lakh there today.He said efforts were being made to provide better health facilities to the citizens in Kullu district.He said another state-of-the-art ambulance would be provided to this hospital in the next two months. The minister said improvements had been made in infrastructure facilities in the regional hospital in Kullu, during past three-and-a-half years. He said many doctors and paramedics had been appointed to facilitate the masses.He said 200 beds had been arranged in the Dedicated Covid Health Centre at the hospital. He said, “We have opened many new primary health centres in the district, which are providing services to people of far-flung areas.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-hospital-gets-ambulance-303048
28-08-2021||---||Himachal CM gives financial aid to 2 villagers||Shimla, August 27Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has provided a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 each to Pooja Soni, a resident of Kothi village in Ghumarwin tehsil of Bilaspur district, and Sakshi, a resident of Ramnagar village in Sarkaghat tehsil of Mandi district, in view of the poor economic condition of their families.Sakshi had informed the Chief Minister about her weak financial condition. She said that her father works as a labourer and her mother was unwell. She and her sister Mehak wanted to continue their studies but due to the lack of funds it was difficult for them to pursue their passion.Pooja had informed the Chief Minister that she has two daughters, including one specially-abled, and she was facing difficulties in her treatment as she had no permanent means of livelihood.The Chief Minister sympathetically considered their requests and approved a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 each for both. Meanwhile, Pooja and Sakshi have expressed their gratitude to the Chief Minister for his noble gesture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-gives-financial-aid-to-2-villagers-303049
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Manimahesh Yatra to be ritualistic: DC||Bharmour, August 27Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said according to the decision taken in the Himachal Pradesh Cabinet meeting recently regarding the organisation of Shri Manimahesh Yatra, the pilgrimage would be organised only in a ritualistic manner.In an official communiqué issued here this evening, the Deputy Commissioner said that consequent upon the decision of the state Cabinet, the Director and Special Secretary Revenue in his letter had stated that even though the current situation of Covid-19 pandemic in the state had improved, to curb its spread in check, it was necessary to take precautions and impose restrictions.The Deputy Commissioner informed that as per this decision, Shri Manimahesh Yatra would be organised only as a ritual this year.For this, necessary instructions had been issued by the district administration to all the officials concerned regarding the yatra to be organized observing the standard operating procedures (SoPs) to prevent infection.The Manimahesh Yatra in Chamba district is scheduled from August 30 (Janmashtami) to September 13 (Radhashtami).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manimahesh-yatra-to-be-ritualistic-dc-303050
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Army recruitment exam postponed for candidates from Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur||Una, August 27The Common Entrance Examination for recruitment to the Army as soldiers for clerical, store keeper (technical), pharmacist, religious teacher and general duty trades, for candidates belonging to Bilaspur, Una and Hamirpur districts, has been postponed in the view of Covid-19 pandemic.As per Army Recruitment Officer Colonel Sanjeev Kumar, the examination was scheduled to be held on August 29 for the candidates, who had been shortlisted earlier. He said the candidates would be informed regarding the new date of the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-recruitment-exam-postponed-for-candidates-from-bilaspur-una-hamirpur-303051
28-08-2021||---||Infighting in BJP delayed CUHP project: Himachal Congress||Dharamsala, August 27The prestigious project of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) has been delayed by about 12 years due to infighting in the BJP, alleged Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Sharma here today.Sharma, while addressing mediapersons, said that there were BJP governments at the Centre and in the state for the past four years but still even environmental clearances had not been provided for the CUHP. “The people of Kangra are suffering due to the failure of the state government to construct a CUHP campus in the district. The previous Congress government had in 2005 announced a CUHP campus in Kangra. It had also announced that the university would come up in the Kangra parliamentary constituency. It seems that the present government is biased against Kangra and does not favour the prestigious project to be executed there,” he alleged.Sharma said that the recent decision of the government to refer the matter for the clearance of land proposed for the CUHP campus at Jadrangal in the Dharamsala Assembly constituency to the GSI, Kotkata, for a geo-technical study was a conspiracy to shift the entire institute to Dehra. The Chief Minister should clarify his stand on the issue and tell the people of Kangra that why in the past four years, land was not provided for the CUHP in the Kangra parliamentary constituency, he added.He said that Congress workers would organise protests if the university project was shifted out of Kangra. He added that most of the projects in Kangra district were hanging fire for the past four years.“No investment has come to the state despite the government spending crores of rupees on promotion and organising national and international events to attract investment. The government should now explain to the people of the state why public money was wasted or why no investment has came to the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infighting-in-bjp-delayed-cuhp-project-himachal-congress-303052
28-08-2021||---||Himachal Governor appreciates tribals for maintaining their culture||Mandi, August 27Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said the tribal areas of the state had rich culture, traditions and customs. He expressed happiness that the people of the area have maintained their identity and was impressed by the culture.The Governor was speaking on the occasion of a cultural program organized in his honour at Kaza in tribal Lahaul-Spiti today. “I have realised that Himachal resides in remote areas,” he said that after visiting the area.“I will try to visit every district of the state and meet people. This would not only help me understand the culture of Himachal but would enable me to understand the problems of the people,” he added. “Some Lahaul residents have apprised me of their problems and I will make every possible effort to resolve them,” he said.The Governor said that there was immense potential for tourism in tribal areas as there were attractive mountains, Buddhist culture and clean environment. He said that the promotion of planned tourism activities would also increase economic activities.The Governor enjoyed the folk dance performance of the local artistes on the occasion. Lady Governor Anagha Arlekar was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-appreciates-tribals-for-maintaining-their-culture-303053
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Key accused in attempt to murder case in police net||KULLU, AUGUST 27The police have arrested two absconding assailants in an attempt to murder case from Tharman area in Kharal valley opposite the Kullu town today.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that five accused were identified and three of them were arrested yesterday and main accused Khimi Ram, alias Kewalu of Seobagh, who is Kullu BJP media co-incharge, and his accomplice Siddhi Singh, alias Sidhu, of Grahan were nabbed today. They were hiding in a jungle.The SP said that the police carried out raids and laid traps of informers. On getting specific information, they were able to zero in on the absconding assailants. He said that involvement of other accused in the incident cannot be ruled out.During investigation it was found that the accused were sitting in a restaurant before the incident and police had recovered the CCTV footage, which was being analyzed. The SP said that the police was closely investigating all the aspects and new facts are also expected to come to light. He said the three accused arrested yesterday were produced in the court today. They were remanded to police custody till September 1.The victim, former panchayat president Paras Ram Negi, had been referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh today as his condition was stated to be critical as he had suffered multiple fractures. His wife Youm Devi was undergoing treatment in Ner Chowk hospital. They had been reportedly assaulted by over 15 persons at Chharudu on the Kullu-Naggar road on Wednesday night over a dispute in a land deal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/key-accused-in-attempt-to-murder-case-in-police-net-303054
28-08-2021||---||Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Solan, educates farmers on food, nutrition||Solan, August 27The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Solan, organised an outreach programme on food and nutrition for farmers, in Mamleeg village, on Thursday evening.Jitender Kumar Chauhan, in charge, KVK, said 72 farmers were educated on nutritional value of fruit crops that can be grown in the region.Arti Shukla delivered a lecture on nutritional value of mushrooms, and explained about the production technology for oyster and button mushrooms, while Dr Anurag Sharma talked about the health benefits of honey. The farmers were also educated about judicious use of insecticides and urged to adopt alternative methods of pest control. The crop-related queries of the farmers were also answered by the scientists. Diseased and insect-infested plant samples brought by the farmers were also inspected by the scientists and remedial measures were suggested.The farmers were told about the latest technologies and urged to adopt them for agriculture and horticulture, under the guidance of university scientists. An exhibition-cum-competition on fruits and vegetables grown by the local farmers was also held. The best entries were given cash prizes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/krishi-vigyan-kendra-solan-educates-farmers-on-food-nutrition-303055
28-08-2021||Palampur||Palampur: 3 held for stealing IPH Department pipes||The Panchrukhi police today arrested three persons in connection with the theft of pipes belonging to the IPH Department. These pipes were stolen from the site where the supply line was being constructed last week.SHO Subhash Shastri said that Parshant Thakur, a contractor, had lodged a complaint that 53 pipes were stolen from the site, where he was laying a water supply line for the IPH Department.The SHO said during investigation, it was told that a local tempo was used for transportation of the pipes. The police summoned the driver of the tempo to the police station, who said his vehicle was hired by two persons, Rakshit Mahajan and Amit Sharma of Banuri and Panchrukhi, for shifting the pipes from Panchrukhi to Maranda. Later, the police detained Amit and Rakshit, who admitted that they had stolen the pipes and sold them to a scrap dealer for Rs 23,000 at Maranda, near Palampur.A police team raided the godown of the scrap dealer and recovered all 53 pipes. The police arrested the three persons, including the scrap dealer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-3-held-for-stealing-iph-department-pipes-303056
28-08-2021||---||Rath yatra on 50 years of statehood from Oct 2: Himachal CM||Shimla, August 27The state government would organise the Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra from October 2 to commemorate the golden jubilee year of statehood, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a high-powered committee meeting here today.He said that the rath yatra would celebrate the contributions of common people in these 50 years of the glorious journey of the state. Various government departments would organise 51 events across the state. He added that the rath yatra would cover almost all constituencies of the state in over two months and a mega event would be held on January 25, 2022, to commemorate Statehood Day.Thakur said that the government had constituted an executive committee under the chairmanship of MLA Rajeev Bindal for the successful organisation of the event. Besides, four sub-committees, namely Swarnim Rath Procurement Committee, IEC Committee, Social Media Committee and the Budgetary Committee, had been constituted. He added that the government had thought of organising the rath yatra from January 25 this year but postponed it due to the pandemic.He said that the developmental history of the state would be showcased. He added that the active participation of achievers in different fields such as sports, social work, culture, and literature would also be ensured.The CM said that the rath would have latest equipment for a live audio-visual coverage on the developmental history of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rath-yatra-on-50-years-of-statehood-from-oct-2-himachal-cm-303057
28-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM Invites diaspora to invest in state||The Indo-US symposium focused on Himachal Pradesh was organised today by the Indo-American Business and Arts Council (IABAC) in association with the Indian Consul General of San Francisco and supported by Himachalies of Bay Area through a virtual interface.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, through a virtual message, welcomed the delegates, appreciated the efforts of the IABAC. He invited the interested parties to explore investment opportunities in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-invites-diaspora-to-invest-in-state-303058
28-08-2021||On sunny days||Rehabilitate stray dogs||Tourists throw trash on roadsSome tourists don’t care about keeping Shimla clean. Many can be seen throwing trash from their vehicles while entering or leaving the city. The authorities should take action against such people, and challan them. — Surender Kumar, SanjauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rehabilitate-stray-dogs-303063
28-08-2021||IPS officer Soumya Sambasivan feels crime against women will not stop until society changes. While speaking during the two-day seminar on 'crime against women' at Government College||Seminar on crime against women at Government College, Sanjauli||SFI wants CBI probe into ERP ‘scam’The SFI has demanded a CBI enquiry into an alleged multi-crore scam in HPU's ERP system. The SFI alleged the scam had drained the university's resources and had put a question mark on the future of students. The students' body alleged the university had spent Rs 6 crore on strengthening the online system, but no improvement had been seen so far. The SFI alleged it had been highlighting the faults in the ERP system, but the administration had failed to act.Declare results early: ABVPThe ABVP submitted a memorandum to the VC, HPU, demanding that problems in the ERP system be rectified at the earliest. The ABVP said because of the faulty system, the students were facing problems in checking results and fee payment. The ABVP also demanded that the results of BA, BCom and BSc final year should be declared at the earliest. The ABVP further demanded that the hostels should be opened without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seminar-on-crime-against-women-at-government-college-sanjauli-303070
28-08-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||99% population covered, Himachal leads in vaccination||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 27Having inoculated over 99 per cent of its eligible population against Covid, Himachal Pradesh has been ranked number one in vaccination in the country. National Health Mission data shows that of the 54.22 lakh people in the 18-plus category, 53.91 lakh (99.42 per cent) have been administered the first dose while 16,93,373 have got the second. The count is much higher compared to the national average of 48.1 per cent. The corresponding figure for the neighbouring states is 40 per cent in Punjab, 61.5 per cent Jammu and Kashmir and 73 per cent Uttarakhand. In Kerala, a state witnessing a massive spike in daily cases, the number stands at 71 per cent.“We have set November 30 deadline to complete the second dose of vaccination of the entire 18-plus population,” said Amitabh Awasthy, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. So far, 3,569 persons have succumbed to the virus, of the 2,12,739 who tested positive.Among Covid warriors, 94,136 healthcare workers have received the first dose and 79,495 the second. The corresponding count for frontline workers is 2,41,831 and 81,889.44,658 cases in IndiaTOTAL DEATHS 4,36,861ACTIVE CASES 3,44,899496 deaths in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/99-population-covered-himachal-leads-in-vaccination-302965
