29-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Tokyo Paralympics: Himachal CM announces Rs 1 crore for Nishad Kumar on winning silver medal||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 29Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has congratulated Nishad Kumar, his coach and family members on winning silver medal in Tokyo Paralympic 2020 Games.He announced cash prize of Rs 1 crore on behalf of state government to para athlete Nishad Kumar, for his feat.Nishad Kumar hails from Amb sub-division of Una district. He won the silver medal in the high jump event in the men’s category.Earlier, the state government had also provided Rs 5 lakh to Nishad Kumar for his preparations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tokyo-paralympics-himachal-cm-announces-rs-1-crore-for-nishad-kumar-on-winning-silver-medal-303809
29-08-2021||Mandi||Congress shows black flags to Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur during visit to Keylong||Congress workers showed black flags to Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in his visit to the tribal district on Sunday.The Youth Congress workers of Lahaul Spiti have been on a chain hunger strike at Keylong for the last 25 days to have all vacant posts of specialist doctors in the district hospital filled up. Activists say fewer specialists at the hospital means longer wait time for patients.The state government has paid no heed, Gyalchhan Thakur, president of District Congress Committee, said about the protest.“Healthcare is a fundamental right. The state government must step up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-shows-black-flags-to-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-during-visit-to-keylong-303787
29-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh/New Delhi||Anurag Thakur shows off his impressive skipping skills at Fit India app launch||Union Minister Anurag Thakur is really working it, and how. The Union Sports Minister launched the Fit India mobile app, a personal trainer-cum-fitness guide, on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Fit India Movement here.A video from the even shows a fit-looking Thakur showing off his skipping skills at the launch—without skipping a beat.Thakur said the app was a gift from the government to the people of India on the National Sports Day, which is celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand."The Fit India app is a tribute to Major Dhyan Chand who is an icon to country's sportspersons," Thakur said at a function at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium here.The event was also virtually attended by bronze medal-winning Tokyo Olympics hockey team captain Manpreet Singh."The app is a must for sportspersons to remain fit and they are expected to follow the app rigorously. This is an effort to keep new, young India fit because a fit youth can make a great India," he added."We don't give enough importance to fitness. What we need to devote is just half an hour of our time in a day to fitness. This app is fun and free and anyone can test and monitor their fitness anywhere."      Hockey captain Manpreet too vouched for the app."This app is very helpful and easy to use. I am already using it and I hope it will help me in improving my fitness more," he said.—With PTI  Here's how Union Sports Minister @ianuragthakur participated in the launch event of #FitIndiaApp @YASMinistry@IndiaSports@FitIndiaOff#NationalSportsDay #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav WATCH👇 pic.twitter.com/VXEKYxKbjr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-shows-off-his-impressive-skipping-skills-at-fit-india-app-launch-303755
29-08-2021||Mandi||Shorshan panchayat seeks merger with Bagshad||Residents of Shorshan panchayat in the Karsog Assembly segment of Mandi district have urged the state government to include their panchayat in Bagshad tehsil.Satuti Sharma, pradhan of Shorshan, said that the panchayat was at present in Pangna tehsil and the villagers had to travel a long distance to reach Pangna for works related to the Revenue Department.She said, “The government has made Bagshad a tehsil, which is easily accessible for the residents of Shorshan panchayat. So, we urge the government to include Shorshan panchayat in Bagshad tehsil. It will be a huge relief for us”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shorshan-panchayat-seeks-merger-with-bagshad-303393
29-08-2021||Chamba||Mukesh Agnihotri takes on govt over inflation||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader in the Vidhan Sabha Mukesh Agnihotri said a number of people were joining the Congress and wanted a change.Addressing mediapersons here today, Agnihotri took on the BJP government on inflation and unemployment.Earlier, speaking at a Congress workers meeting, he said the government had buried the state people under the debt burden.“The development has remained confined to Mandi district only. False promises are being made to the public. Unemployment is increasing, inflation is at its peak and BJP leaders are shouting that good days are coming,” Agnihotri said.Motivating party workers, Agnihotri said the party would perform well in the Assembly byelections and would form the government in the state in 2022. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mukesh-agnihotri-takes-on-govt-over-inflation-303396
29-08-2021||Solan||Ruckus by Rajasthan MLA’s kin at Sanwara toll plaza||A relative of a Rajasthan MLA refused to pay toll and entered into an altercation with the staff at the Sanwara plaza on the Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway No. 5 last evening. There was a heated argument and the MLA’s relative tried to prevail upon on the plaza staff, who asked him to pay the toll.DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta confirmed the incident. The car’s windshield had an ‘MLA’ sticker. Unable to pass through the toll barrier, the peeved the youth came out of his car and got into an altercation with the plaza staff.Other employees tried to calm them down but were unsuccessful. Things came to a pass when a plaza employee caught hold of him and hit his car’s front, infuriating the MLA’s relative.The police brokered a compromise between both parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ruckus-by-rajasthan-mlas-kin-at-sanwara-toll-plaza-303397
29-08-2021||Mandi||Kaul Singh Thakur: Himachal Govt has failed to protect apple grower interests||After a sharp decline in the prices of apple, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh are under fire from Opposition leaders.Congress leader Kaul Singh said today that the government had failed to protect the rights of apple growers.“For the past two weeks, there has been a sharp decline in the prices of apple, which has left growers worried. Big industrialists are also responsible for the decline in the prices, who purchase the produce at low prices and later sell it at high prices,” he said.“Private firms have announced Rs 16 per kg for apple, the rate that was paid almost 10 years ago. The Chief Minister has expressed helplessness to provide the minimum support price on the fruit by citing a financial crisis” he added.Kaul said, “Who is responsible for the financial crisis in the state? Obviously, the Chief Minister who is busy in making announcements in the poll-bound constituencies without any budgetary provisions.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaul-singh-thakur-himachal-govt-has-failed-to-protect-apple-grower-interests-303398
29-08-2021||---||Take new techniques, govt schemes to farmers: Vice-Chancellor||Solan, August 28The Directorate of Extension Education of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, organised a five-day training programme on ‘Enhancing productivity of Fruit Crops’ for Horticulture Development Officers.Twenty-four officers attended the training where topics such as canopy development, orchard management, soil and plant nutrition, water harvesting structures and disease and pest management in crops were deliberated upon.Vice-Chancellor Parvinder Kaushal urged the participants to become proactive and ensure that the benefits of novel technologies and research conducted at the universities along with the latest government schemes reach the farmers.He added that challenges in promoting new technologies, variety selection, and management techniques should be aptly dealt with to attain the twin goals of increasing farmers’ income and improving the overall economy.Kaushal advised the officers to ensure that the farmers move away from monoculture and adopt diversification of crops. He said that the university had achieved over 42 metric tonnes of productivity in four years of high-density apple plantations at Nauni. It was time the same success was replicated in the fields, he addedHe laid emphasis on motivating rural youths to become entrepreneurs, especially in hi-tech nursery production and food processing. Divender Gupta, Director Extension Education, said that farmers should adopt the package of latest practices for different fruits and vegetables recommended by the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/take-new-techniques-govt-schemes-to-farmers-vice-chancellor-303399
29-08-2021||---||Uncle gets life-term for raping minor in Mandi district||Mandi, August 28The Fast Track (POCSO) Court, Mandi, today convicted the uncle of a minor girl of Padhar subdivision in the district of raping her and sentenced him to rigorous life imprisonment.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 42,000 on the convict. In case of default in the payment of fine, he would undergo rigorous imprisonment for 12 more months and simple imprisonment for two more months.The victim would be paid Rs 20,000 as compensation.On September 19, 2015, a case of rape was registered under the POCSO Act against the uncle on the complaint of the minor girl. The accused lived at some distance from the victim’s house.In December 2014, he had invited her to his house on the pretext of giving her some items. The victim was a student of Class VIII at that time.When she reached his house, he took her to a room and raped her. He also threatened her with dire consequences if she narrated the crime to anyone.Later, the victim gave birth to a child.Earlier, the prosecution had recorded the statements of 18 witnesses in the court in order to prove the charge. Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Court, Pankaj Sharma announced the sentence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uncle-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-in-mandi-district-303385
29-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 209 new cases, six deaths in Himachal||shimla, August 28As many as 209 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 213,122. Besides, six persons (two in Chamba and one each in Hamirpur, Shimla, Kangra and Mandi) died of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-209-new-cases-six-deaths-in-himachal-303394
29-08-2021||---||2 killed, 2 hurt as truck falls into gorge||Shimla, August 28Two orchardists were killed while two other persons sustained serious injuries when the apple-laden truck (HP A 1587) they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Nihari in the Kotkhai area of Shimla district around 1 am today.The ill-fated truck, carrying over 350 boxes of apples, was on its way from Chidgaon to Solan when the accident occurred. The deceased were identified as Dhyan Singh (51) and Tikkam Ram (62).The injured, including the driver, were rushed to the Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital in Shimla.The injured were identified as Jagjeevan Sharma amd Rahul Thakur. An investigation is underway, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-2-hurt-as-truck-falls-into-gorge-303400
29-08-2021||---||Man held for kidnapping, raping minor in Solan village||Solan, August 28The Rajgarh police in Sirmaur district yesterday arrested a 27-year-old Nepalese man from Morang village in Kinnaur for kidnapping and raping a minor girl, also a Nepalese, who resides with her parents in a local village.DSP, Rajgarh, Bhisham Thakur said that the Nepalese youth lured the girl and took her to Kinnaur. He then raped her and engaged her with a local resident as a domestic help. The accused worked for a local farmer as a labourer.The police swung into action after receiving a complaint from the girl’s parents on August 23. The girl was reportedly missing since August 23. The cellphone location of the girl helped the police to trace her to a village in Kinnaur.The youth was arrested and brought to Rajgarh yesterday. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody. A probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-for-kidnapping-raping-minor-in-solan-village-303401
29-08-2021||Solan||SBI-PHDCCI meet on impact of Covid||Key policymakers from the SBI and the state industry attended an SBI-PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry roundtable meeting held at Baddi yesterday. It was aimed at ensuring additional cooperation to support the economic fundamentals and strengthening the business ecosystem.Keynote speaker Anukool Bhatnagar, Chief General Manager, SBI, Chandigarh, reflected on the macroeconomic trends in the light of the pandemic and its adverse impacts on the industry, especially on micro, small and medium sector enterprises (MSMEs) and exports. He said that the SBI was open to meeting the financing requirements of Himachal industries, both MSMEs and large corporates, and assured the industries about the SBI’s unwavering support to their businesses.To overcome the challenges of demand slump and the rising cost of business, he suggested the industry to adapt to the new normal and brave it through their entrepreneurial zeal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sbi-phdcci-meet-on-impact-of-covid-303402
29-08-2021||---||IGMC conducts its first awake craniotomy operation||Shimla, August 28The Neurosurgery Department of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) has removed a tumour from a person’s brain, keeping him awake during the complex surgery. “This surgery is called awake craniotomy. It is the first surgery of its kind in the state, and in medical colleges in North India,” said Dr Janak Raj, Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC.According to Dr Janak Raj, who’s also the head of the Neurosurgery Department, the patient had to be kept awake to ensure he did not lose the ability to talk or the functionality of his left arm and leg. “For such surgeries, people had to travel out of the state in the past. The surgery’s success is a big achievement for our institution,” he said.Dr Ajay Sood, Head, Department of Anesthesia, said the major challenge in this surgery is to counsel and prepare the patient mentally for the surgery.“You can imagine the anxiety a patient will go through if he’s told that he would be awake and conscious during the surgery,” he said, adding, “So, the counselling of the patient ahead of the surgery is very important.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-conducts-its-first-awake-craniotomy-operation-303403
29-08-2021||---||Shimla Municipal Corporation rejects tourism corporation’s plan for Lift||Shimla, August 28The Shimla Municipal Corporation today rejected the offer of Himachal Pradesh Tourism Department Corporation’s (HPTDC) for one-time settlement of the newly constructed Lift on the Cart Road.“We will continue to demand our share of 30 per cent revenue from the Lift. The House has rejected the HPTDC offer of purchasing the land in which the Lift is constructed as a one-time settlement of the issue,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal.The House also approved the proposal for levying a higher property tax on the properties built in and after 2021. “The increase in the taxes will be marginal, it won’t put much burden on the owners of these properties,” the Mayor said.She said several developmental projects were approved, which include the installation of street lights, construction of parking lots, ambulance roads and other basic facilities for residents,” she said. The House also approved Rs 13,71,000 ex post facto for the councillors’ tour to Sikkim two weeks back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-municipal-corporation-rejects-tourism-corporations-plan-for-lift-303404
29-08-2021||---||Met forecasts thunderstorm till August 31 in Himachal||Shimla, August 28Moderate to heavy intermittent rain lashed several parts of Himachal today as the monsoon remained active. The state has received 493.7 mm rain since June 1 till date against the normal rainfall of 617 mm, a deficit of 19 per cent.The local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in mid and lower hills from August 29 to 31 and predicted rain and thundershowers at a few places in mid and lower hills till September 3 and rain or snow in higher hills till August 31.With seven more deaths, three in Shimla, two in Mandi and one each in Kullu and Bilaspur district, the death toll in rain-related incidents has increased to 326. As many as 589 head of cattle perished and loss to public property was assessed at Rs 927.62 crore, including loss of Rs 597.97 crore to the Public Works Department and Rs 258. 32 crore to the Jan Shakti Department.Bangana was the wettest with 115 mm rain while Gohar and Pandoh received 69 mm and 63 mm rain, followed by Palampur 53 mm, Nadaun 50 mm, Bijahi 47 mm, Bharari 46 mm, Hamirpur and Jogindernagar 44 mm, Khadrala 40 mm, Mandi 38 mm, Sarkaghat and Ghamroor 36 mm, Jhandutta and Sujanpur Tira 35 mm, Wangtoo, Sundernagar and Amb 33 mm, Baldwara 32, Tinder 29 mm, Banjar and Rampur 26 mm Bilaspur 25 mm, Sarahan 24 mm, Bhoranj 20 mm, Una 19 mm, Dharmsala 17 mm, Janjehli 16 mm, Kothi and Mehre 15 mm, Dehra Gopipur 14 mm and Kahu 13 mm.The night temperature dropped marginally and Keylong and Kalpa registered a low of 12 degree and 13.6 degree, followed by Kufri 14 degree, Dalhousie 15 degree and Shimla 15.8 degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-forecasts-thunderstorm-till-august-31-in-himachal-303405
29-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Chamba to host paragliding event in October||Chamba, August 28Deputy Commissioner DC Rana has said that in the series of “Golden Jubilee Celebrations of Statehood” under “Swarnim Himachal and Chalo Chamba campaign”, national-level paragliding and dragon boat race competitions would be organised in Chamba district in October.Rana said this here yesterday while presiding over a meeting regarding the preparations of the proposed mega event for various programmes and activities to be organised in the district in October with a view to boosting tourism in a big way.He added that paragliding competitions would be held at Khajjiar plateau, a scenic place of tourist attraction, while the dragon boat race would be held at Taleru on the banks of the Chamera lake in the districtHe said that all these programmes were based on the 50-year development journey of Himachal Pradesh. He added that the Chief Minister would attend the event.Rana said that the proposed paragliding and dragon boat race competitions under the Chalo Chamba campaign would be part of the golden jubilee celebrations. In such a situation, he directed all district officers to ensure that the programmes related to their departments are finalised as soon as possible.He asked the District Youth Officer of the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan to prepare an action plan for organising a mountain biking-cycling competition during the mega event. He also directed the District Youth Officer to organise awareness activities in collaboration with various departments to make the younger generation aware of the ill-effects of drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-to-host-paragliding-event-in-october-303407
29-08-2021||KULLU||Slush ingress damages houses in Kullu villages||Slush and water brought by heavy rainfall caused damage in the Amar Bagh and Nither area in the Nirmand valley of Anni subdivision on Friday. According to Kullu District Emergency Operational Centre (DEOC), retaining walls of some of the houses collapsed, a tipper parked on the side of the road was completely damaged and a cow died when a cowshed was damaged.Residents said apple trees and agricultural land has also been damaged due to the flash floods. A foot bridge has also been damaged. Some of the residents vacated their houses due to the fear of floods and spent the night at safer locations. These houses had become vulnerable due to the collapsed retaining walls and residents were living in the shadow of fear.The residents appealed to the government to provide immediate help and compensate for their losses due to the natural disaster. A team of the administration is taking stock of the situation to assess the losses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/slush-ingress-damages-houses-in-kullu-villages-303408
29-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Commuting on Pathankot-Mandi highway a nightmare||Palampur, August 28The commuters on the Pathankot-Mandi highway, which was taken over by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) four years ago for its widening to four lanes, is full of potholes on many stretches. The condition of the road has turned from bad to worse as travelling on the national highway is no less than a nightmare.“The condition of the highway is pathetic and will worsen as the road widening project will take at least five years to complete,” said a senior government official.A part of the highway at Paror, near the railway overbridge, has turned into a virtual death trap. Many fatal accidents have taken place on the spot because of the potholes. Bitumen laid during the summer was washed away by the first monsoon showers. Similar is the condition between Jogindernagar and Padhar.However, the highway authority is not concerned about the situation.Most drains along the highway are choked and water is flowing onto it, causing it damage.Earlier, the national highway wing of the Public Works Department maintained the road. The Central Government used to provide funds, but now there was no such provision. The road widening project has been hanging fire for the past four years because of red tape. The NHAI has acquired land only for the first phase of 40 km, of the total of 208 km. Its foundation stone was laid in 2017.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that the National Highways Authority of India is giving money only for the road widening to four lanes and there is no focus on its maintenance though it is the lifeline of the people of Mandi and Kangra districts.“The road must be maintained till the project is completed. Otherwise, it will cause a lot of inconvenience to people, besides posing a risk to the lives of travellers. The highway is one of the busiest in the state, which links Pathankot with Leh also and is used by the Army for the transportation of heavy defence equipment and supplies to forward areas in Ladakh,” says a retired PWD engineer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/commuting-on-pathankot-mandi-highway-a-nightmare-303409
29-08-2021||---||Stranded commuters relieved as Chandigarh-Manali highway restored||Mandi, August 28The Chandigarh-Manali highway between Mandi and Kullu was restored for traffic movement after a gap of 34 hours today. It was blocked on Thursday midnight near Pandoh in Mandi district due to a massive landslide in the region.Due to heavy rains and landslides near Pandoh, the National Highway Authority of India could not restore this highway for traffic movement in time. It took the authorities almost 34 hours to clear the stretch between Mandi and Kullu. It was finally opened for traffic around 10 am today.However, it took hours for the police to manage the long queues of vehicles stranded on both sides of the highway since Thursday night. The traffic flow eased by afternoon.Hundreds of people, who were stranded in the area, heaved a sigh of relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stranded-commuters-relieved-as-chandigarh-manali-highway-restored-303382
29-08-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Industrial park project on hold for want of FDA clearance||Nurpur, August 28The much-publicised integrated industrial park proposed to be set up in the Khanni area of Nurpur during 2018-19 is confined to government files as clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) -1980 is yet to be obtained. As per information, the case file has been prepared but the state government is yet to submit it to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for approval.In view of the presence of thousands of trees, which need to be axed for developing industrial plots in the park, the Forest Department has mandated procuring approval under the FCA-1980, which has put a question mark on the future of this ambitious project envisaged to bring industrial revolution and generate employment opportunities for locals.The detailed project report (DPR) proposed by the state Industry Department has also been put on hold. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, will give the FCA approval in two stages.Inquiries reveal that the state Industry Department has identified 4,000 kanals of government land in the Nurpur Assembly constituency and notified the park on nearly 85 hectares of non-forestland vested under the Village Common Land Utilisation Act. The state government had transferred this land in the name of the Industry Department, paving the way for developing the park on the notified land. But the Forest Department objected to the land transfer due to the entry of ‘Khudro Drakhtan Malkiat Sarkar’ (KDMS) in the revenue record, which attracts the mandatory provision of the FCA-1980. The KDMS means on any land, whether private or government, the naturally growing trees are owned by the government.Viklap Yadav, Divisional Forest Officer, Nurpur, told The Tribune that there were 14,432 standing trees on the land identified for developing the integrated industrial park at Chakban (Khanni) in Nurpur forest range. “The approval under the FCA-1980 is a must and the case file has been submitted to the state government that will be forwarded to the Central Government,” he said.Meanwhile, Rakesh Prajapati, Director, Industry Department, said that the department was in the process of getting land cleared under the FCA-1980. Once clearance was received and the land was free from all encumbrances, the department would invite investors, who were already in touch with the government for setting up industrial units there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industrial-park-project-on-hold-for-want-of-fda-clearance-303383
29-08-2021||Ravinder Sood||Four years on, funds to repair CCTV cameras not released in Palampur||Palampur August 28Despite repeated requests, the state government has not released funds for the repair of CCTV cameras in the town, which are out of order since 2017.Five years ago, CCTV cameras were installed in Palampur at a cost of lakhs of rupees. They functioned barely for a year after their installation. Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that these CCTV cameras were installed by the local Municipal Council keeping in view the deteriorating law and order and the rising number of accidents, besides to monitor the movement of miscreants and mafia. The cameras were installed at all entry and exit points of the town.Police officerCan help curb crimeIf the cameras are made functional and are connected with the police station, these can be used to nab suspected criminals. The cameras, if made operational, can help curb crime in the area.The company, which was given the contract, failed to provide the follow-up service after their installation. The Palampur Municipal Council has not initiated any action against the ‘erring’ firm. The cameras installed in front of Palampur police station, near the office of the State Bank of India at Subhash Chowk, Nehru Chowk, old and new bus stand, IPH road, PWD offices and near the mini secretariat are not working. Cables and CCTV units of several cameras are missing at many points.The cameras are supposed to be attached with computers installed in the local police station, the offices of the SDM and the DSP and the traffic police to keep vigil on the movement of vehicles. However, these offices are not linked with the cameras. A senior police officer says that he has seen some cameras installed in the town, but they are neither connected with his office nor the local police station.“If these cameras are made functional and are connected with the police station or his office, traffic movement can be monitored. This will also help in nabning suspected criminals. The cameras, if made operational, can help curb the crime in the area,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-years-on-funds-to-repair-cctv-cameras-not-released-in-palampur-303384
29-08-2021||Solan||Himachal apple trader protests road blockade||Earlier, Tikait, while interacting with mediapersons at Solan, said that he would ensure that big corporates do not fleece the apple growers. He met apple growers at the APMC hall.Making a brief halt while going to Shimla, Tikait said an agitation would be launched, if required, against the corporates for offering low rates to the growers. He asked farmers to unite against the big corporates.Meanwhile, the All-India Kisan Sabha and the Himachal Kisan Sabha in Shimla condemned the police lathi-charge on peacefully protesting farmer in Karnal today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-apple-trader-protests-road-blockade-303406
29-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Credit for 99% vaccine coverage goes to doctors, paramedics: Himachal CM||Kullu, August 28Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the credit for Himachal becoming the first state in the country to vaccinate over 99 per cent of the eligible population goes to doctors and paramedical staff, who worked with dedication, and people, who cooperated actively.He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had congratulated the state as it was about to achieve the target of cent per cent coverage of the first dose of vaccine to the eligible population. He stated this while addressing a public rally after inaugurating and laying the foundation stones of 26 projects worth about Rs 100 crore for the Manali Assembly constituency at Baragran in Manali subdivision of Kullu district.Thakur accused successive Congress governments of doing nothing to strengthen health services and infrastructure in the state. He said that when the pandemic started, there were only two oxygen plants and 50 ventilators in the state but now there were over 12 functional oxygen plants and 800 ventilators. He added that 28 more PSA oxygen plants were being established in various health institutions.He said that the state government had provided 50 per cent reservation to women in panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies to ensure their active participation in the process of development.The Chief Minister announced the opening of a Jal Shakti division at Manali, construction of a helipad at Nathan, upgrade of various schools, upgrade and opening of various health and veterinary institutions, increasing the bed capacity of the Civil Hospital at Manali from 50 to 100, Rs 20 lakh for the Baragaon road, Rs 10 lakh each for nine newly curved out panchayats in the Manali Assembly segment and the opening of a gausadan at Manali. He said that the matter regarding the opening of a hotel management institute at Manali would be taken up with the Central Government.Earlier, Thakur inaugurated projects worth Rs 40.13 crore, including the buildings of educational institutions, roads, bridges and water supply schemes. He laid the foundation stones of 12 developmental projects worth Rs 60.39 crore, including an indoor stadium in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali, flood protection work along the Beas (right bank) at Katrain village and the augmentation of various water supply schemes.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur thanked the Chief Minister for dedicating developmental projects to the Manali constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/credit-for-99-vaccine-coverage-goes-to-doctors-paramedics-himachal-cm-303395
29-08-2021||---||On Himachal visit, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait speaks up for apple growers||Shimla, August 28“Himachal is a perfect example of how big companies like Adani Agrifresh, which entered the hill state 10 years ago and built cold stores, are cheating farmers by offering lower prices for apple,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait here today.Addressing mediapersons, he said that the prices of apple had dropped to Rs 16 per kg and the growers were unhappy. They needed protection and also subsidy to transport their produce.He said that the farmers were agitating against three agriculture laws for the past nine months and if the Central Government does not take them back, the agitation will spread to state capitals and Shimla will also boil like Delhi”.He invited the farmers of the state to attend the mahapanchayat to be held in Muzaffarnagar on September 5. He said a strategy to pressure the Central Government to take back the laws would be chalked out.He said that the Union Government should announce the minimum support price for all crops, including vegetables and fruits, besides milk.Tikait said, “We are coordinating with village samitis and NGOs to unite farmers, who are divided on party lines. It is high time that the farmers come together to fight for their rights”.Meanwhile, the demand and supply decides the price of apples and not any company. Rakesh Tikait is trying to mislead farmers and spoil the environment in the country and Himachal, said BJP state spokesperson Baldev Tomar here today.“Small farmers are being given the utmost priority in the agricultural policies of the country. With this spirit, in the past few years, serious efforts have been made to provide convenience and security to the small farmers,” Tomar said in a press note issued here.Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Rs 100,060 crore had been given to farmers so far. Out which, Rs 1 lakh crore was transferred to the bank accounts of the small farmers during the pandemic period. More than two crore Kisan Credit Cards were issued during the pandemic, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/on-himachal-visit-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-speaks-up-for-apple-growers-303468
