30-08-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh sees 96 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 more deaths||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally increased to 2,13,341 on Monday with 96 fresh cases, while the death toll climbed to 3,579 as three more people succumbed to the disease, a health official said.Two deaths were reported from Mandi and one from Kangra, he said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh stands at 1,643, the official said.As many as 209 more patients recovered from Covid-19, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,08,109, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-sees-96-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-more-deaths-304239
30-08-2021||ibune News Service||Lahaul gets projects worth Rs 66.5 cr||Mandi, August 29Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 66.50 crore in Udaipur and Keylong in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti today.The Chief Minister said that victims of this year’s floods in Lahaul- Spiti, who had lost their agriculture land and cash crops, would be provided compensation four time higher than given to the affected families in Kinnaur.The Chief Minister said that Rohtang tunnel had opened new vistas in tourism development in the area. This was a dream project of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee which was fulfilled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that opening of the tunnel has provided all-weather road connectivity to the landlocked hinterland. The influx of tourists to the valley has been increased manifold which would help in strengthening the economy of the people. He said that sanction have been accorded for opening of 407 homestays in the valley.“This year the Lahaul valley was badly affected due to unexpected floods. As many as 10 persons lost their lives and the state government immediately started relief and rescue operation. In order to provide relief to the people affected by recent floods in Udaipur, the state government has provided a special package of Rs 10 crore,” he added.He announced upgrade of sub block to full-fledged development block at Udaipur, upgrade of middle schools, Kishori, and Bhujund to high schools, opening of a veterinary hospital at Madgran, sub tehsil at Jhalma, upgrade of sub tehsil, Udaipur, to tehsil and opening of an HRTC sub deport at Udaipur. He announced opening of fire sub station at Udaipur and upgrade of community health centre, Udaipur, to civil hospital.Addressing the people at Udaipur in Lahaul Spiti, the Chief Minister said the state government has made a budget provision of Rs 136 crore during the current financial year for Lahaul-Spiti district under Tribal Area Development Programme out of which Rs 72 crore was being spent in Lahaul area and Rs 64 crore in Spiti.The Chief Minister laid foundation stones of 16 development projects of about Rs 26 crore at Udaipur. He laid stones of Rs 1.45 crore residential building of Primary Heath Centre, Jahlama, Rs 5 crore building of Model Career Centre, Udaipur, Rs 8.10 crore building of Government Senior Secondary School, Udaipur, Rs 45 lakh a forest inspection hut at Jahlama, Rs 64 lakh augmentation work of drinking water supply scheme, Trilokinath, and Rs 55 lakh augmentation work of drinking water supply scheme at Madgran.He was accompanied by Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda during his one-day tour in Lahaul Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-gets-projects-worth-rs-66-5-cr-303987
30-08-2021||Mandi||Congress workers show black flags to Himachal CM||The Youth Congress workers have been sitting on a chain hunger strike at Keylong for the past 25 days. They are demanding filling of vacant posts of specialist doctor in the District Hospital, Keylong.Gyalchhan Thakur, president of the District Congress Committee, Lahaul Spiti, said: “The government is paying no heed to our demand, which has forced us to take the step. Healthcare is a fundamental right. The government should come forward to provide better healthcare.”“The posts of gynaecologist, general surgeon, orthopaediatrician, ENT, paediatrician and eye specialist have been lying vacant for a long time,” he added.The workers raised slogans against the Chief Minister, which made the situation awkward for him as well as Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda. The angry CM returned from Keylong without having a lunch there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-workers-show-black-flags-to-himachal-cm-303988
30-08-2021||Shimla||Rath yatra to showcase HP’s growth journey||The Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra will be organised in the state to commemorate the Golden Jubilee year of the statehood, said Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh. He was presiding over a meeting of the Deputy Commissioners and Chief Medical Officers through a video conference from Shimla today. He said 51 events would be organised in a befitting manner. He directed all DCs to identify the places for the events. These would be organised on the basis of theme of special attractions related to the district. He said the development history of the state would be showcased in the rath yatra and the participation of the public would be ensured. Singh congratulated the DCs and Chief Medical Officers for achieving the target of 100 per cent Covid vaccination in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rath-yatra-to-showcase-hps-growth-journey-303989
30-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Nurpur girls win gold in Himachal judo championship||Nurpur, August 29In the state-level 32nd three-day judo championship organised by the Himachal Pradesh Judo Association, in Shimla, Riya Thakur and Madhu Sharma of Nurpur won gold medals in their respective weight categories. The duo represented Kangra in the championship that concluded on Saturday at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Shimla.Riya Thakur, a Class X student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, won a gold medal in the under-40 weight category, whereas Madhu Sharma, a Class XII student of the same school, won a gold medal in the under-70 kg weight category. In the open weight category, she secured a silver medal. Both judo players have been selected for the national championship.Madhu, who hails from Kopra village, had already participated and represented the state in the Khelo India Youth Games-2020 in Guwhati (Assam), held in January last year, and secured the fourth place in wrestling. She won a gold medal in wrestling and a bronze in judo in the state-level Himachal Pradesh School Games competition.The budding women players are being imparted training in judo and wrestling by coach Amit Rana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-girls-win-gold-in-himachal-judo-championship-303990
30-08-2021||---||Mandi: Hillside develops cracks, houses under threat||Mandi, August 29Due to heavy rain, a hillside in Kothigehri village under Balh has developed cracks, due to which a dozen houses are under threat.Due to the cracks on the hillside, the houses of Vidya Devi, Tara Chand, Sanju, Ballu Ram, Bittu Ram, Dharmi Devi and Pankaj Kumar have come under threat.The kitchen and toilet in a house and cowshed of another house have been damaged. Vidya said that as it rained heavily on Friday night, cracks were developed on the ground of her house.As the cowshed of was damaged, the house owner was forced to shift the cattle some other place for their safety.The affected villagers have appealed to the district administration and the government to pay proper compensation for the loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-hillside-develops-cracks-houses-under-threat-303991
30-08-2021||---||Close shave for four as car catches fire on NH-5 near Solan||Solan, August 29Four occupants of a Maruti Ciaz had a close shave when their car suddenly caught fire near Sanwara on the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of the National Highway-5 this afternoon.Derabassi resident Ankush and three other occupants managed to climb out of the car after halting it on the road as soon as the fire started. They were on the way to Shimla from Derabassi when the mishap occurred, informed police officials.The car had been bought merely three months ago and as per initial estimates, a short circuit appears to have caused the blaze.Parwanoo Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Yogesh Rolta, while confirming the news, said locals helped in dousing the fire in which four occupants sustained minor burn injuries.They were treated at a local hospital and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/close-shave-for-four-as-car-catches-fire-on-nh-5-near-solan-303992
30-08-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal drug firm hopes Afghanistan plant to begin soon||Tribune News ServiceSolan, August 29The management of MDC Pharmaceutical Ltd at Baddi is keenly awaiting the Afghanistan turmoil to end so that it can begin manufacturing operations at Kandahar.MDC Pharmaceuticals is providing technical support to Snow Pharma, Afghanistan’s biggest pharmaceutical unit, at Kandahar which once operational will reduce the country’s dependence on drugs imported from other countries.Director of MDC Pharmaceuticals SL Singla says, “We are exporting drugs to Afghanistan for the past four to five years and an opportunity has come our way to provide technical support to Snow Pharma at Kandahar. We have set up the state-of-the-art unit where manufacturing operations will begin soon”.“Besides exporting the requisite machinery worth crores of rupees to set up the plant, 24 skilled employees were also sent to Kandahar to begin manufacturing activities. However, they were recalled in July when uncertainty gripped the country. The employees were provided residential facilities on the company premises.” says Singla, who is hopeful of beginning manufacturing at the plant soon.The company worth more than Rs 50 crore will reduce Afghanistan’s dependence on other countries, as nearly 95 per cent of the drugs are imported. India is a major pharmaceutical exporter to Afghanistan.“This will help provide quality drugs at competitive rates to nationals of Afghanistan, which has a few facilities such as testing labs at present. It will also generate employment for locals,” adds Singla, who is also an adviser to the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association.Various products such as capsules, syrups, tablets, ampoules, vials, cream, and ointments will be manufactured at this facility. Singla hopes that the situation in Afghanistan will improve soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-drug-firm-hopes-afghanistan-plant-to-begin-soon-303993
30-08-2021||Shimla||Kothi, Dharamsala wettest in Himachal||Moderate rain occurred at isolated places as the monsoon remained subdued.Kothi was the wettest in the region with 46 mm rain, followed by Dharamsala 32 mm, Sundernagar 22 mm, Kasauli 15 mm, Palampur 13.5 mm, Shahpur 8.5 mm, Pandoh and Nahan 8 mm, Kangra 7.5 mm, Bijahi 5 mm and Jogindernagar and Shimla 4 mm.The maximum temperature dropped marginally and Una was the hottest with a high of 35.8 degree, followed by Bhuntar 32.6 degree and Sundernagar 31.6 degree. The minimum temperature dropped marginally and Keylong and Kalpa recorded a low of 10.9 degree and 11.8 degree. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kothi-dharamsala-wettest-in-himachal-303994
30-08-2021||lit Mohan||Retaining wall demolished, McLeodganj road under threat||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, August 29The crucial McLeodganj-Naddi road is threatened. The district authorities had recently demolished an illegal hotel along the road on the orders of the Supreme Court. However, along with razing of the hotel, those involved in demolition have also broken the retaining wall of the road.Contractor did not obey instructionsWe had requested the contractor to not disturb the wall, as it acted as a retaining wall to the road. He did not listen to us and even removed the retaining wall. Sushil Dadwal, XEN, PWDDue to demolition of the retaining wall, the road has got exposed to soil erosion. The locals are alleging that if immediate remedial steps are not taken and the retaining wall was not erected along the road it might get washed away during these monsoons.Rakesh Kumar, a resident of McLeodganj, said that in case no immediate measures were taken it might cause another tragedy in the area. The entire hill along the road might come down and block entrance to McLeodganj, popular tourist hotspot for tourists visiting Dharamsala. The authorities should immediately build a retaining wall along the road to protect it, he said.The PWD Department has also warned the authorities that the road might be washed away and requested for immediate funds to protect it. Executive engineer PWD, Sushil Dadwal, when contacted, said, “We had requested the contractor who was demolishing the illegal building not to disturb the back wall as it was also acting as retaining wall to the road. However, they did not listen to us and even removed the old retaining wall of the road along with the building. Now the road and hill adjoining it was threatened,” he said.Dadwal said that a request has been made to the Smart City Dharamsala project authorities to sanction Rs 35 lakh for erecting the retaining wall along the threatened road. However, no decision has been taken so far.An environmentalist Gazala Abdullah alleged that people carrying out the demolition of illegal hotel have damaged many trees also. The idea was to protect forest land from encroachment and not damage to trees standing on the land, he said.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Nipun Jindal, when contacted, said that the matter was in his notice and efforts would be made to protect the road.Geologists have already warned that the strata of McLeodganj area was landslide prone. The strata comprises loose soil that is prone to landslides more so as it gathers water after consistent rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/retaining-wall-demolished-mcleodganj-road-under-threat-303995
30-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Call to reopen Himachal schools from September||NURPUR, AUGUST 29The Himachal Pradesh Independent School Association has appealed to the government to allow the opening of schools with specified Standard-Operating Procedures (SOPs).Dr Gulshan Kumar, president of the association, said here today that education had an important role to play in shaping the future of the students, who had suffered due to Covid. After sitting at homes, attending online classes, their behaviour had witnessed a drastic change.The association asserted that as per New Education Policy, the CBSE had changed the examination pattern for classes X and XII with the optical mark reader (OMR) sheet method.“The examination for the first term will be conducted in November with the new examination pattern but the students are not acquainted with the method. It is the high time that schools were opened in the first week of September so that the students can learn the OMR method,” he said.Dr Gulshan said Punjab and Haryana had opened schools and the state government should also follow these. He said the pandemic had also taken a toll on the earnings of private schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-reopen-himachal-schools-from-september-303996
30-08-2021||Shimla||2 Rohru shooters make it to ISSF meet||Two shooters from Rohru made it to the team that will represent India in the ISSF Junior World Championship, scheduled for next month in Lima, Peru. Surya Pratap Singh Banshtu made the cut in the junior men’s 50m rifle prone and Zeena Khitta has been picked for the 10m air rifle event.  A few days back, Renuka Thakur from a village, near Rohru, was selected for the India T20 squad for the upcoming Australia tour. “It’s for the first time that rifle shooters from the state have made it to the ISSF World Championship,” said Virender Banshtu, father of Surya. Virender runs a shooting academy at his school in Rohru, and the shooters started their journey in the sport from his academy. “They started shooting when they were in Class VII. After they completed matriculation, we shifted them to DAV School, Chandigarh, and then to DAV College,” said Virender. Both shooters participated in the Junior World Cup held in Sydney in 2018, besides winning several medals in the national championship. “We are hopeful they will return from the championship with medals,” said Virender. Virender said the sport was growing in the state, but there was a need to attract more talent to it. “First of all, parents need to support children, who want to pursue shooting, or any other sport. Shooting is an expensive sport, but we have seen sportspersons emerging from families and areas not too well-off. So, finance is not a hurdle, if someone wants to pursue it,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-rohru-shooters-make-it-to-issf-meet-303997
30-08-2021||Una||Una bags first place in Himachal in implementing Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana for 2020-21||Una bagged the first place in the state and second in the country in implementing the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana for 2020-21. This was stated here today by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Amit Kumar while presiding over the quarterly review meeting of the Mother and Child Development Department.The ADC said under the scheme, partial compensation such as cash incentive was given to expecting mothers before and after the first delivery. He said all expecting and lactating mothers, excluding those in regular employment with the Union or HP Governments, public sector undertakings or those, who were in receipt of similar benefits under any law, were eligible for the benefit. Cash incentive of Rs 5,000 was being given in three instalments after registration of pregnancy at the Anganwari centre concerned, Amit Kumar said.The ADC said under the scheme, 16,041 beneficiaries had been given a total of Rs 6.86 crore. A review of the progress under the Mahila Shakti Kendra Scheme covering Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and One Stop Centres for women in distress was also done. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-bags-first-place-in-himachal-in-implementing-pradhan-mantri-matru-vandana-yojana-for-2020-21-303999
30-08-2021||---||Tributes paid to martyr Major Sudhir Walia||Our Correspondent  Palampur, August 29 Tributes were paid to Major Sudhir Walia, on his 22nd death anniversary today. He had sacrificed his life while fighting with militants in Jammu and Kashmir on this day in 1999.  Civil and Army officers garlanded the statue of the martyr installed in the town. A company of the Gorkha regiments saluted the statue. Having sacrificed his life at the age of 28, Major Sudhir was posthumously awarded the country’s highest peacetime military decoration in January, 2000. Sudhir was born on May 24, 1969, in Palampur, to an Army Veteran Subedar Major Rulia Ram Walia and Rajeswari Devi.  He attended the Sainik School at Sujanpur Tira, and then joined the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-martyr-major-sudhir-walia-304000
30-08-2021||---||Water conservation needs serious attention, says Himachal Governor||Shimla, August 29Water conservation is an important issue, which requires serious attention and we should work in this direction, said Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today. He was interacting with Additional Secretary and Mission Director, National Water Mission, Ministry of Jal Shakti, G Asok Kumar, who had called on the former.The Governor said there was a need for comprehensive management of rain water harvesting, conservation and rejuvenation of traditional water resources, forest activities and awareness.“Nature has blessed Himachal Pradesh immensely and the environment is very favourable. However, due to the continuous change in the environment, the situation is getting serious and natural calamities have forced us to think in this direction,” said Arlekar.He said we need to save every drop of rain and stop the fast flow of water. It will be helpful in providing water in the areas where there is shortage of water and also helpful in protecting the fertile land due to flash floods in lower areas. The state government has made concerted efforts in this direction but it required massive campaigns through panchayats in rural areas in particular, he added.Asok Kumar apprised the Governor that as part of the National Water Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a campaign, “Catch the Rain”, on the occasion of World Water Day on March 22 this year.He said the basic idea of the campaign was to catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls. He said the campaign had been given momentum in the state and a lot of work had been done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-conservation-needs-serious-attention-says-himachal-governor-304001
30-08-2021||Solan||Educate apple growers on new techniques: Nauni varsity VC||A Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) meeting of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Chamba, run by Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, was held yesterday under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Dr Parvinder Kaushal.Dr Kaushal, addressing the online meeting, said to realise the true potential of the ‘aspirational district’ tag, more vocational and training programmes should be incorporated. “Optimal cultivation of various agricultural and horticultural crops was yet to take place in the district where avocado and others crops having longer shelf life could be grown,” he said.Also read: Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsOn the low productivity and quality of apple in the district, the VC advised scientists to educate growers about new farming techniques like high-density plantations on clonal rootstocks.Earlier, Dr Rajeev Raina, KVK coordinator, shared the success story of the station in improving pollination services in apple orchards through beekeeping in mud hives. He said trials for promoting asafoetida and bamboo as fodder had been initiated.Dr Kuldeep Dhiman, Deputy Director, Agriculture, stressed the collaborative programmes while Dr Rajeev Chandra, Deputy Director, Horticulture, sought the support of scientists for the capacity building of the staff.Representatives of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee and progressive farmers opined that the lack of knowledge about plant protection led to the low quality of apples which was a major cause for concern in the district.Scientists also stressed the cultivation of carnation, lilium, aromatic plants and for effective dissemination of information. Dr Divender Gupta, Director, Extension Education, said the farmers should be educated about the recommended schedule of spraying to ensure high yield and quality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/educate-apple-growers-on-new-techniques-nauni-varsity-vc-304002
30-08-2021||LLU||Decision to open Himachal schools on Sept 4: Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur has said universities and colleges would be reopened from September 1 and the decision on the opening of schools would be reviewed at a meeting on September 4.All 18+ vaccinatedHimachal has achieved the feat of 100 per cent coverage of the first dose of vaccination to persons above 18 years and it is decided that offline classes in higher education institutes can be resumed.Addressing mediapersons in Manali today, he said Himachal had achieved the feat of 100 per cent coverage of the first dose of vaccination to persons above 18 years and it was decided that offline classes in higher education institutes could be resumed.The minister said as the populace under 18 years had not been vaccinated, various aspects would be considered to review the future plan of action for the children of junior classes. A strategy would be devised to protect the children from Covid.Thakur said the state government had opened schools for classes X-XII from August 2 by adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour after remaining closed for four months. As 69 students tested Covid positive in Chamba and some students and teachers were infected in a few parts of the state, the Cabinet on August 10 decided to close the schools, except for residential schools, till August 22.He further added that after reviewing the Covid situation on August 20, the date was extended to August 28. Keeping in mind the rise in cases in the state at a review meeting on August 24, the reopening of schools was again deferred till September 4. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decision-to-open-himachal-schools-on-sept-4-education-minister-govind-singh-thakur-304003
30-08-2021||Solan||Solan: Apple trader files complaint against BKU activists for 'misbehaviour' in presence of Rakesh Tikait||Apple trader Vicky Chauhan, who had protested the “obstruction” in apple trading following sloganeering by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) activists at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard on the Kather bypass on Saturday, lodged a police complaint alleging misbehaviour by union members.The incident had taken place in the presence of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait yesterday.Also read:Tikait, local arhtiya engage in heated exchange of words in SolanHimachal apple trader protests road blockadeOn Himachal visit, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait speaks up for apple growersAdditional SP, Solan, Ashok Verma, while confirming the news, said, “A complaint has been received from a trader, Vicky Chauhan, regarding yesterday’s incident on the Kather bypass, where a confrontation had occurred with BKU activists. It is being looked into.”Also read: Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsChauhan today told mediapersons that he was feeling threatened as BKU activists were enquiring about him. He also added that he had merely told them not to raise slogans in the APMC yard as trading was at its peak and Tikait’s vehicle had obstructed the entry of apple trucks into the yard.BKU state vice-president Vinod Kumar, on the other hand, claimed that Vicky had vitiated the atmosphere during Tikait's visit.“Is sloganeering prohibited in public space or has Section 144 of the CrPC been imposed there by the administration?” he asked.He alleged that the incident was sponsored by the Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha and demanded registration of an FIR against the trader for vitiating the atmosphere.The BJP rubbished the allegations levelled by the BKU. BJP mandal president Madan Thakur said neither was Vicky a member of the BJP nor had the party any role in yesterday’s incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-apple-trader-files-complaint-against-bku-activists-for-misbehaviour-in-presence-of-rakesh-tikait-304004
30-08-2021||---||123 new Covid cases, 1 death in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, August 29As many as 123 new Covid cases were reported in the state in the last 24 hours. Besides, one person succumbed to the virus in Mandi district.The maximum cases were reported from Mandi (35), followed by Kangra (24), Hamirpur (23), Shimla (13), Chamba (8), Kullu (5), Una (4), Solan (4), Lahaul & Spiti (4) and Bilaspur (3). No case was reported from Sirmaur and Kinnaur districts.The total number of cases reported in the state to date is 2,13,245. The number of active cases now is 1,750. The total number of deaths due to Covid has reached 3,576.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/123-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-himachal-pradesh-304006
30-08-2021||Nurpur||Minor gang-raped, 1 held||The Nurpur police have booked Krishan Kumar (24) and Rahul, residents of nearby villages, last evening for raping a minor girl (13) of the same village. A case under Section 376 D-A of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act has been registered .Sidharth Sharma, officiating DSP of Nurpur, said Krishan Kumar, an accused, was arrested today whereas the whereabouts of other accused were being ascertained. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-gang-raped-1-held-304008
30-08-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Scotland distillery to invest Rs 52cr in Una||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, August 29 Ian MacLeod Distillers, a  distillery of Scotland, will set up its distilling unit at Pandoga in Una.  The proposed investment is about Rs 52 crore and the company will provide jobs to 150 persons. It will also be the first-of-its-kind project in Himachal Pradesh. The company has submitted its application for allotment of land in the industrial area at Pandoga. Officials of the Department of industries have forwarded it to the government for approval, sources said. The GM, Industries, Una, Anshul Dhiman, said the company had completed all formalities at the ground level and proposed to set up the state-of-the-art unit. They had tested the underground water and found it suitable for the distilling of Scotch whiskeys, he said. The GM said an in-principal approval for the project had been given and the land would be allotted to the company as soon as other permissions for it were completed. Director, Industries, Rakesh Prajapati said the distillers had also proposed to promote distillery tourism in the area. Just as in European countries, they would invite people watch the distillation process.  “The firm expects once the unit becomes functional, it will attract about 1 lakh tourists annually. The permissions for the project are being expedited and we hope the construction will start soon. As per the project report submitted by the distillery, it will manufacture their first lot of whiskeys three years after the unit becomes functional,” the Director said. The Director also said the distillery would invest in the state due to the efforts made by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Industries Minister Bikram Thakur. The government was now expediting the investment proposals it had received during the investors’ meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scotland-distillery-to-invest-rs-52cr-in-una-304010
30-08-2021||Defying its own orders issued on January 19||Defying own orders||Leadership vacuumLack of leadership is haunting Congress leaders in politically important Kangra district. Due to failure of the party high command in giving charge of the area to a particular person, most of the leaders are staying away from taking up issues on behalf of the party. The party leaders are limiting themselves to their own constituencies and waiting for the party high command to decide on the leadership before they come out and campaign for the party.Striking right balance?An officer, who had an unceremonious exit from Solan district more than three years ago, decided to begin his new innings by organising a samman ceremony for the media. The gesture it seems was aimed at striking the right balance with the media as his earlier tenure had fetched him ridicule and a transfer for inept handling of his work. One wondered if a hard lesson has been learnt from the previous experience as it is one’s work which earns him brownie points on the professional front and not such gimmicks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/defying-own-orders-304043
30-08-2021||Eltai Shimla Chapter||Eltai Shimla Chapter organises webinar on legal language||Seminar on crime against women endsHimachal Pradesh State Commission for Women president Daisy Thakur said women were moving ahead in all spheres at national and international level, but majority of them were still victims of societal exploitation and indifference. She stated this at the concluding ceremony of the seminar on crime against women, organised at Government College, Sanjauli. Thakur said women’s dignity and right to equality depended on their thinking. Families needed to change their attitude towards women first, and the change in society would follow, she said. College principal CB Mehta thanked the participants for their presence.Conclaves planned for ‘Shikshak Parv’Conclave, webinars, discussions and presentations would mark the ‘Shikshak Parv’ to be celebrated from September 7 to 17 through virtual mode. The Department of Higher Education has directed the Deputy Directors to take necessary action in this regard. The webinars would be held on ‘Promoting quality and sustainable schools’, ‘Foundational literacy and numeracy: a prerequisite to learning’, ‘Culture of innovation in our schools’, ‘Nurturing inclusive classrooms’ and ‘Reimagining vocational education and skill building’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eltai-shimla-chapter-organises-webinar-on-legal-language-304044
30-08-2021||Parking of vehicles along the Kasumpti-Vikasnagar road||Haphazard parking leads to traffic jams on Kasumpti-Vikasnagar road||Restrict entry of monkeys in residential areasMonkeys have become a threat to residents of Panthaghati. These monkeys easily jump into their balconies, and can harm children and the elderly. The MC and the Forest Department should take steps to ensure that they don’t enter residential areas. — Naveen Kumar, PanthaghatiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-parking-leads-to-traffic-jams-on-kasumpti-vikasnagar-road-304045
30-08-2021||---||Himachal leads states with 70 per cent employment||New Delhi, August 29Himachal Pradesh has emerged the leader among states when it comes to the total number of workers in the population.While the national average of the worker-population ratio (WPR) in the country for the year 2019-2020 is 50.9 per cent, the corresponding figure for Himachal Pradesh is 70.5 per cent, way above the India average and the highest among states.Punjab and Haryana fall below the national average with WPRs of 47.8 per cent and 42.9 per cent respectively.Uttarakhand’s WPR is 49.5 per cent, while that in the UT of Chandigarh is 45.5 per cent.Jammu and Kashmir has a higher than national average WPR of 52.5 per cent.Overall, the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli leads the national charts with a worker population ratio of 72.2 per cent with Himachal leading among the states.Worker Population Ratio (WPR) is defined as the percentage of workers in the population/the proportion of the working-age population that is employed and is an important indicator of workforce vitality.Bihar has the lowest WPR of 39.7 per cent in India.Other states with higher than national WPRs are Sikkim at 68.8 per cent, followed by Chhattisgarh 65.4 per cent, and Daman and Diu 64.5 per cent. Ladakh's WPR is also high at 62.7 per cent.Himachal's WPR jumped from 63.9 per cent in 2018-2019 to 70.5 per cent in 2019-2020, continuing to hold the top slot among states.The WPR estimates are among major indicators of employment and unemployment status and are being collected through the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO), Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation since 2017-18.The latest available report for WPR estimates, released recently, is for 2019-20.The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation has also been publishing the monthly payroll data relating to employment in the formal sector.This highlights that the cumulative net payroll addition to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscriber base is 77.08 lakh for the year 2020-2021, which is almost on par with previous year (78.58 lakh).“It is observed that there is addition in net payroll as represented by EPFO subscriber base in each month of 2020-21 except for the month of April and May 2020,” a Ministry of Labour assessment says, signalling a gradual revival of the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-leads-states-with-70-per-cent-employment-303918
