01-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||When things did not turn out the way they planned||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30For 50 years, Harbans Singh (now 82) practised as an ayurveda expert in Ludhiana and led a very comfortable life. He enjoyed the prime time of his life happily with his wife, two sons and a daughter. He even purchased a house in Amritsar where he planned to settle and enjoy his retired life. But things did not somehow turn up the way he had planned.About six years ago, he landed up at the Old Age Home of the health wing of the administration at Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar here. “My wife is no more. After her demise, I transferred my house in the name of my two sons, both of whom sold it out and are now settled in Italy. My daughter got too busy with herself after her marriage. My brothers and sister are no more. Left with no place to go to, I eventually packed my bags and came here deciding to spend the rest of my life in solace,” said Harbans Singh.Five elderly men are presently living in the Old Age Home here and enjoying among themselves, sharing their grief and happily spending time together watching TV, going for short strolls, having meals together and playing ludo, carrom and cards to pass their time. Most of them are a bit hard of hearing and have difficulty in walking. But despite their health issues, they gel with each other very well.Om Parkash (68), who hails from Maqsudan, says: “Here for the past five months, I am much happier than at home. I could no longer stand the daily fights with my children. My wife, who was my pillar of strength, passed away due to heart attack. After that, I decided to move out. A friend of mine guided me to come here and I am happy having followed his suggestion.”Om Parkash said he used to sell plastic ware on a cart earlier to feed his family. “My only regret in life is that I toiled so hard all my life for my family but I never got a chance to enjoy even the slightest comfort at home, not even in the twilight of my life.”The elderly said no one from their families have ever come to see them once they are lodged here. “We have no connection with any one of them”, said Harbans. Asked how he managed buying items of his need including clothes, medicines and other needs, he said: “I have very limited needs. Since I have no income now, it is a friend of mine who sometimes visits me and gives me some money for my basic needs”.The elderly said in pre-Covid times, there were more inmates. “Two women, too, used to stay here in the dormitory, but now they have all moved. In Covid times, each one of us being elderly and more prone got so scared of one another. Since we had common facilities, it made us further prone. Therefore, three-four persons, who thought that they had the capacity to pay some rent elsewhere, left from here.”Caretaker at the Old Age Home, Pankaj Bhola (48), takes a good care of everyone despite his disabilities. He walks with crutches. “I do not have a family. So I, too, found this place like my home and came here to earn my livelihood”, he said. About Old Age Home International Day for Older Persons today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-things-did-not-turn-out-the-way-they-planned-318643
01-10-2021||---||Now, farmers start seven-day dharna in front of Best Price in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 30Members of the Bharti Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) today started a one-week dharna in front of the Best Price mall (now taken over from Walmart by Flipkart) on Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of National Highway-1.This morning, the farmers closed both gates of the mall and announced to start the day and night dharna till October 6. Notably, the dharna has started at a time when Flipkart had announced to start its Big Billion sale from October 3 to 10.Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the union, said: “Since October last year, we have been continuously sitting on a dharna in front of Best Price mall in Bhucho Mandi. We had started the dharna as a part of our plan to hold dharnas in front of 40 corporate company offices, showrooms and silos across the state. Bhucho Mandi Best Price was just one of these 40 sites.”He added: “Recently, the company retrenched over a 100 employees. It was a part of the strategy for the company to annoy the employees who would then go after the farmers blaming them for the issue. The multi-national company could have easily gone ahead continuing to pay them the salary, but they are using this ploy to dissuade us from holding dharna.”Kokrikalan said to build pressure against the company to re-employ the entire lot of retrenched staff, the union had decided to start seven-day dharnas in front of all its other five malls in Punjab. These include two in Ludhiana and one each in Amritsar and Zirakpur, other than another one in Jalandhar.“Our dharnas started simultaneously at all five malls today. If the company does not take back its staff in Bhucho Mandi in the next seven days, we may extend our dharna in all the malls”, the union leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-farmers-start-seven-day-dharna-in-front-of-best-price-in-jalandhar-318660
01-10-2021||---||Suicide: Anup Pathak’s supporters allege inaction, gherao police station in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30A large number of supporters of Anup Pathak (husband of Congress councillor Radhika Pathak), who had committed suicide on Tuesday, held a protest over police inaction outside the Police Division number four on Thursday.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Gurmeet Singh, ADCP City-1 Suhail Mir and ACP Balwinder Iqbal Singh Kahlon, who reached the spot, tried to persuade the family members to cremate his body.More than 200 supporters of Anup gheraoed police station today morning. The DCP said they would arrest the accused named in the suicide note within two days and urged family of the deceased’s to perform his last rites.Anup’s son Karan said the police have failed to nab the accused even after two days of the incident.Karan alleged that cops were under pressure due to which the accused have not been held so far. The protesters said if the police fail to to arrest the accused, they would gherao the Police Commissioner’s residence.After getting the assurance from senior police officials, the aggrieved family members performed the last rites around 5 pm.Anup had reportedly committed suicide at his residence after receiveing threats and named Inderjit Chaudhary, Amrik Sandhu and Ravinder Singh Chaudhary, in the suicide note.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suicide-anup-pathaks-supporters-allege-inaction-gherao-police-station-in-jalandhar-318661
01-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Balachaur couple on forest clean-up mission||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30In a bid to protect the forests of Nawanshahr from waste dumping and littering, Aman Verma and Dr Sunita have been carrying out drives to rid the forests of garbage for the past eight years. The Nawanshahr-based couple runs a hospital at Balachaur and is known for its philanthropy.Regularly visiting the jungles and also feeding animals there, Aman’s concern about the forests grew about eight years ago when he noticed that people were dumping tons of waste there.Speaking to The Tribune Aman Verma (43) says: “The forest is 17 km from the place where I live. I had been visiting it daily since I was a kid and feed animals. I had been an avid observer of the problems being faced in the jungle since then and what bothered me was the increasing plastic wastes in the jungle for years. So, about eight years ago we started the work of personally picking up trash from the jungles.”Verma says: “Plastic doesn’t decompose and the increasing presence of huge stashes of plastic in the forests is a big biodiversity issue, which cause imbalance in forests, upsets flora and fauna and threatens delicate eco sensitive zones. Our work has gained momentum, many people have joined us and under the umbrella of Bheer Society many of us have pitched in to save Nawanshahr forests.”In his pursuit to free forests of garbage, Verma has picked up wastes from vast stretches of forests, including those in Kalar, Bhaddi, Rail Majra (near site of the Banda Bahadur caves) among other areas.He is currently working on a project to rid a site which saw a dharna few days ago, which he and his workers found riddled with used plastic cups and plates.He says, “A recent dharna site was heavily littered with cups. We have been picking up wastes for two days and still there is more left. Some people deliberately dump their refuse in forests. I saw a dump of used clothes which someone had intentionally thrown in the middle of the forest. Besides this, people visiting the forest or feeding animals for religious purposes also leave behind plastic wrappers, polythene and packaging in the jungles creating huge piles of waste.”The couple hires a pick-up truck for Rs2,500 to Rs3,000 which they take to the jungle every Sunday and employ four to five labourers to pick up the trash as well.The couple has also been extending medical care to the needy. Many people in medical emergencies who are unable to pay for treatment have been helped by the couple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balachaur-couple-on-forest-clean-up-mission-318663
01-10-2021||---||Covid: Three test positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30As many as three new Covid cases were reported on Thursday in the district, taking the total district tally to 63319 cases. In Jalandhar, no Covid death was reported today. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,793 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 30. Of the 16,67,998 samples collected in the district so far, 15,34,791 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,074 tests are awaited. There are 16 people in home isolation in the district currently.3 new cases in HoshiarpurAs many as three new Covid cases were reported from the district on Thursday, keeping the tally at 30,774. The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district. The toll stood at 981. As many as 29,781 patients recovered from the virus. The district has 12 active cases.No case, death in K’thalaNo fresh Covid case nor death was reported from Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,829. No death from Covid was reported either.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-three-test-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-318664
01-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three booked for culpable homicide||4 held in sikka snatching caseJalandhar: The police team led by ADCP Harpreet Singh Bainipal arrested four accused in the Sikka snatching case. CIA-1 in-charge Ramandeep Kumar said the accused have been arrested by forming a police team with Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of police station No.4. The police also recovered the bike and pink bag used in the crime. Rs 12,38,000 were also recovered from the accused. The police said Rohit, a native of Bihar, who used to work at Kaushal Hospital, had snatched the money. The conspiracy was hatched at the servant quarter of Kaushal Hospital. The accused have been identified as Rohit resident of Bihar, Vishnu Dev and Chand Shekhar alias ??Chhotu both residents of Golden Avenue, Phase-2, and Manoj Kumar a resident of Ajit Nagar. TNSIntoxicants seized, 3 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers and seized a huge quantity of narcotics from them on Wednesday night. During a naka in Bahadurpur, the police had seized 50 gram of heroin, 295 gram of intoxicating powder and the car used in drug smuggling. The accused has been identified as Kamaljit Singh alias Kamli, a resident of Bassi Ali. The Bullowal police arrested a smuggler and recovered 22 gram of intoxicanting powder from him during a naka in the area. The accused has been identified as Manpreet Singh alias Manni, a resident of Shamchurasi. The police of Chabbewal have arrested Budhu Kumar alias Bittu, a resident of Sarhala and recovered 23 gram of heroin from him. OCThree booked for assault, trespassHoshiarpur: Three persons have been booked on the charges of criminal intimidation and assault for thrashing the sarpanch of Mukhliana village. Sarpanch Amarjeet Singh told the police that Inderjit Singh, Jaswant Singh and Nachhatar Singh forcibly entered his house. They allegedly beat him up and threatened him of dire consequences. The police have registered a case against the three accused under Sections 323, 452, 506 and 34 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-booked-for-culpable-homicide-318665
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||12,000 bags of rice seized in Kapurthala||Even as the department seized 12,000 bags of rice illegally stored at a sheller in Kapurthala today, Food Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said anyone found involved in the act would be dealt with as per law. The minister also directed the department to increase vigil. A department team had raided Gopal Rice Mill, Kapurthala, and seized 12,000 bags of rice worth Rs 2 crore, he said, adding that it was likely to be passed off as shelled rice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-000-bags-of-rice-seized-in-kapurthala-318367
