02-10-2021||---||Gandhi Jayanti today: Jalandhar schools pay tributes to Bapu, hold array of activities||Jalandhar, October 1Various schools and colleges across the region remembered the Father of the Nation ahead of Gandhi Jayanti falling tomorrow. Mahatma Gandhi led India’s freedom movement along with many other national leaders against the British rule. His method of non-violence inspired many civil rights movements across the world. To celebrate his contribution to the nation, October 2 is celebrated every year as a national holiday. The day is also celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence by the United Nations.LKC Technical CampusThe NSS and Cultural Committee of School of Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, organised a poster making and slogan writing contest on the theme “Swacch Bharat Abhiyan- Ek Kadam Swachhta Ki Aur” to create awareness among youth towards cleanliness and discipline. The event saw an overwhelming response from the students from management, IT and engineering departments. The posters made by students would be used to promote the cause of cleanliness in students in near future. Anterpreet Kaur and Bharat Bhushan were the coordinators of the event. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director Academic Affairs, congratulated the Departments of Management, Information Technology and Engineering, for organising such events and highlighted that Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign is one of the biggest-ever drives to accelerate efforts towards achieving universal sanitation coverage, improving cleanliness and eliminating open defecation in India. Dr RS Deol, Deputy Director, Academic Affairs, LKCTC, said the main objective of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is to aware the citizens about cleanliness in the nearby surroundings and the spread of filth and infectious parasites. Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD, Management), presented vote of thanks and congratulated the coordinators and students and added that the campaign primarily focuses on eradicating the unhealthy practices of open defecation and provide basic sanitation facilities. The winners in the poster making competition were Sakshi (MBA 1st year) got first position, Monica (MCA 1st year) got the second position, Shaina (BscMLS) and Gurneem (MBA 1st year) got the third position. In slogan writing, Disha (MBA 1st year) got the first position, Priyanka (BBA 1st year) and Preeti Dhir (BscMLS) got 2nd position, Jyoti (BBA 3rd year) and Falguni Arora (MBA 1st year) got the third position.Emm Aar InternationalEmm Aar International School celebrated Gandhi Jayanti and Lal Bahadur Shastri’s birth anniversary in a traditional format under the leadership of Principal Navdeep Vashisht at International School, Adampur. On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, children participated enthusiastically. They came dressed as Gandhiji and Lal Bahadur Shastri, paid tribute to the freedom fighters and showed glimpse of Dandi March. Also, sang poems and patriotic songs, waving the tricolor flag, went round the whole school and paid tribute to them, giving the slogan Jai Jawan Jai Kisan of Desh Prem. Dr Simmi Tandon, Director of the school, encouraged the children to follow the path of strength and non-violence as taught by Gandhiji. On this occasion all the teachers including Madam Shiv Prabha, Radha Sharma, Manisha, Surbhi, Deepika Chawla, Pooja, Rajni, Sardha Singh and all teaching staff were present.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya paid tributes to the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. The ceremony began with the lighting of the lamp by Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi followed by floral tributes. Principal called upon the youth to follow the path shown by him in these testing times. Speaking on the relevance of Gandhi, she further maintained that the principles of Swadeshi, Swachhta and Sarvodya have become all the more relevant in the present world. She lauded the efforts of Gandhian Studies Centre of KMV which was first of its kind to be setup in any college in North India in 2007. She appreciated the efforts of this centre in spreading the awareness about the Gandhian philosophy among the different sections of the society. It is important to mention that KMV is a patriotic institution which actively took part in freedom struggle of our country as Gandhiji has said that Gujarat National College should be modelled on Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Gurjot, Dr Monica Sharma, Director,Gandhian Studies Centre for passionately working for the cause. Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare, Geetika and other faculty members of Department of History were also present on the occasion.DIPS chain of InstitutionsGandhi Jayanti was observed in all schools of DIPS Chain of Institutions. During the programme Father of the Nation was paid of floral tribute by staff and students and Gandhiji was remembered by reciting poems in his fond memory. Quit India movement and Dandi March was showcased by the students and the Gandhi ji ideals were abhorred. The message of truth and nonviolence was highlighted. Students participated in fancy dress poster and online PPT to give valuable information about Gandhiji’s struggle for freedom and his principles. Principals wished the students on this remarkable day and asked the children to respect the father of the nation. DIPS chain of institutions MD Tarwinder Singh and CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotara remembered Gandhi for his contribution towards the country’s freedom. He taught the whole world the idea of nonviolence. Children should imbibe the noble principles of Gandhiji’s and make him their source of inspiration.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeThe PG Department of History and NSS of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, organised a programme under Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav on October 1 in the college campus on account of 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Around 200 students from NSS and Department of History participates in this. On this occasion, Principal Dr. Navjot paid tributes to the Father of the Nation. In her address, Principal expressed the need that the students must inculcate the ideals of the great leader and they should be made an integral part of life. Principal also apprised the students about the rich legacy, thinking and ideology of Gandhi and the way he struggled for the upliftment of women, against poverty, curbing the menace of indiscrimination, spreading religion of humanity and brotherhood and the various movements corresponding to it. Thus we must follow the bright path as shown by him and strive for it. Principal Dr Navjot congratulated Dr Maninder Arora, Head, PG Department of History and NSS Officers Manita, Manjeet Kaur and Atma Singh for this programme.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraTo celebrated Fit India Freedom Run-Amrit Mahatsav a seminar and speech competition on Mahatma Gandhi’s life was organised at MLU DAV College Phagwara under the guidance of Dr. Kiranjeet Randhawa. Students gave speeches and recited poems on Mahatma Gandhi’s teachings. Birth anniversary of freedom fighter Mahatma Gandhi is known as Gandhi Jyanti and is also a national festival of India. He was a renowned entity who served a unique purpose in India’s Journey to becoming independent in 1947. Mahatma Gandhi summed up his philosophy of life with the words “My Life is my Message”. His multifarious and dynamic personality was based on truth. In the principle of non-violence, Gandhi introduced technique of resistance to evil and untruth. His satyagraha is inspired by boundless love and compassion. It is opposed to sin, not sinner, the evil, not evil doer. Dr. Randhawa said incidents from the Mahatma Gandhi’s life and his well documented experiments with truth serve as a great way of inculcating values in youngsters. Gandhi stressed that one should always live one’s philosophies, beliefs and faith and he was a prime example of that. She further said Gandhi was truly the father of the nation and as we pay our tribute to him we must never forget the message of his life. Teachers and students took oath to follow the path of non-violence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gandhi-jayanti-today-jalandhar-schools-pay-tributes-to-bapu-hold-array-of-activities-319112
02-10-2021||Jalandhar||HMV College, Jalandhar, bags A++ grade in NAAC score||Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) added another feather in its cap by scoring highest NAAC grade A++. The college scored 3.65 marks out of four in the third cycle.A celebration was held on the college premises yesterday. The chief guests on the occasion was chairman, local committee, and vice- president, DAVCMC, Justice (retd) NK Sud and his wife Arunima Sud. The secretary, DAVCMC, Arvind Ghai, his wife Rashmi Ghai, the secretary, DAVCMC, Ajay Goswami, member local committee Irwin Khanna, Surendra Seth, Ashok Pruthi, Kundan Lal Aggarwal, Dr Sushma Chawla, SP Sehdev, Dr Pawan Gupta, Principal Anup Vats, Principal Kiran, the Principal, Dr Ekta Khosla, Dr Rajeev Deol, MLA Sushil Rinku and councillor Harjinder Singh Ladda were also present on the occasion.From the HMV Alumnae Association Sarvinder Kaur, Ramanpreet Kaur, Kiranpreet Kaur Dhami and Dr Sarla Bhardwaj, attended the function.In her address, the college Principal, Dr Ajay Sareen, thanked the Almighty for the achievement. She also apreciated the president, DAVCMC, Dr Punam Suri, a Padam Shri awardee, for his continuous support to the college. She said the HMV scored highest score nationwide in the third cycle. In the NAAC report, members wrote that the HMV was a girls’ institution dedicated to value education, she added.She expressed her gratitude towards the managing committee for their continuous support and assured that the HMV would maintain this position in future also.Dr Sareen also thanked Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Dr Ekta Khosla, NAAC core committee members, the teaching and non-teaching staff. Students presented folk song, classical dance and choreography. Dr Santosh Khanna, Head, Department Music (Instrumental), played sitar. The stage was conducted by Dr Anjana Bhatia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hmv-college-jalandhar-bags-a-grade-in-naac-score-319113
02-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||One fresh case in Hoshiarpur||One new Covid case was reported from the district on Friday, taking the tally to 30,775. The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district. The toll stood at 981. The district has 11 active cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fresh-case-in-hoshiarpur-319114
02-10-2021||---||120 dengue cases in Kapurthala district||Jalandhar, October 1After an initial lull in dengue cases in Jalandhar and Kapurthala, their numbers in the two districts are now hurtling towards an alarming level. As many as 120 dengue cases have been reported from Kapurthala, with a majority of them from Bholath in the past 15 days. The number of dengue cases has reached 43 in Jalandhar.Health teams, which visited Bholath, say adult larvae were found in the area. Opposition by some residents in letting health teams inspect their premises was also creating problems, said officials concerned.The Kapurthala district epidemiologist, Dr Nandika, said, “Dengue cases have come recently. A majority of these are from Bholath. The Friday inspection drives might have been stopped due to which many dengue cases are being reported. Of the 120 cases 65 are from Bholath.”“Health teams say many families are reluctant to let them inspect their premises. Yesterday, dengue laravae were found in two coolers at a house. The water tank of the house was also dirty. The house owners picked up a fight with the team during inspection. Dengue larvae are being destroyed,” she added.Meanwhile, in Jalandhar the count of dengue cases has reached 43. Twelve dengue cases were reported in the last five days in Jalandhar. The Jalandhar district epidemiologist, Dr Aditya Paul said, “Of the samples, which tested positive for dengue recently, three are from the Civil Hospital and rest from private hospitals. Eight city residents have contracted the disease and the remaining patients are from Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and other areas.” 27-yr-old succumbs to scrub typhusJalandhar and Kapurthala have reported one case each of scrub typhus. Till now, four scrub typhus cases have been reported in Jalandhar. These cases are from Gautam Nagar, Bilga, Jamsher Khas and Kartarpur. A 27-year-old Jamsher Khas resident died due to scrub typhus. The patient was initially admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, from where she was brought back. The patient died in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/120-dengue-cases-in-kapurthala-district-319115
02-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Baby on way, announces  hockey skipper Manpreet Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 1Posting a picture of his Malaysian wife Illi Najwa Saddique standing along with him and showing her baby bump, Indian hockey Olympian Manpreet Singh on Friday announced that the couple was expecting their baby next month.Manpreet took on Instagram this evening to make this announcement. He wrote: “If you don’t know, now ya know! A grand adventure is about to begin in November.” The couple got the photoshoot done doing twinning by wearing the same T-shirt. The background had ‘Baby’ written behind with silver and white balloons hanging on the wall.Even mother-to-be Illi commented on the post writing: “I have been MIA (Missing in Action) around here lately coz we are pregnant! Our little pumpkin will be arriving to our patch in November #babyontheway”.The couple will be celebrating their first marriage anniversary on December 17 this year. Their wedding took lace in a Jalandhar gurdwara after eight years of courtship period. Illi had first met Manpreet in 2012 as a spectator when he had gone to Malaysia to play hockey matches. Post their wedding, Manpreet’s family have given Illi, who has Pakistani roots, a Punjabi name – Navpreet Kaur.Manpreet, who hails from now popular village, Mithapur, has been in Jalandhar spending time with his family, friends and meeting people around him since he as skipper of the Indian hockey team brought glory to the country by winning a bronze at Tokyo Olympics held in August this year. His wife was not here at the time he returned home to a hero’s welcome. She had in fact talked to the media through a video call from Malaysia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/baby-on-way-announces-hockey-skipper-manpreet-singh-319116
02-10-2021||Jalandhar||Doctors’ assn extend support to protesting farmers||The Medical Practitioners’ Association, Punjab, on Friday held a meeting in which 295 delegates were present.The meeting started with Jhande Di Rasam after which tributes were paid to the martyrs of the Kisan Andolan. District president Dalbir Singh Dhanju talked about the activities done by the delegates in the past and also presented a report on the organisation’s activities.Addressing the meet, Dr Jaswinder Bhogal said the organisation had been raising the issues of medical practitioners since 1996 and cases had been lodged against 10,000 medical practitioners in 1998 and those charged with cases were freed by pressure from the organisation.State president Dhanna Mal Goel said the organisation had always supported the farmers’ agitation on various Delhi borders. The members of the association played a key role during the peak of the Covid-19 period when even big hospitals had closed their doors.State secretary Kulwant Singh Pandori said the government was adopting anti-people’s policies owing to the agenda of the World Bank which were destroying the public sector. He said the education and health sectors were being handed over to private hands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-assn-extend-support-to-protesting-farmers-319117
02-10-2021||---||A first: National-level shuttler appointed as Jalandhar District Badminton Association secretary||Jalandhar, October 1For the first time in the past 50 years, a national-level shuttler has been appointed as the secretary of the District Badminton Association here.Ritin Khanna, who was the interim member of the DBA, has now been appointed as its secretary. Till now, it was only the industrialists who mostly occupied this post. The appointment has been made by Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori after all the members of the Interim Committee suggested Khanna’s name. ADC Himanshu Jain has been appointed as the Chairman of the association.Khanna is credited with having transformed the Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium in the last two years and having taken the game to great heights. For the first time, a training camp by the Malaysian coach was held in Jalandhar. The purpose of organising the camp was to train the players of Jalandhar to prepare them for the international badminton competitions.Besides, Olympian Dipankar Bhattacharjee Badminton Academy was started in Jalandhar. Khanna also ensured the opening of Hansraj Stadium during the Covid pandemic, following all the guidelines and standard operating procedures. Along with this, Ritin Khanna, through his efforts, brought funds of about Rs 30 lakh to the DBA in two years, which made it possible to create infrastructure at Hansraj Badminton Stadium, which includes setting up of a sports canteen, synthetic courts, yoga and aerobics centre. While expressing happiness on the appointment of Ritin Khanna, international player Sachin Ratti congratulated Ritin Khanna. While Ritin Khanna has displayed himself as a fine player in the badminton court, the work done by him at Hansraj Badminton Stadium reflects that Ritin Khanna is also a good administrator.National player Madhav Kanojia and former world champion (veteran) Ram Lakhan too congratulated him. Khanna was the district champion in Jalandhar for 10 years. He remained state champion for four years. He represented Punjab in the nationals for six years. He participated for six years in inter-school events and even attended a national camp organised by the Badminton Association of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-first-national-level-shuttler-appointed-as-jalandhar-district-badminton-association-secretary-319118
02-10-2021||---||Pargat Singh gets hero’s welcome in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 1Visiting his hometown five days after getting the ministerial berth in the Punjab Cabinet and having remained busy while resolving political issues, Pargat Singh got a hero’s welcome in the city today.The Punjab Education, Sports and NRIs Affairs Minister, Pargat Singh, was given the guard of honour at the Circuit House where Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and SSP (Rural) Naveen Singla received him.As the minister’s wife was was accompanying him, officials and supporters offered them bouquets. The minister’s supporters showered flower petals on him and performed bhangra on the beats of ‘dhol’. They offered him ‘laddoos’ and even cut a cake for his welcome.Addressing those present on the occasion, the minister said two crucial sectors, education and sports, would be further revitalised as per the present needs so that youngsters could excel in both fields at the national and international level.“Education and sports are interconnected fields through which youngsters talent could be tapped to channelise their energy in the right direction,” said the minister.“Requisite reforms will also be undertaken in these sectors so that ultra-modern facilities could be provided to youngsters,” the minister added. A special movement would be launched in villages in the coming days to connect rural folk with sports activities, said the minister. This would act as catalyst against the drug menace, thereby initiating the creation of a healthy society, the minister added.Recalling Punjabi diaspora’s role in state’s development, the minister called upon them to join hands with the state government in this proposed campaign to take Punjab’s development to a new scale.Special committees would be formed to get inputs from professional and technical experts to streamline functioning of both the departments, the minister added.Later, the minister went to Gurdwara Singh Sabha and Geeta Mandir in Model Town where ardas was performed for his welfare. Businessmen Ramesh Mittal and Nitin Kohli also welcomed him.Minutes after Pargat’s welcome, the Forests, Wildlife and Labour Minister, Sangat Singh Gilzian, also visited Jalandhar. Representing Lubana community, he first visited the dera of Baba Kashmira at the SGL Hospital complex on Garha Road.“I take him as my guru and have reverence for this dera,” said Gilzian. He too then received the guard of honour at the Circuit House. Earlier, Gilzian visited Dera Baba Prem Singh Murarewale at Begowal in Kapurthala. This dera, too, has a huge following of the Lubana community.House divided: Most MLAs stay awayReflecting clear division among the local MLAs, just two legislators Bawa Henry and Rajinder Beri, came to welcome Pargat Singh and offered him bouquets on his arrival at the city. By the time Gilzian came, Henry had already left. All other Congress MLAs, including Sushil Rinku, Chaudhary Surinder Singh and Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, stayed away from welcome functions of ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-gets-heros-welcome-in-jalandhar-319121
02-10-2021||Jalandhar||Don’t delay  procurement, will lead to  losses: Farmers||Members of the Doaba Kisan Welfare Committee held a press conference in Jalandhar wherein they demanded the immediate commencement of paddy procurement in the district. They demanded that notwithstanding the 10 day delay in the procurement announced by the state government, the procurement should be started as early as possible as the crop was ready. They said most farmers is Doaba sow potatoes after the paddy harvest. The delay will postpone the sowing of potatoes. They said it will cause large scale losses to farmers.They said the Central Government had announced the decision regarding procurement of paddy with 17 per cent moisture. They questioned why could paddy with 17 per cent or lesser moisture not be bought? They said humidity played a huge role in the standing crops and today also it rained in Doaba. They said the delay will cause farmers to face further losses.They said the the harvesting of PR 126 was already on and arhtiyas had bought and stocked it with them because procurement wuld have begun from October 1. However, since it with arhtiyas it is not being sold.They said sugarcane prices had been declared at Rs 3,600 per quintal by the government but no notification regarding the same had yet been received. They demanded the immediate release of the notification. They said if all the demands were not met, and paddy procurement not started at the earliest then they will gherao the BJP office in Jalandhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-delay-procurement-will-lead-to-losses-farmers-319122
02-10-2021||---||Jalandhar DC Thori inspects ballot units||Jalandhar, October 1Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday inspected the first-level checking of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and the voter verifiable paper audit trial (VVPAT) at the State Patwar School, Kapurthala Road, in the presence of representatives of political parties.The DC examined the work of the first-level checking of the machines to be used during the Assembly elections next year. He held a detailed interaction with engineers of Bharat Electric Limited (BEL), who have been assigned the duty of preparing these machines.Thori said that primary motive of this inspection is to ensure that polling is conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner. He said all these machines would be used by the administration during the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-thori-inspects-ballot-units-319123
02-10-2021||Garhshankar||Body of Nawanshahr youth found||Rotary society elects new chiefHoshiarpur: Sanjeev Arora was unanimously elected president of the Rotary Eye Bank and Corneal Transplantation Society during a meeting held here on Wednesday. The outgoing president, JB Behl, chaired the meeting. Kuldeep Rai Gupta proposed the name of Sanjeev Arora, supporting which Anurag Sood called upon all the members for a consensus on his name. Arora, after consulting the house, appointed DK Sharma as secretary and Kuldeep Rai Gupta as finance secretary. On the occasion, JB Behl spoke on the achievements and upcoming activities of the society. He said cornea transplants of 3,450 people had been done by the society under eye donation campaigns. Arun Jain and Kuldeep Rai Gupta expressed hope that the experience of Sanjeev Arora would benefit the society. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/body-of-nawanshahr-youth-found-319124
02-10-2021||Jalandhar||Doaba ministers not on same page over decisions||Two recently-appointed ministers from Doaba — Pargat Singh and Sangat Singh Gilzian — perhaps differ on various issues the party is facing at the moment. While Pargat today said the government had committed some mistakes and it was now on course correction, Gilzian said there had been no mistake and that there were just differences of opinion.They also had a seemingly different stance on Navjot Sidhu’s demand for removing ‘tainted’ ministers from the Cabinet — Rana Gurjeet Singh and Gurkirat Kotli. While Gilzian asserted no minister in the Cabinet should be removed at this stage, Pargat chose to remain mum, but added retaining or removing ministers was a decision to be taken at a higher level.The ministers today visited Jalandhar for the first time after assuming office. Casting aspersions on the newly formed government and perhaps also CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Pargat said: “Sometimes, a new government tends to make mistakes. We will definitely come together and make those corrections. All issues the party is currently facing and those expected in the coming days will be resolved through the coordination committee.”Gilzian, asked whether he agreed with Pargat that the government had made mistakes, said: “These are not mistakes. It has been just one week since the new government took over. The new government has been taking some very good initiatives. There are often differences within the party or problems in coordinating at some levels. These will be sorted out soon. No officer is bad.”On former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s announcement that he would quit the Congress, Gilzian said he had enjoyed his 22 years in the party on all top posts. “He remained PCC chief for many years. Twice he remained the CM. He made mistakes while remaining in power. At his age, he is not expected to be yearning for more power. The Congress is like a huge sea. It will not get affected by his ouster. People keep joining and leaving parties,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-ministers-not-on-same-page-over-decisions-318828
