03-10-2021||---||Farmers up in arms against delay in paddy procurement||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 2The Centre’s decision to postpone paddy procurement till October 11 has not gone down well with farmers. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers gheraoed the residence of Cabinet minister Pargat Singh. Later, the agitating farmers shifted the venue to the Circuit House, after learning that Pargat was holding a meeting there. A protest was also held outside the residence of MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary.Balbir Singh Rajewal of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) said earlier, we had planned to hold the dharna outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office, however, due to the government holiday today, we shifted the venue. “It is disturbing to see farmers struggling due to unstable policies of the Central Government. While farmers are already agitating against the three contentious agri laws, how can the Centre and the state government afford another unrest,” said Rajewal.The agitating farmers rued that the Central Government was only amplifying the agrarian crisis, by delaying the paddy procurement. The paddy crop has matured in several areas and delay would only damage the standing crop, said the protesters.Unaware of the postponement of paddy procurement, a large number of farmers had started thronging at the grain markets since morning. They later refused to take their crop back.Protesters said the state government has not made any arrangements for them in the mandis. “I have brought the crop in the mandi and if procurement does not starts, I will have to sit at the grain market for 10 days,” said Gurwant Singh, a farmer.Four zones of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also burnt the effigies of the state government at different places.Salwinder Singh Janian, district chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said an effigy was burnt at Shahkot Dana Mandi due to the delay in procurement of paddy.“Farmers have been protesting for the last 10 months due to poor policies of the Central Government. The state government is also trying to add salt to the wounds of farmers by delaying the procurement of paddy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-up-in-arms-against-delay-in-paddy-procurement-319547
03-10-2021||---||Pargat Singh faces farmers’ wrath||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 2Pargat Singh encountered a gherao on the first day of his official programme, which got delayed by over three hours. The Education Department officials, including Secretary Krishan Kumar, DPI (Secondary) Sukhjitpal Singh, DPI (Elementary) Harinder Kaur, the DEOs and the Deputy DEOs, who had gathered at the DAC at 12 noon had to wait past 3 pm till farmers lifted their dharna from the Circuit House.Education Minister Pargat Singh gave appointment and appreciation letters to schoolteachers during a function held at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) on Saturday.Activists of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee and the Kirti Kisan Union gathered outside his place this morning as per an already announced programme to gherao ministers against the 10-day delay in paddy procurement. Finding that Pargat was not at his place, farmers tried to reach out to him.The administration pitched in and it was decided that a meeting of farmers and the minister would be arranged at the Circuit House. Santokh Singh Sandhu, member of the state committee of the Kirti Kisan Union, held talks with the minister, which ended around 2:45 pm. The farmers also raised the issue that the farmers who reached the mandis on October 1 and 2 were forced to sell their paddy for Rs 1,100 per quintal to private rice millers against the MSP of Rs 1,940 per quintal.Meanwhile, reaching the venue late, Pargat addressed the DEOs, Deputy DEOs, District Smart School Mentors and Assistant Co-ordinators. He honoured Smart School teams of different districts with appreciation letters on pattern with state awards for their contribution towards infrastructural as well as qualitative reforms in schools. The minister also handed over as many as 27 appointment letters on compassionate grounds. The Education Minister lauded the efforts of teachers for bringing in educational reforms in Punjab, ultimately achieving the prestigious top rank in Performance Grading Index. Pargat stressed the need of strengthening sports infrastructural facilities, converting remaining schools into smart schools, computerisation and grievances redressal system to ensure conducive environment for education. Earlier, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, apprised him about various initiatives undertaken by the department.HighlightsPargat also went to Gymkhana Club where Hockey Punjab had invited the Olympians to honour themHe also inaugurated the government college at Shahkot, which has come up at Rs11 crore. The college would offer three professional courses, including BCA, BCom, & BASingh continued to attack former-CM Capt Amarinder Singh saying that the delay in paddy procurement by 10 days came just after he met Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. He said Punjab CM Charanjit Channi met PM Narendra Modi and got the orders withdrawn for Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-faces-farmers-wrath-319548
03-10-2021||---||Rana Gurjeet’s ‘show of strength’ cancelled at eleventh hour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 2The programmes to welcome Technical Education Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, who was to reach Kapurthala on Saturday, a week after being re-inducted into the Punjab Cabinet, got cancelled at the eleventh hour, reportedly due to the farmers’ protests over delay in paddy procurement.As many as six grand reception points were fixed for his cavalcade in the district. The minister was informed about the protests of farmers after which it was decided that the show of strength be cancelled as it could cause some embarrassment.As per plan, the first reception had been planned at Phagwara, where ex-minister Joginder Mann and district coordinator of Kapurthala Daljeet Raju were to accord him welcome. Since workers gathered as per the plan, Mann had to ensure refreshment for all the invitees for over two hours.The next halt was at Addi Khui at the starting point of Kapurthala from Jalandhar side. The third stoppage was at Gurdwara Shaheedan in Khojewal where the minister was to pay obeisance. The next two stoppages were at Dhawankha village and Mall Road in the city. The last point was the Rest House where he was to be given the guard of honour.Since farmers withdrew their protest following the decision to start paddy procurement from tomorrow onwards, Rana’s supporters have now arranged for his welcome tomorrow. But as per the new plans, there would be no show of strength and he would be just given the guard of honour at the Kapurthala Rest House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rana-gurjeets-show-of-strength-cancelled-at-eleventh-hour-319549
03-10-2021||---||Implement RTI Act properly, officials told||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 2State RTI Commissioner Khushwant Singh has directed the officers of various departments to ensure proper implementation of the Right to Information Act at their respective offices in the district, so that applicants do not face any kind of hardship in getting the required information. Chairing a district-level meeting with the heads of departments, the Commissioner said suo moto declaration of information was the need of the hour, thus every department should declare certain information on their websites, including the names and address of Public Information Officers and their appellant authorities. He also reviewed the working of various departments to resolve the applications and appeals filed under the RTI Act, to further smooth the functioning of the departments with respect to the disposal of RTI applications. The Commissioner further stressed that all applications under the Act should be replied within the prescribed time limit of 30 days and if there was any delay in providing the information on genuine reasons, that should be duly conveyed to the applicant. He said keeping in view the present times, most of the information should be made available on departmental websites, which would ultimately reduce the burden on departments as applicants would seek relevant information from the website itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/implement-rti-act-properly-officials-told-319550
03-10-2021||---||Apprenticeship fair at RCF tomorrow||Kapurthala: The state government, in collaboration with the Government of India, will hold an apprenticeship fair at Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, on October 4, to facilitate youth who have industrial training skills by offering nearly 300 vacancies of apprentices. Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh said the orders had been issued to organise these kinds of fairs at all Government ITIs across the state so that they would be able to avail the maximum benefits. Students would be able to register themselves on the spot apart from visiting the www.apprenticeshipindia.org portal. They can also deposit their applications with required documents at government ITIs concerned. TNSTwo held with 125-kg ‘bhuki’Jalandhar: Maqsudan police (rural) recovered 125 kg of ‘bhuki’ (poppy powder) from two HP-based peddlers. The accused have been identified, Desh Sevak and Alamdin. Sukhpal Singh, DSP, Kartarpur subdivision, SI Manjit Singh, SHO, Maqsood police station, launched a special operation against the miscreants. Sukhpal Singh said the SHO had received information that the accused were scheduled to deliver a consignment in the city, following which, a check-post was set up near adda Nurpur. Bittudin (29) and Alamdin (32), both of Kangra (HP), were bringing poppy seeds in a large quantity from Jammu and Kashmir. The contraband was hidden under apple cartons in a truck. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apprenticeship-fair-at-rcf-tomorrow-319552
03-10-2021||---||Sewage spillage irks residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 2Despite lodging several complaints with the authorities concerned, problem of choked sewers and factory effluents, persist in Kalia Colony. Amid dengue scare, people fear of falling prey to vector-borne diseases. The toxic waste has made lives of area residents miserable. Doctors practising in the area say toxins mixed with factory effluents might cause diseases, including  cancer, dengue, malaria and kala-azar. Accumulation of water on the roads has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Harjit Singh Bath, chief, Kalia Colony Welfare Society said, “The colony has 450 houses. The foul smell emanating from factory effluents troubles every resident.” Janesh Jusroy, another resident said, “For the last two years, no solution has been provided by civic body. Owing to factories in the vicinity, waste gets mixed with sewer. We have been demanding separate drain for factory and residential waste, but to no avail.”He said, “Earlier, waste of nearby factories used to be drained out into Kali Bein, but after restrictions, instead of installing treatment plants, factory owners have illegally connected their disposing units to the main sewer line at the Focal Point. The main point is also connected to the colony’s sewer line.”Irked residents said the Municipal Corporation had installed some drainage pumps earlier, but the arrangement did not prove beneficial, due to electricity and fuel shortage. We want a permanent solution to the long-standing problem, said residents who appealed to the district administration to push factory owners to install their own treatment plants at their units.Sushil Sharma, area councillor said, “The problem needs a permanent solution. Seperate sewage treatment plants (STPs) need to be installed for residential areas and factories. We are expecting that the problem will be solved after the MC completes construction of the STP.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sewage-spillage-irks-residents-319553
03-10-2021||Jalandhar||A day well-spent with senior citizens||Edu Youth Foundation (Regd.) observed the International Day for Older Persons on Friday at the Apahaj Ashram. All members and volunteers distributed food packets and other items among the elderly.The contribution received from NGOs and other people included mustard oil, sugar, pulses, garam masala, haldi, flour, onions and other miscellaneous items.Members of the EduYouth Foundation have been working tirelessly towards the welfare of the society and are involved in the free distribution of study material to the needy. Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, Sunny Lally, Parampreet Gill, Dinkar Dogra, Gurkirat Toor, Harsimran Tiwana, Gurkirat Sandhu, Ujwaldeep Singh, Rajnish Babbar, Vishal Virdi, Gurpreet Singh, Harpartap Singh, Karan Kassowal and others were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-day-well-spent-with-senior-citizens-319554
03-10-2021||---||Tributes paid to the Father of Nation||Jalandhar: Gandhi Jayanti was celebrated with fervour in all the branches of Innocent Hearts School, Innocent Hearts College of Education and Innocent Hearts Management College. Students of school as well as colleges participated in the event virtually. Tiny tots dressed as Gandhi took their selfies and got tagged on the school’s Facebook page. Students of K G l and KG ll dressed on the theme “Mai Bhi Gandhi” and delivered a message of Gandhi ‘ s teachings and moral values. Students of Classes lll and lV participated in online storytelling on Gandhiji’s life. To inculcate values of Gandhi like truth, nonviolence, simplicity and tolerance in future educators, NSS unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education organised various activities on this occasion. All the student teachers attended a lecture on ‘Open thy arms to change, but don’t let go of your values’. Resource person language trainer (alumnus) Tanvi spoke about Gandhiji’s life, his determination, patience and difficulties he faced in his life. Various activities like quiz, patriotic songs and storytelling were also organised.GNDU Regional Campus, LadhewaliStudents and the staff of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Guru Nanak Dev University, Regional Campus at Ladhewali, celebrated Gandhi Jayanti while paying tributes to the Father of the Nation on Saturday. An extempore competition was held in the department in which the topics included truth, non-violence, Swachh Bharat, untouchability, Swadeshi movement, communal harmony, all concepts dear to Mahatma Gandhi. Kavita from MA Journalism and Mass Communication (Sem III) won the competition. A cake was also cut on the occasion. Dr Namarta Joshi, Head of the Department, spoke about the life and principles of Gandhi and exhorted the students to follow his path. She said that Gandhi’s influence extended all over the globe and India was known by his name.Inter-House sports eventsSanskriti KMV School organised a two-day Inter- House sports competitions comprising basketball, volleyball, football, speedball and gallery. Event was declared open by Rachna Monga, Principal, with an encouraging address to 250 participants. Competition among the four houses was thrilling and each house team competed to be the best. The winning teams were - In volleyball (boys)- Amber House, speedball (boys) Pawan House, speedball (girls) Avni House, basketball (boys) Pawak House, football (boys) Pawak House, gallery (girls) Avni House. Winner teams and the captains were congratulated and awarded with the certificate by the Principal. She appreciated the efforts of the Sports Department.Healthy food habits discussedLyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar’s Grievance Redressal Cell, NSS unit and department of botany and zoology conducted a panel discussion on the topic “Boosting Immunity-Healthy Food and Food Habits’’ under the nutrition month series. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra was the chief guest at the event. Dr Gagandeep Kaur, Programme Coordinator, welcomed the principal and panel discussion experts. Principal Dr Samra elaborated on the importance and purpose of celebrating nutrition month. He said that today’s children are not conscious about their diet. This adds to the importance of observing nutrition. He hoped that the students would get maximum benefit from this programme and encouraged the students to adopt good diet and exercise in order to maintain their health. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-the-father-of-nation-319555
03-10-2021||Jalandhar||DLSA holds awareness rally on legal rights||As per the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Saturday held a pan-India awareness and outreach programme, Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. There is a plan to cover every village from October 2 to November 14.At the launch of the programme on Saturday by the DLSA, Rupinderjit Chahal, District and Sessions Judge, informed that a huge rally was launched from the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) centre to Guru Nanak Mission Chowk. The rally was attended by judicial officers, lawyers, law students of St. Soldier Institute of Law, students of SD Phullarwal Senior Secondary School and NGOs of Jalandhar.She informed that awareness camps/ seminars would be organised from now onwards in 11 blocks comprising 890 villages of Jalandhar district. In these programmes, panel lawyers of the DLSA as well as students of law would make villagers aware of the lok adalat, permanent lok adalat, child rights, women rights, victim compensation schemes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dlsa-holds-awareness-rally-on-legal-rights-319556
03-10-2021||---||Sugarcane growers lift dharna||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 2Acceding to appeal of the district administration, protesting sugarcane growers decided to lift dharna on Jalandhar-Pathankot National Highway in Mukerian Thursday evening.  On directions of the administration, the management of the Mukerian Sugar Mill transferred Rs2.5 crore into accounts of surgarcane farmers yesterday evening and another amount of Rs 2.5 crore.Farmers decided to stop their protest after ADC (G) Vishesh Sarangal held four rounds of deliberations with them, which lasted for 10 hours.  After farmers stopped their protest traffic was streamlined on one of the busiest highways in the state.During four-round of parleys with farmers, Sarangal also formed a local-level committee under the SDM concerned, general manager of the mill and a few representatives of farmers’ union, which would convene monthly meetings to avoid such protests in future.Sarangal said, “A meeting was held with farmers’ representatives, sugar mill management and officers. It has been decided at the meeting that the mill management will clear all dues of farmers within next 10 days. Farmers should bring such issues into the notice of the district administration,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sugarcane-growers-lift-dharna-319557
03-10-2021||---||Kapurthala Diary: Rana Gurjeet Singh ’s Rs 2-cr swanky suv talk of the town||He was the richest candidate of Punjab in the 2017 polls, with his assets at Rs 169.88 crore. So, when Rana Gurjeet Singh newly, appointed in the present Cabinet, set out for the oath taking ceremony in his posh and swanky Mercedez Benz last Sunday, it became the talk of the town. Normally, seen in Kapurthala in other vehicles, the video of the minister setting out in his new Mercedes Benz G Class Wagon said to be over Rs 2 crore in price, went viral on the social media. Rana had often been seen during the pandemic in his crisp spotless white kurta pyjama accompanied with an equally crisp turban, often pink with his signature upturned moustache. With six Doaba MLAs also opening front against him, amidst demand for Dalit cabinet faces from Doaba and sand Rana’s previous sand mining charges, his affluence was under the spotlight again. Rana has been known to register marked presence — be it a Covid ward discharging the last student of a private university or the launch of a new government project at Kapurthala. He is known to not miss weddings and bhogs either.CM Channi’s bhangra video goes viralThe District Public Relations Office of Kapurthala was in for a surprise after CM Charanjit Singh Channi’’s video went viral on the official handle of the department on the internet. The recent video of state CM Charanjit Singh Channi breaking out in Bhangra at the IK Gurjral Punjab Technical University shared on the handle of the District Public Relations Office, Kapurthala, handle on Facebook has emerged as the most viewed video of the handle so far. It has so far received 734k views and 1.8k likes on the FB verified page. Previously, a viral video from the same handle, which had garnered many views before, was the video of Kapurthala SSP announcing the suspension of an SHO. That video had received 187k views and 1.4k likes.Former ISRO director visits Kali BeinFormer Director of ISRO Dr NK Gupta paid obeisance at Kali Bein here today. He said Baba Nanak’’s Bein is a significant place for pilgrimage from where the message of welfare of all was given to the world. On this occasion, Dr Gupta met with Environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and talked to him about the achievements and the challenges faced during the 21 years of kar sewa of Baba Nanak’’s Bein. Being an active member and a researcher, Dr Gupta visited the Bein with Sant Seechewal on boat. Seechewal apprised him about the unique improvements in the quality of the water of the Bein and about the increase in the level of ground water in the adjoining area due to its continued flow. He also visited Gurdwara Ber Sahib and Gurdwara Sant Ghat. Dr Gupta said he had been performing services for ISRO since a longtime. He told that he has also worked with former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam for a long time. He saw the thousands of trees planted alongside the banks of the Bein and said Baba Nanak’’s Bein has been a source of inspiration in the field of environment for the coming generations and its results will be seen in neutralising the effects of Global warming. On the occasion, he was shown Guru Nanak Art gallery and the memorable pictures of Dr Kalam of planting the peepal tree on August 16, 2006. Seechewal honored the guests with saropas. Nitin Yadav and Jitesh Kumar from Rail Coach Factory and the employees of Punjab Government were also present on the occasion.(Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-diary-rana-gurjeet-singh-s-rs-2-cr-swanky-suv-talk-of-the-town-319558
03-10-2021||---||LPU student wins innovation award||Phagwara, October 2 The All India Council for Robotics and Automation (AICRA) has honoured third year Biomedical Engineering student Kunwar Sahi of Lovely Professional University (LPU) for the ‘Best Innovation in Artificial Intelligence Hardware’ in his Startup- ‘NeuroX Technologies’. This occasion was NITI Aayog (Government of India) supported second edition of ‘Global Artificial Intelligence Summit and Awards (GAISA)-2021’ organised by AICRA. Sahi was nominated in three categories — Best Use of AI in Healthcare, Best use of Predictive/Prescriptive Analytics and Best Innovation in AI Hardware.A few years back, President Ram Nath Kovind had warned of a potential “mental health epidemic” in the country, with 10 per cent of its 1.3 billion-strong population having suffered from one or more mental health problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-wins-innovation-award-319559
