04-10-2021||After change at the helm of affairs in the state||OPEN HOUSE:  Do you think transfers/postings of officers after change at the helm of affairs are justified?||SAMDon’t take govt officials for a rideThe Assembly elections are to be held in February 2022 in Punjab. New CM was appointed in the state hardly four months before the elections. The transfers and postings of IAS/IPS/PCS officers is the prerogative of the Chief Minister as he can change any officer at any time as desired by him for the smooth functioning of the administration. But transfers and postings within a short span sometimes raises questions behind such move. Every officer is fit for his working and no doubt he is always sincere towards his commitments to carry out public interest works in the interests of the masses. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi should have refrained from carrying out transfers and postings. But in politics everything is fair because ever administrator wants to accommodate those officers to whom he trusts the most and can work to his vision and ideology to perform better than expectations performance for the masses.Rajat Kumar MohindruA bane of democratic polity, must be checkedGovernment officials change with the change in government. It happens in all states, even in all countries. Though it might affect the functioning of the government, the politicians are least bothered about that. Every new minister wants his own loyal police officers and civil service officers to be posted in his department and in his district. Even the DGP is appointed as per his loyalty rather than seniority. The more senior officers either resign or go on leave. This is the bane of democratic polity. Changes like these definitely affect the functionality of the different departments and also development. The incoming ministers and politicians should not make unnecessary changes in their respective fields. Unfortunately, even the lower rung politicians also want changes in their areas as per their whims. This affects the governance and also discomfort to the public at large. Tainted DGP, AG and even some ministers have been inducted into the government even when the people have protested against their appointments.Dr JS WadhwaTenure of officials should be fixedIAS/IPS officers are public servants and meant to serve the people. But political class has become so powerful and bureaucrats are pawns in their hands. It adversely affects their functioning since they wait and watch the new bosses. It is the public which suffers. These officers are also responsible for poor governance owing to their personal interest. Never had a bureaucrat sought court intervention when removed abruptly. All are interested in their own benefit and welfare forgetting command man’s problems. I would like to give one example of driving license office. The functioning of the office was horrible. In the absence of any proper sitting arrangement senior citizens have to stand in queue for hours, no sitting place, no separate entry ladies and senior citizens. Staff arrogant, only one counter for a large number of people.lt seems no responsible ever visited the place. Police reforms at the SC directions should be implemented. Tenure of the official should be fixed and no premature posting without convincing reasons.GS Bhullargive autonomy to public servantsThe working of bureaucrats and the police is expected to be performed without any undue political pressure or allurement of post-retirement benefits. But reality is contrary to what is commonly presumed, almost every time with a shift in political power axis, blue-eyed boys are picked up for coveted posts, so that they can set their tuning with political masters, as and when wished by the latter. Minimum tenure of bureaucrats and police officers up to certain level posts should be fixed irrespective of political shifts, which is also suggested by various committees working on administrative reforms in police for smoother functioning.Nishant SumanPolitical involvement should be reducedPolitical scenario in the present time is suggestive of the fact that the administrative and bureaucratic machinery is more or less reduced to a mere pawn in the hands of legislators charged with leading the country from the front. The change of guard at the state level certainly impinges upon the authority of the officialdom as an institution and simultaneously causes serious jerk and aspersion with respect to the demeanour of honest, truthful and outspoken cream of functionaries assisting the tandem network of democratic establishments. Frequent, chronic abrupt and unexpected transfers/postings of the officers undisputedly charge their fate with malevolence and rancor thereby perilously affecting and influencing the time honoured credibility in vogue since the colonial period. The said practice must be deprecated and knocked down to the extent possible so that we are in a position to isolate, segregate and divorce any kind of extraneous control over the authority of officials to initiate prompt, swift and expeditious decisions in the interest of the country as a whole. The integrity, rectitude and probity of the officials can only be maintained and preserved when they are in a position to explore and exploit their justifiable, reasonable and plausible actions taken in the interest of public.Sameer BhatiaIntention shouldnot be corruptTransfers and postings of high-ranking police and civil administration officials in the backdrop of a change in political leadership of a state are a routine affair. A public servant may be employed and transferred to another department or district by a competent authority. The rationality and legitimacy of this action depends upon the intent of the current political leadership in Punjab. The exercise of this power is justified if it is primarily motivated by the desire to improve the day-to-day functioning of the government and promote public welfare. Otherwise, it is illegal if it is based on personal discretion and malafides or compromises rules of administrative fairness and neutrality or adversely impacts the official status of the concerned bureaucrat. There is no doubt that accountability for under-performance lies basically with the ruling political elite. There may be reasons galore behind the recent bureaucratic rejig in Punjab, such as scapegoating or punishment for failure to deliver, assertion of political hierarchy over officialdom, exclusive political vendetta and showing favour to selected loyalists. Since, time at its disposal is very short, the new dispensation should realise that exertion of undue political pressure on non-complaint bureaucrats of proven integrity and competence undermines their career incentive and administrative efficiency, disturbs the education of their children and impedes meaningful social transformation. Rather, it should develop cordial relations with bureaucrats to improve governance in the interest of the state and its people.DS KangNo harm in shifting corrupt officialsThe sudden change of guard just three months before the Assembly elections is the most defining moment that will have a lasting impact not only on the ruling faction-ridden Congress party but also on the topsy-turvy political landscape in Punjab. At a time when the state is confronted with a plethora of challenges like sacrilege, social and religious harmony, law and order, farmers’ protests, Covid-19 and dengue epidemics, women empowerment and other such issues, the current Channi-led ruling elite has been entrusted with the onerous task of fulfilling the remaining electoral promises to win public trust and confidence. Keeping in view the Punjab government’s transfer and posting policy guidelines, the recent bureaucratic reshuffle purportedly made in public interest and on administrative exigency is fully justified. There is no harm in transferring corrupt and non-performing bureaucrats to other departments and districts in the state on various administrative reasons. Normally, highly skilled, conscientious and efficient officers are immune to political change at the helm because the apex court has disproved their removal on politicians’ whims and fancies. Frequent politician-induced transfers and postings of these elite officials breed disaffection among them, adversely affect their job satisfaction and educational avenues of their children, and hamper holistic social changes. The Congress is in the throes of a deep political crisis. Right chemistry between the ruling politicians and bureaucrats is imperative to steer the state on the path of holistic development.Tajpreet S KangAbrupt transfers cannot be justifiedThe transfers of IAS/ IPS officers followed by change of government cannot be held justified in any democratic setup of a polity. The administration is a continuous process whereas political leadership is transient and is subject to certain conditions as envisaged in the Constitution. The political leadership is responsible for framing the overall agenda for governance as per aspirations of the people whereas the bureaucrats are responsible for implementation thereof in accordance with law and rules. The political leaders generally tend to intimidate and influence the bureaucrats to carry out their own personal or political agenda for which bureaucrats are picked for crucial postings to meet their end. It is generally observed that the tool of transfer and posting is used by the politicians to carry out their nefarious designs against bureaucrats who perform their duties honestly and strictly as per law and equity.Jagdish ChanderFoolproof mechanism need of the hourThe role of officials appointed to run the administration is supposed to be free, fair and impartial for the larger good of the people. However, during the conduct of various functions, some of the public servants get influenced and are tempted to a particular kind of political alignment. Under such a scenario, many of them get transferred to suit the vested political interests. Even the honest and disciplined officers at the helm of affairs from IAS/IPS cadre are no exception, which not only affects their morale, acumen to perform but also their mindset. It is worrisome that in the recent periods these strong pillars have shown signs of crumbling under pressure and vicious interests. A foolproof mechanism need to be devised and strictly enforced to maintain dignity and decorum whereby public servants do not get unduly influenced and remain devoted to duty. To protect the lofty democratic values, all these segments of power ought to serve independently, yet they should effectively and efficiently complement each other without any favour or prejudice towards the good of the people and the nation, as a whole!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathOfficials can’t take independent decisionsSoon after swearing in as the Chief Minister, Charanjit Channi issued transfer orders of nine IAS and two PCS officers in the state. Normally, it will not be in the interest of the state. They want their own team of loyalist and for effective management. New team is brought in for new challenges and responsibility. There is no guarantee that the new team will be more efficient than the last team, it takes time to adjust and understand the new scenario. The fate of top officers depends on ministers. They are just touts of ministers, can’t open their mouth and take decisions.Shashi KiranSet up administration commission of India QUESTIONPunjab has been plagued by drug menace for years. Accountability on the widespread prevalence of drug trade in the state has never been fixed. Should the drug problem be a key issue ahead of elections in the light of recent seizures in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 7)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-do-you-think-transfers-postings-of-officers-after-change-at-the-helm-of-affairs-are-justified-319720
04-10-2021||---||Olympic medal winners feted in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 3In recognition of outstanding performance of hockey players at Tokyo Olympics, the Hockey Punjab led by Sports Minister Pargat Singh on Saturday honoured Olympic medal winner players here at Gymkhana Club. During the lunch hosted by Hockey Punjab, Pargat Singh said channelising the untapped potential of players towards right direction was call of the day, which could not only increase the medal tally at national and international events but also help in creating a healthy society. The needful practice, training and sports facilities can also improve the performance of our players in Olympic and other events as they are fully competent and talented, said Pargat Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/olympic-medal-winners-feted-in-jalandhar-319718
04-10-2021||Jalandhar||Gakhal Group hockey league from October 8||The first Ghakhal Group Pro Hockey League is beginning here at the local Lyallpur Khalsa College Astroturf Hockey ground from October 8 onwards.DC Ghanshyam Thori, who is also the president of the Surjit Hockey Society and Academy, said the two-day ‘Six-a-Side League’ will be organised in three formats, including junior, sub-junior and kids to promote hockey at junior level.As many as 30 matches will be played in all three categories. The renowned city-based NRI and sports promoters Amolak Singh Gakhal, Chairman, Gakhal Group (USA) will be the main sponsor.According to Iqbal Singh Sandhu, organising secretary of the Pro Hockey League, said 18 teams, including Rakshak-XI, California Eagles (USA), Sheray Sports, Milwaukee Wolves (USA), Royal infra, Tut Brothers (USA), Alfa Hockey, Gakhal Brothers (USA), JPGA Farmers, Black Panther (USA), Pukhraj Health Care, Jonex Sports, Hans Raj & Sons (Kpt) Tracer Shoes, AGI Jalandhar heights, Continent Hotels, Tyka Sports and Flash hockey would compete against each other.Teams will be provided playing kit, meals and diet to each player/officials. The meals will also be provided to parents or guests who will come to witness the matches. The matches will be played at 7:30 am onwards till evening, Sandhu added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gakhal-group-hockey-league-from-october-8-319721
04-10-2021||---||Jalandhar district tops state in implementing govt’s social welfare schemes||Jalandhar, October 3Jalandhar has been ranked as the first district in the state with a overall 100 per cent score in 64 parameters related to effective implementation of development and social welfare programmes in the state. The district was also leading the state for the past one-year by achieving zero per cent pendency in the Sewa Kendras.In a report released by the state government, Jalandhar district achieved first rank in expenditure and works completed in Smart Village Campaign-2, Skill Development under National Livelihood Mission, Poshan Abhiyan, Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, and citizen pendency services with the Agriculture Department.Notably, Jalandhar performed well in the redressal of grievances received through the PGRS with the redressal of 1,758 complaints within a given time-frame. A total of 1,828 complaints were received through this portal of which only 70 are pending that too within timeline.Likewise, Jalandhar district has secured top position in the state by ensuring zero pendency in citizen centric services through effective monitoring of delivery of these services.The third major achievement was made in Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, where district has maintained top position by generating maximum e-cards of beneficiaries. The DC said all these three components had higher weightage in the assessment adding that top positions in these flagship programmes yielded promising results for Jalandhar.Giving credit to officials and employees of the departments, DC Ghanshyam Thori said they are real heroes who made it possible. He said directions were issued to the departments to strictly adhere to the timelines set by the government in implementing programs besides bringing pace in the completion of the developmental works and ensuring prompt services to the people.He exhorted the team of the district administration to continue to exhibit such zeal and passion towards people. District Manager Sewa Kendras Hatinder Kumar said regular monitoring by top officials has ensured zero pendency approach of district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-tops-state-in-implementing-govts-social-welfare-schemes-319716
04-10-2021||Jalandhar||Preeti, Manpreet shine in exams||Gandhi jayanti celebratedEklavya School, Jalandhar, celebrated Mahatma Gandhi's 152th birth anniversary. An online video was shown by Anamika Nirmohi to senior school students on the life of the Father of the Nation. Primary school students did colouring activity. A speech was given by Ruhani and Arshdeep of Class IX. Director of Eklavya School Seema Handa said we should always follow the path of our freedom fighters. Several activities organised to mark the day. Principal Komal Arora appreciated the efforts of the kids.Chairperson of Eklavya School JK Gupta said we should always respect our freedom fighters. Administrator Dimple Malhotra said we should always follow our nation’s rules and regulations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/preeti-manpreet-shine-in-exams-319722
04-10-2021||Jalandhar||Educare app team meets Pargat Singh in Jalandhar||Students excel in Taekwondo c’shipJalandhar: In the three-day Shaheed Bhagat Singh Kyorugi and Poomsae Taekwondo Championship, eight students from Lala Jagat Narain DAV Model School made the district proud. Students won two gold medals, three silver, and three bronze medals in the meet organised at Chandigarh University by the Punjab Taekwondo Association. Coach Vishal Kumar said all students participated in the under-17 junior category. The medal winners are Ravi Kumar (gold), Rajinder (gold), Paras (silver), Yuvraj Singh (silver), Parminder (silver), Naman (bronze), Krish (bronze) and Manjot Singh (bronze). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educare-app-team-meets-pargat-singh-in-jalandhar-319723
04-10-2021||Jalandhar||Covid-19: 2 fresh cases, no death in Jalandhar district||As many as two new Covid case were reported on Sunday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,329 cases. No Covid death was also recorded. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,798 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 37. Of the 16,75,023 samples collected in the district so far, 15,43,332 samples have tested negative. Meanwhile, no fresh Covid case nor death was reported from Kapurthala today keeping the Covid tally at 17,832. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-2-fresh-cases-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-319724
04-10-2021||---||Gang of vehicle thieves, cattle lifters busted; three arrested in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 3The Jalandhar police and CIA staff rural on Sunday busted a gang of vehicle and cattle thieves with the arrest of three persons operating in the area.Those identified as Ashak Ali, alias Akku (38), a resident of Amarkot, Devidaspura, at Jandiala; Muraad Din (31), a resident of Ward No.7 near Shani Mandir, SBS Nagar district, and Rinku Masih (32), a resident of Malkuwali village in Gurdaspur. A case under Sections 379-B, 482, 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered against the trio at the Patara police station.SSP, Jalandhar, Naveen Singla said on a tip-off, a team of Jalandhar police and CIA staff nabbed the trio from Kapoor village under Patara police station during a naka. A car (PB08-BC-2919) was also recovered from them on October 2.Revealing their modus operandi, the SSP said Ashak Ali and Muraad Din had been hiring various cars on the pretext of ferrying goods from various cities and had been taking the cars to isolated places where the cars were snatched after beating up their respective drivers.The police said they would put fake numbers on these cars and steal cattle and animals from people’s fields at night by using the same cars with fake number plates. The police said they would sell these cars at cheaper prices to a Fatehgarh Churian-based man, Rinku.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-cattle-lifters-busted-three-arrested-in-jalandhar-319725
04-10-2021||---||Cleanliness drive by roadways staff in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 3A cleanliness drive was today launched at the city bus stand and Punjab Roadways depots by the roadways officials. Workers under the banner of SC/BC Workers Union, Punjab Roadways and Contractual Workers Union cleaned the premises of the bus stand.They also congratulated Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for becoming the Transport Minister.They demanded that workers who work on outsourcing and contract basis in Punjab Roadways should be permanently inducted in the roadways. The other demands included implementation of equal pay for equal work as per the orders of the Supreme Court, the decision of Punjab and Haryana High Court on amendment on time table as per the shifts should be implemented immediately, debt-free buses with staff should be included in Punjab Roadways and new buses should be introduced in Punjab Roadways.The employees also sought implementation of the old pension scheme on new employees from the year 2004, the property of Punjab Roadways which has been renamed as Punbus should be renamed as Punjab Roadways, end to the corruption in Punjab Roadways and stop illegal buses in the state without permits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cleanliness-drive-by-roadways-staff-in-jalandhar-319715
04-10-2021||---||21 temporary mandis set up in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, October 3On his first visit to Kapurthala after taking oath as a Punjab Cabinet minister, Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday inaugurated paddy procurement. Meanwhile, the Cabinet minister said the recommendations made by the special committee of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to maintain a balance between recharging and extraction of water and an audit of all sectors — for checking the depletion of underground water level in the state — would be implemented in the true spirit.The committee, comprising six MLAs, was constituted in March 2021 under MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, to suggest ways and means to replenish groundwater level in the state. The committee has already submitted its report to the Speaker of the Punjab Assembly.Accompanied by his wife and former MLA Rajbans Kaur, the minister visited Kapurthala for the first time after taking over as the Cabinet minister at the local Rest House here.Rana Gurjeet said the committee had recommended various means and ways to save the fast depleting groundwater after getting suggestions from experts of an Israel-based company and the Department of Water Resources.The minister said special attention would be given to the completion of the projects initiated by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who earlier had the Technical Education Department. The projects included Dr BR Ambedkar Museum at PTU and the management institute in collaboration with IIM.He said Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical University, Bathinda, would make efforts for maximum contribution to the expansion of technical education.Thanking the Congress high command and CM Charanjit Singh Channi for his elevation as Cabinet minister, he said he would remain indebted to the people of the Kapurthala constituency for affection shown towards him for the last 22 years.Earlier, Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, Mayor Kulwant Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner SP Angra and Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Aditya Uppal welcomed the Cabinet Minister.A contingent of the Punjab Police also presented the guard of honour to Rana Gurjeet Singh. Councillors of the Municipal Corporation, Kapurthala, and many Congress leaders were present on the occasion.Meanwhile, inaugurating and reviewing paddy procurement in Kapurthala, Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday visited the Dana Mandi in Kapurthala. Interacting with officials responsible for paddy procurement, Rana thanked the state CM for taking up the issue. He also reviewed arrangements at the market committee office and held a meeting with shellers and arhtiyas.Addressing mandi board and market committee officials, he asked them to ensure that they were paid for their crops within 48 hours. He also talked to farmers in the mandi.In Kapurthala, on the first day of paddy procurement, 3,245 metric tons arrived in the mandis of which 2,226 MT was procured by the government. Civil Supplies Department officials said there was a possibility of procurement of 8 lakh metric tons of paddy in the district for which the availability of bardana exceeded 70 per cent of the required bardana for the process.The district mandi officer said besides the 42 existing mandis, 21 temporary mandis had been set up for the process. He said the quota for procurement agencies had also been set in the district at 34% for Pungrain, 26% for Markfed, 22% for Punsup, 13 per cent for Punjab Warehouse Corporation and 13% for the FCI had been set.Market Committee, Kapurthala, Chairman Avtar Singh, Vice-Chariman Rajinder Kaura, District Food and Supply Controller Geeta Bishambhu, among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21-temporary-mandis-set-up-in-kapurthala-319726
04-10-2021||---||Produce arrives in mandis, procurement begins in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 3A day after a large number of farmers in the district gheraoed the residence of Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, the minister following the directions of the Chief Minister inaugurated the paddy procurement process at the new grain market here on Sunday.This year, apart from regular 78 grain markets, 26 public places have been set up as temporary purchase centres for paddy procurement. Strangely, the rice millers are yet to be contacted by the Mandi Board. Naresh Gulati, an agriculture officer, said, “Contrary to last year (approximately 8.50-9 lakh metric tonnes), this year around 10.50 lakh metric tonnes of paddy is expected to arrive in the grain markets. Around 4.25 lakh acres was brought under paddy, including basmati, this season.Around 3,610 MT of harvested paddy on Sunday arrived in the district mandis on the first day of the procurement, including 610 MT in mandis falling under the Adampur market committee, followed by 1,087, 644, 510, 297, and 70 MT in Bhogpur, Jalandhar city, Lohian Khas, Mehatpur, and Shahkot market committees, respectively.With a hike of Rs 72 per quintal, this Kharif season, the minimum support price (MSP) on the crop has been kept at Rs 1,960. Last year, the MSP was Rs 1,888. The farmers will receive the payment under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme.Accompanied by Member Parliament Chaudhry Santokh Singh, MLA Avtar Henry Junior and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, the minister stated that the state government was committed to procuring every grain of the produce.“The Punjab Government has made all-out arrangements for the smooth and uninterrupted procurement of paddy crops in all the mandis of the state,” he mentioned.He said there was no shortage of gunny bags. Proper arrangements for lifting and payment were already made at all the purchase centres where farmers would get the payment of their produce within the stipulated time-frame.The minister appealed to the farmers to not set fire to crop residue in the fields as it will exacerbate Covid-19 situation in the state. He also urged them to bring only dry produce to the mandis for easy and hassle-free procurement.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori stated that elaborate arrangements were put in place in all the 78 purchase centres to ensure procurement in a hassle-free manner.He said all the officials were asked to ensure timely procurement, lifting and payment of crops as any kind of laxity in this field would be dealt with heavy hands.Gilzian promises timely payments in Tanda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/produce-arrives-in-mandis-procurement-begins-in-jalandhar-319714
04-10-2021||---||In Kapurthala, local MLAs skip Rana Gurjeet Singh’s welcome event||Jalandhar, October 3After his return to Kapurthala on Saturday was delayed due to farmers’ protest, Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh today arrived in the town amidst much fanfare. However, none of the Congress MLAs from his neighbourhood who had raised objections to his Cabinet appointment, was present to welcome him.Also read: Kapurthala: Rana Gurjeet Singh’s Rs 2-cr swanky SUV talk of the townOf the six Doaba MLAs who had raised objections, three were from Rana’s neighbouring constituencies in Kapurthala district. They included Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, Bholath legislator Sukhpal Khaira and Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal. Their absence yet again exposed fault lines within the Congress in Doaba.Interestingly, while Jalandhar Cantt MLA and Cabinet minister Pargat Singh’s return to Jalandhar was also attended poorly by MLAs, his welcome saw the presence of at least two legislators — Rajinder Beri and Bawa Henry.Upon his return to Kapurthala, Rana Gurjeet was welcomed by traders at the Katra Bazaar. A guard of honour was presented to him by a police contingent at the Rest House, where Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal and SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh received him.Also present were Kapurthala mayor Kulwant Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner SP Angra, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Aditya Uppal among others. As many as 37 councillors of the Kapurthala Municipal Corporation were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-kapurthala-local-mlas-skip-rana-gurjeet-singhs-welcome-event-319683
