05-10-2021||---||Protests erupt in Jalandhar over Lakhimpur killings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4Members of 11 various farmer organisations on Monday held a protest outside the DC office here against the killings of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in UP wherein they were mowed down by a car.‘Govt trying to end year-old agitation’The farmers held a dharna outside the DC office and also submitted a memorandum to the DC addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the strictest of action against the perpetrators of the incident. Farmers indulged in sloganeering outside the DC office from 10 am to 1 pm and also burnt an effigy of the Central and UP governments.Members of the farmer unions — the Kirti Kisan Union, Doaba Sangharsh Committee, Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakkhowal), Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Bharti Kisan Union (Kadian) and Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba), among others — were present on the occasion.The unions sought the ‘dismissal of the union minister’ whose son’s vehicle mowed down farmers and strict action against culprits of the incident.The letter to the President, by farmer unions under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha umbrella, stated that the killings of farmers in broad daylight with vehicles had angered the nation. They said the attack had been allegedly perpetrated by Union Cabinet minister Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son.The farmers said Mishra had already created the context by issuing insulting and provocative speeches against farmers. They said his statements in conjunction with the Haryana CM’s statements make it evident that the incident was not a mere coincidence.Stating this, the farmers demanded the dismissal of Ajay Kumar Mishra from his post and lodging of a case against him for stoking violence through his speech. They also demanded a case under Section 302, IPC, be filed against the minister’s son and his associates responsible for the incident.They sought the incident should be got investigated by an SIT monitored by the Supreme Court. They also sought the dismissal of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar for making a provocative speech.Meanwhile, farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also burnt effigies of the UP and Central governments at various places in the city in protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) under district president Salwinder Singh Jania and Satnam Singh Raiwal held a protest at the Lohian T-point. The farmers also held a protest in front of the Shahkot police station at Mallian village, where they also burnt effigies of the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government as well as the Central Government.Farmers sought strict action against those responsible for the heinous crime. They said the government had been trying to end their year-long agitation. Now it had resorted to ‘intimidate’ farmers and instilling fear in them. They said if the guilty were not brought to book, protests would be intensified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protests-erupt-in-jalandhar-over-lakhimpur-killings-320379
05-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri killings: Congress leader seeks dismissal of MoS Ajay Mishra||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4Reacting sharply to the incident of farmers ‘run over’ by a car driven by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri, former Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary today led a march to the office of SDM Phillaur and submitted a memorandum for President of India Ram Nath Kovind, seeking strict action the minister and his son.Vikramjit Chaudhary said the farmers were deliberately killed, while they were protesting peacefully against the three laws passed in 2020. “Under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the constitutional machinery in Uttar Pradesh has completely failed and the ‘jungle raj’ prevails. The goons are running ruling the roost, while the law and order machinery is a mere farce,” he said. He demanded the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra should be dismissed immediately from his position and a case should be filed against him for inciting violence and spreading communal hatred.“His son Ashish Mishra and his fellow goons should be booked for murder and be arrested immediately. The judicial probe of the attack on farmers should be conducted under the supervision of the Supreme Court,” he said.Vikramjit Chaudhary stated that it was the responsibility of the holders of eminent positions to protect the rights of those protesting peacefully, but they were abusing their positions to commit heinous crimes against the ‘annadatas’.After submitting the memorandum to Phillaur SDM Ojasvi, Vikramjit Chaudhary and others burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. Zila Parishad Member Harmesh Lal Lasara, Phillaur Municipal Council President Mohinder Ram Choomber, Phillaur Municipal Council Vice President Vaibhav Sharma, Phillaur Market Committee Chairman Makhan Singh Khaira, Goraya Market Committee Chairman Dara Singh Rai, Vice-Chairman Block Samiti Phillaur Jaswinder Singh Jassi, Phillaur City Congress President Balak Ram, Phillaur city Congress Vice President Pardeep Dosanjh, Municipal Councillors of Phillaur Paramjit Bharti, Raja Sandhu, Shankar Sandhu, Raj Kumar Hans, Ravi Saroye, Rakesh Kalia, Lakhwinder and Rakesh Roxy and sarpanches Surjeet Singh Dulle, Sarpanch Jagtar Chand Tara and Baldev Singh were among those present.Meanwhile, District Mahila Congress chief and MC councillor Dr Jasleen Sethi also held a protest on the issue in front of DC office. Members Asha Rani, Kuldeep Gakhal, Pallavi, Meenu Bagga, Ranjit Kaur and Asha Sahota burnt the effigy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lakhimpur-kheri-killings-congress-leader-seeks-dismissal-of-mos-ajay-mishra-320380
05-10-2021||Nawanshahr||Vishesh Sarangal takes over as new DC of Nawanshahr||A 2013 batch IAS officer Vishesh Sarangal today joined as the Deputy Commissioner of Nawanshahr. Sarangal has been recently transferred from Hoshiarpur, where he was posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner (General). Before this, he served as ADC (Development) in Jalandhar.He said he would accord top priority to further implement the schemes of the Punjab Government in a better manner. He said his thrust areas would be on effective implementation of the flagship programmes of the government.In a preliminary meeting with the officials and staff, the DC asked them to perform their duty to ensure that the benefits of pro-people schemes were percolated to the people at the grassroot level.Before assuming office, he was given a guard of honour by the district police contingent. Immediately, after assuming the charge, Sarangal visited Khatkar Kalan and paid rich tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh.Meanwhile, senior officers of the district administration, including ADC (General) Jasbir Singh, ADC(Development) Amardeep Singh Bains, Banga SDM Viraj Tidke, Nawanshahr SDM Jagdish Singh Johal, Balachaur SDM Deepak Ruhela and SP Pirthipal Singh were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vishesh-sarangal-takes-over-as-new-dc-of-nawanshahr-320381
05-10-2021||---||Vendors to be adjusted in special zones soon: MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary||Jalandhar, October 4Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Monday said the street vendors of the city would be provided all rights as per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, and it would be ensured that no harassment of any kind was caused to them by the authorities.He was addressing members of the Rehri Phaddi Khokha Union at Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall in the city.MP Chaudhary said the street vendors had a fundamental right to run their trade and the previous UPA government led by Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had enacted the Street Vendors Act to protect this right, adding that the state government would implement this law.He informed that 36 street vending zones had been identified in the city. The tender of one zone was now open, those of three zones were under process and detailed project reports were ready for the rest of zones under the Smart City Mission.Divulging details, he said the authorities had designed a training programme for the vendors to make them aware of hygiene practices and digital technology. “We are also partnering with online food delivery platforms to expand the reach of street vendors. Along with these, several other steps are being taken for the welfare of the vendors,” he said.Chaudhary Santokh Singh further said he had asked the MC Commissioner to set up a Town Vending Committee at the earliest and provide adequate representation to the vendors as per the law. “We are committed to ensuring that the vendors do their work legally and without any threat of extortion. They are self-employed and are dependent on daily wages. We are making sure that their employment is not lost due to any reason,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vendors-to-be-adjusted-in-special-zones-soon-mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-320382
05-10-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports two new Covid cases||Jalandhar, October 4Two new Covid cases were reported today in Jalandhar district, taking the total district tally to 6,33,231 cases. In Jalandhar, no Covid death was reported in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,800 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 37. Of the 16,75,886 samples collected in the district so far, 15,44,509 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 115 tests are yet awaited. Meanwhile, two cases of Covid were reported in Kapurthala as the Covid tally reached 17,834. No death was reported from here on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-two-new-covid-cases-320383
05-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Buzz back in Jalandhar as PPR market comes to life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4The buzz and the hustle-bustle which had long taken a backseat due to Covid is finally back. This time, it is due to a new PPR market which has come up near the Mithapur Chowk.A huge crowd turned up to spend a weekend as the market opened its doors for the visitors. Over 300 cars could be spotted in the market between 8 pm to 9 pm. Though the market having space for 200 shops was set up way back in 2007, it took it almost 14 years to develop and start buzzing with activity. With facilities such as ample parking space, tiled walkways, attractive lighting, covered balconies outside shops on the first floor, proper seating arrangements, selfie points and even open live singing at the weekends, it has now become a fad with the residents.While Model Town market had been the most happening area in the city, followed by Curo Street on 66-feet road and Urban Estate Market, it now seems that the entire city enjoys frolicking here. While only a few outlets such as those for grocery stores and uniform centres could be spotted here till the last year, it now is a proper hub for foodies with an array of paratha junctions, soup and salad bars, tea lounges, cafes, fast food, veg and non-veg eateries and ice cream parlours having got set up here.Shamsher Duggal, who had visited the market with his family, said, “The best part of the market is a wide road which allows double layer parking. In fact, everyone can park right in front of the shop they want to go. You cannot find this convenience elsewhere in the city as of now. Once the car is parked, one is free to stroll on the walkways, enjoy food from various outlets and have fun.”Vikrant, a collegiate, pointed out, “I especially enjoy the weekend live music here. We even performed bhangra to some foot-tapping music. I like to catch up with my friends here and spend good two-three hours with them.”Rajan Chopra, a realtor who set up the market, said, “I am happy that the boom time is here. People tell me that the market has taken away the crowd from Model Town. I am expecting it to do even better when the main road of the market gets connected to GTB Nagar, the process for which has already begun. While we initially sold the shops here at Rs 7500 per sq feet, the prices have jacked up to Rs 25,000 per sq feet now. A multiplex coming within the market in the coming time will add to its charm.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/buzz-back-in-jalandhar-as-ppr-market-comes-to-life-320384
05-10-2021||---||A hub of medicinal & culinary herbs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4Her garden seems like a paradise reclaimed. When it comes to adorning it, Rashmi Johri, a retired professor, has relied on choicest indigenous and exotic plants. Replete with several DIY and organic materials, beautiful hanging vines drape the walls of her balcony —much to a visitor’s delight.An array of ornamental beauties such as dwarf devil’s backbone, monstera, areca palm, snake plant, jade, purple heart, singonium, diffenbechia (also called Dumb Cane or Mother In law’s Tongue), dracaena, coleus, purple coleus, patthar chatta, thuja (a conifer plant of the Cypress family), Bamboo Plam, umbrella palm, kochia (Mexican fireweed) are stacked together in her backyard.A variety of roses roses, Champa (magnolia Champaca), Chameli (common Jasmine), Sunflower, Lily, Chandi (or crepe Jasmine) and Haarshingar (Night Jasmine). medicinal plants and herbs like haldi (turmeric), ashwagandha, lemon grass, oregano, aloe vera, methi (Fenugreek), Tulsi, Niazbo (sweet Basil), Curry leaves, Shankhpushpi (speed wheel or aloe weed), giloye add freshness to her kitchen garden. Not just this, even veggies like bottle gourd, snake gourd, bitter gourd, guava, mango, sweet potato, brinjals, taro root (or Arbi), spinach and Chillies are found in plenty.Offered assistance by her daughter and her husband, however, she does most of the planting, grafting, composting herself.There are over 200 plants in her home garden. Upcycled plastics, wrappers, sturdy sacks, containers, old buckets and bins are widely used as planters. Up for creating a responsible carbon footprint, she is a believer neither in wastage nor in squandering her money over overpriced planters when reclaimed material can do the job much better. Foliage of all shapes and sizesRashmi Johri says, “I pick up whatever I find and plant something in it. In the back we have composting units - card boards and home waste collected in drums which render the soil fertile. Regular supply of coco peat also comes in handy. I love spending time with them and it keeps me clam and happy.”Containers are hardly ever discarded as each one becomes a home for her brand new plant.Her lobby, gates, windows and aisles are full of old bottles re-patterned and painted to fashion a ganesha, used bottles with strings tied to them hang from the house gate. A lush gourd wine flanked with flowers on both sides welcomes a visitor to her home. It is a delight to watch plants of all varieties swaying joyfully in her garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-hub-of-medicinal-culinary-herbs-320385
05-10-2021||---||1.5-year-old undergoes free heart surgery||Kapurthala, October 4The National Child Health Programme has given a fresh lease of life to a 1.5-year-old boy Anmol as he underwent a free of cost heart surgery at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, after being detected with congenital heart disease.Under the health screening programme of the Punjab Government by the health department in schools and angarwadi kendras , the child was identified with major heart problems at anganwadi kendra of Palahi Gate in Phagwara last month.Dr Prabhjot Jabbal, who heads the health team that led to the screening of child, said as the teams identified the disease of child, they informed the senior medical officer at Phagwara Civil Hospital Dr Lehmbar Ram and Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur and after getting administrative approvals immediately they referred the case to Fortis Mohali.Under the programme, the Punjab Government covers the 0-18 years of children in schools and anganwadi kendras, under which treatment for 30 major diseases have been provided to the needy children free of cost in government or multi super-specialty hospitals as per the needs.After the heart surgery, he recently got discharged. A team of doctors from Phagwara remains in touch with the Anmol’s father Prince and mother Jyoti to ensure the recovery of child is as per the medical parameters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-5-year-old-undergoes-free-heart-surgery-320386
05-10-2021||---||1,131 awarded degrees at NIT convocation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, held 17th annual convocation on October 4. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was the chief guest of the convocation and joined the ceremony in virtual mode owing to the pandemic.In the convocation, 1,131 students were awarded the degrees. The breakup for the award of degrees is as follows: B Tech -680, M Tech- 256, MSc -107, MBA- 27 and PhD -61. Rohit Gupta (Chemical Engineering), Mukhil Rakesh (Civil Engineering), Arsh Goyal (Electronics and Communication Engineering), Harsh Lakhotia (Instrumentation and Control Engineering), Deepak Chaudhary (Textile Technology), Dishika Tayal (Computer Science & Engineering), Arpan Sharma (Industrial And Production Engineering), Robin Gupta (Mechanical Engineering) and Parth Narayan Singh (Bio Technology) were awarded with Gold Medal for being the B. Tech 2017-2021 batch branch toppers.Director, NIT, Prof LK Awasthi congratulated the degree recipients for their bright future and also motivated them for working day and night to fulfil the societal needs. He further highlighted the various achievements of NIT Jalandhar. Prof Awasthi said in his address that the institute had entered into the club of top 50 engineering institutes of the country and is ranked 49 in prestigious NIRF ranking, 78th rank in overall top 100 institutes/universities and 13th amongst all NITs.Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Education, Government of India, chief guest of the occasion, congratulated the young graduating students, at the outset, for earning their degrees, parents for their sacrifice and support and teachers for their unstinted commitment and passion to mould them. He said, “Covid had made us realise the power and convenience of digital technologies. The Government of India had already taken measures to provide remote learning facilities and the creation of electronic learning resources. SWAYAM and MOOC courses have been promoted with the principle of ‘access’, ‘equity’ and ‘quality’.Chairperson Shri Subhash Chandra Ralhan, Board of Governors NITJ, congratulated promising young graduates of this national eminence – Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar. In his address to the students, he said that it is indeed an exciting moment for students and undoubtedly it is one of the important milestones of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-131-awarded-degrees-at-nit-convocation-320387
05-10-2021||---||Maharashtra horticulture minister visits vegetable, potato centres||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4Sandipan Bhumre, Minister for Employment Guarantee and Horticulture, Maharashtra, visited the Centre of Excellence (COE) for Vegetables (Kartarpur) and Centre of Excellence for Potato (Dhogri) today. The minister was accompanied by Dr Mote Kailas, Director Horticulture, Maharashtra, and other officials to see various horticultural activities at both the centres.Director Horticulture (Punjab) Shailender Kaur (IFS) gave warm welcome to the guests and briefed them about various activities of the centres. Dr Lal Bahadur, Assistant Director Horticulture-cum- Controlling Officer, COE’s Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, and Dr Sukdeep Singh Hundal, Deputy Director Horticulture, Jalandhar, explained the scenario of Punjab on the basis of horticulture and diversification in agriculture.Dr Daljit Singh Gill, Assistant Director Horticulture-cum-Project Officer, CEV Kartarpur, and Dr Damandeep Singh, Project Officer, CEP Dhogri, gave short presentations explaining importance of their projects and their direct benefit to the farmers. They explained about the facilities created at the respective centres for demonstration to the entrepreneurs and farmers.Dr Gill said till date as many as 33 three-day training programmes on protected cultivation of vegetables have been conducted in which more than 1,157 farmers have been trained by this CEV which are diversifying their farming from traditional method to new technology.He explained that training on production of disease-free vegetable seedlings, open field production of vegetables, polyhouse production of vegetables and Post Harvest Management is being provided to the farmers. He also briefed that till date more than 1.56 crore healthy vegetable seedlings have been supplied to the Punjab farmers and interested people for kitchen gardening.During this visit, Balbir Raj Singh, SDM Jalandhar-II, was also present. During the CEP visit, the project officer Dr Damandeep Singh briefed the delegates about the current potato status of Punjab and the importance of excellence centre facilities. He explained the hi-tech seed potato production techniques viz aeroponics and tissue culture.Elaborating the impact of potato centre on the farmers, the delegates showed keen interest in new techniques adopted by Punjab and actively participated in the discussion. Dr Paramjit Singh, Nodal Officer (Potato), Punjab, briefed about the Seed Potato Act. After the discussion, the delegates visited various facilities created at respective centres to see the live demonstrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maharashtra-horticulture-minister-visits-vegetable-potato-centres-320388
05-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: DIPS kids make magical creations with clay||Roller skating championshipIn collaboration with the Jalandhar District Roller Skating Association, students of Innocent Hearts won medals in various age groups in the 21st Roller Skating Championship and made the school proud by getting selected for the state level. This competition was organised at Police DAV Public School. The names of the students selected for the state-level team are Pratyusha Gupta, Aakriti, Avreen, Hargun Hundal and Ekampreet. Principal Rajeev Paliwal congratulated the winning students and wished them all the best for winning the state level.Award for Sanskriti KMVSanskriti KMV School added to its chain of recognitions with the FAP National Awards 2021 for the Outstanding Teachers, held on October 2 and 3 at Chandigarh University. The event was graced by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. It was an honour for Gurmeet Kaur, senior coordinator, nominated by the school to be amongst the awardees to receive the FAP trophy and certificate on her merit and experiential grounds. Rachna Monga, Principal, congratulated Gurmeet for her dedicated and committed spirit in the education sphere.World Animal Day at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a special programme to celebrate World Animal Day under DBT Star College Scheme. The programme was organised by PG Department of Zoology with the objective of creating awareness and ensuring the safety and care of animals. Harmanpreet Kaur, a student of MSc zoology semester III, while presenting the various aspects of this day in detail through power point presentation, also encouraged to spread awareness related to maintenance of animals.Cadet Training Wing SeminarIn line with its commitment to motivate and ignite die-hard intent of Beasian students to join armed forces as officers, Army Public School, Beas, in collaboration with AFPI, Mohali, organised Cadet Training Wing Seminar. Apart from 110 Beasian aspirants keen to join armed forces, 30 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Chheharta, attended the seminar. The participants acknowledged how the seminar helped them to ignite the vigour to join the defence forces and how it provided an insight into the aspect of personality development which is an integral part of Defence personnel.Tiny tots learn animal careEklavyans celebrated World Animal Day on school premises with great fervour. All the tiny tots of pre-primary wing were dressed up as domestic or wild animal and spoke few lines based on their dress up. To inculcate the importance of caring for animals face masks were made by the students of primary school under the supervision of educator Anchal. For senior students, a debate on an ethical issue around animal welfare like animal testing or the meat industry was organised, which push the students to think more critically about the way in which humans interact with the environment and animal. The theme of the competition was love for animals.International Day of Older PersonsThe Social Sensitisation Committee of the Applied Science Department, School of Engineering, LKCTC, organised an event to commemorate International Day of Older Persons. Students from across the campus participated. There was poetry recitation, sharing of personal experiences, video messages from grandparents for the youth and a folk song to conclude the event. The celebration intended to sensitise the audience to be empathetic towards all senior citizens and to make their twilight years more memorable.Hans Raj girls grab top positionsB Vocational (web technology and multimedia) semester-II students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, got 2nd, 3rd and 9th positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Randeep stood 2nd in university with 371 marks, Samya Sodhi stood 3rd with 368 marks and Srishti stood 9th with 353 marks out of 400. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students.Make-up workshop at Khalsa CollegeThe Department of Cosmetology, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, organised a one-day workshop in association with Balish Makeovers Freelancer Makeup Artist/Academy. The makeup experts for the occasion were Ashish and Balraj. The model was Gurjit Kaur, who was not only a student of the institution, but has also represented India in hockey at the international level in the recent Olympics held in Tokyo. Gurjit expressed her gratitude towards Principal Dr. Navjot. The Principal also said that the country is so proud of her and blessed her for her future endeavours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dips-kids-make-magical-creations-with-clay-320389
