06-10-2021||Jalandhar||2 snatch mobile phone, booked||2 fresh cases, 1 death in distJalandhar: The district on Tuesday reported one fatality due to Covid and two positive cases. With this, the total number of positive cases have surged to 63,333 and the tally of active cases now stands at 35. EduYouth Foundation (Regd) in collaboration with Dr Vardhan Charitable Trust (Regd) organised a vaccination camp at Chhoti Baradari Jalandhar today. More than 300 doses of Covishield were administered to the city residents. All residents really appreciated the efforts of both NGOs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-snatch-mobile-phone-booked-320921
06-10-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 11K cash reward for Harmilan||World Habitat Day observedCT Institute of Architecture and Planning in association with The Institution of Engineers, Ludhiana local centre, CT University Ludhiana and Students’ Chapter Institution of Engineers, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, celebrated the World Habitat Day. Over 200 students and delegates took part in the event. The event also saw an exhibition by students of CTIAP showcasing their excellent work and designs. The theme of the day was ‘Accelerating urban action for a carbon-free world’. Dr Sewa Singh, Principal, CTIT ,focused on present needs of human society with respect to zero net buildings. Shruti Kapoor, HOD, CT Institute of Architecture and Planning, congratulated the architect fraternity on the occasion of World Architecture Day which incidentally coincides with the World Habitat Day.Workshop on Art and CraftThe Department of Education of Doaba College organised a workshop on art and craft. Raju and Nek Chand acted as resource persons. They were cordially welcomed by Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Dr Avinash Chander, Head, faculty members and 100 students. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari said that this workshop is especially relevant for the students of BA-BEd and BSc-BEd classes because they are supposed to prepare lesson plans, files, journals, models and charts as a part of their course work. The recourse person demonstrated his art by making various objects and decorative material like flowers, garlands, peacocks, pigeons etc. with the help of coloured papers and newspapers. He also motivated the students to make such decorative material themselves.MCom Semester-II resultStudents of MCom (Sem II) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya have brought laurels to the institution by securing various positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Sukhmani bagged 3rd position by scoring 518 out of 550 marks, Nancy stood at 4th position by securing 515 marks, Deepika bagged 6th position with 512 marks, Akshi got 9th position with 506 marks , Manisha bagged 10th position with 504 marks, Harsimran got 13th position with 501 marks and Pallavi Chadha bagged 14th position with 498 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Head of the Department Meenu Kohli, faculty members and students for this achievement.World Architecture Day observedThe Department of Design of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, observed World Architecture Day to show appreciation for the work of architects and to pay tributes to the industry. A Concept Board Competition was organised on the theme of ‘Architecture/Design in 2050’. Thirty students from the department participated and showcased some novel, creative and innovative concepts. First prize was bagged by Anshika Puri (BD Sem V) who designed on the concept Construction on Mars. The second prize was bagged by Natasha Chhabra (BD Sem V) on the concept Sustainable Interiors. The third prize was shared by Suhani Dhawan and Danish Jain (BD Sem VII) who had designed on the concepts ‘Future Sustainability’ and ‘Silver Architecture’ respectively. Consolation prize was bagged by Manraj Kaur (BD Sem III) for presenting the design on the concept Innovation.Saraswati Poojan Samaroh at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised ‘Saraswati Poojan Samaroh’ to herald new academic session in a ceremonial way. The chief guest on the occasion was Dr Shweta Shenoy, Prof and Head, Department of Sports Medicine and Physiotherapy, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Dr Sushma Chopra, secretary, Arya Shiksha Mandal, presided over the event. The proceedings of the day commenced with an invocation to the Goddess of learning to seek her blessings for uninterrupted and fruitful culmination of academic journey of the scholars. Welcoming the chief guest Dr Shenoy, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi read out the detailed report of college achievements in diverse fields. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-11k-cash-reward-for-harmilan-320919
06-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar-based actor to don B-Town Jersey||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Vaibhav Sharma, a city-based model and actor, will soon be seen sharing screen with Shahid Kapoor, Mrunal Thakur and Pankaj Kapoor in ‘Jersey’.A resident of Guru Nank Pura (West), Vaibhav (28) has been trying his luck in the entertainment industry for the last five years. Prior to that, he has appeared in several web series, TV commercials, songs and movies.Playing a role of a cricketer in the movie, the actor still remembers the day he left the city, to chase his passion.“I had no Idea that I would pursue acting. I used to play cricket, so sports was on the priority list. However, as its rightly said, everything is written in the destiny, I started developing fascination towards acting during my teens,” said Sharma.“Subsequently, by the time I started pursuing graduation, I began to associate myself with drama and modelling. During third year, I moved to Mumbai to check how the industry worked. I came back and prepared myself. To survive in the industry, I even worked at a call centre. I was a bit lucky, as I got a chance to do modelling within a month, followed by advertisements,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-actor-to-don-b-town-jersey-320918
06-10-2021||---||Jalandhar: Ballan villagers block highway, traffic hit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Commuters passing the Jalandhar-Pathankot stretch of the highway near Dera Sachkhand Ballan were an inconvenienced lot as residents of nearby village blocked it for an hour this evening.Residents of Ballan village said as sewer pipeline work was being done, an area with Ravidassia population was not being covered deliberately. As a part of the village development programme, inter-locking tiles are being laid after laying the sewer system.The residents alleged this was being done at the behest of the sarpanch and Congress leaders of the area who were discriminating against them on the basis of caste. “While the government is asking villages to have common cremation ground, here they are not even allowing us to have the sewer and drainage facilities. Are we living in the 21st century?” asked Ranjit Singh, a resident. The jam was finally lifted after the intervention of the local administration and the police and an assurance from their side of taking up the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ballan-villagers-block-highway-traffic-hit-320916
06-10-2021||---||NSS volunteers take part in plogging run under Clean India Campaign||Jalandhar, October 5To commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence, volunteers of the NSS unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College participated enthusiastically in plogging run under the Clean India campaign. The plogging run was organised from the Punjab State War Memorial to Lyallpur Khalsa College.The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, had launched Clean India Campaign on October 1, throughout India under which single use plastic would be collected during this month.Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra motivated the NSS volunteers to participate in this campaign whole heartedly. He said clean and plastic-free environment was necessary for leading healthy life. He appealed to the volunteers to spread the message of reduction in the use of plastic.Prof Satpal Singh, chief programme officer, NSS, informed that volunteers were always ready to participate in the environment related activities. He also thanked the principal and management for supporting the unit in environment and social cause related activities.The event was organised in collaboration with Nehru Yuva Kendra, Red Cross and Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. The campaign was guided by NSS officer Prof Satpal Singh and Nehru Yuva Kendra coordinator Nityanand Yadav.The NSS unit leaders Maninderjit Singh, Karandeep Singh and Disha along with 40 volunteers participated in the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nss-volunteers-take-part-in-plogging-run-under-clean-india-campaign-320915
06-10-2021||---||World Wildlife Week: ‘Birds an integral part of ecosystem’||Jalandhar, October 5Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) celebrated World Wildlife Week (which is on October 2-8) by organising two webinars on World Habitat Day and Birds at Science City, which were attended by about 200 students from different educational institutions in the state. Today heGiving introductory remarks on the occasion, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Pushpa Gujral Science City, said birds were most beautiful and important co-inhabitants of human beings on the earth and constitute an integral part of the ecosystem. They rendered several eco-system services being pollinators, seed dispersal agents, natural biological agents for pest control, providers of protein rich food and some of them act as scavengers.Dr Neelima said birds were intelligent species and exhibited cultural, social and a variety of courtship behaviours through their songs and dances. They also had an important aesthetic value.She said 1,357 bird species had been reported from the country, out of which about 400 bird species were found in the state. However, changes in climate and habitat could adversely affect them, hence the need to provide a proper habitat to these beautiful birds. She shared the science city was getting a bird survey of its campus conducted through World Wildlife Fund.Rakesh Khatri, also known as the Nest Man of India, who founded the Eco Roots Foundation, Delhi, was the key speaker during the webinar on World Habitat Day. Rakesh has been recognised by the Limca Book of Records for making the maximum number of handmade nests.He delivered a talk on “Save the Sparrows: How to build a nest”. During his talk, Khatri said the house sparrow is one of the most ubiquitous birds and is one of the most familiar winged companions of human beings. The population of house sparrows was on the decline and the reason was the loss of habitat due to changes in the environment and modern lifestyle.Further, he informed that the Eco Roots Foundation had initiated a step to save these birds by making handmade birdhouses. Till date, more than 125,000 jute nests and 40,000 tetra-pack nests had been made.Gitanjali Kanwar, Coordinator, Harike wetland unit of Rivers, Wetland and Water Policy of India, said birds were an important part of urban wildlife. Urban birds were showing a significant change in species composition and numbers compared to the last few decades which was mostly due to anthropogenic activities/set-ups and their impact on biodiversity. Further, she made a presentation of 65 birds surveyed till date on the science city campus. She emphasised the need to organise nature walks for the students in the science city to make them learn about different bird species, their identification, voices, etc.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Pushpa Gujral Science City, said birds helped in maintaining the ecological balance as these ate small insects and acted in the natural pest control process. The heritage trees at the science city also provided a natural habitat to birds, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-wildlife-week-birds-an-integral-part-of-ecosystem-320914
06-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: SAD holds candlelight march over killings in Lakhimpur kheri||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sad-holds-candlelight-march-over-killings-in-lakhimpur-kheri-320912
06-10-2021||---||100-kg ganja seized, 3 held||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, October 5Nawanshahr police seized drugs in a huge quantity from three Bihar-based smugglers here on Tuesday. A police team recovered one quintal of marijuana (ganja) from a Mahindra Pickup (PB-07-BW-5583) van at a naka.The team also recovered four mobile phones and drug money worth Rs 5 lakh from Phagwara by nabbing interstate smugglers — involved in operating a major drug smuggling and supplying network in the states of UP, Bihar, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh — after a long chase. Those arrested have been identified as Sajjan Kumar of Samastipur in Bihar, Makhan Paswan of Baisali in Bihar and Mintoo Kumar of Patna. A case under Sections 20, 25 and 29 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sadar police station in Banga.SSP, Nawanshahr, Harmanbir Gill said the culprits used to carry passengers in the vehicle, which was covered with a plastic sheet to conceal the contraband. He said more persons were likely to be apprehended by discovering forward and backward linkages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-kg-ganja-seized-3-held-320910
06-10-2021||---||FIR against Deep Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5The City Police Commissionerate on Tuesday registered an FIR against actor Deep Sidhu for hurting religious sentiments of the Valmiki and Ravidas communities.The case was registered following a complaint by Jassi Talhan, head of the Guru Ravidas Tiger Force.Deep Sidhu had allegedly used derogatory words against the Valmiki and Ravidas communities in a video. The video was posted by the actor on his Facebook profile and it went viral on social media. Jassi Talhan and other community members have demanded immediate arrest of Deep Sidhu.Based on the statements of the complainants, cops at the Baradari police station have started investigation after registering a case under Section 3 (1) SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IT Act among other sections against Sidhu. Deep Sidhu gained prominence after Republic Day violence this year during ‘farmers’ protest’. Deep Siddhu was born and brought up in Muktar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-against-deep-sidhu-320909
06-10-2021||---||AAP worker ‘hit’ by car during protest in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Protesting over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh, which involved son’s of the Bharatiya Janata party’s leader, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) worker got injured in a similar way during the protest near TV Tower in the city today.The incident occurred when the party workers were about to burn an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the spot. The AAP leadership had announced to hold protests in every Assembly constituency. A protest was being held for Jalandhar (West) when Bobby, a worker, was allegedly hit by a car from behind.The AAP activists lodged a complaint with the police soon after the incident. They raised slogans demanding action against Sweety, who was behind the wheel. Sweety alleged that when he was nearing the protest, the AAP worker jumped on the bonnet of his car and the front windshield of the car got damaged. The co-passengers in the car alleged that the AAP worker was travelling on a two-wheeler and had stopped near the protest site. They said when they asked him to clear their way, he started fighting with them and broke the windshield of the car.Inspector Gurdev Singh, who is inquiring the matter said, “I am in the process of recording statements of both the sides. An FIR will be lodged after the due course of time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-worker-hit-by-car-during-protest-in-jalandhar-320908
06-10-2021||---||Illegal travel agents to be brought to book||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Tightening the noose around illegal travel agents duping innocent people on the pretext of sending them abroad, the administration on Tuesday, made the District Employment and Business Bureau as a nodal agency for such complaints. The nodal agency would dispose of a complaint within a week.As soon as a case of cheating gets registered against any travel agent, the copy of the FIR would be uploaded on the website of the district administration https://jalandhar.nic.in.The District Employment and Business Bureau has been made the nodal agency by the state government through the Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act 2012/Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act 2014 to register complaints against fraud related to foreign travel, foreign studies and employment.Yashwant Rai, Deputy Director, District Employment and Business Bureau, Jalandhar, said complaints can be lodged against registered and un-registered travel agents. He said a victim can submit written complaint with the District Employment and Business Bureau, Room No. 324, 3rd Floor, District Administrative Complex, Ladowali Road, on any working day along with his/her identity card.He said the District Employment and Business Bureau would verify the complaint within a week. Besides if any travel agent without licence or expired licence or any un-registered agent comes to our notice, an FIR would be registered against the accused at the Police Commissionerate.Moreover, the copies of the FIR’s along with the information of travel agents would be immediately uploaded on the website of the district administration, so that others can be made aware about this. The Deputy Director said for more information, one can contact career counsellor of the District Employment and Business Bureau, Jasvir Singh on 89683-21674.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-travel-agents-to-be-brought-to-book-320907
06-10-2021||---||Cash rewards for farmers shunning stubble burning||Jalandhar, October 5Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday announced cash rewards at block level for panchayats, custom hiring centres and individual farmers resorting to stubble management practices.During an interaction with farmers at Bir Pind of Nakodar, the DC said the administration would facilitate panchayats with cash reward of Rs 50,000, custom hiring centres with Rs 20,000, and individual farmers with Rs 11,000 per development block for shunning stubble burning practices.The DC also visited the power generation plant of Green Planet Energy in Bir Pind, where electricity was being generated using stubble. The management apprised the DC that they needed as many as 75,000 tons of paddy straw per year, which could manage 30,000 acres of area through ex-situ techniques.Around 80 progressive farmers participated in the event where Thori appealed them to achieve the zero burning targets in Jalandhar district by managing crop residue effectively. The demonstration of baler machine was also performed by the experts during the event.The DC said due to the burning of paddy stubble, several major nutrients and other micro nutrients of soil were destroyed whereas the soil health improves drastically if the residue of straw was mixed in the soil. He added that the smog caused by stubble burning further aggravate the health conditions, especially for asthmatics.Pointing out further, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said the department was taking up a slew of initiatives to create awareness among farmers to shun stubble burning menace, including special awareness camps, campaign through mobile vans, wall paintings, field demonstrations and sensitisation of farmers through schools.Use i-Khet to check machinery at 1,200 hiring centresTerming launching of i-Khet app a revolutionary step to assist farmers in crop residue management, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday appealed to all farmers to download this app to access the information about the availability of stubble management machinery in their nearby locations.Addressing the gathering of farmers during an awareness camp in Bir Pind, the DC said the real time information about availability of machinery across 1,200 customer hiring centres, including farmers’ groups and cooperative societies, was made online at this application. He added that farmers could access this information so that they don’t face any problem in procuring these machines. They could access the information of machines available within the radius of 5, 10 and 15 km of their location.As per the state government’s order, the crop residue management machines would be provided by these customer hiring centres free-of-cost to small and marginal farmers. He categorically mentioned that the CHCs were directed not to charge rent from such farmers and only fuel charges would be taken from them.On DC’s appeal, a large number of farmers present at the awareness camp downloaded the app on-the-spot besides assuring the administration they would adopt stubble management measures to protect environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cash-rewards-for-farmers-shunning-stubble-burning-320906
06-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Shifting loyalties: Feeling isolated, those close to Capt quitting Cong||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Loyalists of ex-Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Jalandhar have certainly started feeling isolated and insecure since the reins moved away from his hand. While ex-MLA Jagbir Brar was the first to realise this and quickly joined hands with the Akali Dal, who even announced him the candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment, it was ex-Jalandhar DCC (rural) chief and ex-Milkfed Chairman Capt Harminder Singh who quit the Congress today and went the SAD way.Capt Harminder (69), whose son Karanvir served as the OSD to Capt Amarinder Singh till his tenure as CM, was also today announced as the Akali candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi. His closeness with Capt Amarinder Singh was known in the Congress circuit as he also used to visit his place at Urban Estate here.Spelling out the reason for quitting Congress, he said: “We saw the way the Congress humiliated Capt Amarinder and forced him to resign. A leader of his stature did not deserve such kind of maltreatment. Ever since he left, we too had the feeling that if this could happen to a tall leader like him, no one will take care of us. The party is in utter turmoil at the moment and the leaders and workers are in complete confusion over its fate. Hence getting the offer to contest from Sultanpur Lodhi, I and my son left the Congress today to join Akali Dal.”Capt Harminder says that he was settled in Jalandhar because of his businesses, which his son Karanvir runs now, but his roots are from Naseerpur village of Sultanpur Lodhi. “I have always maintained my connection with the people there which will be of help now,” he said.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Cheema has started terming him an outsider. “Like his Aam Aadmi Party counterpart Sajjan Singh Cheema, even Capt Harminder is from Jalandhar. I will be the only local candidate who is available to people 24x7 and it certainly matters,” he said.Meanwhile, the change of leadership in the Congress continues to have an impact even in terms of appointments. While the party had changed two Improvement Trust Chairmen at Amritsar and Batala, who did not go along with PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, another head rolled on Tuesday.Today was the turn of Rana Randhawa, who was the Chairman of Kartarpur Improvement Trust. He has been unceremoniously replaced by Vijay Bhushan Aggarwal, that too just three months ahead of the likely announcement of next elections.As a Congress leader, Randhawa had been eyeing Jalandhar Cantonment seat represented by MLA Pargat Singh. He too was termed as a staunch Capt Amarinder Singh loyalist and had even got hoardings put in Cantt in his favour at the time when Pargat was waging a war for his ouster from the CM’s post. Interestingly, Aggarwal was a close aide of Randhawa during his stint as the Trust Chairman.Randhawa’s supporters alleged that Pargat alongwith Kartarpur MLA Surinder Chaudhary paved the way for his ouster. Paying the price for being ex-CM loyalistThe Trust had a balance amount of Rs70 lakh when I had joined. I worked hard and raised its kitty to Rs6 crore. This should not have been the way to treat someone who was pushy. I was also in good terms with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, but I it seems that he is not getting his say in the party. I really wish that he does not remain a dummy CM, the chances of which are quite likely. — Rana Randhawa, ousted Chairman of Kartarpur Improvement TrustFormer Akali minister Upinderjit not happy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shifting-loyalties-feeling-isolated-those-close-to-capt-quitting-cong-320905
