07-10-2021||Jalandhar||NCC enrolment drive for girls||23 complete Amazon courseUnder the MoU signed between Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus and Amazon, nearly 23 students of BTech CSE (Semester V) have completed the AWS course. The course on Cloud Foundations facilitated students to gain insight of cloud-based AWS services and will open a new window for them for better placement opportunities in Amazon AWS. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director Academic Affairs and Dr RS Deol (Deputy Director, KCL Group) congratulated students by giving them token of appreciation.Investiture AT Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School organised an investiture ceremony for the ongoing session in the presence of the students and the staff. Rachna Monga, Principal, designated the School Martinet team in a dedicated event. Roshini Kashyap and Suraj of Class XII were appointed as head girl and head boy. Samriti and Kawanveer Singh were appointed as vice head girl and vice head boy. Students appointed as House captains and vice captains of Amber, Pawak, Pawan and Avni House are Pranav Sharma, Harleen Kaur, Swati Chawla, Gurleen Kaur, Kamaljeet Kaur, Manraj Kaur, Kajal and Nishtha, respectively. Sports captains were also designated.Mehakdeep, Happy shine in academicsPyramid College of Business and Technology organised an essay writing competition. The competition was open to students of all departments. Candidates structured their essay on several topics such as 75 years of Indian Independence — Reality and expectations, Rise of Taliban terrorism — Threat to the World Peace, New normal after Covid-19 — Experience and road ahead, etc. The candidates were judged on the basis of the vocabulary, presentation and creativity. About 38 students participated in the event. Mehakdeep, Happy, Prabhjot got the first position. Latika, Sarabjit and Lakshmi came second. Pawandeep, Palak and Neha got third rank. Radhika Devi got consolation prize.National Humanity OlympiadStudents from all schools of DIPS chain participated in the National Humanity Olympiad Competition. The national-level competition was organised in two categories in which students from Classes V to VIII and IX to XII participated. Gauri Jaswal, a student of Class IX DIPS School, Urban Estate, brought laurels by securing 124th rank at the national level. Gurnoor Kaur of DIPS School, Tanda, Kirti of DIPS School, Haryana Bhunga, Ravneet and Navroop of DIPS School, Mehta Chowk, and Muskanand Virat from DIPS School, Karol Bagh were the school toppers.Sustainable fashion creationsStudents from PG Department of Fashion Designing of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya displayed their creative interests by making innovative clothes out of the waste and old clothes by recycling them in a very suitable manner. The Department of Fashion Designing has upgraded its syllabi and has included the subject of Basics of Sustainability in BSc Fashion Designing Sem V and MSc Sem II curriculum. While teaching sustainable fashion as a subject, opportunities are also provided to the students to work on various projects so as to inculcate the sense of sustainable fashion in them.Grand Slam PerformanceDhawal Anand of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of BSc Biotechnology Semester-IV by getting 459 marks out of 480 whereas Prerneet Kaur bagged fourth position by getting 451 marks in the same class. Balbir Kaur, president, College Governing Council, congratulated the students and reiterated the commitment of the college to quality education and productive research.Students make crafts of wasteStudents of HMV Collegiate Sr Sec School participated in the exhibition “Best Out of Waste” organised under Swachh Bharat Mission by the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. A total of 25 students participated in it and exhibited beautiful objects such as water bubble fountain, tyre automan, peacock, water dispenser with house, made out of trash. Sudipa of SSC-I-Arts attained the third position. Khushi of SSC-I Arts secured the sixth position. Stuti of SSC-I Arts received the seventh position, Diya and Aashi of SSC-I Commerce and Arts respectively got consolation prizes.Namrata 1st in MSc maths sem-IIStudents of MSc (mathematics, sem-II) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the institution by securing various positions in University. Namarata got first position by scoring 492/500 marks, Chandan Behl and Prerna bagged the fourth position with 482/500 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and their parents.Seminar on stubble burningHoshiarpur: As per the guidelines of Punjab Government and DPI Colleges, the youth welfare wing of DAV College, Hoshiarpur, under the chairmanship of Principal Dr Vinay Kumar, organised a seminar to aware students about the harmful consequences of stubble burning. The Wing Co-ordinator Dr Mukhtar Singh addressed that burning of the left over paddy material in the fields leads to many fatal diseases. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-enrolment-drive-for-girls-321122
07-10-2021||Founded in 1995||International Senior Citizens’ Day celebrated||Four differently abled get prosthetic limbsThe Inner Wheel Club provided prosthetic aid to four differently abled in Phagwara. Saroz Pabbi, president of the club, said the differently abled residents were offered prosthetics in the ongoing India Development Council Centre programmee in Ludhiana. Pabbi stated that three women and a man received the benefit from the programme. The club members also donated Rs 15,000 to the centre. Pabbi said for the past many years, the Inner Wheel Club had been providing prosthetic body parts to the disabled to make them stand on their own in the society.LPU selected for Central Govt programmeLovely Professional University (LPU) has been selected as the Mentor Institution for Innovation and Entrepreneurship by the Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell (MIC), Government of India. The Ministry of Education has established ‘Innovation cell- MIC’ (MoE’s Innovation Cell) to foster culture of ‘Innovation’ across all educational institutions from idea generation to pre-incubation, incubation and graduating from the incubator as successful start-ups. It also works on designing ranking systems to identify institutions in the forefront of innovation. Hence, LPU has been chosen for the programme by the ministry after registering for the programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-senior-citizens-day-celebrated-321123
07-10-2021||---||Young skaters of Cambridge International School, Jalandhar, shine||Jalandhar, October 6Young skaters of Cambridge International School proved their mettle in skating at District Level Roller Skating Championship held at Police DAV School. In the rink race (500m) event, in the Under (5-7) category (girls) Ashlyn Kaur bagged the first and second positions in three laps and two laps race, respectively as a wing skater.In Under (5-7) boys, Vihaan Mendiratta clinched the third position in three laps as well as in 500m as a quad skater. In Under (7-9) Category (Girls), Gurnaaz Kaur bagged the third position in 500m and four laps as quad skater.In the Under (7-9) category (boys), Yuvaan Arora received the third position in one lap race and second position in 500+D. In Under 7-9 (Boys) Arjun Singh clinched the first position in 500+D and second position in four laps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/young-skaters-of-cambridge-international-school-jalandhar-shine-321124
07-10-2021||---||SDMs inspect Sewa Kendras in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 6On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Phillaur, Shahkot and Nakodar SDMs conducted surprise inspections at Sewa Kendras falling in their jurisdiction with an aim to further improve the working at these centres. Thori said the random checking at kendras was conducted to ensure smooth functioning of these centres by removing bottlenecks, if any.He said the SDMs suggested a slew of measures to further scale up the infrastructure at these centres, including addition of new counters and setting up of token display boards at counters so as to facilitate visitors. It was also advised that expected time should also be mentioned on the tokens so that people need not to wait for their turns; they come to the counter only at a given time, the DC added.Thori further mentioned that a few observations were noted by the respective SDMs during their checking comprising an increase in token numbers issued by Sewa Kendras, opening of exclusive counters for Aadhaar card related services, and scaling up sitting capacity in the waiting lounge. He mentioned that all these suggestions and observations would be dealt with on priority basis so as to improve functioning of these centres.The DC stated that the Jalandhar district has once again secured top position in maintaining zero-pendency in citizen centric services being delivered through Sewa Kendras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdms-inspect-sewa-kendras-in-jalandhar-district-321125
07-10-2021||---||Roshni Society honours three differently abled||Jalandhar, October 6Three differently abled persons were felicitated for their great endeavour to join the mainstream with the support of the Roshni Society for their studies and all-round development in spite of their multiple hardships during the past several years.The first to be felicitated was Mary Christina, studying in Class 12, who is not able to stand erect and walk. Her father Clement leaves her at the school every day. Father Thomas KJ, founder director of Roshni Society, said she was exceptionally bright and leaves no stones unturned on the way of her progress.Michael, one of the differently abled boys, married and settled down in life, blessed with a baby girl, lives in Gharyala village of Patti. He makes candles and supplies them to shopkeepers and does similar other things for this maintenance.Sarwan Jose, a very good example of a PPRP –Post Polio Residual Paralysis case, settled down in life with the support of Roshni for the correction of his deformity and after basic studies in regular schools. He studied up to BA final privately and now works as office assistant of the society for several years. He is specially felicitated for his success in building a house of his own in Sansarpur village.All these celebrations were on the occasion of the birthday of Fr. Thomas KJ, who had recently completed 50 years as a priest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roshni-society-honours-three-differently-abled-321126
07-10-2021||---||College teachers take out rally in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 6Hundreds of teachers today protested against the Punjab Government demanding implementation of the seventh pay scale of the UGC in the government and non-government colleges. The rally was organised at Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall against the allegedly indifferent attitude of the state government towards non-implementation of 7th pay scale, Service Security Act, de-linking of UGC pay scales and other demands of teachers.A large number of teachers from government and non-government colleges were present at the rally. All university and college teachers of Punjab have been struggling for a long time to get the 7th pay scale of the UGC implemented. Along with regular teachers, hundreds of contract teachers also participated in the rally alleging that they were suffering financially due to the non-implementation of new pay scale.Earlier on September 3, thousands of college and university professors from all over the state had reached Chandigarh to protest against the state government. Teachers all over the state have been protesting over their demands since September 5. Teachers in all universities and colleges, including Panjab University campus, are sitting on a chain fast. The teachers say that now they will withdraw from the dharna only when their demands are accepted.They said except Punjab, teachers have got the 7th pay scale in almost all the states of the country. The teachers have made it clear that if their demands are not accepted immediately, then there would be a big problem for the government in the upcoming Assembly elections.The teachers said a committee of four members was also constituted regarding this matter and it had submitted its report to former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, but owing to change in leadership, the matter had become pending again.District President of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) Dr Sanjeev Dhawan said many times the demand for 7th pay scale has been raised. All procedures have been completed, but till date the benefits have not been given to the teachers. Further, he also demanded that the Service Security Act for uncovered teachers should be implemented with immediate effect.During this, District General Secretary, PFUCTO, Dr SS Bains said we only got assurance for the 7th pay scale but thousands of teachers are waiting for it. Dr Bains said they have high hopes from the present government led by CM Charanjit Singh Channi, but if the government would show any laxity, then we would intensify their agitation.General Secretary Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union Prof SS Randhawa condemned the attitude of the Punjab Government and said if the government did not immediately pay heed to the legitimate demands of the teachers, the struggle would intensify all over the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-teachers-take-out-rally-in-jalandhar-321127
07-10-2021||---||Stubble burning: Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner flags off vans to sensitise farmers||Jalandhar, October 6Taking its battle against stubble burning menace to grassroots by educating the peasantry about its harmful effects, which may worsen the Covid situation, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori today flagged off three awareness vans to sensitise the farmers.Flagging off the vans from district administrative complex, the DC, accompanied by Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh, Agriculture Officer Dr Naresh Gulati, said the vans have been fitted with audio messages and will sensitise people about hazardous effects of the burning of paddy stubble.He said the paddy stubble was useful for the farmers and it should not be burnt at any cost as farm residue could play an important role in enhancing the fertility of the soil. He said burning of stubble poses a danger to the environment and must be avoided at every cost.He said these ultra-modern vans would be instrumental in awakening the farmers about the need for paddy straw management.The DC said besides the audio messages, vans would also disseminate information to the farmers through the pamphlets and posters for making them aware of the pollution caused by paddy burning beside the ways and means of managing the paddy straw effectively. Besides, as many as 900 wall paintings would be carried out in the villages with 90 awareness paintings in each block.The DC also reiterated that instead of burning the paddy straw the farmers must use farm implements for efficaciously tackling the menace of stubble burning in the district thereby making the district pollution-free.He said the Punjab Government has been providing huge subsidies to the farmers for purchasing the ultra-modern equipment that could be useful in effective paddy straw management. He said due to the burning of paddy straw, several major nutrients and other micronutrients of soil were destroyed whereas the soil health improves drastically if the residue of straw was mixed in the soil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stubble-burning-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-flags-off-vans-to-sensitise-farmers-321128
07-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Seven held for illegal mining in Hoshiarpur village||Protest against rising crime in cityJalandhar: A large number of people on Wednesday gathered outside the City Police Commissionerate office to protest against the rise in criminal activities in the city. The protest was led Kishan Lal Sharma, former president, BJP Cultural Cell. He, along with members of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Smriti Manch and youth leader Ashok Sarin, submitted a memorandum to Police Commissioner Naunihal Singh against rising robbery, theft, snatching and drug abuse cases. Kishanlal said, ”There is no check on the rising criminal activities in the city. Snatching incidents have rised manifold in the city and women are feeling unsafe on roads.” TNSAnup suicide: Bail plea rejectedJalandhar: The court of Additional Sessions Judge on Wednesday dismissed the bail application of the accused in the Anup Pathak suicide case. The accused Amrik Singh Sandhu, Inderjit Choudhary and Ravinder Choudhary had filed the bail application on September 30. Anup Pathak (47) had reportedly committed suicide at his residence on September 28 after continuously receiving life threats from the accused, named in his four-page suicide note. tnsThree Drug smugglers heldHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police arrested three smugglers and recovered narcotics from them. The police recovered 42 grams of heroin from different places and arrested Manjit Singh, alias Baba, a resident of Panjoda and Jaswinder Kumar Soond. Whereas, the police have also recovered 25 grams of intoxicating powder from Nimal Jassi, a resident of Khanoda. Cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OCJeweller alleges extortion callHoshiarpur: A city jeweller has complained to the police that he got an international call on his phone in which the caller demanded extortion money from him. The police have started investigation after registering a case under Sections 384, 506 and 511 of the IPC. An investigation has been initiated. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-held-for-illegal-mining-in-hoshiarpur-village-321129
07-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Long-winding wait for disability certificates||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 6A delegation of disability activists from Jalandhar, led by Amarjit Singh Anand, expert member, State Advisory Board (SAB), Disabilities, today met Cabinet minister for Medical Education and Research, Raj Kumar Verka in Jalandhar with a demand to speed-up the process of completion of the Research & Development Centre for Autism and Neuro Development Disorders at Sector 79 in Mohali and inaugurate it as soon as possible.Parents who have special children face a lot of inconvenience as they have to take their special child to Amritsar. We also face harassment as a specialised assessment of IQ is not available at the district level. The Mohali centre building is almost complete, once it is operational, all districts having no psychiatric can refer assessment cases to this umbrella institute. Amarjit Singh Anand, activistMembers said the parents of persons with intellectuals disabilities have to follow a long-winding process for procuring certificates for intellectual disabilities as well as psychiatric help - which will be greatly eased when the centre opens. Members said the ministers assured them to do the needful within two months. They said District Early Intervention centres, which issue disability certificates, are present only in five districts which pose a grave problem.A letter submitted to the minister by Anand, stated, “The foundation of the centre was laid in 2016 with deposit of Rs 20 crores. The project was scheduled to be completed in one year’s time. The project is almost complete and is running late and is into the 5th year now. The project is the pride of Punjab, being the first state in the country to have autism and neuro-developmental disorder R&D. The alarming situation of autism and neurodevelopment disorders is revealed by the study done by AIIMS doctors. 12 per cent or one in eight children are suffering from autism and neurodevelopmental disorders.”The letter added, “Inspite of repeated reminders to the Punjab Government by parents seeking early detection and intervention through Umbrella Institution and Operational District Early Intervention Centres ((DEICs), we feel there has been no redressal of our grievances. As per provisions of RPwD Act, 2016, the state has to provide disability certificate to persons with intellectual disability at the district level but unfortunately, only five districts have DEIC and doctors’ team of psychiatrists refers cases to Amritsar or PGI. Hence, parents of PwIDs face harassment at their district head quarters and even Amritsar. Further at Amritsar, the disability evaluation is done only on fixed days and very few (3-4 cases get their evaluation or disability certificates) and rest of the parents coming from all over Punjab have to return without any assessment certificate. The DEIC centres and doctors where there is no DEIC, each time refer cases for assessment or IQ testing to Amritsar, PGI or Sec 32, Chandigarh.”Speaking to The Tribune, Amarjit Singh Anand who himself is a father of a special child, said, “Parents who have special children face a lot of inconvenience as they have to take their special child to Amritsar and also face harassment for a specialised assessment of IQ not available at the district level. The Mohali centre is almost complete, once it is operational, all districts having no psychiatric can refer assessment cases to this institute. Many children, especially in rural areas, aren’t getting certificates issued in time, which obstructs their grants, pensions, Aadhaar issuance etc. The minister has assured us that the project will be operational in 2 months.”Getting document tough taskMembers of the delegation said parents of the persons with intellectual disabilities have to run from pillar to post to procure certificates for intellectual disabilities as well as psychiatric help, which will be greatly eased when the centre opens. Members said the ministers assured them to do the needful within two months. They said district early intervention centres, which issue disability certificates, are present only in five districts, which pose a grave problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/long-winding-wait-for-disability-certificates-321130
07-10-2021||---||Covid-19: Two new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 6As many as two new Covid cases were reported on Wednesday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,335 cases. In Jalandhar, with one Covid death reported yesterday, the district deceased tally reached 1,495. No new death from Covid was reported today. As many as 61,809 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 31. Of the 16,81248 samples collected in the district so far, 15,48012 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 974 tests are yet awaited. There are 21 people in home isolation in the district currently.2 cases, no death at K’thalaTwo cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally to 17,837. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today.One positive in HoshiarpurOne new Covid case was reported on Wednesday from the district, taking the total district tally to 30,782 cases. No Covid death was recorded today. The deceased tally remained at 982. As many as 29,789 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-two-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-321131
07-10-2021||---||30 dengue cases reported in Kapurthala in October so far||Jalandhar, October 6While Jalandhar and Kapurthala were initially among the districts with negligible dengue cases, October onwards, both the districts have witnessed rapid increase in cases.The number of dengue cases in Jalandhar district have reached 59, in Kapurthala, the tally increased to 138 with 30 cases being reported in October alone. In September, majority of the cases were reported from Bholath. Out of 30 cases reported in October, three to four were from urban areas while the rest were reported from Bholath.Kapurthala Epidemiologist Dr Nandika said, “We continue to get majority of the cases from rural areas and relatively lesser from urban areas. From January onward, a total of 138 dengue cases have been reported in Kapurthala. Majority are from Bholath.”“We are holding regular drives in the area. Residents in rural areas are being exhorted to keep neighbourhood clean and drain out excess water from utensils. We are also holding meetings with councillors in this regard.”On Tuesday, 19 dengue cases were reported in Jalandhar. Of these, 16 were from Jalandhar and remaining were from Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur. Out of the 16 cases, 12 were from urban areas and four from rural areas.Health teams in Kapurthala reported that residents were reluctant to let them in at their homes and colonies. During their visits the health teams found dengue larvae in coolers, tanks, broken utensils and pots at numerous places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-dengue-cases-reported-in-kapurthala-in-october-so-far-321132
07-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur: Woman, daughter hit dengue survey team member with stick||Hoshiarpur, October 6A woman and her daughter allegedly attacked a female member of a dengue survey team which was conducting a checking at their house after dengue larvae were found on the premises.The woman, claiming herself to be a doctor working in a private hospital, and her mother allegedly thrashed the victim with a stick.It is an unfortunate incident. I have written to the SSP, Hoshiarpur, in this regard to take strict action against the culprits. I also appeal to the people of the city to cooperate with the teams of the Health Dept so that the disease canbe controlled. Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra, Civil SurgeonThe victim, Ramanpreet, said their team was conducting checking and survey in a house opposite to Gautam Nagar Street No. 6. The house had a tea shop inside it too. During the checking, dengue larvae were found inside the house and the volunteers started making video of it. Infuriated over it, a woman in the house and her daughter, who claimed to be doctor, beat her with a stick and abused her. The volunteer had a narrow escape of being run over by a car after she was pushed out of the house by the duo.Other volunteers Naresh, Avtar Singh, Vikas Dadwal and Sohan Singh saved her. After the incident, Ramanpreet was admitted to the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital. A complaint was lodged at the city police station in this regard. Demanding justice from the district administration, Basant Kumar, in-charge of anti-larva staff, said, “If the people of the city start abusing volunteers and Health Department teams in this manner, how can we save the people from dengue. The administration should take a stern stance over it.”Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said, “It is an unfortunate incident. I have written to SSP, Hoshiarpur, in this regard to take strict action against the culprits.” He appealed to the people of the city to cooperate with the teams of the Health Department so that the disease can be controlled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-woman-daughter-hit-dengue-survey-team-member-with-stick-321133
07-10-2021||---||Night drive snuffs out two young lives in Jalandhar, 2 hurt||Jalandhar, October 6A night drive snuffed out lives of two friends and left two of their companions critically injured after their four-wheeler rammed into a tree on Gurbanta Singh Road around 10.30 pm on Tuesday.The victims were heading to their favourite snacks point in Sher Singh Colony when the accident took place.The deceased have been identified as Jaskaran Singh (20) and his friend Banke Khinder (28). The injured include Raj Kumar (25) and Sunil Kumar (30). All of them were residents of Basti Danishmanda.Baljit Singh, father of Jaskaran, said he was my only child and was just 20. “After completing his high school, he was assisting me in running swimming pool and other businesses. He was the sole reason of our happiness,” said Baljit after performing the last rites of his son.It took around 30 minutes for the passerbys to take out the youths from the ill-fated car. All four car occupants were rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared Jaskaran and Banke brought dead. Raj and Sunil were admitted to the emergency ward.Narrating the tragic incident, Raj, who was discharged from the hospital today evening, said they were heading towards Sher Singh Colony, when an overspeeding car hit them from the front, following which our car went out of control and rammed into a tree.Jaskaran, who was behind the wheel, and Banke, who was sitting in the front, died on the spot.Raj added that when he gained consciousness, he was lying in the hospital. Raj received internal injuries on his head and legs. Sunil was still undergoing treatment and doctors said he was out of danger.Sub-Inspector Sudesh Kumar (Investigating Officer) said we handed over the bodies to kin after the post-mortem. We are trying to identify the other vehicle and its driver involved in the accident. Eyewitnesses said they heard the sound of the collision from a distance of nearly one kilometer, said the Investigating Officer.The police have initiated the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/night-drive-snuffs-out-two-young-lives-in-jalandhar-2-hurt-321117
