08-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Couple among 4 booked for fraud||Drugs seized, two arrestedHoshiarpur: The Mahilapur police have recovered a huge amount of poppy husk and opium during a raid. Two accused have been arrested while two managed to escape. The police party raided Dhadda Kalan village and recovered 23 kg of poppy husk hidden in the fodder. The accused, Harjinder Singh alias Jinder, was arrested. The police party raided another place in the village and recovered 90 kg of poppy husk and 400 grams of opium, buried in the ground. The accused, Dasharn Singh, was arrested while Gardawar Singh and Pinder escaped from the spot. The police have registered a case under NDPS act against all the accused. OCPhones seized from Central JailHoshiarpur: The Central Jail Administration has recovered 15 mobile phones from different barracks during a surprise checking on the jail premises. On the complaint of Assistant Superintendent Satnam Singh and Sarvjit Singh, posted in the Central Jail, the police have registered eight cases. One mobile phone each was recovered from inmates of barrack number 23. The jail administration had recovered an unclaimed phone lying on the roof of the barrack. Jail officials said the police team searched the barracks number 22 and 23 and recovered nine phones. Also, five more mobile phones have been recovered from barrack number 22 while four from barrack number 23. OCGunshot heard in Dabbi bazaarHoshiarpur: The city police station have registered a case against unidentified persons after a gunshot was heard and a bullet casing was discovered in Dabbi Bazaar. Mujahid Hussain, who works in Dabbi Bazaar, told the police on Wednesday that a gun shot was heard in the market. Later, when he was cleaning the roof of his house and he also found a bullet shell there, which had pierced the tin roof. The police have registered an FIR. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-couple-among-4-booked-for-fraud-321826
08-10-2021||Jalandhar||One fresh case of Covid reported in Jalandhar district||One fresh Covid case was reported on Thursday in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,336 cases. With no new Covid death reported, the district deceased tally remained at 1,495 today. As many as 61,814 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27. Of the 16,84,163 samples collected in the district so far, 15,50,577 samples have tested negative.No cases, death in Kapurthala No fresh case of Covid was reported positive from Kapurthala today, keeping the Covid tally at 17,837. No death was also recorded from the district either.3 test +ve in HoshiarpurAs many as three new Covid cases were reported on Thursday from the district, taking the total district tally to 30,785 cases. No Covid death was recorded today. The deceased tally remained at 982. There are 13 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fresh-case-of-covid-reported-in-jalandhar-district-321824
08-10-2021||---||Gakhal Group Hockey League begins today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7The first Gakhal Group Pro Hockey League is beginning here at the local Lyallpur Khalsa College AstroTurf Hockey ground from October 8 onwards. DC Ghanshyam Thori, who is also the president of the Surjit Hockey Society and Academy, said the two-day ‘Six-a-Side League’ will be organised in three formats, including junior, sub-junior and kids to promote hockey at junior level.As many as 30 matches will be played in all three categories. The renowned city-based NRI and sports promoters Amolak Singh Gakhal, Chairman, Gakhal Group (US) will be the main sponsor.According to Iqbal Singh Sandhu, organising secretary of the Pro Hockey League, said 18 teams, including Rakshak-XI, California Eagles (US), Sheray Sports, Milwaukee Wolves (USA), Royal infra, Tut Brothers (US), Alfa Hockey, Gakhal Brothers (USA), JPGA Farmers, Black Panther (US), Pukhraj Health Care, Jonex Sports, Hans Raj & Sons (Kpt) Tracer Shoes, AGI Jalandhar heights, Continent Hotels, Tyka Sports and Flash hockey would compete against each other.Teams will be provided playing kit, meals and diet to each player/officials. The meals will also be provided to parents or guests who will come to witness the matches. The matches will be played at 7:30 am onwards till evening, Sandhu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gakhal-group-hockey-league-begins-today-321823
08-10-2021||Jalandhar||SDM: Remove encroachments from Kapurthala Red Cross Market||The Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kapurthala, has issued the interim orders that none of the shopkeepers at the Red Cross Market shall set-up any vends or encroach the area outside their shops or use the outer space of their shops for any other purpose, including selling of their goods.The SDM has deputed the SHO city and the Red Cross secretary to ensure that the orders are abided by in letter and spirit. The orders have come in the wake of a petition filed by Kapurthala-based NGO Human Rights Press Club on the issue.The problem of encroachments at the Kachahri Chowk had been posing much trouble for the past some time. There were regular traffic jams and bottlenecks from the Kachahri Chowk to the Bhagat Singh Chowk which were causing much inconvenience to people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdm-remove-encroachments-from-kapurthala-red-cross-market-321822
08-10-2021||---||4 held for gambling in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7The cops from the New Baradari police station arrested four well-known residents of the city for gambling here on Wednesday night. The police arrested the accused and seized Rs10.05 lakh from them during a raid at a hotel, near the BSF Chowk. The amount was allegedly being used in gambling.The arrested accused have been identified as Sandeep Singh, Amritpal Singh, Gaganjeet Singh and Rajesh Kumar. They were caught red-handed while gambling in a hotel room. Two more accused, who were also gambling, managed to escape from the hotel. The absconding accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh and Avinash Singh.Giving more information, the New Baradari police station in-charge, Ravinder Kumar, said at around 12 am his team received a tip-off about some people gambling at a hotel, near the BSF Chowk. The police conducted a raid at the hotel from where the accused were arrested, he added. The accused, who managed to flee from the hotel, would also be arrested soon, he said. Those arrested were associated with a Congress MLA from the city, he added.Many people gathered at the police station in late night to get the accused released from custody. All the accused have been booked under Section 13 A of the Gambling Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-held-for-gambling-in-jalandhar-321821
08-10-2021||---||Son among 3 held for stabbing Phagwara villager to death||Jalandhar, October 7A man, along with his two accomplices, has been arrested by the Phagwara police for the murder of his father. An years old dispute is cited as the reason behind crime. The police solved the blind murder case today.Small clues at the crime spot followed by scientific investigation helped cops crack the blind murder of Baljeet Singh, a resident of Bhullarai. Three accused, including son of the deceased, was found to be involved in the crime. They were arrested by the police.The accused have been identified Sukhraj Singh, son of the deceased Baljeet Singh and a resident of Bhullarai, Parshant Rai, a resident of Guru Harkrishan Nagar, Phagwara, and Balwinder Singh, alias Sunny, a resident of Gali No. 1, Kothra Road, Unkar Nagar, Phagwara.During a press conference, the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, said on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, some unidentified people had killed Baljeet Singh at Bhullarai village with a sharp weapon.It was a blind murder, the SSP added. A case was registered in this regard on September 25 under Sections 302 and 34, IPC, on the statement of the family of the deceased at the Phagwara Sadar police station, said the SSP.Various police teams, including the Phagwara Sadar SHO, Gagandeep Singh Ghuman, and the CIA Phagwara in-charge, Sub-Inspector Sikander Singh, were formed under the supervision of the Phagwara SP, Sarabjit Singh Bahia, and the DSP, Palwinder Singh, the SSP added.These police teams, which were working on different theories to solve the case, found some clues at the crime spot during probe that helped them reach Sukhraj and his accomplices, said the SSP.During investigation, it came to fore that Sukhraj in connivance with with his friends Parshant Rai and Balwinder Singh planned to murder his father, the SSP added. Sukhraj, Parshant and Balwinder were arrested today, said the SSP.During interrogation, it came to light that Sukhraj, his mother and younger sister were evicted from their house by Baljeet around four to five years ago. Baljeet was unemployed and addicted to alcohol. Moreover, under the influence of alcohol, he used to beat and quarrel with all of them. Sukhraj had been in touch with his father for the past few months. He used to ask his father to give him money for going abroad.Sukhraj even insisted his father to sell his expensive two kanal land and pay him so that he could go abroad, but Baljeet refused to do so.In rage, on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, Sukhraj along with two accomplices stabbed Baljit to death while he was sleeping in his house. The police would produce the accused before magistrate and seek their remand for further investigation, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/son-among-3-held-for-stabbing-phagwara-villager-to-death-321820
08-10-2021||---||Former Miss India Punjab Navpreet Kaur Dhillon battles chronic illness||Jalandhar, October 7Adampur-based Navpreet Kaur Dhillon, who shot to fame in 2017, after bagging the Fbb Colors Femina Miss India Punjab title and remained among the top finalists in the nationwide pageant, is in dire straits. She is battling several kidney and liver diseases at a Mumbai-based hospital for the past few weeks. Admitted to the hospital, the 23-year-old diva, who represented the state twice in the Miss India event, has sought financial assistance from the Good Samaritans.The beauty queen has walked several ramp shows and has appeared in various commercials. An alumnae of the KMV college, her teachers say, she has given wings to the dreams of several girls from the tier-II and tier-III cities, who aspire to shine in the fashion industry. She completed her graduation from the KMV.Her mentors have made an appeal on the social media for donations. Amongst her peers she was popular as a forward looking, brave and confident girl. A resident of Ittan-Baddi village, near Adampur, both her parents are serving in the Punjab Police.Daughter of ASI Sukhchain Kaur and head constable Gurvinder Singh, Navpreet was among the top five contestants in the Miss India 2016 pageant and was given the title of Ruparel Realty Miss Sudoku.With the passion to uplift the society, Navpreet worked hard to make her mark in the fashion world.Help can be extended to her on her account number given below.Name - Navpreet KaurA/c no. - 001051100007264IFSC - YESB0000010Bank - Yes bankBranch - four bungalows, AndheriMail - navkaur94274@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-miss-india-punjab-navpreet-kaur-dhillon-battles-chronic-illness-321819
08-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Dug-up roads a nightmare for Jalandhar residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7The much-awaited Rs526 crore surface water project of the Municipal Corporation, by bringing in river water from the Sutlej for supplying it to the city residents 24X7, has landed in a fresh controversy.Roads are dug-up in the city to give a shape to the project, but it is causing a lot of inconvenience to residents. After residents began to raise a lot of hue and cry, the MC authorities also got their act together. Fearing a backlash fromvoters in the coming Assembly elections, they are now asking the contractor concerned to strategise work in such a way that it causes minimal mess and inconvenience to residents.Chairman of the Building and Roads (B&R) Committee of the MC, Jagdish Gag, said, “L&T, the company, which has been entrusted with the project, is not following a proper sequence of works.” “Instead of digging up all roads for laying underground pipelines, it should have prioritised the work to set up underground water reservoirs. While the biggest water tank is to be set up at a village near Adampur, five more tanks are to come up at different locations, including Surya Enclave, Beant Singh Park and Dhilwan,” Gag added.Pointing fingers at the contractor, he said, “His biggest blunder is that he has left all main roads of the city, including Kapurthala road, Nakodar road, 120-feet road, Mahavir Marg, DAV College road, Gazigulla road dug up. He should ideally go slow on road-digging work seeing the inconvenience that the people are facing. Ideally, his team should work on one road, fill trenches, do proper compression and get in relaid within a proper timeframe. At the moment, the company has dug up all these roads and seems to have forgotten to get them back into shape for use.”Not just Gag, almost all councillors of ruling Congress agree on the matter. “Assembly elections are just six months away. What face will we show to the people if roads remain in a bad shape? The road relaying work will take a lot of time,” says councillor Nirmaljit Singh Nimma, in whose ward the Reru area is lying dug up.Mandeep Jassal, councillor from the Dhilwan area, said, “The main Dhilwan road was dug up four days ago. The company has committed to get the road repaired in a month. If the firm does not do so, I will ensure that officials concerned of the firm face music.”Gag said he was in the process of issuing a notice to the company and asking it to send their representatives in the forthcoming meeting of the B&R committee soon. “We got Rs100 crore road works completed in internal colonies of the city in the past six months. All these works are ignored when people talk about dug-up main roads,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dug-up-roads-a-nightmare-for-jalandhar-residents-321818
