09-10-2021||Jalandhar||Freshers’ party at Lyallpur Khalsa College||Apeejay College welcomes freshersThe Student Welfare Association of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a Freshers’ Party for the first year students of session 2020- 21 and session 2021-22. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra told the freshers that all the dreams they have woven for their bright future would be fulfilled with the right guidance and sincere efforts. Eklavya Band enthralled the audience. Arush and Rohit performed western dance and the college bhangra team set the ambiance of the party. The gala moment of the party was the Fashion Parade in which 75-100 students participated.Induction programme at CT GroupWelcoming the new students, CT Group of Institutions organised a four-day long induction programme titled ‘Aarambh 2021’ at their respective campuses. The main objective of this ceremony was to bring together young and keen minds from different parts of the country in order to create a friendly and interactive environment. The new blooming buds were made aware of the rules, regulations and practices of the CT Group during the programme. All the Principals of different institutes imparted information about their various courses and industrial tie-ups.Workshop on Management GamesThe School of Management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised “Workshop on Management Games” in order to encourage experiential learning among the students and provide them practical inputs along with theoretical knowledge. The workshop was conducted for the students of MBA, BBA and BCom (Hons). The highlights of workshop included various games like-Glass Pyramid, Flip It, Bolt of Words, Art of Balancing, Blow it Out, Tower Stacking, Team Building, Puzzling Up. The games were hosted by Parul Nanda and Harshpreet Kaur. The event was coordinated by Prof Parul Nanda and Prof Antarpreet Kaur.IIC star rating for KMVThe Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell has recognised KMV’s Institution Innovation Council (IIC) as a high performing Institution Innovation Council (star rating of 4.5) and has selected it to act as a mentor to the other IIC institutions those who are in need of guidance and support. KMV is among the top 155 institutions (including universities, engineering colleges and management institutes) all over the country and is the only institution in Punjab to be selected as mentor institute as a part of Mentor-Mentee Programme of Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell (GOI).Principal Par Excellence awardProf Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (Autonomous) has been honoured with “Principal Par Excellence” award by International Institute of Hotel Management, New Delhi, for her contribution in the field of education. International Institute of Hotel Management, Delhi-Punjab Chapter also felicitated eight teachers from KMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School for their contribution to the field of education as persistent work and passion of KMV Collegiate Senior School is recognised by IIHM. Veena Deepak, Coordinator of KMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School, Anand Prabha, Incharge, Rajni Marwaha, Sachin Sharma, Sharanjit Kaur, Richa Vij, Alpha and Sufalica were also honoured with the award of “ Teacher Par Excellence”.BVoc Mental Health resultThe students of BVoc Mental Health Counselling (Sem VI) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, got positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Priya Bala got the first position with 2055/2400 marks, Aashima Salhotra got the second position with 2006 marks, Kanishka got the third position with 1974 marks, Livjot got the fouth position with 1957 marks. Anjana got the fifth position with 1818 marks.World Mental Health Day observedWorld Mental Health Day was observed by Saint Soldier Group of Institutions at Apahaj Ashram. Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra distributed dresses and fruits to children and elders of Apahaj Ashram and expressed love and respect for them. Students, Principal Manginder Singh from Saint Soldier Inter College were also present there. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/freshers-party-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-322030
09-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Ministerial staff go on pen-down strike||On the call of Punjab State Ministerial Services Union’s State Committee on Friday, the ministerial employees of offices across Punjab and Directorate offices at Chandigarh started pen down strike.In the district, staff of PWD, Civil Surgeon's Office, DC Office, SDM Offices, Horticulture Department, Transport Department, Education Department, Animal Husbandry Department, Tax and Excise Department, Public Health Department, Water Supply Sanitation, Agriculture Department, Treasury Department, Forest Department, Irrigation Department, Polytechnic Department, ITI, District Employment Office, Government College, Industry Department, Fisheries Department and Soil Conservation Office etc. observed the strike. District president of the union Anirudh Modgil and district general secretary Jasveer Singh Dhami said employees were struggling to get implemented the demands accepted by the government. “The main demands are to amend the Pay commission report, to restore the old pension of the employees recruited after 2004, to give full scale to the employees recruited on center pattern and to give full benefit to the employees recruited after 01.01.2016 under the Pay commission”, said Modgil. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ministerial-staff-go-on-pen-down-strike-322017
09-10-2021||---||Special squads to check illegal inflow of paddy||Jalandhar, October 8To curb the illegal inflow of paddy into Punjab from other states, the district administration has formed special squads to check bogus billing and illegal inflow of paddy in the district.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the teams are putting special nakas on all entry points in the district where vehicles are being checked by joint teams of the civil administration and police officials. He stated that a district-level task force had been constituted comprising officials from the police department, Food and Civil Supplies Department and Punjab Mandi Board so as to ensure that no vehicle could carry out such illegal activities on any route.Thori further mentioned the state government in its directions had asked the district authorities to initiate such checking to prevent illegal inflow of paddy from other states, following which, the administration has ensured round-the-clock monitoring of vehicles passing through Jalandhar district. He said that a permanent check post was set up at Phillaur where vehicles coming from other states were being checked thoroughly.The DC added that these flying squads would continue their operations till the completion of ongoing procurement season. He also said that the decision to check illegal flow of paddy was taken in the larger interest of the state’s peasantry as several cases of illegal transportation of paddy into Punjab was reported by the authorities in the past few years. He said strict action would be taken against the perpetrators of such acts, if any kind of similar incident reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-squads-to-check-illegal-inflow-of-paddy-322018
09-10-2021||---||NRIs urge Pargat Singh to implement proposed road map in 100 days||Jalandhar, October 8A delegation of NRIs, along with Karan Randhawa, NRI coordinator, Australia, and member of the high-powered investment committee, met Punjab NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh at his office in Chandigarh on Friday. The delegation handed over a road map for the NRI Affairs Department to the minister. The delegation also urged the minister to implement the proposed road map in the next 100 days.His proposal was submitted after a thorough consultation and feedback received from NRIs around the world, said Randhawa. “The key issues in the proposal include implementation of the new Act within time-bound fast track judicial tribunal or courts, help desk office to facilitate NRIs and foreign investments, which will act as single window to approve all proposals,” Randhawa added.“The other points of this proposal are developing sister-state relations with foreign countries to boost economic activities, issuing NRI investment bonds for infrastructure projects and setting up food processing industry under the PPP model with NRIs,” said Randhawa.To safeguard property of NRIs, it was essential to have time-bound fast track courts, Randhawa added.“The present judicial system has a lengthy process, which makes it difficult for NRIs to protect their properties. Illegal possession of properties of NRIs is a common problem. Those indulging in such acts find loopholes in the present judicial system to delay court proceedings and discourage NRIs to fight through legal procedures,” said Randhawa.“We have few investment proposals. Lack of interest from various departments to facilitate talks has discouraged investors to put forward their proposals. Red-tapism and and lack of coordination in almost all departments makes it difficult to create an investor-friendly environment. No department is willing to accept innovative ideas of the NRIs for the development of the state,” Randhawa added.“If the government makes the NRI Affairs Department a single contact point to facilitate NRIs and foreign investments it may help overcome such problems,” said Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-urge-pargat-singh-to-implement-proposed-road-map-in-100-days-322019
09-10-2021||---||PPCB holds drive against single-use plastic||Kapurthala, October 8As a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, an awareness drive against single-use plastic was held by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) at Pushpa Gujral Science City today.The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has amended the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. As per the amendment rules, single-use plastic commodities such as ear buds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice cream sticks, polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration, plates, cups, glasses, cutlery, plastic, PVC banners less than 100 microns, stirrers etc. shall be prohibited from July 1, 2022.The key dignitaries present during the event were Prof Adarsh Pal Vig, Chairman PPCB; Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, PPCB; Dr Saroj Arora from GNDU; Dr Neelima Jairath, DG, Science City; Shant Kumar, Hamco Charitable Trust; and GS Majithia, Chief Environmental Engineer, PPCB. The event was attended by the officials of Local Bodies Department, Education Department, various industrial associations and nearly 200 students from various schoolsDr Saroj Arora, professor, Department of Botanical Sciences and Environment, GNDU, briefed the participants about how the plastic has become a way of living and is damaging the environment in an unprecedented way. She highlighted the ill effects of single use plastics and the deterioration it causes to the environment. She said humans are buying 10,00,000 plastic bottles per minute and nearly 400 million tonnes of plastic waste is generated per year.Neelima Jairath, Director General, Pushpa Gujral Science City deliberated about the various alternatives to the single-use plastic and the need for elimination of the same from the items of our daily use. She also highlighted various success stories regarding efficient plastic waste management through local practicesKrunesh Garg highlighted the various initiatives taken by the Punjab Pollution Control Board for the management and recycling of the plastic waste. He also stressed on the involvement of the community as a whole for achieving a plastic free society in a near future.Prof Vig talked about how the participation at individual level is the key for preventing plastic pollution. He stressed on the various toxic materials released when the plastic materials are burnt and how the marine life is suffering tremendously at the hands of plastic pollution. He lastly appealed to all the participants to use alternatives to single use plastics. The event ended with a vote of thanks from GS Majithia, Chief Environmental Engineer, PPCB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ppcb-holds-drive-against-single-use-plastic-322020
09-10-2021||---||Farmers gherao Mehatpur BDPO, submit demand letter||Jalandhar, October 8Landless farmers of various villages of the Mehatpur block today gheraoed the BDPO officer, Mehatpur, to demand residential plots for landless farmers and labourers. The Pendu Mazdoor Union activists said despite the fact that the CM Punjab had directed the panchayats to call gram sabhas and pass resolutions to handover plots to labourers by October 7, the same had not been done.They said politically-connected gram panchayats also didn’t pay any heed to the CM’s directions. They said the panchayats under the BDPO block defied the government orders. The activists demanded that the next date of calling gram sabhas should be immediately announced and resolutions should be passed at public places.They also said to ensure transparency on the occasion; videography should also be done at the gram sabhas to ensure roofs and residential plots to the needy. They also demanded that the underprivileged who had been seeking jobs under MNREGA be provided with jobs or unemployment allowance. They further demanded that the panchayat record of Udhowal village should be made public.BDPO Zeenat Khehra accepted the demand letter from the protestors and assured that they can approach her in office till October 13 to get 5 marla plots. She said transparency will be ensured at all costs in gram panchayats so that requisite benefits are received by the needy. A resolution was also passed by labourers on the occasion, who demanded the arrests of upper caste persons of village Masani in block Batala of Gurdaspur district for allegedly meting out atrocities to the Dalits in the village. They also demanded the culprits in the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers’ killings. Labourers and landless peasants were addressed by Anita Sandhu, Daniel Sanghowal, Bakhsho Saidpur, Paramjit, Surinder Kaur, Bakhsho Madiala, Lav Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Rajinder Mand, Taranjit Mann, Ratan Singh Lambardar, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-gherao-mehatpur-bdpo-submit-demand-letter-322016
09-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 booked for dowry demand||Fraud: Travel agent bookedHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked a travel agent for allegedly duping a Dala resident of Rs 4.2 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Canada. The complainant, Mangal Singh, a resident of Kalyanpur, told the police that Jatinder Singh alias Jassi, a resident of Bhogpur, promised to send Gurdeep Singh, complainant’s relative, to Canada. The accused allegedly took Rs 4.20 lakh from him but after that neither the accused sent his relative abroad nor returned their money. The police have registered a case against the alleged accused. OC2 women booked for forgeryHoshiarpur: The city police have booked two women for forgery. Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Sector 49, Chandigarh, in her complaint said Jaswinder Kaur and Kuldeep Kaur, both residents of Bilaspur, fraudulently prepared a special power of attorney. The police have registered a case against both the accused under Sections 419, 420 and 120B of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-booked-for-dowry-demand-322023
09-10-2021||---||Covid-19: One fresh case reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 8One fresh Covid case was reported on Friday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,337 cases. In Jalandhar, no new Covid death was reported. The district deceased tally remained at 1,495 today. As many as 61,816 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 26. Of the 16,85,968 samples collected in the district so far, 15,53,402 samples have tested negative.All well in KapurthalaNo new Covid case was reported from Kapurthala on Friday, keeping the Covid tally at 17,837. No death from Covid was reported either.Two test +ve in HoshiarpurTwo new Covid cases were reported on Friday from the district, taking the total district tally to 30,787 cases. No Covid death was recorded today. The deceased tally remained at 982.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-one-fresh-case-reported-in-jalandhar-district-322021
09-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||On a relentless pursuit to help autistic kids||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8“We have to recognise the value of our children and the role they play in the society. That is the primary purpose. They are meant to play a valuable role in the society. We have to encourage them to take up that role and set a target for them to fulfill their roles. After that, all pieces begin falling into place by themselves. All questions begin to be answered,” says the woman, a super mum, who first planted the dream of self-employment among autistic kids into the minds of parents weary of the ill-informed discourse on spectrum disorders until then.She is a path breaking mentor and an inspiration for countless mothers and now her voice is being heard the world over. City-based disability activist, a mother and entrepreneur Anjali Dada is all set to debut on the TEDx talks. Her session titled ‘’Turning Adversity Into Mission’’ will be aired for the first time on October 8.Anjali Dada (46) is the founder of the NGO SOCH and it is her dream and vision and a relentless pursuit to reach out to others like her that gave birth to the first ever group therapy sessions for parents of autistic children being held in Jalandhar in 2006. Her endeavour to ensure better therapy schooling and self dependence for her 19-year-old son Dhananjay took her down a path which has eventually ensured the empowerment of many parents in need of informed guidance (and a shoulder to cry on).Her NGO today employs children with autism who deliver a number of orders of customised goodies (cards, handicrafts, candles, diyas etc.) which are a hit in Jalandhar and beyond.Herself mentored and empowered by her mentors Merry Barua and Indrani Basu, Dada’’s journey began with group therapy sessions from her garage in 2006. Her NGO was registered in 2008.She is now connected to a community of 300 to 400 parents who are constantly touch with her and regularly seek advice for her regarding their own children.Her recent exposure has also sprung surprises, linking her to more parents and her expertise is also sought after from Maharashtra and other state channels and news networks who have aired her inspirational story. Dada says, “There is so much love in the world. People are willing to listen. They are happy to help. Sometimes its all about calling out. Our social media posts have recently been hitting through the roof. There is also a need for our community to air our thoughts. We need to tell others. Sometimes when we are weary, what might seem to be an irritable question at that time, might be an innocent quip from someone which might change their life. We need to take all platforms to share our concerns, needs and experiences with patience and empathy.”Jalandhar’s super mom debuts on TEDx talks||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-a-relentless-pursuit-to-help-autistic-kids-322024
09-10-2021||---||Six eateries challaned for not segregating waste, plastic use in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 8Six eateries were challaned during joint raids of officials of the Health Department and the MC here on Friday. Eateries and dhabas near the railways station were raided and challaned during the drive.The drive was led by Joint Commissioner, MC, Jalandhar, Anita Darshi. Food Security Officers were also part of the inspection teams. Challans were primarily issued for non-segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes in these dhabas and also for using plastic bags.Notably, for the last few days, the MC and Health Department had been conducting joint raids ahead of the festive season at city eateries. Sanitation and branding of the eateries’ food products were also reviewed by the Health Department teams.The Food Security Department is also holding drives to crack down on eateries using substandard cooking oil with more than edible levels of TCP (total polar compounds) value.Teams of both the departments have been busy conducting inspections over the last week. Food Security Officer Beha Sharma said, “A challan was issued to six dhabas today for using plastic bags and failing to segregate their wastes as per guidelines. The awareness level of the dhaba owners on health issues has been very low.”Notably, the Health Department also found irregularities on two previous occasions in the past fortnight. Around 275 kg of substandard paneer was destroyed during a drive on September 17 and 22 in which various eateries/dhabas were raided two of which were found using substandard oil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-eateries-challaned-for-not-segregating-waste-plastic-use-in-jalandhar-322026
09-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Postal department innovating with commitment to serve community||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8Remember the days when there were no mobile phones and access to internet and email was very limited. Everyone used to stand near the gate of the house past noon waiting for the arrival of khaki-dressed postman. There used to be much excitement as he would hand over blue colour inland letters, postcards or money orders. In all this, one attraction used to be collection of rare, commemorative postal stamps and cards.That era long over, the Department of Posts still exists even though there are just about only a handful of letters being posted using the postal mail. Against nearly 500 letter boxes that were fixed at various points of the Jalandhar division, there are nearly 370 now. While some have a letter or two coming daily, there are others where there is not even a single mail arriving even in a span of few weeks. But the dedicated postmen still care to open them after a few days.Even the number of postmen has fallen by 60 per cent from the number that was there in 1985-86. Says Senior Superintendent Posts (SSP), Jalandhar Division, Narinder Kumar: “The work load of postmen has fallen drastically. The inland letters have almost vanished. Even we get to see them very rarely. The postcards are limited to just some government companies like LIC, which are in the form of their printed notices for sending these to their customers.”Narinder Kumar added: “Keeping our department’s commitment to service the community based in the remotest of areas, we have diversified ever since and diverted our staff for other works. Our primary job now remains dispatch of parcels. Like courier companies, we too are doing business with e-commerce companies. Companies like Amazon have tied up with us for delivery of couriers, especially in all those places where the courier companies refuse to go. We are delivering parcels in isolated villages. Our department has staff that delivers parcels in less frequented areas of Himachal Pradesh and J&K.”“During peak corona days, when most companies had reduced their workload, our employees continued to deliver articles at doorsteps. We were using trains and buses for delivery of parcels, but transport had also stopped. Ever since, we have started using our own parcel vehicles for delivery,” says the Senior Superintendent Posts.Another area where the Department of Posts is doing a good business is saving schemes. “We have postal ATMs also at 1,500 locations in India, including in General Post Office Jalandhar City, Jalandhar Cantonment and Nawanshahr.”Narinder Kumar, who has 40 years of work experience in Jalandhar, shared that there are other multiple roles of Post Office now. “We are also into online digital payment through National Payment Corporation of India. Our postmen and gramin karamcharis are going in the most interior areas to make payments via Aadhaar-enabled machines. They take thumb prints and authenticate user using phone and Aadhaar details.”National Postal Week from October 11Even as the World Posts Day falls on Saturday, the Department of Posts has plans to celebrate National Postal Week from October 11 to 17. Banking Day will be observed on October 11, Postal Life Insurance Day on October 12, Philately Day on October 13, Business Development Day on October 14 and Mail Day on October 16.World Post Day todayWorld Post Day is celebrated each year on October 9, the anniversary of the establishment of the Universal Postal Union in 1874 in the Swiss Capital, Bern. It was declared World Post Day by the UPU Congress held in Tokyo in 1969. The theme of the day this year is: Innovate to recover. The department, too, seems to be proceeding in the same direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/postal-department-innovating-with-commitment-to-serve-community-322028
09-10-2021||---||SC post-matric scholarship: No end to Punjab Govt vs colleges for now||Jalandhar, October 8There seems to be no end to the stalemate between the government and colleges across the state over the issue of pending amount of Rs 1,549 crore on account of SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme.Even as new Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Dr Raj Kumar Verka claims that he would be able to resolve the issue by paying up to 40% of the amount, the colleges are in no mood to relent.Most college authorities are saying that they want 100 per cent payment of the dues. “The state government already knew that the Centre had ended the scheme in 2016-17. But still during admission in 2017-18, we were pushed by the state government to take free admission with an assurance that they would make the payment.“We were even threatened with dire consequences if we refuse to take free admission of Dalit students. If we allowed admission under the scheme at the state government’s assurances and written communication, the state is bound to pay us the whole fee amount,” said owner of CT Group of Colleges Charanjit Singh Channi which has 18 colleges in the state.Channi added, “I have already filed four different legal suits in the court on the matter. I have Rs 32 crore due from the government under the scheme. The state cannot now run away from its own undertakings. We have a whole bunch of communication from the state government for the academic years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 and have attached them all with our petitions. We are not just seeking 100 per cent repayment, but also interest on the pending amount.”Confederation of Punjab Unaided Colleges president Anil Chopra said he had a meeting with Dr Verka recently in Chandigarh. “We were asked that we should accept 40 per cent and for the remaining amount we may go for litigation. We have clarified that the litigation would be against the Centre as well as the state government. We have also put forth a point that we should get payment of 40 per cent amount in one go instead of any instalments,” he discussed.Chopra added, “We already had been given 40 per cent offer by the previous minister but there was a rider that we should submit an affidavit that we will neither demand the remaining 60% dues nor approach any court for this. We had simply refused giving any such affidavit. Dr Verka in the meeting allowed us to accept the 40 per cent dues while allowing us to move the court after that. So we may accept the part payment and then proceed to the court for the remaining amount.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-post-matric-scholarship-no-end-to-punjab-govt-vs-colleges-for-now-322032
