10-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Domino’s pays the price for ‘unfair trade practice’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9There seems to be no end to the practice of charging for carry bags. In Jalandhar, too, charging Rs12 for a carry bag cost Domino’s dearly. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, in its recent order, has directed Domino’s to pay Rs2,500 to consumer.Along with this, the Model Town located store of Domino’s was asked to return the cost of the paper carry bag. In its decision, the forum also made several comments regarding the arbitrariness of such big stores. Advocate Jatinder Arora (51), a resident of Chhoti Baradari Part-1, had bought food items from Domino’s in April 2019. He had filed a complaint at the commission on January 20 last year.The total bill of the eatables was Rs243.40. Apart from this, Domino’s also charged Rs12 separately for the paper bag. When the complainant resisted to pay and protested against the unfair practice, the employee sitting at the cash counter misbehaved with him and threatened him of dire consequences if he takes any action.When the commission took out the notice in this regard, Domino’s, filing the counter statement, cited the Plastic Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011, through which it was claimed that they were not compelled to provide free carry bags to a customer. According to the rules, no carry bag shall be made available free of cost by retailers to consumers and the municipal authority concerned shall determine the minimum price of carry bags depending upon their quality and size, which covers their material and waste management costs to encourage their re-use, so as to minimise plastic waste generation. However, they could not produce any record in this regard. Domino’s officials confessed that they had recovered Rs12 for the carry bag. They said it depends on the customer whether to take the bag or not. The workers gave the carry bag only after taking the consent of the customer.But the commission counsel consisting president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna did not agree with this argument and said large stores such as Domino’s do not allow customers to bring their own carry bags. They know that if this is not the case, then customers would not easily agree to take carry bags for them.The commission held that the cost of the carry bag was included in the profit of the product. In such a situation, charging a separate price is an unfair trade practice.Subsequently, the commission directed Domino’s to refund Rs12 for the carry bag, Rs500 as compensation for harassment, Rs1000 as litigation expenses and also to deposit Rs1,000 in the Consumer Legal Aid account of this commission. Further, the compliance of this order should be made by Domino’s within 45 days.To comply within 45 daysThe commission counsel consisting president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna held that the cost of the carry bag was included in the profit of the product. In such a situation, charging a separate price was an unfair trade practice. Subsequently, the commission directed Domino's to refund Rs12 for the carry bag, Rs500 as compensation for harassment, Rs1000 as litigation expenses and also to deposit Rs1,000 in the Consumer Legal Aid account of this commission. Further, the compliance of this order should be made by Domino's within 45 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dominos-pays-the-price-for-unfair-trade-practice-322675
10-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district reports 4 new +ve cases||Four new Covid cases were reported in the district on Saturday taking the tally to 63,338 cases. In Jalandhar, with no new Covid death, the toll remains at 1,495. As many as 61,819 people have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 28. Of the 16,88,649 samples collected in the district so far, 15,55,189 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,109 tests are still awaited. There are 14 people in home isolation in the district at present.1 case, no death in K’thalaOne Covid case was reported in Kapurthala on Saturday taking the tally to 17,838. No death was reported.2 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported one new case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 30,788 cases. However, no death due to the infection was recorded. The death toll stood at 982. There are 12 active cases in the district while 29,794 patients have recovered. — TNS/ OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-4-new-ve-cases-322676
10-10-2021||---||Slipper thrown at Sukhbir’s convoy, SSP says no clue who did it||Jalandhar, October 9Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal had to face a massive protest from farmers during his visit to Jalandhar in connection with a rally jointly organised with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Pathankot Road here.Hundreds of farmers participated in the protest. One of the protesters at Kishangarh Chowk even threw a slipper at the SAD chief’s convoy that was passing through.SAD should have at least waited for this issue to get resolved. Our community has come to express anger here. —Jaspal Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal)There were reportedly about 500 farmers at the site. We have not been able to trace the culprit so far. No such video has emerged which can give us a clue. —Satinder Singh, SSP, Jalandhar RuralSatinder Singh, SSP, Jalandhar Rural, said: “There were reportedly about 500 farmers at the site. We have so far not been able to trace the culprits. No such video has emerged which can give us a clue.”Farmers said they had gathered to express their resentment with the SAD over its decision to go ahead with a massive rally and for making election announcements especially when farmers had just been killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.“SAD should have at least waited for this issue to get resolved. Our community has come to express anger here,” said Jaspal Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).Farmers, who were raising slogans of Kirti Kisan Union, had even got placards especially designed for the event. One placard read “Akali Dal pehlan haq vich, ajj virodh vich kyon?” (why was Akali Dal in favour of the Farm Act earlier and now opposing it?).There were several placards asking political leaders to shun electioneering till the issue was resolved. One placard read “Votan baad vich, pehlan kisan-mazdoor de sangharsh di jitt zaroori” (priority should be given to strengthening farmers’ protest, electioneering can follow suit).Chief spokesperson of BKU (Rajewal) Kashmir Singh said: “We have already told the political parties that they must shun politics till the elections are announced as every Punjabi’s priority should be to strengthen the farmer morcha in Delhi. But political leaders are going ahead with their own vested agenda, which we were trying to oppose today.”Not all placards carried messages over farm issues, as there was another placard that questioned the SAD leadership over withdrawing blasphemy case against Sirsa Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim. Sukhbir Badal said he had been urging farmers to shift their focus against the BJP and not indulge in protests against those who already had been supporting their morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slipper-thrown-at-sukhbirs-convoy-ssp-says-no-clue-who-did-it-322677
10-10-2021||Jalandhar||Applications invited for stamp vendor licences||The district administration has invited applications from interested persons for issuing 157 stamp vendor licences (Ashtam Farosh) in its various subdivisions of Jalandhar.Disclosing further details, DC Ghanshyam Thori said these 157 licences would be given in Jalandhar-1, Jalandhar-2, Nakodar, Phillaur, and Shahkot subdivisions. He said a written exam would be held on October 31 and aspirants could apply on http://www.af.ptuexam.com/ for the stamp vendors’ licenses from October 11 and 25. He said the written exam would be based on matriculation syllabus and later interview conducted. He said the candidate must be a resident of Jalandhar district only and must be matric pass from any recognised board.The DC appealed to the interested candidates to take maximum benefit of the opportunity and added that these licences were being issued to ensure that maximum unemployed youths get the licences. A committee, headed by the ADC (General), is supervising the entire recruitment process, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/applications-invited-for-stamp-vendor-licences-322679
10-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur defeats Nawanshahr||Hoshiarpur, October 9Hoshiarpur cricket team defeated Nawanshahr by four wickets in the U-25 Inter District Cricket Tournament to win their third consecutive match on Saturday. With this victory, Hoshiarpur reached semifinal of the tournament.Nawanshahr won the toss and decided to bat first. The entire team could only manage 158 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 50 overs.Shubham Kumar scored 46 runs while Karan Rajput scored 25 runs for Nawanshahr. For Hoshiarpur, Amit Vishal and Karan Chawla, took two wickets each and Ashish Ghai dismissed one player.Hoshiarpur team scored 163 runs in 39.1 overs for the loss of six wickets. Rahul Kashyap scored 74 runs (not out), Ekam Sandhu 47 runs, Gurshish and Saurav Malik scored 14 runs each. Dr Raman Ghai, secretary, Punjab Cricket Association, said with this win, Hoshiarpur has entered semifinal. He said Hoshiarpur will face Kapurthala on October 11.Dr Daljit Khela and Dr Pankaj Shiv said the hard work of players, training and facilities, paid off. Coach Daljit Singh, Davinder Kaur, Deepak Bali, Arjun Jonty and Pali Dhami, congratulated the players on their victory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-defeats-nawanshahr-322680
10-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Registration for BE courses commences||Hoshiarpur, October 9Registration process for BE admissions at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), at Panjab University, Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Campus (PUSSGRC), Hoshiarpur, for the session 2021-22 has commenced.Providing the information, Dr HS Bains, director of PUSSGRC, said the registration could be done through the portal www.chdenggadmissions.nic.in and the last date for admission registration is October 13 but the registration fee challan has to be generated on or before October 11. He said there were a total of 296 seats in different BE courses at UIET PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur, including mechanical engineering, electronics and communication engineering, computer science and engineering and information technology.Each branch has 74 seats under different categories. The campus is largest off campus establishment of Panjab University, Chandigarh, with state-of-the-art infrastructure and excellent placements record.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/registration-for-be-courses-commences-322681
10-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||JDA mulls auctioning vacant land of old DC, SSP office||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9The Jalandhar Development Authority (JDA) is mulling to sell vacant land of the old DC and SSP office complex adjoining Plaza Chowk. With preparations afoot to put the land on auction, the JDA is expected to develop the land in the area in the next three-four months.Under the project, the JDA is also expected t00000o generate a revenue of about Rs 200 crore. JDA Chief Administrator and Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Karnesh Sharma state that the vacant land of the complex would be auctioned area wise (area by area) in the coming three to four months for developing the new complex.Giving more information regarding the project, Karnesh Sharma stated that about 6.67 acres of land was lying vacant in the complex, which has now been decided to be sold in five segments.“However, the department has to first re-develop a record room in the area for the Sessions Court for which the construction approval has been cleared by the High Court Housing Committee. In addition, the department has also marked areas for laying lights cables, roads, sewerage and water pipes. Subsequently, tenders will be floated according to the market conditions,” added Sharma.Considering the estimated bidding, sources reveal that the department has decided to keep a reserve price of about Rs 30 crore per acre. Two-storey commercial pockets will also be constructed in every part of about one-and-a-half acres and for this parking will be left as per the rules.Clearing doubts over the illegal cutting of trees in the complex, the MC Commissioner stated that about 100 old trees were planted in the complex and tenders for cutting the trees had been allotted after obtaining the approval from the Forest Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jda-mulls-auctioning-vacant-land-of-old-dc-ssp-office-322682
10-10-2021||---||Gakhal Group Hockey League concludes||Jalandhar, October 9Tracer shoes, Tyka Sports and Hans Raj & Sons Kapurthala became the champions in the Junior, Sub Junior and Kids section, respectively, in the Gakhal Group Surjit Hockey league (Season-1) concluded here today at local Lyallpur Khalsa College AstroTurf ground.In the final match of the junior section of the league, Surjit Singh’s solitary goal in the 10th minutes of game, helped Tyka Sports team to clinch Gold medal after defeating Alfa Hockey.Both the teams had entered the finals by leading their pool with 9 points each. Jonex Sports Jalandhar bagged bronze medal for better goal average in the pool matches. In the other matches of the league Rakshak-XI beat Gakhal brothers, USA by 2-1, Alfa Hockey beat Royale Infra by 4-0, Tyka Sports defeated Gakhal Brothers by 3-1 and Alfa beat jonex by 2-1. Rajan Kohli, CMD, Tyka Sports awarded a cash prize of Rs. 12000 to tyka sports teams players.The main sponsor of this Surjit Hockey League Amolak Singh Gakhal, Iqbal Singh Gakhal & Palwinder Singh Gakhal known as Gakhal Brothers of USA also announced that keeping in view the overwhelming response of players in Junior, Sub Junior & Kids groups, atleast three more seasons of this league would be sponsored every year to promote hockey.In the kids section of the league, Hans Raj and sons (Kapurthala) were declared as champion on the better goal average while Milwaukee Wolves (USA) got Silver medal with five points.AGI Infra, Jalandhar got the bronze medal with four points. In the other league matches of the day, Milwaukee Wolves (USA) and Hand Raj & Sons, Kapurthala played 1-1 draw whereas AGI Infra and Tut Brothers USA shared points by 1-1. Raman Kumar, the league owner of the Hans Raj & Sons awarded prize money of Rs. 12,000 to team’s players.In sub junior section, the Tracer Shoes defeated Continental Hotels by 5-1. The champions were leading by 1-0 at lemon break. The scorer for the Tyaka Shoes were Charanpreet Singh (2), Gurnawaz Singh Aulakh (2) and Charat Singh (1).Tracer Shoes beat Black Panther by 4-0 and Continental Hotels defeated Shray Sports by 2-1. The Chairman of Tracer Shoes and President, Hockey Punjab announced a cash award of Rs. 51,000 to all the members of the teams.The resultsIn sub junior section, the Tracer Shoes defeated Continental Hotels by 5-1. The champions were leading by 1-0 at lemon break. The scorer for the Tyaka Shoes were Charanpreet Singh (2), Gurnawaz Singh Aulakh (2) and Charat Singh (1). Tracer Shoes beat Black Panther by 4-0 and Continental Hotels defeated Shray Sports by 2-1. The Chairman of Tracer Shoes and President, Hockey Punjab announced a cash award of Rs. 51,000 to all the members of the teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gakhal-group-hockey-league-concludes-322683
10-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Will ensure justice to Lakhimpur victims: MLA||Hoshiarpur, October 9The Congress and its workers are ready for every sacrifice to ensure that justice is served to the victims (farmers and journalist who were martyred in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh).The Congress will not sit silent till the culprit is not put behind bars. This was stated in a press note issued by MLA Dr Raj Kumar’s office on his behalf. It is worth mentioning that to ensure justice to the victims, a fast and silence was observed by PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Supporting him in this, Cabinet mnister Vijay Inder Singla and MLA Dr Raj Kumar also observed a fast. Sidhu and others ended the fast after the son of the BJP minister, the accused in the incident, joined the investigation.The MLA said the BJP governments at the Centre and in UP were trying to suppress the voice of the farmers, but did not know that the people who know how to sacrifice for their rights. The attitude of the UP government in the Lakhimpur case was anti-farmer and under a well-thought-out conspiracy, the UP government was also indifferent in giving justice to the farmers who were martyred, due to which, anger among the farmers was increasing.He said only the Congress understood the pain of the farmers and from the day the Modi government at the Centre made black agriculture laws, the Congress was standing with the farmers.He said if the farmers of the country would be happy then only we could wish for the prosperity of the country. Otherwise, hunger and poverty could never be removed.The MLA said the stand of the Congress was very clear that till the black agriculture laws were not repealed and justice was provided to all the farmers who were martyred in this struggle, the Congress would stand firm with the farmers in this struggle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-ensure-justice-to-lakhimpur-victims-mla-322684
10-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accidents||Smuggler held under NDPS actHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested a smuggler during a naka in the area and recovered 25 gram narcotics powder from him. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Rafi of Jiya Sahota village. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. OCHP poll: Khanna star campaignerHoshiarpur: BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh has appointed Himachal Pradesh in-charge and former Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Avinash Rai Khanna as the star campaigner for the Himachal elections. In view of the upcoming Himachal elections, BJP’s National General Secretary Arun Singh sent a letter to the Election Commission of India by sending names of leaders of Himachal Pradesh selected as star campaigners for the upcoming elections of Mandi, Fatehpur, Arki and Jabal Kotkhai assembly constituencies. It is worth mentioning that along with Khanna, CM Himachal Jai Ram Thakur and other prominent leaders are also included in the list sent by Arun Singh. OCJallianwala Bagh: Stir on Oct 22 nowJalandhar: The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee will hold a protest in Amritsar against the recent changes made at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar on October 22. Earlier, the committee had decided to hold the march on October 20, but postponed the event in the view of Valmiki Jayanti. Members of the panel said they would hold a protest from Bhandari Bridge to Jallianwala Bagh on October 22. Members said the decision was taken after detailed discussions with various groups. A meeting was held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall on the issue. General secretary of the panel Gurmeet Singh and cultural convenor Amolak Singh said, “Repeated appeals to the President, the Prime Minister, the Jallianwala Bagh Trust and the administration, proved futile.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-322685
10-10-2021||Jalandhar||Landless farmers get debt waiver cheques worth Rs73 L||Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh on Saturday handed over debt waiver cheques worth over Rs 73 lakh to landless farmers and farm labourers. Giving away cheques to as many as 305 beneficiaries of Cooperative Society here, Jamsher, accompanied by Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Jagjit Singh, minister said that under the debt waiver scheme for landless farmers and farm labourers a total of 41307 beneficiaries of Jalandhar district would be benefitted with a debt waiver to the tune of Rs. 78.47 crore.  Likewise, debt worth Rs. 6.75 crore of landless farmers and labourers has been waived in Jalandhar Cantt constituency, thereby giving relief to 3177 such beneficiaries. He said that the Cooperative Department was fully geared up to provide cheques to the beneficiaries thus covering all the societies within days to come. These society level events will also facilitate beneficiaries to get their debt waiver cheques at their doorsteps, he added. The minister also pointed out that the distribution of cheques to beneficiaries was ensuring fulfilment of one of another key promises of the State Government, which would further give a major reprieve to this section of the society. The outstanding dues of eligible beneficiaries of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies will be waived off, said Pargat Singh. Meanwhile, the Minister also made a fervent appeal to the farmers not to burn paddy straw and crop residue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/landless-farmers-get-debt-waiver-cheques-worth-rs73-l-322686
10-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Balers come in handy in managing crop residue||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9In a bid to discourage the practice of burning paddy straw and disposing of paddy stubble ethically, Seechewal-based Vatavaran Bachao Sewa Society is proving a boon for environmentally conscious farmers who, ironically, don’t have the money to fulfill their ecological calling.Led by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, the society has helped hundreds of farmers in disposing of stubble without burning it.A Shaktiman Round Baler bales its way through a field at Sultanpur Lodhi yielding out neat round stacks of straw where once there was unruly crop stubble. With diesel prices climbing to Rs 96 this year, the neat round bales are a dream come true for a marginal farmer who does not want to burn his stubble, but doesn’t have the money to afford either a mulcher or a baler.Since 2016, Seechewal’s Harpal Singh and Prabhpreet Singh have been lending their balers machines for free to poor and marginal farmers who don’t want to burn crop stubble. While until last year the society had three balers, the demand is such that they have just bought a new one. Now they have three.Harpal Singh, one of the progressive farmers of Seechewal, is among the five farmers of his tehsil who hasn’t burnt crop stubble since 2014. Led by this vision, in 2016, he started lending help to other farmers. In 2019 the society helped clear stubble from 1,200 acres of farm land. In 2020 (last year) they helped bale crops in 1,600 acres and this year the target is 2,000 to 2,200 acres. Out of this, 200 acres worth of stubble has already been baled.Harpal Singh says, “Rich farmers have mulchers and equipment. We only help poor farmers who cannot afford the machines. The results of balers are astounding. It promotes fertility and better yields for farm and soil. We started in 2016 and the demand has only increased.“We have tied 200 acres of stubble in bales and are getting calls from more farmers daily. We have already cleared stubble from fields of 30 to 35 farmers and 100 more are listed. Sant Seechewal’s message is that no one should set fire to their crops in Seechewal. But in Sultanpur Lodhi people continue to do so,” Harpal said.The stacks collected are sold to a biogas plant at Beer village in Nakodar and some of it goes to Zeera. Yet more is sent to gaushalas in Sultanpur Lodhi and serves as fodder for cattle.Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “We have three balers which we provide to marginal farmers. Not burning paddy stubble brings a breath of fresh air to the region. The burning of stubble in Doaba has decreased. Those who still burn it, lose essential minerals in the soil, the bacteria and healthy microbes die, the yield is also adversely affected. Even as fodder, this collected stubble is very healthy and nutritious. We have been running this service for four years. We have also been warning of dangers of burning stubble on social media platforms and TV.”Input costs dramatically increaseHarpal Singh says, “After much struggle, the Doaba balers have been able to get the plant to agree to the price of one quintal of stubble bales at Rs 160 per qtl. Our expenditure for the same one qtl is Rs 185. Diesel prices were at Rs 96 this year, last year they were Rs 74. The price of the string with which we tie the bale has also increased. Last year they were Rs 174 this year they are Rs 197 (with bill) and Rs 184 (without bill). Input costs are dramatically rising.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balers-come-in-handy-in-managing-crop-residue-322692
10-10-2021||Jalandhar||World Mental Health Day||Hans raj mahavidyala gets GrantsHans Raj Mahila Mahavidyalaya got a shot in the arm by receiving funding support to organise an Impact Lecture Session 2020-21 from the Innovation Cell of Ministry of Education, Government of India. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the team of Institution’s Innovation Council for the achievement and said innovation was the creation of something that improves the way we live our lives. Innovation in educational institutions encourages teachers and students to explore, research, and use all the tools to uncover something new. She further informed that the Ministry of Education, Government of India has established its ‘Innovation Cell’ at All India Council for Technical Education with a purpose of systematically fostering the culture of Innovation in all Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) across the country. MoE’s Innovation Cell (MIC) is focusing to create and strengthen the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem across higher educational institutions. At HMV, the major focus of IIC is to create a vibrant local innovation ecosystem and develop a sound start-up supporting mechanism.Indian Air Force DayHailing the air warriors on the occasion of 89th anniversary of the Indian force, Eklavya School observed the day with zeal. Eklavya School director Seema Handa apprised the students of sacrifices and the contribution made by the Indian Army forces and some heroic facts in the history of Indian Air Force and some heroic facts. Middle school students encapsulated programmes such as speech apprised the students about the history of India. Students made aircraft models with the help of ivory sheets. Principal Komal Arora emphasised that it was our responsibility to follow our inherent core values, Eklavya School celebrate this day with great zeal and fervour by both junior and senior wings. The event encapsulated programmes such as, speech, quiz, solo song, group dance etc. The speech apprised the students about the history of Indian. The chairman of the school J.K Gupta said that it’s very important to teach the children about the contribution of such great personalities.State swimming C’shipMakshi Bansal of Class VIII of Delhi Public School brought laurels to the institution and her family by performing exceptionally well in the 44th Junior and 43rd Senior Punjab State Swimming Championship held on October 2 and 3 at Mohali. She won four silver medals and three bronze medals in the different events- silver medals in 200m backstroke group 2 (12-14 years), 4 x 200m freestyle relay group 2 (12-14 years), 4 x 100m freestyle relay group 2 (12-14 years), 4 x 100m medley relay group 2 (12-14 years) and bronze medals in 100m backstroke group 2 (12-14 years), 200m backstroke women’s and 100m backstroke women’s categories respectively. The sports is an integral part of the curriculum at Delhi Public School Jalandhar.Seed germination activityState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised seed germination activity for the students of kindergarten. They were demonstrated the germination process of a seed where each child was given a different seed to be germinated. The mentors guidance helped them to sprout the seeds in the pot where the role of sand and water was told to them. Their exciting faces told the success story of activity. President, vice-president of group of state public schools Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur, along with Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated their efforts made towards making innovations in today’s education system. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-mental-health-day-322693
