11-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Webinar dwells on concepts of physics||Hoshiarpur, October 10A webinar on ‘OLED for Transparent Display’ was organised by the CV Raman Society of Physics in association with IQAC at DAV College, Hoshiarpur, under the chairmanship of Principal Dr Vinay Kumar.Dr Charu Madhu from the UIET, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the keynote speaker in the webinar. Highlighting the various ins and outs of OLED, Dr Charu explained its superiority. Dr Anoop Kumar, president, college management committee and Secretary DL Anand, conveyed their wishes to the organising committee of the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-dwells-on-concepts-of-physics-323017
11-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Two killed in road accidents||Hoshiarpur, October 10Two persons died in separate accidents in the area during the last 24 hours. The police have registered FIRs against the accused against in both the cases. Mohan Singh, a resident of Roopnagar district, has lodged a complaint that his brother Kuldeep Singh had come to Tanda Road for loading a trolley with cement. Kuldeep was on the road parking the trolley when a vehicle passing by hit him and he died. The police have registered a case against the unidentified accused.In the second case, Aziz Muhammad, a resident of Rajwal village, has lodged a complaint with the Talwara police. He said his brother Shukardeen had gone from home for his duty at the Power House, Talwara, in a bike. When he reached near Dohar village, a car passing by hit him.Shukardeen was admitted to the hospital where he succumbed to the injuries. The police have registered a case against the accused driver Karan Singh of Beh Khushala village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-323018
11-10-2021||---||Covid-19: 1 tests +ve for Covid in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 10One new Covid case was reported today in Jalandhar, taking the total district tally to 63,339. In Jalandhar, no new Covid death reported, hence the district deceased tally remained 1,495 today. As many as 61,822 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 25. Of the 16,90,662 samples collected in the district so far, 15,57,824 samples have tested negative.All well in KapurthalaNo case of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,838. No death due to Covid was reported at Kapurthala today either.1 new case in HoshiarpurThe district reported one new case of Covid, taking the tally to 30,789 cases. However, no death was recorded today. The death toll stood at 982. There are 11 active cases in the district while 29,796 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-1-tests-ve-for-covid-in-jalandhar-district-323019
11-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Couple dies in road accident||Unidentified man booked for fraudHoshiarpur: A case has been registered against an unidentified person for duping a man of a gold ring and Rs20,000 on the pretext of doubling the money. The police are taking help of CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused. Chaman Lal, son of Harbans Lal, an owner of the Agarwal Kariana Store in Mohalla Krishna Nagar, has lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday. He said he was in his shop, when a monk came to him in a white dress and asked the address of a religious place. He then promised of doubling his money and took a gold ring and Rs20,000 from him. He later gave him a paper pouch and asked him to open it after some time. When he opened the said pouch, he did not find any cash or ring in it but just cannabis. OCThree arrested with liquorHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers after recovering huge quantity of liquor from different places. The Garhdiwala police, after a tip off, seized 137 boxes of smuggled liquor and arrested a smuggler. The accused has been identified as Rohit Hans, a resident of Bhagat Nagar, Hoshiarpur. According to the police, the alleged accused used to supply cheap liquor in the area by bringing it from outside. The Dasuya police arrested Kamaljeet Singh, alias Kamali, a resident of Rajpur Mela and recovered 6,750 ml of liquor from him. Similarly, the Talwara police have arrested a Bhated resident Deewana, and recovered 6,750 ml of liquor from him. OCIntoxicants seized, three arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three drug peddlers, including a woman on Saturday night, with huge quantities of intoxicants. The Bullowal police have arrested two smugglers from different places and recovered 44 grams of intoxicating powder from them. The accused have been identified as Varinder Kumar, alias Rinku, a resident of Lidhran and Raj Kumar, alias Raja, a resident of Bullowal. The Garhshankar police have arrested Denowal Khurd resident Kashmir Kaur and recovered a huge quantity of sedative pills from her. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-dies-in-road-accident-323020
11-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||No full stop: Rejected last year, 10-year-old Nakodar-based dancer Sanchit Chanana proves his mettle this season||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 10Nakodar-based dancer Sanchit Chanana, who blew the viewers’ mind with his extraordinary footwork received a warm welcome from people back home, for becoming the second runner-up of the Sony TV’s dance reality show ‘Super Dancer Chapter 4’.The 10-year-old lad was eliminated in the audition round in the previous season of the show. However, with his sheer hard work and dedication, Sanchit took all comments in a positive manner and entered with a bang for Chapter 4. He gave an intense performance on the song Ek Prem Da Pyala Aaya, which left the judges astounded.Apart from garnering praises from judges, Geeta Kapoor, Shilpa Shetty and film director Anurag Basu, top choreographers, including Remo D’Souza were also left amazed by Sanchit’s dance moves. The last episode of the show ‘Nachpan Ka Maha Mahotsav’ was aired last night and Sanchit Chanana also received Rs 1 lakh prize. He gave a tough competition to his fellow contestants to make his mark.On receiving positive reviews from the judges of the show, and being among the winners, Sanchit said, “Dance is my passion and throughout the journey on the show, I took all comments that I receive in a positive way and did my best to work on it. I am very happy that the judges appreciated my performance and I noticed a difference from the previous season.”Sanchit has been dancing for the last five years. He was working closely with choreographer Vartika Jha. In one of the episodes, featuring 90’s hit pair, Govinda and Neelam Kothati, Sanchit won hearts of the viewers after he grooved to the mash-up of popular Govinda numbers. He and Vartika left everyone awestruck with their whacking styles. Appreciating Sanchit, Neelam called Sanchit ‘mini Hrithik’ and Govinda gifted him a jacket.Sunil Kumar Chanana, Sanchit’s father, who landed today with the dancing star here, said, his son has made the district proud. While Sanchit is a student of Class V at Mayor World School, his mother, Neetu Bala is a government schoolteacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-full-stop-rejected-last-year-10-year-old-nakodar-based-dancer-sanchit-chanana-proves-his-mettle-this-season-323021
11-10-2021||---||Over 200 teachers of govt-aided colleges hold candle march||Jalandhar, October 10Over 200 teachers of the government-aided colleges today took out a candle march in the city under the banner of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union as a protest against the anti-higher education policies of the state government in past.Speaking on the occasion, General Secretary of the organisation Prof Sukhdev Singh Randhawa said the state government was apathetic towards the demands of the state college teachers.Jalandhar district president Dr Dhawan said the college and university teachers were holding a chain hunger strike under the banner of PFUCTO at Punjab University, Chandigarh, since September 5 against the callous attitude of state government towards higher education institutes.Speaking to the press, District General Secretary of PCCTU Dr SS Bains said the demands of the teachers included early implementation of Seventh Pay Commission Recommendations for college teachers and Service Security Act for unaided faculty. He said Punjab was the only state in India that had not implemented new pay scales for college and university teachers and also the that lack of service security act had led to sense of insecurity for unaided college teachers though it didn’t put any financial burden on the government.He also appealed to the government to revoke its decision of de-linking college teachers’ pay scales with UGC pay scales as this had led to a sense of insecurity and desperation among teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-200-teachers-of-govt-aided-colleges-hold-candle-march-323022
11-10-2021||---||Consumer forum tells JIT to pay Rs 65K to octogenarian||Jalandhar, October 10Sucha Singh, an 86-year-old retired Captain, finally got justice from the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, in a case pertaining to cheat and fraud by Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT). The consumer court directed JIT to pay Rs65,000 to the Captain for not providing the required services within a stipulated time.A native of Hoshiarpur, Sucha Singh, in his complaint, mentioned that after being allured by the JIT for the development scheme in the 170-acre Surya Enclave, he registered for 200 sq yards area and an allotment letter no. 8537 dated February 26, 2004, was issued to him.Further, the full consideration of Rs4,05,950 was made by him the next month. However, he was handed over the possession of plot measuring only 185 sq yards in place of agreed 200 sq yards for which he had even made extra payment of Rs40,000 for being the corner plot. He also paid Rs10,000 for gas pipe connection which also didn’t see the light of the day.Subsequently, the complainant approached JIT multiple times but to no avail. Afterwards, he filed a complaint at the commission in March 2018 under the Consumer Protection Act.Upon notice, the JIT appeared and contested the complaint by raising preliminary objections that complaint is not maintainable. “The area of the corner plot can be increased or decreased on the actual site which cannot be ascertained at the time of allotting the plot and allottee of the corner plot has to pay as per the increase or decrease in the area of the actual site,” added the JIT officials and denied all charges. JIT demanded for the dismissal of the complaint.The complainant tendered his affidavit in evidence. The complainant wrote a letter to the JIT regarding issuance of the site plan and wrote various letters to JIT with regard to demand possession of 200 sq. yards of the plot in question instead of 185 square yards but JIT failed to do so.After considering the overall facts, commission counsel comprising president Kuljit Singh and memberJyotsna concluded that neither the complainant was allotted the land with the desired area and the nor the facility of gas pipe line was installed.Therefore, the JIT was directed to pay Rs40,000 as fee which had been charged by the JIT from the complainant for corner plot, Rs10,000 for gas pipe connection, Rs10,000 as compensation for mental harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation. The compliance of the order be made within 45 days, the order added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/consumer-forum-tells-jit-to-pay-rs-65k-to-octogenarian-323023
11-10-2021||---||Jalandhar gears up to celebrate Diwali; only 20 cracker stalls to be allowed this year||Jalandhar, October 10With the festival of lights less than a month away, the district administration has invited applications from interested parties and fireworks sellers to apply for licences to set up their vends at the Burlton Park in the city.After gradual easing of restrictions following the subsiding of the deadly second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year, there is much commotion in markets ahead of the festive season.Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh on Sunday said the interested applicants, willing to sell crackers at the Burlton Park, would be issued licences on October 21 by a draw of lots.A three-member committee consisting of Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh, the ADC and the ACP (Licensing) will be reviewing applications and making the final decisions about the number and placement of vends to be allowed to put up shop at the Burlton Park.In a formal declaration, he said anyone above 18 years, who wanted to get a temporary licence for a temporary firecracker shop at the Burlton Park (Jalandhar), could download the application form for the same from the website www.jalandharpolice.gov.in and two other links.Forms downloaded are to be submitted to the arms licensing branch of the Commissionerate Jalandhar from October 11 to 14 between 9 am to 5 pm. The applications will not be considered after these dates, the administration declared.A draw of lots for issuing licences will be held on October 21 at 4 pm at the Red Cross Bhawan in Jalandhar.Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said, “So far, only a draw of lots has been announced. Based on the number of people applying for licences, the future decision regarding the total number of vends to be put up at the Burlton Park would be taken. The time allowed for the vends to be set up, the duration of the sale of firecrackers, the decision with regard to the total number of vends to be set up at the Burlton Park will be taken by the committee when we know the number of applications that are in. We would be holding meetings in the coming days in this regard.”Raghav Mahajan, member of the Bajrang Bali Fireworks’ Association, Jalandhar, said, “Our association has 60 members and we are looking forward to the allocation of licences. We are sticking to the process as per the guidelines, which have been issued in the previous years. After the gloom of Covid, everyone is looking forward to this. However, the total number of applicants will be clearer once requests have been sent.”Draw of lots on October 21||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-gears-up-to-celebrate-diwali-only-20-cracker-stalls-to-be-allowed-this-year-323024
11-10-2021||Our Correspondent||AEO found murdered in Mukerian, 1 booked||Hoshiarpur, October 10A 34-year-old man, posted as AEO in the Agriculture Department in Mukerian, was brutally murdered late on Saturday night. His blood-soaked body was found from a deserted place late in the night.Giving information related to the incident, SHO Karnail Singh said after getting information on the phone from the control room, Chandigarh, he along with a police party reached Kalamanjh Kothi in Ward No.1. There were marks of wounds and injuries of sharp-edged weapons on the body.He said the deceased was identified as Amandeep Dadwal (34), son of Sukhdarshan Singh, a resident of Shastri Colony (Mukerian), who was posted as Agriculture Extension Officer (AEO) in the Agriculture Department in Hajipur block. After the identification of the body, the police reached the house of the victim and informed his family about the incident. He said a case would be registered on the basis of the statement of the family members. The victim is survived by two sons (aged 8 and 4), wife and parents.Sukhdarshan Singh, father of the victim, said Amandeep had left home for a medical store located at Talwara Chowk in the evening where he often used to go after his duty. There he got a call over his mobile from someone and he left the place. When he did not reach home even after a long time, he called his son but his mobile was switched off. He got upset and started calling his relatives and near ones, but Amandeep was nowhere to be found.At around 12.30 am, the police reached their house and informed about the death of his son. The Mukerian police have booked Ashutosh, a resident of Colonel Di Kothi (Mukerian), and his unidentified accomplices under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC on the complaint of the victim’s father Sukhdarshan Singh. The accused has not yet been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aeo-found-murdered-in-mukerian-1-booked-323025
11-10-2021||---||Street play team felicitated||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 10A meeting was held by Kandi Kirsanu Union (Regd.), Punjab, on Thursday, at Nangal Shahidan, toll plaza. Jagjit Singh Gill, Master Inder Singh Chhauni Kalan, Daljit Singh Patti, Ranjit Singh Bihala and other farmer leaders participated in the meeting. On this occasion, people contributing to the ongoing farmers’ struggle were honored.The team of Bahu-Rang Kalamanch, Hoshiarpur, was welcomed on reaching Hoshiarpur after successful performance of Punjabi street play “Main Punjab Bolda Ya” on the Singhu border and Tikri border. All artistes were honoured by presenting a siropa.Playwright Ashok Puri said the street play ‘Main Punjab Bolda Ya’ was a depiction of today’s religious, political and social system starting from the Sapta Sindhu period. Sanjeet Sunny, playback singer Tarun Kumar along with facilitator Ashok Puri and street play artistes were felicitated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/street-play-team-felicitated-323038
11-10-2021||Punjab||Open House: Should the drug problem be a key issue ahead of Punjab Assembly elections?||Simranjeet Singh SainiCheck cross-border flow of drugsThe scourge of illicit drug trade has spread its tentacles in the urban and rural areas of Punjab over the past two decades, courtesy illiteracy, rampant corruption, unemployment, easy and cheap availability of narcotics and porous borders with Pakistan and Nepal. Local, national and international drug traffickers involved in this lucrative business employ various methods to smuggle them into the state via Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Nagaland. Younger generation is the worst victim of drug abuse. It has affected every aspect of their lives like loss of lives, disruption of studies, retardation of physical, psychological and moral development, reduction in work performance, distortion of interpersonal relations and family breakdown, and leads to accidents, violence and poverty. Realising the need to resurrect a dwindling generation, successive governments have frequently promised to eradicate drug abuse and trafficking. Despite major drug seizures from time to time and punishing petty peddlers and policemen for their alleged role, nothing much has been done on the ground level. Drug menace goes on unabated as no meaningful action has ever been taken against drug lords who run a major smuggling and supplying network in the state with impunity because of their alleged links with powerful police personnel and political leaders across parties. Merely making it a key issue ahead of 2022 Assembly election will not suffice. Strong political will, strict enforcement of law and breaking the flourishing smuggler-police-politician nexus will check the supply and abuse of these highly addictive and life-threatening synthetic and psychotropic drugs in the state.D S KangDrug abuse leads to multiple crimesThough illicit drug trade is a national phenomenon, Punjab has seen an exponential rise in it in the past few years. Opium-based drugs such as heroin, poppy husk, cannabis and pharmaceutical sedatives are the most abused narcotics in the state. These have wrecked havoc on many young lives from each and every section of society, irrespective of their social status and income. Drug abuse gives rise to multiple socio-economic problems. It results in suicides and drug overdose deaths; impedes their physical, mental, intellectual and moral growth; drives them to criminal activities such as snatching, theft, robbery, eve-teasing and rapes; causes road accidents; creates emotional and financial problems for their family; burdens the public and private healthcare system; and drains national resources. From time to time, the ruling state dispensations have reiterated their determination to check the prevailing drug menace. It was a major poll issue in the last 2017 Assembly elections in Punjab with principal parties promising strict action against drug syndicates. Arresting common addicts, small peddlers and punishing DSP Jagdish Singh Bhola and other policemen involved in a multi-crore drug racket are good moves. But unfortunately, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the Congress-led government to enforce criminal prosecution of drug traffickers finally exonerated the prominent mafia men because of their alleged nexus with the top-ranking police officials and politicians.Tajpreet S KangTackling this menace must be top priorityTo tap the demographic dividend potential of Punjab, it is the responsibility of the political parties to address the problem the drug abuse. Extensive efforts are required at the ground level to tracing the origin of drug nexus. Being a border state, the influx of drugs in the state should be blocked to cause further loss. In addition to it, village panchayats and ULB’s could be incentivised by the government, if the former succeeds in declaring themselves as drug free zone, on the similar parameters envisaged under Swachh Bharat Mission.Nishant SumanDrug trade linked to cross-border terrorAll leaders of various political parties and social organisations should work in tandem to create an atmosphere of awareness among the masses against the menace of drugs. Before 2017 elections, Congress leader Capt Amarinder Singh promised that if voted to power the drug menace will be ended within a period of one month. Now, we have a new CM but the problem still persists. There is no doubt that the issue of drugs will certainly once again play a positive role in the coming state Assembly elections due to the seizures of drugs in the state by the various departments under Ministry of Home Affairs. There is always a question of accountability on the widespread prevalence of drug trade, but one thing is clear that Punjab is a border state and Pakistan have always tried to destabilise the unity and integrity in Punjab and also boosted cross border terrorism in the past. The menace of drugs have spoiled future of many innocent youths and even ruined their families and business. Youths are misguided in their teen age and become regular users of drugs. Recently, a massive haul of drugs were confiscated at a Sea Port.Rajat Kumar MohindruDe-addiction centres proving ineffectiveDespite tall promises and claims by the political parties/governments to end the illicit trade of drugs, it goes on unabated. During the last Assembly elections, the Congress vowed to end the menace of drugs from the state, if voted to power. Later, winning the elections with convincing majority, the government launched a campaign to nab the culprits involved. But the move failed to yield the desired results, as the big-wigs from all political parties and several unscrupulous elements, mafias had joined the illicit trade to reap quick bucks. The supply of drugs from across the borders and various other places never stopped as a number of hooch tragedies and big haul of contraband drugs is reported every day. It is pity that these drugs have taken away several precious lives and households ruined but no accountability is fixed. The de-addiction centres set up to cure the habituated drug addicts and prevent the use of harmful drugs are proving ineffective and thereby earning the wrath of public. Ironically, at wedding celebrations and even during the elections, despite ban, liquor and some other kind of intoxicants are freely distributed to influence the voters. Therefore, unless the candidates with drug connections are held ineligible to contest elections by the EC and the government draws a fair policy to take drastic action against the bigwigs, the curse is difficult to be rooted out.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathJob opportunities need to be increasedDrug problem in Punjab is still persisting with dangerous implications but it appears that the political parties are not going to prioritise it as their major issue in next General Election. Presently all major political parties are competitively engaged in wooing the people through offering freebies in different ways in many rather than focusing on drug menace. The frequency and the level at which drug seizures are reported by the security agencies indicate that the state is still in the grip of drugs so far as consumption of drugs and smuggling of contraband are concerned. There appears a sordid lack of political will on behalf of political and administrative layers in the state to eradicate the menace in totality. Otherwise there is no reason why the problem is still rampant in spite of being it a major political issue in the last general election. The persisting strong nexus between the political leadership, police and the smugglers need to be broken. Various cases pending before the courts have to be fast tracked to speedily punish the offenders. .JAGDISH CHANDERGovernment, society must act togetherThe menace of drugs is a very serious issue and its consumption has ruined future generations. The issue of drugs has always been an issue during elections. In the Punjab Assembly elections 2017, the major focus was on the synthetic drugs. The recent haul of drugs seized by the police clearly indicates that this time also the issue of drugs will be once again a major poll plank in the coming Assembly elections. Social organisations and society as a whole should come forward to highlight the disadvantages of drugs through seminars in schools, colleges and in their areas educating the masses, students towards the negative effects of consuming drugs. Similarly, the drug peddlers should be sent behind the bars because they are spoiling the future of the country specially the youths. No doubt the government is running rehabilitation centers for those who are drug addicts where they can get cured.SIMMI MOHINDRUVote for those who address such issues SamQUESTIONWith the next Assembly elections approaching near, the ruling and the opposition parties have started luring the electorate with freebies. Should the sops or good governance be the priority for seeking votes?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 14)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-should-the-drug-problem-be-a-key-issue-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-elections-323055
