12-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||11 booked for firing in the air||Three booked on fraud chargeHoshiarpur: Hariana police on Sunday registered a case against three members of a family on the charge of grabbing money by making false deals. According to information, Vivek Gupta, a resident of Hari Nagar, told the police that Mandeep Singh, his brother Harjeet Singh, and mother Sewa Kaur, all residents of Sherpur village, had allegedly cheated him by grabbing his earnest money by making false deals. After registering a case, the police have started investigation. OCPower cable stolen, 2 heldHoshiarpur: Bullowal police on Sunday night arrested two persons for stealing power cable from a tubewell. According to information, Harjeet Singh, a resident of Taragarh village, had lodged a complaint with the police that Jaspal Singh, alias Sonu, and Jagdish Singh, alias Geela, both residents of Rahimpur, allegedly stole power cable from his tubewell. The police have arrested both the accused. OCOne held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: Mukerian police have arrested a person accused of smuggling 15,000 ml of illicit liquor from him. The accused, Lakhwinder Maish of Jandwal village, was arrested on Sunday night by a police party on patrol from near Jandwal when he was found coming out of sugarcane fields carrying a plastic sack. On search, the illicit liquor was recovered from the sack he was carrying. An FIR under the Excise Act has been registered against the accused. OCWar veteran passes awayHoshiarpur: Col Jujhar Singh Atwal, a decorated war veteran, passed away here on Sunday evening. Col Atwal served at sensitive Army postings, including Siachen glacier, the toughest battlefield of the country, Kupwara, Deolali, Meerut and the border areas of Punjab. A gunner with Rajputana rifles, this vocation impacted his hearing in the long run. His father Bakhshish Singh was Admiral in Indian Navy. Col Atwal battled a prolonged illness only to be defeated by death. He is survived by a son and daughter. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-booked-for-firing-in-the-air-323511
12-10-2021||Jalandhar||Dandiya dance at Ivy School||Webinar on biotechnologyA webinar on the topic “GM Crop Regulations: Scope and Opportunities using CRISPR-CAS9 Genome Approach” was organised jointly by the Department of Biotechnology and S. Balbir Singh Centre for Sciences at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. Dr Vinay Kumar Yadav from Central University of Bathinda was the key resource person. Dr Yadav explained about the use of latest gene editing technologies available for research and development and explained the use of CRISPR CAS9 in gene editing for disease resistance, better trait and higher yield in plants. He explained that these technologies are going to be very beneficial for the farmers and community.World Mental Health Day observedWorld Mental Health Day was observed at Delhi Public School to remind students that the mind needs to be cared equally as the body. This year World Mental Health Day comes at a time when our daily lives have changed considerably as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. A video and certain tips for good mental health were shared with the students of Classes I to XII. They were told about the five ways to well-being- keep a connect in relationships, stay active by engaging in a hobby or exercise, Take notice of the present and enjoy it, keep learning and indulge in acts of kindness.Vedic Chetna Shivir at HMVVedic Adhyayan Society and the Sanskrit Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, organised a Vedic Chetna Shivir for the resident scholars of the college. More than 100 students participated in the shivir. The students were made aware about moral values, good behaviour, yoga and Vedas. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen addressed the students and said that the motive of our institution is not only to provide bookish knowledge to the students but to provide them value-based education and good attitude so that they can achieve greater heights in their life.Make-up workshop organisedThe Department of Cosmetology, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, organised a one-day workshop in association with Balish Makeovers. The makeup experts for the occasion were Ashish and Balraj. Various bridal and party makeup techniques were explained and demonstrated during this workshop. Ashish and Balraj explained different sort of make-up as per different skin types. They also demonstrated the usage of various products. Students and staff members also actively participated in the workshop. Principal Dr Navjot expressed her gratitude towards Balish Makeovers and appreciated the efforts of Palka, Department of Cosmetology for organising the workshop.Lecture at CT Institute of LawCT Institute of Law organised a seminar in which Advocate Manu Jindal Barrister and Solicitor Canada was the guest speaker. He delivered a lecture on the topic “How to become a Barrister and Solicitor in Canada?” He gave detailed information about how to become internationally educated legal professional. He focussed on the point that without following immigration process how an advocate can apply for the Barrister license in Canada. He enlightened the students about filing online application through the National Committee on Accreditation (NCA) process to become at par with Canadian Law Graduate and entitled to start the Law Societies’ Lawyers’ Licensing Process. The speaker enlightened the students about core subjects out of which five subjects of Canadian Administrative Law, Canadian Constitutional Law, Canadian Criminal Law, Canadian Professional Responsibility, and Foundation of Canadian Law are mandatory to crack.Lecture on Eco-friendly TechniqueGNA University organised a guest lecture on ‘Microwave Processing ‘An Eco-Friendly Technique’’ via the online platform. Dr Kanchan L. Singh, HoD, Applied Sciences, DAVIET, Jalandhar, was the resource person for this event. The sole objective of the lecture was to apprise the young scientists of the latest eco-friendly techniques. Dr Kanchan introduced microwaves along with its applications in space, cell phones, navigation, remote sensing etc. She explained various techniques for the generation of microwave energy. She also described the history of microwaves and gave contrast with the latest one. She explained the material processing in microwaves using thermal energy. Heating phenomenon occurring in microwave was the key interest of this guest lecture. Students understood various synthesis techniques of microwaves using different materials and their impacts through this event.Nitika wins silver in Boxing C’shipNitika, a student of BA (Sem-I) of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, won silver medal in Punjab Women Boxing Championship held at Patiala. Nitika bagged silver medal in 81-plus category of the tournament. She has also won gold medal in school state and also bagged a gold medal in U-25 departmental games before this accomplishment. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated Nitika on her achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dandiya-dance-at-ivy-school-323509
12-10-2021||Jalandhar||‘Chargesheet against staff not enough’||After reports of chargesheet against four employees of the Social Welfare Department in the alleged Post Matric Scholarship scam, on the orders of the new minister Dr Raj Kumar Verka, SAD Spokesperson and MLA Pawan Tinu said mere action was not enough yet.Adampur legislator Tinu, who has been taking up the case for a long time, said, “Dr Verka needs to probe further and if any links are established about the role of the previous minister, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, as already mentioned in the report of IAS officer Kirpa Shankar Saroj, he must also act against him. A chargesheet does not mean any action. All those involved in siphoning off the scholarship amount to ghost institutes need to be placed under suspension. An FIR too must be lodged in the case.”Tinu said the role of the then director of the department BS Dhaliwal, who is now a Congress legislator from Phagwara, too must be probed. He added that a parallel inquiry into the matter, which had then been ordered by the Centre too had fallen flat. “Our party is of the opinion that whatever happened during the tenure of Dharamsot took place, on his directions. So, making the staff scapegoat by registering a simple chargesheet against them and letting off the big fish will not any justice to the poor. scheme,” alleged Tinu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chargesheet-against-staff-not-enough-323507
12-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||A medley of musings||Former Miss India and actress Gul Panag, released Nazam Riar’s book 'The Solitary Sunflower in My Bageecha’ on the social media. Nazam has earlier taught in DAV College, Hoshiarpur, as an Associate Professor of computer science and now works as a personality development trainer with a Bangalore- based company. She appreciated Nazam’s keen eye for detailing and observing the intricacies of the human mind.“Gul, being a former Miss India, an actress, a voice for women, social activist, a fitness freak, a trained pilot, avid traveller and a biker was the best choice for launching my book which talks about multiple aspects of our personalities,” added Nazam.The book is a medley of middles published in various newspapers and musings which has poems and prose in English and Hindi. Her writing is cathartic that reflects varied deep-rooted emotions and soulful conversations with self. This is Nazam’s first attempt at writing hindi poetry although a few of her poems have been published in international journals. It is her third book in four years while the other two were ‘ Confessions of a Happy Woman’ and ‘The Quirky Wallflower and the Silent Bumblebee’, the latter was released by Dr Kiran Bedi last year. The show was co-ordinated by Narinderjit Kaur, Retd. Associate Professor of English who has six books to her credit, including many middles. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-medley-of-musings-323506
12-10-2021||---||Jalandhar schools, colleges celebrate International Day of Girl Child||Jalandhar, October 11International Day of Girl Child was celebrated on Monday in many schools and colleges of the city. Students presented skits, extempore, PowerPoint presentations and delivered speeches to spread awareness about the day.Innocent Hearts College of EducationThe NSS unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education in collaboration with Disha-a campaign being run under the Bowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust celebrated International Girl Child Day to advocate the notion that girls are no less than boys in all spheres of life. A drama on the theme of solutions to gender inequality – ‘Digital generation, our generation’ – was enacted by NSS volunteers Palak Ratta, Baljit Kaur, Gunpreet Kaur, Navjeet Kaur, Navpreet Kaur, Nandini and Taranpreet Kaur. They expressed their inner feelings and thoughts through this drama about the strategies to be adopted to equip girls with qualitative education and make their future bright. An extempore was also delivered on topics related to achievements of Indian women - Mary Kom, Kalpana Chawla, Sunita Williams etc. E-certificates were given to the winners and drama actors. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh congratulated the winners and appreciated participants. He said, “The college has a ‘grievance’ and a ‘guidance and counselling cell’ to help in solving problems faced by girls so that they live a peaceful and dignified life.Dhilwan DIPS College (co-educational)DIPS College, Dhilwan, organised a PowerPoint competition on Monday where in students highlighted the present condition of girls. They propagated that in the modern times women have achieved great milestones. Vice-chairperson Preetinder Kaur said it was important that girls move ahead and their rights were taken care of. Their decisions should be given due respect and regard. College coordinator Harpreet Kaur highlighted the importance of the day. The main purpose of celebrating this day is to focus on women empowerment and their rights. The occasion marks the importance of adolescent girl children and attempts at identifying their power and potential by opening opportunities for them.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School organised International Girl Child Day to make students aware about the gender inequality faced by girls. The main objective of observing this day is to empower women and help them get their rights so that they can face challenges all over the world and fulfil their needs. School director Seema Handa talked about issues affecting girls such as education, nutrition, child marriage and legal rights. Principal Komal Arora said there was a need to focus on promoting girl empowerment and fulfilment of their human rights. A presentation was given by educator Bharti Kalia to promote girl empowerment. School chairman JK Gupta said it was important to teach children about gender inequality faced by girls. Administrator Dimple Malhotra motivated people for loving girl child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-schools-colleges-celebrate-international-day-of-girl-child-323504
12-10-2021||---||Prof RK Garg assumes charge of  NIT Director||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11Prof Rajiv Kumar Garg has been appointed Director, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, with effect from October 10, 2021. His previous incumbent Prof (Dr) Lalit Kumar Awasthi relinquished the charge of Director of the institute on Saturday.Prof Awasthi was given a warm farewell by faculty members, who also remembered his contribution for the growth of the NIT, Jalandhar.Prof Awasthi has now taken-up the charge of Director, NIT, Hamirpur.Meanwhile, Prof Rajiv Kumar Garg, assumed charge of Director, Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, yesterday.Prof Anish Sachdeva (Dean Academics), Prof BS Saini (Dean planning), Prof Vinay Midha (Dean faculty affair), Prof Arun Khosla (Dean research and consultancy) and Dr SK Mishra (Registrar) welcomed and congratulated Prof Garg for his new assignment.All deans, heads of departments and centres and registrar welcomed Prof Garg. Dr SK Mishra, Registrar, apprised Prof Garg of various ongoing issues in the institute. He assured Prof Garg that all activities would be taken up with same enthusiasm as done during the tenure of Prof Awasthi.Meanwhile, Prof Garg called a meeting of all Deans and Registrars and discussed various ongoing issues for the growth of the institute. He asked all present at the meeting to extend their support and cooperation in the interest of the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-rk-garg-assumes-charge-of-nit-director-323503
12-10-2021||---||She nurtures ‘test-tube plants’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11While everybody has heard of test-tube babies, ‘test-tube plants’ is a trend which is yet to pick up in the district, but Reena Gupta (50), a homemaker-turned entrepreneur, has nurtured these miniature beauties very meticulously and is giving gardening goals to many. She is also known for her vertical gardening skills. From utilising coconut shells to test tubes used in the hospitals, she makes the best out of waste and decorates her green bed.Though she grew up watching her ancestors grow vegetables and fruits at home, she discovered her green thumb at a very young age. “I never forget to shop plants and saplings from the places we visit on the family trips,” added Reena. She turned the space outside the entrance of her house into a green spot in the year 2000. With over 200 plants and planters, her house is a delight to watch.“Nothing gives me more peace than nurturing plants and increasing the green cover around my house. It feels like finding solace in green heaven. Nothing calms me more than seeing the buds grow out of a plant tended by you. They give you hope,” said Gupta.Among the variety of planters she has, piggy banks converted into planters, test tube planters on a cup stand, banyan tree bonsai village, living stone plant (lithops) succulents and cacti garden, broken pot garden, ceramic cups and pots, vessels formed of baked clay, used trays and kithchen containers and broken pots corner enhances beauty to her green delight.Apart from the regular decorative plants, her miniature garden also houses various types of succulents, cactus, wild flowers, stone plants and vertical plants. Gupta, a resident of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near Sodhal also says that there is no better gift for your friends and family than a plant.She revisited her hobby of painting in the beginning of 2019 also and by the time pandemic knocked onto our lives, she regained her flair for giving colors to her imagination. While facemasks have become a basic necessity in these trying times, she adds a pinch of her dyes and crayons to make them look more vibrant. If given a chance, nobody would refuse to wear a mask, if its painted by her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-nurtures-test-tube-plants-323502
12-10-2021||Jalandhar||1 tests positive for Covid in Jalandhar||One new Covid case was reported in Jalandhar today, taking the total district tally to 63,343 cases. With no new Covid death, the district deceased tally remained at 1,495 today. The number of active cases in Jalandhar is 21.Meanwhile, no Covid case was reported in Kapurthala today and the Covid tally remained 17,838. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today either.2 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported two new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 30,791 cases. However, no death was recorded today. The death toll stood at 982. There are 12 active cases in the district. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-for-covid-in-jalandhar-323501
12-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Murder case of Mukerian-based AEO cracked, 1 held||Hoshiarpur, October 11With the arrest of the accused, the police on Monday claimed to have solved the case of the brutal murder of a 34-year-old man, posted as Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) in the Agriculture Department in Mukerian. The crime was committed on late Saturday night. The victim’s blood-soaked body was found from a deserted place late at night.Giving information related to the arrest, DSP Gurpreet Singh said a police party, led by SHO Karnail Singh, after getting information on the phone from the control room, Chandigarh, reached Kalamanjh Kothi in Ward No.1 and found a blood-soaked body lying there. There were marks of wounds and injuries of sharp-edged weapons on the body.The deceased was identified as Amandeep Dadwal (34), son of Sukhdarshan Singh, a resident of Shastri Colony (Mukerian). After the identification of the body, a case was registered on the basis of the statement of the victim’s father against Ashutosh, a resident of Kalamanjh, Colonel di Kothi.The DSP said during the investigation, it came out that the accused earlier worked at a medicine shop where Amandeep used to come in the evening. He had caught him stealing and got him expelled from the job. Later, he joined as a worker somewhere else, but Amandeep got him expelled from there too. Owing to his being expelled from two jobs, Ashutosh called him on Saturday on the pretext of a party and killed him with a sharp-edged weapon. The police have recovered the ‘daatar’ (a sharp-edged weapon) used in the crime and the blood-drenched clothes of the accused which he was wearing at the time of the incident.The reason behind crimeDuring the investigation, it came out that the accused earlier worked at a medicine shop where Amandeep used to come in the evening. He had caught him stealing and got him expelled from the job. Later, he joined as a worker somewhere else, but Amandeep got him expelled from there too. Owing to his being expelled from two jobs, Ashutosh called him on Saturday on the pretext of a party and killed him with a sharp-edged weapon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/murder-case-of-mukerian-based-aeo-cracked-1-held-323499
12-10-2021||---||Kisan mahapanchayat at Mukerian toll plaza||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 11The United Kisan Morcha organised a kisan mahapanchayat at the Harsa Mansar toll plaza in Mukerian here on Monday. Apart from Punjab, a large number of farmers from border villages of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir also participated in the mahapanchayat.Under the guidance of morcha leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a delegation of farmers from Himachal Pradesh, led by Rana Pratap Singh, discussed the farmers’ problems. One of the major problems discussed was that farmers of border areas falling in Himachal were unable to sell their paddy in Punjab due to being refused entry by personnel of the Punjab Police at the checkpost. The farmers of the hill state also discussed this matter with Kulwant Singh Sandhu.Some farmers of Punjab, whose land also lies on the border of Himachal and Punjab, were also facing similar problems because the policemen of the Punjab Police, stationed at the borders, were not allowing the farmers of Punjab to harvest their paddy crop in the border areas falling in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kisan-mahapanchayat-at-mukerian-toll-plaza-323497
12-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Of 245 food samples, 24 fail quality test in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11Teams of the Health Department are on their toes for the busiest festive season ever since the onset of the Covid last year. Of the 245 samples of food items collected this year, 24 have failed the quality test. This includes 19 food items, which were found substandard, one misbranded and four unsafe for consumption.In all, 75 and 72 samples were collected in August and September, respectively. This is the maximum number of samples collected this year. In October, 45 samples have alaready been collected. This number is likely to hit 100 by the month end.The festive rush and hectic market activity is marked by unprecedented footall at eateries. There has been dramatic increase in supply of food and eatables in the district ahead of Dussehra and Diwali.Tonnes of items destroyedTonnes of food items have laready been destroyed by the Health Department. This include 275-kg substandard paneer in September and 50-kg raw chicken at a leading mutipurpose food store in Garha, after a consumer complained of a lizard in his package. A dal sample of an outlet was also found to be unsafe.Meanwhile, 50 trucks heading to the city with food items were stopped and checked by the Health Department on the GT road, near Phillaur, yesterday. Samples of food items were also collected from trucks. Sources in the Health Department said, “Many vehicles ferry food items from Ludhiana and Delhi to Jalandhar. The vanaspati sample collected from a truck coming from Delhi was of an unusal brand. There is so much traffic on the highway that it’s diffcult to keep a tab on food items supplied to the city.”19 food items found substandard, four unsafeThe Health Department collected 584 samples of food items in 2019 and 467 last year. Of 245 samples of food items collected this year, including 48 of milk, 19 were found to be substandard, one misbranded and four unsafe for consumption.Inform Health DeptThe Health Department has issued helpline 2224848 for anyone, who wants to pass on information, about spurious or substandard food to the health authorities. People can also email information at nrhmjld@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-245-food-samples-24-fail-quality-test-in-jalandhar-323496
12-10-2021||---||Farmers block NH-1 for two hours over erratic power supply, commuters suffer||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11On the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), hundreds of farmers from across the area gathered near Rama Mandi and blocked National Highway-1 for nearly two hours over the issue of erratic power supply.The farmers blocked the highway at 11 am by parking their tractor-trailers in the middle of the road and continued to protest till 1 pm. The farmers led by BKU (Rajewal) spokesperson Kashmir Singh said villages were getting only one to two hours of power supply. Holding both the state and the Centre governments responsible for power failure, they raised slogans against PM Narendra Modi as well as Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“Portraying themselves to be common men, Channi and Transport Minister Amarinder S Raja Warring cannot win over people by way of photo opportunity while having meals at poor villager’s house or sweeping at one bus stand. They need to show their performance in terms of works of people welfare. So far, they have failed miserably in ensuring uninterrupted power supply and just putting blame on the Centre for not ensuring proper coal supplies,” said Mandeep Singh Samra, president of Jalandhar unit of BKU (Rajewal).The farmers ended their dharna after officials from the PSPCL reached the site and assured them of doing their best to provide them relief. The farmers also handed over a memorandum to the officials.The blockade cause much inconvenience to the passengers who were travelling by buses at that time. The buses coming from Phagwara side towards Jalandhar or Amritsar halted near the dharna site after which the passengers had to walk down long distances carrying their luggage before they could catch an autorickshaw or any other public transport to reach the bus stand or other destinations. The dharna site was 2.5 km short of the bus stand.Satbir Kaur, who had come from Nawanshahr to Jalandhar with her daughter, said: “We did not know about the protest today. Had I been aware, I would have surely avoided coming during the protest hours. Our relatives kept waiting for us at the bus stand to pick us up while our bus stopped midway here. We thought that our bus would move after a while but it did not. We then started walking and informed them to pick us from near PAP Chowk.”Since the dharna site was between Rama Mandi and PAP Chowk, it affected the entire traffic going towards Jalandhar-Amritsar road and Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road, besides Jalandhar-Phagwara road. The commuters had to take longer, busier detours to reach their destination. The traffic remained affected past 3.30 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-nh-1-for-two-hours-over-erratic-power-supply-commuters-suffer-323494
12-10-2021||---||Jalandhar: Fire at illegal scrap godown reduces shanties into ashes||Jalandhar, October 11A massive fire, which broke at a scrap godown, reduced an entire slum area near PPR Mall into ashes here this afternoon. The incident was reported at around 2.30pm, following which fire tenders, policemen and MC officials rushed to the spot.The fire was initially reported at a junk warehouse in Jyoti Nagar, near Urban Estate Phase-1, which slowly spread to the nearby slums. As a result, 50-60 shanties were destroyed in the fire. Fire Brigade vehicles reached the spot as soon as the incident was reported. However, a delay of 45 minutes in bringing the water containers caused the fire to rapidly spread to nearby areas.Fortunately, no loss of life was reported. The slum- dwellers managed to escape before the fire caught their shanties. Inspector Surjit Singh, SHO, Police Division 6, said the police teams immediately started the rescue operation.Since the godown was situated in a slum area, the incident caused panic among people living there. Eyewitnesses said around two LPG cylinders exploded in the area after catching the fire. As fire tenders did not reach the spot on time, it took hours for the officials to bring the fire under control.This is the second such incident reported this year in which slums were gutted in the fire. The first one was reported in March near the Maqsudan bypass slums. Moreover, a similar incident was reported near the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, in June this year.Residents: No action despite complaintsMembers of the Rishi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association said they had been bringing the matter of piling up of inflammable substances by jhuggi residents for a long time. Gajinder Singh Jaura, president of the association, said: “We have been lodging complaints with the DC and PPCB officials of Jalandhar for the past over three years warning them of a likely mishap, but to no avail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-fire-at-illegal-scrap-godown-reduces-shanties-into-ashes-323493
