13-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Audio clip of panchayat fund bungling in Phillaur goes viral, MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh says it’s doctored||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 12An audio clip of telephonic conversation between Phillaur’s panchayat secretary and former sarpanch of a village in the same tehsil that went viral on social media has created a flutter in the area. The discussion revolves around the alleged bungling in panchayat funds with the name of Jalandhar Congress MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh cropping in it.The audio is a conversation between Surinder Kumar, former sarpanch of Mehsampur village, and panchayat secretary Dharampal. It is reportedly three-week old, but became an issue as Congress leader from the area Damanvir Phillaur (son of former Akali minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur) called for an inquiry into the matter.Chaudhary Santokh Singh, however, termed it to be a doctored audio. “It is all part of a political stunt. Some frustrated elements in Phillaur have been doing all these foolish things. Allegations against me of taking commission for works are completely baseless.” Notably, MP’s son Vikramjit Chaudhary is the halqa in-charge of Phillaur since he contested unsuccessfully from this Assembly seat in 2017.In the audio clip, the panchayat secretary tells the former sarpanch that Chaudhary Santokh Singh was taking commission for various development works, including those of installation of inter-locking tiles, streetlights and RO water system. Dharampal says, “All tiles, lights and water filter systems are coming from firms selected by MP Chaudhary. They are taking the entire commission directly from the companies passing on no share to anyone else. This can be confirmed from any of the 12 secretaries of Phillaur block. One or two sarpanches tried to confront Chaudhary over the issue but to no avail. He asks the sarpanches to either get the work done or face suspension.”Commenting on the audio, Damanvir Phillaur says, “The viral audio shows how corruption is being promoted and patronised in Jalandhar, particularly in Phillaur. “If the MP thinks that he has no role in the corrupt practices, clearly mentioned in the viral telephonic talk, then he should write to the Centre for a CBI probe,” he said, while addressing mediapersons here on Wednesday.Damanvir, who has also founded Phillaur People’s Forum (PPF), said, “I even wrote to the DC regarding the embezzlement of funds, but the local MP used his clout to suppress the matter.” He said that he will even request Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to look into the matter as he has already spoken about zero tolerance towards corruption. “People of Phillaur are looking towards the CM with great hope. He must act against corruption being patronised by party MPs, MLAs and halqa in-charges,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/audio-clip-of-panchayat-fund-bungling-in-phillaur-goes-viral-mp-chaudhary-santokh-singh-says-its-doctored-323952
13-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Power crisis may ease in few days, says Dy CM Randhawa||Garhdiwal (Hoshiarpur), October 12Strongly condemning the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday demanded immediate removal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs from the Cabinet to ensure a fair and impartial investigation as his son is directly involved in this ghastly act.After paying obeisance at Gurdwara Rampur Khera Sahib, the Deputy Chief Minister termed the Lakhimpur Kheri violence as unfortunate. To ensure justice to the victim families of the innocent persons who were mowed down by minister’s son, the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs should be sacked from the Cabinet forthwith, said Randhawa. Accompanied by Forests and Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian, the Deputy Chief Minister said acute scarcity of coal was the major cause of the current power crisis across the country but the Punjab Government was making all out efforts to ease out the situation in the coming days. He said the state government was purchasing electricity at expensive rates to cater to the needs of consumers especially farmers to nurture their crops. He said the situation would gradually become normal with more coal rakes coming to the state to overcome the coal shortage.Pointing out further, Randhawa said he had already urged the Prime Minister for Mishra’s removal from the Cabinet to ensure an impartial and fair probe so as to do justice to the bereaved families. Keeping in view the enormous contribution made by the Punjabi farmers in successfully developing the agriculture sector in Lakhimpur Kheri and other parts of Uttar Pradesh by the dint of their hard work, Randhawa said such atrocities being inflicted upon them nowadays will not be tolerated at any cost.On the sacrilege issues, Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the accused had already been nabbed by the police, besides a probe is being carried out under an IG Rank Officer. He stated that justice in sacrilege cases would be ensured at all costs.Soliciting fulsome support and cooperation from the residents, Randhawa said the state government was fully geared up to wipe out all sort of menaces from the state in order to make Punjab a healthier and prosperous state.Earlier, Sant Baba Sewa Singh of Rampur Khera Sahib presented siropas to the Deputy CM, Cabinet Minister and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-crisis-may-ease-in-few-days-says-dy-cm-randhawa-323953
13-10-2021||---||Over 60 per cent paddy lifted in Jalandhar so far||Jalandhar, October 12The procurement agencies in the district have lifted 61.84 per cent of paddy out of total crops brought at 75 mandis of Jalandhar by the farmers.DC Ghanshyam Thori said Jalandhar district had secured top position in the state in lifting during the current paddy procurement season. He said the average percentage of Jalandhar was more than double the state’s average. The DC directed officials tasked with procurement to ensure lifting of crops within stipulated time frame after arrival into the mandis besides assisting farmers at every phase of procurement.Pointing out further, Thori said procurement agencies in the district have purchased 97248 MT of paddy, however, a total of 60139 MT paddy have been lifted with a total average of 61.84 per cent so far. He asked officials to ensure availability of drinking water, toilets facilities, sanitisers and other facilities. The DC asked the officials to maintain this ranking throughout the season besides extending helping hand to the farmers during the whole season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-60-per-cent-paddy-lifted-in-jalandhar-so-far-323954
13-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Anti-dengue drive: MC to paste red stickers if larvae found in any house||Hoshiarpur, October 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) has intensified its anti-dengue drive to prevent the spread of the mosquito-borne disease in the city.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development)-cum-Commissioner Municipal Corporation Aashika Jain said safai karamcharis and sanitary inspectors had been directed to expedite inspections, besides submitting daily reports regarding stagnant water and larvae if found anywhere.Teams of the MC would also ensure that larvae were properly destroyed to control dengue and other health related problems, she added.It had come to notice that at several places in the city people drink coconut water and dump the empty shell at nearby places, she said.The MC had brought a special vehicle, which would around the city and collect empty coconut shells to prevent breeding of dengue larvae, she said. Teams had been deployed for disposal of discarded coconut shells, she added. In another significant step, the MC is going to start a competition in which people could make 90-second dengue awareness clips, she said. These clips could be emailed to adcudhsp@gmail.com to suggest best ways to prevent dengue, encourage people to have dry-day on Friday, and not allow water to stagnate in their houses and surroundings, she added.Five best videos would be shortlisted and the MC would honour those people, who made them, she said. Inspection teams of the MC and the Health Department had been directed to expedite the ongoing larvae checking drive, she added.These teams would paste green stickers outside houses where no larvae were found and red stickers where larvae were found, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anti-dengue-drive-mc-to-paste-red-stickers-if-larvae-found-in-any-house-323955
13-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five booked for abetting suicide||Motorcycle, Activa stolenGarhshankar: A two-wheeler lifters gang active in the city stole a bike and an Activa in the broad daylight on Monday. Doji, a resident of Ward No. 13, stated that he had gone to the post office on his bike at 2.30 pm. After finishing the work, when Doji came out of post office he found his bike stolen. In the second incident, Shivam, a student of Guruseva Nursing College, said he had parked his Activa outside his college. When he returned after attending classes at the college he found his Activa missing. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-booked-for-abetting-suicide-323956
13-10-2021||---||MP Santokh Singh, son distribute loan waiver cheques||Jalandhar, October 12Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Tuesday distributed cheques worth Rs 97.75 lakh to 688 landless farmers and agricultural labourers under the Punjab Government’s debt waiver scheme. The functions were organised at Rurka Kalan and Dhesian Kahna villages.As many as 239 persons belonging to Dhesian Kahna, 240 from Pasla, 103 from Bundala and 106 residents of Rurka Kalan, who received the cheques worth Rs 31.39 lakh, Rs 41.3 lakh, Rs 12.21 lakh and Rs 12.85 lakh, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-singh-son-distribute-loan-waiver-cheques-323957
13-10-2021||---||370 challaned in anti-dengue campaign in Jalandhar||JALANDHAR, OCTOBER 12The civic authorities in Jalandhar have issued as many as 370 challans against persons who did not bother to keep a check on stagnant water in their premises resulting in the breeding of dengue-causing mosquito larvae.Teams of Municipal Corporation along with health staff has been checking various buildings and asking people to ensure that there is no stagnant water which could lead to multiplication of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. Flower pots, refrigerators, coolers, tyres, bird feeders and utensils kept around the houses and shops are being checked to ascertain chances of breeding.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has ordered mass awareness drive in hot spots falling in the district to motivate people to clear out stagnant water in premises of residential, streets and public places. He said that as part of the drive, the MC along with health, education, youth welfare and other departments would form joint teams to visit door-todoor for sensitising the people about breeding grounds in the hot spots.Further in the rural areas, the teams of panchayat, health department, EOs, BDPOs would carry out awareness campaign in all villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/370-challaned-in-anti-dengue-campaign-in-jalandhar-323958
13-10-2021||---||Treated by a drunk doctor in Jalandhar hospital, 16-yr-old dies after injection||Jalandhar, October 12A 16-year-old boy, Vansh, of Mukerian (Hoshiarpur), who met with an accident and admitted to a private hospital, Guardian Hospital, died barely half an hour after he was administered an injection by a doctor who was allegedly in an inebriated condition here on Monday evening.As soon as the family members of the victim came to know that the doctor was drunk, high drama was witnessed at the hospital as the victim’s kin started beating up the doctor and called the police.The police on Tuesday registered a case against the doctor of the hospital who reportedly gave wrong treatment to the child in an inebriated state.Police investigation revealed that the accused, Dr Jitendra, who was treating the patient, was under the influence of alcohol. The serious lapse during the duty hours was also confirmed in the medical examination conducted by the police on Monday night at the Civil Hospital. A case under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the IPC has been registered against the doctor.SHO, Police Division 6, Inspector Sukhjit Singh, said the case was registered following the statements of the victim’s family members. The alcohol test was conducted on the doctor at the Civil Hospital last night after the accusations of the family members, the report of which came back positive, added the SHO.The victim was admitted to the hospital situated near Milkbar Chowk in Model Town at around 6.30pm. Chander Kumar, father of the victim, stated that his son had met with an accident in which a school bus was involved.Following the accident, he was rushed to a hospital in Mukerian, where doctors further referred him to Guardian Hospital in Jalandhar. Vansh had received grievous injuries around his ribs.His family members further alleged that their son died due to the negligence of the doctor and hospital staff. They alleged that Vansh died after the doctor injected him a wrong dose. The infuriated family members also thrashed hospital staff. After they blocked the road, the police reached the spot to take control of the situation. When things seemed to go out of hand, the police took the doctor for the medical examination.The SHO stated that investigation was underway against the doctor. Action would be taken accordingly against him if the charge of medical negligence is proved against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/treated-by-a-drunk-doctor-in-jalandhar-hospital-16-yr-old-dies-after-injection-323959
13-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Violence: Farmers hold candle march in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 12Farmers on Tuesday paid tributes to farmers who lost their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence by lighting candles at their houses. The farmers who have been participating in the farmers protest for the past 11 months also urged their supporters to light at least one candle in their homes to pay homage to the deceased farmers and journalist Raman Kashyap.Gurpal Singh, a Jalandhar based farmer, said the tribute was paid on the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. "The farmers have been deeply affected by the death of their brother. We wish their souls rest in peace", added Gurlal.Following the call by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, students under the banner of Punjab Students Union (PSU) also paid homage to the deceased farmer and demanded action against the perpetrators who killed the innocent farmers.With posters and banners the students condemned the attack on farmers and termed it as an 'attack on democracy'. PSU paid homage to the deceased farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri violence at Lyallpur Khalsa College and described them as 'martyrs'.District president Varjit Kaur, student leaders Sonia and Manish said the BJP government was trying to suppress the movement of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lakhimpur-violence-farmers-hold-candle-march-in-jalandhar-323961
13-10-2021||---||No Covid case, death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 12After a gap of nearly a month, the district on Monday didn’t report any fresh Covid positive case. Moreover, no new death was recorded today. With this the total active cases in the district have also dropped to 18. The total confirmed cases of the district are 63,343. As many as 1,495 people succumbed to Covid-19 in the district.2 fresh cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported two new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 30,793 cases on Tuesday. However, no death was recorded today. The death toll stood at 982. There are 13 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, the cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed 96 crore on Tuesday. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in first phase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-covid-case-death-in-jalandhar-district-323963
13-10-2021||---||118 receive MBBS degrees at PIMS, Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 12Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) organised a convocation ceremony in which 118 MBBS pass-outs from 2014-15 batch were awarded degrees at the campus on Garha Road here today. The chief guest on the occasion was Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University.While sharing the achievements of PIMS, Dr Kulbir Kaur said the students from 2018 batch won four distinctions in their exam during Covid, the credit for which also went to the teachers and staff. These four students were also felicitated at the campus today as she said, “PIMS is steadily making a name in the academics by winning President Award for the best institute in India for splendid work of education in drug de-addiction. PIMS was first one to start RT PCR Lab (NABL accredited) in the Doaba region where the report was given same day with capacity of doing nearly 300 samples a day.”Apart from the convocation ceremony in which MBBS pass-out students were awarded degree, the best graduates, toppers and distinction holders in various subjects were also honoured in the ceremony.Amit Singh wished good luck to all students for their future. He added that this was a noble profession in which the doctors not only get remuneration for their hard work but also blessings from the patients who come for treatment to hospital. “It is a noble profession which is dedicated to the humanity,” he said, urging the students to have a better patient-doctor relationship. He said patients are the doctor’s actual teachers and they should be duly respected. Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University, congratulated the PIMS teachers and students for their hard work. He stressed that this profession required continuous learning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/118-receive-mbbs-degrees-at-pims-jalandhar-323964
13-10-2021||Jalandhar||Tributes paid to  slain soldiers||Janvi 2nd in poster-making contestJanvi, a student of Sanskriti KMV School, has brought laurels to the school and her parents Baljinder Kumar and Sunita Rani. With her dynamic initiatives, she has secured a certificate of achievement with the second position in All-India Inter-School Poster Making Competition held by Young Leaders for Active Citizenship (YLAC) under its digital champions programme. Her poster presentation was based on safeguarding from the dark clouds of the internet. The school has opened this skill enhancing online platform for the students as an exposure to discover new learning and presentation avenues.Interview techniques courseThe Personality Development Centre of Doaba College, Jalandhar, organised a 15-day interview techniques course for NCC cadets. Prof Sandeep Chahal-Coordinator of Personality Development Centre taught in detail about various modules of SSB –Service Selection Board interviews viz WAT-Word Association Test ie framing of positive psyche reflecting positive and negative sentences, TAT-Thematic Apperception Test ie writing positive thought story, SRT-Situation Reaction Test writing response in online line on a given situation and group discussion modules reflecting officer like qualities.University B.ED resultInnocent Hearts College of Education achieved 100 per cent first divisions in the aggregate result of GNDU BEd Examination (2019- 2021). Eight per cent student-teachers achieved distinctions and 43 per cent student-teachers grabbed more than 70 per cent marks. Ria Mahajan achieved first position in the college with 76.1% aggregate marks, Japleen Kochhar bagged second position with 75.5 % aggregate marks and Reema Rani got third position in the college with 75.4% aggregate marks of all the four semesters.Scout Camp at DAV Public SchoolThe Scout and Guide Unit of Police DAV Public School organised a three-day 3rd Sopan Camp from October 11 to 13 under the directions of Principal Dr Rashmi Vij. It was attended by Hemant Kumar, State Training Commissioner, Scouts and Guides and Neeta Kashyap, State Organising Commissioner, Scouts and Guides. As many as 230 students participated in the camp and were trained in various activities like scout motto, prayer, scout laws, gadget making, first aid kit making and tying up of varied forms of knots. Baljeet Singh and Falki Shukla were the organisers of all activities.Top rankers of Bachelor of DesignStudents of Bachelor of Design (Sem-III) of Apeejay College of Fine Arts made their college proud by bagging top positions. Danish Jain scored 561/600 and bagged second position in Guru Nanak Dev University examinations. Anshika Puri scored 557, Akshita Jain scored 542, Bhanwi Sharma and Kashish Sharma scored 538 and Khushi Kaur scored 535 out of 600 and bagged 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th positions, respectively. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated and appreciated the hard work of students and motivated them to keep the spirits high throughout the session.Sanjana wins silver in Wushu C’shipSanjana Sharma, a student of DIPS School, Bhogpur, participated in 24th Punjab State Wushu Competition and won silver medal. School principal Gurveen Kaur remarked that Sanjana was tutored under the guidance of sports advisor Manmohan Singh. She achieved this feat in the 60 kg category in the competition organised by Sangrur World Association. MD Tarwinder Singh, CAO Ramneek Singh, CEO Monica Mandotara congratulation the Sanjana and encouraged her for forthcoming competitions.KMV students shine in Vedic OlympiadKanya Maha Vidyalaya’s PG Department of Mathematics students of Certificate Course in Vedic Mathematics have brought laurels to the college by bagging gold, silver and bronze medal in the first international Vedic Olympiad conducted by Institute of Advancement of Vedic Mathematics, UK. Nidhi bagged gold medal, Pallavi and Prabhkirat got silver medal, Mansi and Bharti bagged bronze medal in this Olympiad respectively. Nidhi also bagged the third rank in open category globally, therefore she was the only student from India who secured her place among the top scorers from all over the world in this international Olympiad.Career Counselling seminar at LKCWThe PG Department of Commerce and Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, conducted one-day seminar on “Career Counselling” in the college campus. The resource person was Vipin Khandwal, Director, Times Academy. He shared his views on how to select the career, ways to overcome the barriers and preparing a bright future. He helped in imparting valuable information and bringing a spark in the minds of students. Principal Dr Navjot expressed her gratitude towards Vipin Khandwal and appreciated the efforts of Dr Jaswinder Kaur, Head, P.G. Department of Commerce and Management, for organising such a seminar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-slain-soldiers-323966
13-10-2021||Eminent writer Ruskin Bond conducted a ‘Master-class’ at Lovely Professional University (LPU)||Phagwara Diary: ‘Master-Class’ at Lovely Professional University by Ruskin Bond||Welfare trust donates cycle to a needy studentThe Punjab Unit of KL Chand Welfare Trust donated a bicycle to a student from an underprivileged family. Gurpreet Singh (16), a student of Class XI, used to travel several miles on foot to reach his school in Phagwara city from his village in Navin Abadi, Narangshahpur. The state coordinator of the trust, Rajinder Kumar Bunty, said Gurpreet’s father had died a few years ago. The family was suffering from financial crisis. However, he was fond of studies. The trust offers tricycles and wheelchairs to people with disabilities. SHO (City) Inspector Suminder Singh Bhatti appreciated the efforts of the trust and said such noble deeds were the real worship of God.Demand for district tag for Phagwara risesThe demand for district status to Phagwara has started gaining pace. In this regard, members of the ‘Phagwara Zila Banao Front’ reached the residence of Kapurthala Congress president Balwir Rani Sodhi and handed over a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister demanding district status for Phagwara. The representatives of the front consists prominent personalities of Phagwara, including, lawyers, writers, industrialists, politicians teachers and journalists. Making an appeal to Sodhi, they stressed upon the historic importance of Phagwara city with special political significance and they have long been demanding district status for the past few years. The members of the front, in their memorandum urged CM Charanjit Singh Channi to declare Phagwara as a district without any delay as the city of Phagwara was of special importance in the educational, industrial and especially political spheres. There are three large mills and two internationally renowned universities and more than two dozen quality educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-master-class-at-lovely-professional-university-by-ruskin-bond-323967
