14-10-2021||Jalandhar||Illicit liquor seized, 3 held||Three booked for burning shantiesHoshiarpur: Chabbewal police on Tuesday booked three persons under Sections 436, 427, 506 and 120-B for burning shanties of migrant labourers, breaking the lock of the tubewell room, encroaching upon land and cutting trees. Jaswinder Singh of Muggopatti village had complained that three brothers — Surinder Singh, Karnail Singh and Jeet Ram — of the same village had burnt shanties of migrant labourers, broken the lock of the tubewell room, encroached upon land and cut trees from their land. The complaint was probed by DSP Prem Singh and based upon the its report, an FIR was registered. OCTwo held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: Mukerian police arrested Shamsher Singh, owner of Shiv Shakti Dhaba, Badal Market, Mukerian, and recovered 12 bottles of liquor from his dhaba. The police got a tip-off that the accused was selling liquor under the garb of dhaba business. In another case, Hajipur police arrested Mani Singh of Kullian Lubana village and seized 6,750 ml of illicit liquor from him near Dhadekatwal village. Separate FIRs were registered under the Excise Act against the culprits by respective police stations. OCJarnail football club beat AsrGarhshankar: A category-B match of the 35th JCT Punjab State Super Football League, organised by the Punjab Football Association, was played at Babbar Akali Memorial Khalsa College’s Olympian Jarnail Singh Football Stadium. During this match, Olympian Jarnail Singh Football Club, Garhshankar, defeated United Football Club, Amritsar, 6-2 to take the lead in the league. OCProtest against farmer killingsGarhshankar: On the call given by the Kendriya Likhari Sabha (Sekhon), a protest was held against the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri by literary activists of the Doaba Sahitya Sabha, Garhshankar, and Darpan Sahitya Sabha, Saila Khurd. Writers gathered in the local Gandhi Park and expressed their anger and strongly condemned the incident. Master Sham Sunder said the writers would continue to play an important role in the farmers’ movement. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-seized-3-held-324397
14-10-2021||Jalandhar||Science exhibition at DIPS School||Lecture at Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a special address of Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi titled ‘My India My Pride’. The presentation was organised during a value-added course for Semester-I students. The Principal highlighted the importance of higher education in one’s life. She further maintained that we should develop pride in our own culture and country in order to make India a superpower as majority of Indian population is young so there is a great scope of innovation in our country. Principal also shed light on the traditional education system that was prevalent in India. Throwing light on the Indian philosophy, Prof. Dwivedi told everyone about Swami Vivekanand and his influence on the world.Tanpreet Kaur first in B PhysioTanpreet Kaur of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of Bachelor of Physiotherapy-I year by getting 912 marks out of 1100 whereas Prerna Anand, Prabhsimran Kaur Kallah, Sheeba and Tripta Rani bagged 3rd, 5th, 6th and 10th positions by getting 882, 873, 866 and 846 marks, respectively, in the same class. Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said the college has a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics sports and other co-curricular activities. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Inter-school street play contestA team of Swami Sant Dass Public School, Phagwara, participated in Sahodaya Interschool Online Hindi Street Play Competition and bagged the first position. The competition was organised by Shiv Jyoti Public School, Jalandhar, for the classes IX to XII. A total of 19 schools participated in it. The theme for the competition was social evils. The result was declared through online platform after the streaming of the videos of the participating schools. The competition was a fusion of talent, imagination and creativity. As the participants expressed themselves, their creativity and unbridled imagination brought alive their emotions and created a palette of colours. Anju Mehta (Principal) congratulated the students and their proud parents.Global Education Excellence AwardInnocent Hearts Group of Institutions has been honoured with the Global Education Excellence Awards 2021. The group has been selected in the category of ‘Best Educational Group in Punjab’. Representing the Innocent Hearts Group, Rahul Jain (Deputy Director of Schools and Colleges) and Udit Jain (Assistant Executive Officer) received this award from Lal Singh Arya (president SC/ST, Morcha BJP), Sabir Ali (Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha), Madan Lal (former Indian cricketer and Indian coach) and Jayaprakash (Ministry of Education). The award ceremony was organised in New Delhi. Anup Bowry, Chairman and Managing Director, congratulated the whole staff members.Workshop on nail extensionThe Department of Fashion Makeovers of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a one-day workshop on ‘Nail extension and decoration’ for the students of BVoc Beauty and Wellness and PG Diploma of Fashion Makeovers. The resource person of the day was Harsimran Pruthi, owner of The Nail Studio and Training Centre. He along with the technician demonstrated the process of creating and applying acrylic nails and the various patterns of designs which can be used to decorate the nails. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra put forth that in the contemporary fashion world nail extension and decoration is one of the latest trends which is rapidly increasing and the artists around the globe are coming up with various ways to enhance the beauty of hands and feet through nails.Investiture ceremony at ApeejayApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, organised its annual investiture ceremony for the session 2021-22. Dr Sandeep Goel, presided over as the chief guest for the evening. School Principal Girish Kumar administered the oath of office to the prestigious School Prefectorial Board and the Students’ Academic Council to the inspiring lyrics of the song’ Ugay Hum Dhara Mein’ in the backdrop. While Arsheaa Garg and Arnav Anand were entrusted with the responsibility of Head Girl and Head Boy respectively, Arsh Aggarwal and Ananya Chopra were appointed as president and vice-president, Students’ Academic council.Educational trip to Virasat-E-KhalsaPyramid College of Business and Technology organised an educational trip to Virasat-E- Khalsa museum located at Anandpur Sahib. The trip was organised for the students of Department of Hotel Management, Travel and Tourism and Health Care. During the trip, the students visited 11 galleries and peeped into the past and witnessed the rich heritage of Sikh history. The students saw how well the handicrafts, embroidery pattern and gallaries reflected the entire theme of history of the past. Students also visited Gurdwara Anandpur Sahib to seek blessings. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-exhibition-at-dips-school-324395
14-10-2021||---||Raipur Rasulpur health centre  first in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13Mini PHC, Raipur Rasulpur, at Adampur, has bagged first place in the district, under Centre’s Kayakalp contests for the fourth consecutive time. The Kayakalp project was started by the Central government to boost the infrastructure of medical facilities across the country. In a two-step competition, Raipur Rasulpur first received 87.40 marks in the contest held in 2-019-20. PHC Randhawa Masandan and PHC, Talwan, (Block Bilga) also received the awards. The awards were disbursed by Deputy CM Punjab, OP Soni during an Amritsar-based event.Under the Kayakalp project, government hospitals are graded on the basis of their cleanliness, sanitation, bio-medical waste management, dress code, security, water arrangements, among seven main points. The PHC, which received the first prize was given an appreciation letter along with a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh.While the Mini PHC Raipur Rasulpur at Adampur has bagged the first place in the district getting the aforesaid Rs 2 lakh cash prize; PHCs Randhawa Masandan and PHC Talwan also bagged a Rs 50,000 cash prize, each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raipur-rasulpur-health-centre-first-in-jalandhar-district-324394
14-10-2021||---||BSF holds half marathon in Jalandhar Cantt||Jalandhar, October 13Half Marathon-2021 of BSF was organised at Frontier HQ, BSF, Jalandhar Cantt, here today. The aim of the Marathon was to give flip and boost the ‘Fit India Movement’ as well as celebration of 75 years of India’s Independence.The marathon was flagged off by Pratul Gautam, DIG (PSO). A large number of Seema Prahari and BSF all groups participated in it. The event was witnessed by a large number of people. Marathon was finished at Ashwani Stadium, BSF Campus.The closing ceremony of the event was done by Sonali Mishra, IG, BSF. She also awarded prizes to winners and participants. In her closing address, she motivated the participants and briefed the audience to have a good health by regularly playing games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-holds-half-marathon-in-jalandhar-cantt-324393
14-10-2021||---||Rs162 cr released to paddy farmers||Jalandhar, October 13By making a payment worth Rs 162.09 crore to farmers against their procured foodgrains in mandis, Jalandhar has emerged as a leading district in the state in the ongoing paddy procurement season.DC Ghanshyam Thori said as many as 78,057 MT produce has been lifted by the procurement agencies at 75 purchase centres in the district.He said that not only purchase and lifting, the administration has also laid the thrust on payments as a whopping amount of Rs 162.09 crore was paid to the farmers to date, which has placed Jalandhar a top-performing district in procurement.On the basis of payment position as of today, Ludhiana comes second at Rs 155.88 crore, followed by Patiala at Rs 118.87 crore.Apart from Jalandhar, other Doaba districts too have been fast in making payments. Kapurthala farmers have already received Rs 106.38 crore. The district stands at fourth position. Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur fall on number 6 and 7 ranks, respectively, with payments to the tune of Rs 87.52 crore and Rs 77.36 crore already made to the farmers.The DC further added that elaborate arrangements were made at all 78 purchase centres so that farmers don’t face any kind of trouble while selling their crops in the mandis. Pointing out further, District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Harsharan Singh stated that since day one special focus was being laid on timely purchase, lifting and payment which have yielded promising results by putting Jalandhar on top ranking in the procurement season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs162-cr-released-to-paddy-farmers-324392
14-10-2021||---||Most of country at risk of natural disasters: Expert||Jalandhar, October 13Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction by organising a webinar. Hundred school students from all over Punjab participated in the webinar through virtual mode. The theme for this year’s celebration was “International cooperation for developing countries to reduce their disaster risk and disaster losses”.Kunal Satyarthi, IFS, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, National Disaster Management Authority, New Delhi, was the keynote speaker on the occasion.While addressing participants, he said, “Natural and human-caused disasters affect thousands of people each year. These can cause catastrophic loss of life and physical destruction, besides mental trauma. Earthquakes, severe storms, hurricanes, tornadoes and floods are the most common types of natural disasters. Others could be wildfires, droughts, cloudbursts and landslides. Examples of human-caused disasters include fires, industrial accidents, shootings, acts of terrorism, and incidents of mass violence.”“Eighty per cent of the geographical area of India is vulnerable to cyclones, floods, tsunamis, droughts, landslides or earthquakes. Without real action on climate in the next 10 years, extreme weather events will be overwhelming, especially for developing countries,” he added. “International cooperation for developing countries through official development aid and capacity building is essential to boost disaster resilience in the face of extreme weather events and other natural and man-made hazards,” he said.He emphasised upon making disaster management part of educational curriculum at all levels as well as the need to conduct frequent talks, seminars, training programmes and live drills for children and youth to combat disasters.In her introductory remarks, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction was started in 1989 to promote a global culture of risk-awareness and disaster reduction.“Disasters impact developing countries disproportionately, particularly in terms of mortality, numbers of people injured, displaced and rendered homeless, economic losses (as a percentage of GDP) and damage to critical infrastructure,” Dr Neelima added.She stressed on the need to boost investments in disaster risk reduction to eradicate poverty and hunger in society and creation of scientific awareness on causes and actions required at the public level to ensure minimum loss to life and property and facilities made available by the government for the public in the event of a disaster.While delivering vote of thanks on the occasion, Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said nature-based solutions, such as conserving forests, wetlands and coral reefs, could help communities prepare for, cope with, and recover from disasters, including slow-onset events such as drought.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/most-of-country-at-risk-of-natural-disasters-expert-324391
14-10-2021||---||Dr Ranjit Ghotra assumes charge as new Civil Surgeon of Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra took charge as Civil Surgeon of Jalandhar on Wednesday. Dr Ghotra is a child specialist.While he started his service from the CHC, Kalnaur, Gurdaspur district, he also worked at the CHC, Tanda, as a medical officer for a long time. He was deputed as a senior medical officer at the Civil Hospital, Bham, Gurdaspur district, and the CHC, Dunga, Hoshiarpur district. He worked as a Civil Surgeon in Hoshiarpur.After he took charge as CS today, he was welcomed by all programme officers. Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Varinder Kaur Thind, District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta, District Health Officer Dr Arun Verma, District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra, Dr Jaswinder Singh, Dr Ravleen Singh, and Ranbir Kaur, among others, were present on the occasion.Dr Ghotra held a meeting with officials and was apprised of Covid-related programmes and welfare and health schemes and projects in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-ranjit-ghotra-assumes-charge-as-new-civil-surgeon-of-jalandhar-324390
14-10-2021||---||Forbes list: Sonalika head LD Mittal 71st wealthiest Indian||Hoshiarpur, October 13The chairman of Hoshiarpur-based Sonalika Group, LD Mittal, remains the 71st wealthiest Indian having a net worth of $2.92 billion as per the Forbes list released recently.The 90-year-old industrialist has been named among the top 75 wealthiest in the country for the 10th year in a row since 2012. When asked about the list Mittal’s reaction was humble, He said, “Farmers are our customers. They are our strength. All credit goes to the loyalty of farmers towards our innovative and efficient agri-implements.”Mittal started his business in 1990 after retiring from the Life Insurance Corporation of India. Today, Sonalika Group is India’s third-largest tractor maker, which has world’s largest manufacturing capacity of three lakh tractors per annum under one roof at Hoshiarpur.Earlier, there was a total drought of industrial pursuits in Hoshiarpur, one of the most backward districts of the state, but Mittal decided to go against the trend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/forbes-list-sonalika-head-ld-mittal-71st-wealthiest-indian-324389
14-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||20L vaccinated in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13Nine months after the vaccination programme took off in the district, Covid vaccine has been administered to over 20 lakh people.The administration today said more than 90 per cent of the population had been covered under the vaccination drive in the district. However, the gap between the first and second doses continues to persist. The administration today exhorted people to get their second jab to complete their vaccination course.Of the over 20 lakh people vaccinated in district, over six lakh have received the second dose of the Covid vaccine. In all, 20,00,560 beneficiaries have been administered vaccine in the district of which 13,82,978 have received the first doze and 6,17,582 the second dose.Releasing vaccine numbers today, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori exhorted people to come forward for the second dose of the vaccine to complete their course and ensure their safety from the virus.Notably, of the total 20,00,560 people, who were administered vaccine, 1,70,000 received Covaxin while the rest got the Covishield jab. Notably, vaccination drive is on at 100 sites in the district depending on demand. Covaxin is being regularly administered at two sites, including Garha and Maqsoodan.“Vaccine drive is getting a rousing response in the city. Many people are turning up at designated sites to get jabbed against virus. On an average 10,000 to 20,000 beneficiaries are getting vaccinated every day. The number of people receiving their second dose is expected to increase as the supply of vaccine has been streamlined,” said Thori.The District Immunisation Officer, Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Majority of population in the district has been covered under the vaccination drive. Most people are now coming for their second jab against virus.”“Today, 8,036 people were vaccinated. Of these, first dose was administered to 5,000 beneficiaries and second to 3,000. Sixty per cent beneficiaries are coming for the second jab and 40 per cent for the first dose,” Dr Chopra added.“Majority of those turning up at the two vaccination sites are coming for their second dose of Covaxin,” said Dr Chopra. Notably, in an impressive vaccination drive elderly and physically challenged were vaccinated on the doorstep in the district. Two new cases in JalandharTwo new Covid cases were reported in Jalandhar district on Wednesday. The total tally of cases in district stands at 63,345. No new Covid death was reported in the district today. The death toll remains at 1,495. The number of patients, who recovered from Covid is 61,832 while there are 18 active cases in Jalandhar district. Of the 1,69,6782 samples collected in the district so far, 1,56,3239 have tested negative.One +ve in Kapurthala: One person tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala district on Wednesday. The tally of Covid cases remains at 17,842 in the district. No Covid death was reported in the district today.One fresh case in Hoshiarpur: One person contracted virus in the district taking the Covid tally to 30,794 cases on Wednesday. However, no death was reported in the district today. The death toll stands at 982 in the district. There are 12 active cases in the district while 29,800 have recovered from Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20l-vaccinated-in-jalandhar-district-324388
14-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ramlila act: These bizmen don a different role for 10 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13Annually around this time, a bunch of nearly 15 businessmen from the city shun their work for nearly a month so as to don a different role. As members of the Jai Mahabir Club, they all can be seen on stage of Dussehra ground of Basti Sheikh these days performing in Ramlila.While Gulshan Bajaj, who plays the role of Rama, is a trader of mustard oil, Sunil Shoor, who is seen as Dashrath, is a goldsmith at the local Sarafa Bazaar. Vicky Sharma, who dons the role of Sita, works in a saree shop. Sanjeev Sondhi, who is the director and plays the role of Ravana, runs a box factory.Taking leave from work or deputing another family member for these days, they work day and night readying their costumes, learning dialogues, doing rehearsals and getting proper makeup so as to give their best on stage and pull maximum crowds.Fifty-year-old Sanjeev Sondhi, says: “I was just eight when I got into it. My tayaji used to organise Ramlilas and I used to assist him with various works. For the past 25 years or so, I have played the roles of Ravana, Angad, Laxman and Bharat on various occasions. Now, my primary role in the club is direction. I along with my friend Romy Dhanjal, who designs antique wood pieces, are together getting all the role play done.”He added: “We have done a lot of innovation with the change of time. We telecast the Ram Leela live on our FB page, which gets 60,500-plus views daily. Since today is the day of Laxman Morcha, the viewership will be all-time high. We have added several new scenes in the enactment. We have also readied a Pushpak Viman welding various iron railings and covering it with wooden planks.” A multi-talented artiste, Sondhi also does make-up of some artistes every evening.Almost all members have an association of more than 20 years with the Ramlila group. Says Gulshan Bajaj: “I have been participating in Ramlila for the past nearly 28 years. I used to perform the role of Laxman earlier but for the last two years, I am playing the role of Lord Rama. It is out of sheer passion and devotion that we are all working to give our best on stage every night. It is not just a 10-days or work that goes into it. Despite performing for so many years, we need to practice for at least a month ahead of the Ramlila for hours to make the show good.”Sunil Shoor adds: “For 21 years, I have been playing the role of Mahavir but this time I am doing the act of Dashrath. It all started in my childhood days. I was a regular visitor to the temple since 1987 and never missed Ramlila. Watching it with so much passion, I eventually got a desire of role play. Since then, it has been an annual mega event for me which I have never missed, not even in corona days last year. Unlike other Ramlila groups, we do not take costumes on rent, we get them all tailor-made to get the best look.”Another trend noted is that more than one person from a family is engaged in Ramlila. Sanjeev Sondhi’s younger brother Harsh Sondhi plays the role of Laxman. Gulshan Bajaj’s brother Harsh Bajaj helps the team with dialogue writing. No doubt passion runs in these families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ramlila-act-these-bizmen-don-a-different-role-for-10-days-324387
14-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Road construction work takes a toll on Jalandhar city’s air quality index||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13With 239 mark in the Air Quality Index (AQI), the air quality of Jalandhar, which recently got the tag of the most polluted Punjab district in an AQI survey, has taken a hit. At present, as per the AQI figures, the air quality in the city falls under the ‘unhealthiest state’.This has raised the concern on the factors behind the air dilution. As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) zonal head, despite the fall in stubble burning cases, the air quality is in a poor state as compared to last year.Throughout the day, the AQI ranges between the 160 and 250 mark. The highest mark is recorded in the daytime and it drops by the evening. On Tuesday, the AQI in most parts of the town was recorded 239. At 3 pm, on Wednesday, the highest AQI mark was 221. By the evening, with Particulate Matter 2.5, it dropped to 163.PPCB zonal head Tejinder Kumar said around 20 stubble burning cases had been reported in the last 10 days.The smoke emanating from farm fires has certainly downgraded the air quality. Besides, the dust on roads is also a major reason behind pollution.In most of the city areas, the civic authorities and the administration have started constructing roads. Roads even in a motorable state have been dug for recarpeting, adding to the city’s woes.MC councillors say the government is trying to complete the pending Smart City projects as Assembly elections are around the corner.“It has become difficult to commute between Maqsudan Chowk and Patel Chowk. Roads are not cleaned even after re-construction. Gunny bags filled with debris and dust can also be seen scattered on the road,” said, Rahul Soni, a resident of Maqsudan. Another resident, Karan Singh, said, “Smoke and dust are certainly the prime reasons behind the increasing pollution.”PPCB zonal head Tejinder Kumar said the dust on roads contributed majorly to the air pollution. “This has triggered various respiratory issues, exacerbating the problems such as lung cancer and many more ailments. Motor vehicle emissions, stubble burning and industrial activities are the other common factors behind pollution, affecting health of people, especially children,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/road-construction-work-takes-a-toll-on-jalandhar-citys-air-quality-index-324386
