15-10-2021||---||A close encounter with stars, planets||Jalandhar, October 14Students of Government High School, Harnamdaspura, got a rare chance to view planets and Moon through astronomical telescope set up here this evening.The event was organised in association with Pushpa Gujral Science City. The experts from science city brought the equipment and set it atop the third floor of a house in front of the school campus for the view. Though the planets Saturn, Jupiter and Venus were also visible with naked eye today but they could be seen more clearly through the telescope. School principal Anjali said, “These are the days of the year when the planets are close to the Earth. Though Venus becomes visible quite often, Saturn and Jupiter are also visible these days because of their large size and proximity to the Earth. So, we tied up with the science city to make arrangements for the students to have a closer, detailed view.”Rama Bhatia, science teacher, said the students of Classes VI to X had been called again in the evening for the event. “The staff of the science city first gave them a presentation in the classroom and then took them on the rooftop for the actual view,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-close-encounter-with-stars-planets-324857
15-10-2021||---||‘Unannounced emergency being imposed through BSF’||Jalandhar, October 14The Punjab Students’ Union held a protest against the BJP government at Lyallpur Khalsa College on Thursday, saying that the government was imposing an unannounced emergency in the state through BSF control.District president Varjit Kaur and district secretary Ramandeep Kaur said the increase in the jurisdiction of the BSF to arrest, seize and search within 50 km of the area within the border was a clear indication of creating an atmosphere of fear in the state.They said the prime motive of the party was to make India a Hindu Rashtra. They said the same agenda was driving the black laws and the increase of control of the police and military.PSU strongly condemned the increased jurisdiction of the BSF in border areas. Student leaders Sonia and Manish said the political predominant influence of the party slipping away in Punjab means militarisation and fear were being used on people. They said to raise voices for protection of historical monuments, a morcha was also held on September 28 at Jallianwala Bagh by the Naujawan Bharat Sabha and the administration had assured a meeting with the CM on October 13 on the issue. But due to Wednesday’s meeting remaining inconclusive, PSU will offer total support to the protest at the Jalliwanwala Bagh on October 22 on the call of the Desh Bahagat Yadgaar Hall.Left condemns decisionThe Indian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) New Democracy also condemned the decision of the BJP government to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF within 50 km of the border areas in the state.Party’s senior state leader Com Ajmer Singh said the Central Government was constantly snatching away the rights of the state and was attacking the federal structure of the country. He said these policies had reduced states to municipalities. He said the ending of the Section 370, 35-A in J&K against the will of people, arrest of opposition leaders by central investigating agencies without the approval from the state governments, increasing dependency of states on the Centre by increasing financial constraints were all steps taken in these directions. They said in the name of stopping drug peddling from national borders, the ambit and jurisdiction of the BSF had been increased for 50 km inside the borders by raising the scare of infiltration from Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unannounced-emergency-being-imposed-through-bsf-324858
15-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Plying of heavy vehicles during unscheduled hours on in city||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 14It’s been over a month since Tejinder Kaur, a 27-year-old woman lost her life in a road accident near the Maqsudan-DAV College road. She was reportedly crushed-to-death under the wheels of a speeding truck.While, her family, which resides at Lidhran village, and her husband, who is settled abroad, have still not come out of the trauma, no lesson has been learnt by the authorities concerned. The movement of heavy vehicles goes unabated on the route. Flouting the 8 am to 8 pm rule, trucks and other heavy vehicles can be easily spotted on the road during the daytime.The truck driver, who hit the woman, was drunk at the time of the accident. Besides, he was driving heavy vehicle on the road during unscheduled hours as the accident took place around 10.30 am. The deceased was heading to her salon in Model Town on her Activa scooter.While mentioning the traffic guidelines, the SHO, police division No. 1, Inspector Ashwinder Singh Siddhu, said, “Heavy vehicles have been given relaxation to ply on city roads from 11 am to 1 pm. The rule is being flouted as vehicles use the road throughout the day.”Jimmy Singh, a resident of Seth Hukum Chand Colony said, “Heavy trucks and tractor-trailers obstruct the movement of traffic in the city. It’s difficult to drive when heavily-loaded trucks are on the road.”Apart from accidents, commuters also stressed upon the damage overloaded trucks and trailers are causing to roads.Despite the presence of traffic police, drivers manage to ply trucks on roads. After the accident, the police halted movement of trucks and tractor-trailers from Maqsudan Chowk to Workshop Chowk. But, after a few days heavy vehicles once again started plying on the road. In the past also, heavy vehicles have claimed many lives on the route.Trucks coming from different cities and states usually move towards their destinations through the Maqsudan-DAV stretch only. Vehicles supplying vegetables and fruits to the city also use the same route.Meanwhile, DCP Naresh Dogra assured to take strict action against transporters violating the norm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plying-of-heavy-vehicles-during-unscheduled-hours-on-in-city-324859
15-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Figuring out green crackers an uphill task||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 14The regulation related to sale of green crackers is quite tricky when it comes to implementation. As per the Supreme Court order in 2018, a ban was imposed on crackers, which contained barium and other toxic chemicals.The district administration has an uphill task on its hands to restrict the use of crackers containing barium. However, since boxes of firecrackers do not contain information related to their composition, cracker ban has yet not been implemented in true spirit.Only 20 stalls this time?Over the years, the district has been plagued with similar concerns, which leads to deterioration of air quality around Diwali. Those selling crackers claimed that only green crackers would being sold. On October 6, the Supreme Court had questioned the storage of barium by manufacturers of firecrackers following the CBI investigation in September.The Tamil Nadu firecracker industry, which was under the radar of the CBI, supplies crackers throughout the country.Raghav Mahajan, member, Fireworks Association, said, “There is much strictness regarding the apex court’s guidelines related to green crackers. All our crackers come from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu. No one stocks or sells firecrackers before issuance of licences. So, there is no question of sale of firecrackers in violation of the SC guideliens. Only green crackers are now being manufactured.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “Green crackers are those, which do not contain barium and other toxic chemicals. But cracker packaging don’t have much details about contents. So, it is tricky for the administration to determine whether crackers being sold are green or not. Godown licences aren’t issued by District Magistrates, but the Controller of Explosives in Chandigarh. We plan to take up the matter with them on how to determine and ensure compliance regarding green crackers.”As stalls come up at Burlton Park just ahead of Diwali, crackers used during Dasehra come from outskirts of the district. Jalandhar has a couple of magazines, which store firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/figuring-out-green-crackers-an-uphill-task-324860
15-10-2021||---||Samples of sweets collected in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, October 14A health team inspected food business operators, especially sweet shops and milk dairies, in different areas of Kapurthala district keeping in view the ongoing festival season.Four samples of sweets, including ‘burfi’, ‘rasgulla’, ‘gulab jamun’ and ‘ladoo’ were collected from sweet shops and sent to the state food laboratory at Kharar for quality testing today.A team led by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, FDA, along with Mukul Gill, food safety officer, carried out inspections at various eateries and food joints today.The Assistant Food Commissioner said shop owners had been directed to store sweets and milk products at proper temperature. Officials said they would keep an eye on railway station to check supply of ‘khoya’ and other such items from other states. Businessmen, dealing in sweets and milk products, were instructed to use quality raw material and prepare eatables under hygienic condition. Officials also sought cooperation of all food business operators to ensure that safe, pure, healthy sweets and other food items were available for the general public during the festival season.Milk, samples of sweets collected in HoshiarpurWhile taking food samples from various sweet shops in the city, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Lakhvir Singh said adulteration would not be tolerated at any cost and strict action would be taken against violators under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.After collecting eight samples of milk and six samples of sweets, the DHO destroyed substandard sweets and eatables during the drive.Dr Lakhvir Singh said samples had been sent to food testing laboratory. He directed food manufacturers to make it a priority to sell quality and pure food items only.Dr Singh said as per rules, shopkeepers with a sale of more that Rs12 lakh per annum need to possess licences by paying fee of Rs2,000 and manufacturers to need the licence for which fee is Rs3,000. He said: “It is totally against the rules and also causes financial loss to the department. I appeal to the shopkeepers and manufacturers to deposit the requisite fee in their respective licence category only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/samples-of-sweets-collected-in-kapurthala-324861
15-10-2021||Dhammachakra Pravartan Diwas is celebrated in October to mark the day when BR Ambedkar embraced Buddhism at Dikshabhoomi in Nashik in 1956. A huge number of his followers from Punjab followed suit at a mass event in Chak Hakim||Ambedkar’s city connect||On October 27, 1951, Dr BR Ambedkar spoke to a gathering of lakhs of Dalits in Jalandhar in Ramdaspura, ahead of the 1952 General Election, exhorting them to build their own alternative to the existing political set up which had been sidelining them for ages. The Ambedkar Bhawan, established by his supporters in 1972, in Jalandhar, at the very spot from where Dr Ambedkar addressed a crowd in 1951 in the middle of (then called) Ramdaspur fields, serves as the earliest reminder of Babsaheb Ambedkar’s legacy in Jalandhar.Jalandhar is also home to the longest-running Ambedkarite magazine Bheem Patrika published by Lahori Ram Balley (92), one of the Ambedkar’s oldest living associates and a founding member of the bhawan. At a stone’s throw away from the bhawan is Punjab’s first Buddhist Vihar (in Siddharth Nagar) where every Sunday, a group of men gather to read from their scripture - the Babasaheb Ambedkar authored ‘Buddha and his Dhamma’ - sitting in front of a Buddha idol, in a room full of Ambedkar’s portraits.Lahori Ram Balley (92) says, “Ambedkar once said in his Nashik speech in 1938 — there are two enemies which the workers of this country have to deal with — Brahmanism and capitalism. Dr Ambedkar embraced Buddhism with this very idea. Buddhism was the most scientific religion according to him. He was clear that it would elevate the social status of the oppressed. Now, the so called political dispensation uses his name and holds brahmin sabhas at the same time. His ideals have been tweaked to suit the present-day political, casteist and divisive discourse.”The bhawan today is run by Ambedkarite Buddhists, who don’t allow any political gatherings in it. Set-up in 1972 by staunch Ambedkarite Buddhists back from a trip from Dikshabhoomi at Nagpur, the Siddharth Nagar Vihar was one of the first testimonies to Dr Ambedkar’s social and religious ideology taking root in Jalandhar, which adopted a new Buddhism aligned with the Ambedkarites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ambedkars-city-connect-324896
15-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with 2.52-quintal poppy husk||The Chabbewal police arrested two persons and recovered 2.52 quintals of poppy husk from them on Wednesday evening, in two separate cases.The first accused was arrested from his house in Baria Kalan village during a raid conducted on a secret tip off. Two quintals of poppy husk was recovered from his house, which was hidden underground in a room. In another case, 52-kg poppy husk was recovered by a patrolling party of Chabbewal police from Davinder Singh, alias Sonu, of Barian Kalan village, who was sitting in a deserted plot with two plastic sacks. He tried to run away seeing the police party, but could not due to the barbed wire fencing. Separate cases have been registered against the accused under Sections15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-2-52-quintal-poppy-husk-324898
15-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Kulwant Singh Heer is new Hoshiarpur SSP||District reports four new casesJalandhar: Four new Covid cases were reported today in Jalandhar, taking the total district tally to 63,349 cases. In Jalandhar, with no new Covid-19 death reported, the district deceased tally remained at 1,495 today. As many as 61,834 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 20. Of the 16,99,455 samples collected in the district so far, 15,65,567 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,123 tests are awaited. There are seven persons in home isolation in the district currently.No case, no death in Kapurthala: No Covid positive case was reported in Kapurthala today and the tally remained 17,842. Also, no death was reported in Kapurthala. TNSHoshiarpur reports 5 new cases: The district reported five new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 30,799 on Thursday. However, no death was recorded. The death toll stands at 982. There are 15 active cases in the district, while 29,802 have recovered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kulwant-singh-heer-is-new-hoshiarpur-ssp-324900
