16-10-2021||---||Jalandhar students make it to IITs after strenuous efforts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 15After a long-drawn preparation, the efforts of some city boys to make it to the IITs seem to have finally borne fruits.Vaibhav Bajaj, a student of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, has attained 180th All-India Rank. The boy, who had attained 35th AIR rank in the JEE mains and got 99.9987 percentile, seemed a bit put off. “I was aiming for a slot above 100. I had prepared quite well, but somehow I got panicky while attempting the paper-1. That spoiled my prospects a bit. But nevertheless, I will be vying for entry into IIT Delhi or Mumbai. I will also try for some research-related courses in mathematics and physics in the IITs for which my teachers are already guiding me.”Asked how he was celebrating it, he said, “Since it is Dasehra and there is a lot of rush in the markets outside, we have plans to order some good food at home and enjoy with the family today. A treat for the friends will follow later.”A 96.6 per cent scorer in Class XII, he talked about his journey, “My parents and teachers were very motivating from the very beginning. For JEE, I did 10 hours of study rigorously for almost 30 months at a stretch. I really enjoyed preparing for Olympiads and cracking the examination. I also used to enjoy solving theorems. Gradually, science and mathematics became my favourite subjects”.Vaibhav says the pandemic came as a big help for him as he could manage his studies and online classes very well. “I could study at odd hours. My commuting time to institutes and school got saved”, he said. Vaibhav’s father Rakesh Bajaj works with PNB Bank and his mother Soni Bajaj is serving with the CPWD.A student of Police DAV Public School, Aum Gupta has on the contrary improved his rank from his JEE Mains rank last month. He had taken just the first attempt for JEE mains in which he had scored 99.979 percentile and got 291st rank. Ever since, he had started working on to improve for JEE Advance, in which he has now got 215th rank. In Class XII CBSE results, he had got 99 per cent marks.Aum is now aspiring to get Computer Science Engineering seat in any of the old IITs, said his mother Neetu Gupta, who teaches commerce in his school. His father Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta teaches mathematics at Lovely Professional University. A resident of Green Avenue in Basti Sheikh, Aum said a proper atmosphere for studies provided by his parents helped him to concentrate in his studies and keep the focus.The boy shared that he was regular in his studies from day 1. “I attempted a lot of tests after I was done with the syllabus. I always made it sure to note my mistakes, analyse them and rectify them for future”, he said adding, “I also took out time for some relaxation by going out to play cricket or cycling”.Bhav Khurana, a student of Army Public School, Khusropur, has scored 1238th rank and hopes to get admission in IIT Guwahati. He had got 156th rank in JEE Mains. His mother Anju Bala is working in the same school. The mother of the 98 per cent CBSE Class XII scorer shared, “My son faced a huge loss as a child as he lost his father in accident when he was still in Class IV. We all took a lot of time to recover from the tragedy. His success today shows his comeback from that grave loss. It is a time for me to rejoice as my elder daughter Geetika Khurana too has got the job of Community Health Officer recently. The dreams which my husband saw for both the children have got fulfilled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-students-make-it-to-iits-after-strenuous-efforts-325305
16-10-2021||---||Dasehra celebrated with fervour across Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 15With Covid restrictions in place like last year, Dasehra was celebrated at six prominent places in the district even as many Dasehra committees also held restricted celebrations in view of the Covid protocols.Effigies catch fire before timeThe effigies of Ravana accidentally caught fire ahead of the actual plan to set these alight at least at two locations in the city. At Dhan Mohalla, even before the dignitaries present could press the remote, Ravana effigy caught fire from the adjoining effigy of Meghnath and got burnt. Likewise, at another site of the market place on Ladowali Road, it was perhaps the pressing of a wrong button that led to the burning of Ravana effigy ahead of those of Meghnath and Kumbhkaran.One of the biggest celebrations in the disrict was at Adarsh Nagar Market, organised by the Upkar Dasehra Committee, which has been organising the festival for the last 41 years. Sixty-foot-tall effigies of Ravana and 55-foot-tall ones of Meghnada and Kumbhkarna were erected at the ground. It is estimated that about one lakh people turned up for the event.It was also a rare occasion where various leaders cutting across party lines shared space. Functions were attended by MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, RSS Kshetriya Pramukh Pradeep Kumar, Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja and former BJP MLA Mahinder Bhagat, among others.Congress MLA, Rajinder Beri, who is also among the organisers of the committee, was also present on the occasion. While MLA Pargat Singh was also invited to the event, he could not make it due to the unprecedented crowds who turned up at the event.Ramesh Sharma, former district president of the BJP and deputy chief organiser of the committee, said, “There was much fervour among the public to attend the event. For the past 41 years, we have been celebrating Dasehra cutting across party lines and with bonhomie. About 1 lakh people gathered for the event. On the occasion, we also exhorted people repeatedly to get themselves vaccinated for Covid-19.”A huge event was held at the PUDA grounds by the Shri Ram Utsav Dussehra Committee in Jalandhar where 60-foot-tall effigies of Ravana, Meghanada and Kumbhkaran were set on fire at sunset this evening.Dasehra or Vaijay Dashami culminated with the effigies of Ravana, Meghanada and Kumbhkarna being set to fire to symbolise the victory of truth over evil.Other key festival celebrations, organised in the district, included the Dasehra by Shri Ram Welfare Society, Dhann Mohalla; Jai Shri Ram Dussehra Ustav Committee; 120 Feet Road; Bhagvan Shiv Mandir Committee; Ladowali Road and Dussehra Utsav Comittee, Model House.Various shobha yatras were taken out on the occasion of Vijay Dashami this monring which saw the presence of leaders and people dressed in colourful religious attire. At the Shobha yatra of the Upkaar Dussehra Committee this morning, BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia, Amit Taneja and Raghav Mahajan, among others, were present.Subdued celebrations at some placesVarious big Dasehra committees also held low-key celebrations to ensure abiding by Covid protocol. Tarsem Kapoor, life president of the Shri Mahakali Dussehra Utsav Committee, which organises one of the biggest Dasehra events, held at Sain Dass School Grounds every year, did not hold the big celebrations.Kapoor said, “The district administration asked us to restrict our gathering and sought an affidavit from us stating that the event would not cause Covid. Lakhs of people turn up at our celebrations, so we were unable to furnish such a document. Therefore we only burnt symbolic five to seven feet effigies.” The other major celebrations which could not take place due to Covid-19 were those at the Burlton Park and Government Training College, Ladowali Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dasehra-celebrated-with-fervour-across-jalandhar-district-325307
16-10-2021||---||100% vaccination in 48 villages of Adampur block:DC||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 15Jalandhar district has completed 100 per cent vaccination in 48 villages falling under Adampur community health centre (CHC).Villages that achieved 100% inoculationKathar, Kotli Sheikhan, Goel Pind, Jaganpur, Jagrawan, Diantpur, Jalpot, Dhandauri, Muradpur, Talwara, Lutera Kalan, Talwandi, Arayian, Khiala, Daulatpur, Madar, Sattowali, Lutera Khurd, Massania, Dhogri, Raipur Rasoolpur, Kahanpur, Hargobind Nagar, New Hargobind Nagar, Bachint Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Nurpur Colony, Beas Pind, Manko, Udesian, Chuharwali, Kapoor Pind Lehsriwal, Jandu Singha, Mehmadpur, Arjanwal, Bulandpur, Sunder Nagar, Ghurial, Raowali, Haripur, Narangpur, Khichipur, Sikanderpur, Chukhiara, Khurdpur, Kadiana, Bahudeenpur and Bhagwanpur.DC Ghanshyam Thori said a special drive was initiated to ensure 100 per cent vaccination in villages. Under the drive, teams of the Health Department camped in villages to cover maximum population, the DC added.He said all residents in 48 villages were vaccinated by health teams. “The administration has achieved a rare feat by covering over two million beneficiaries, which stands at 90 per cent of total eligible beneficiaries,” the DC said.The DC called upon people to come forward for the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to ensure their safety from the virus. Special mobile camps were being orgainsed across the district to provide doorstep inoculation facilities to residents, the DC added.Teams of the district administration and the Health Department were in constant touch with panchayats and sarpanches to ensure timely vaccination, said the DC. Efforts were receiving encouraging response from residents of villages, the DC added. In the coming days the remaining villages would be covered as per the availability of vaccine, said the DC.The DC asked the other health blocks to emulate this move by ensuring complete vaccination of their villages in the coming days.The SMO, CHC, Dr Reema, said only 12 villages were pending to achieve 100 per cent vaccination in Adampur health block. These villages would be covered within a few days thereby making the block first to cover 100 per cent vaccination of beneficiaries, she added. Over 95 per cent eligible beneficiaries had already been covered in the remaining 12 villages, she said. Earlier, the Adampur health block was the first to achieve 100 per cent vaccination of physically challenged persons, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-vaccination-in-48-villages-of-adampur-blockdc-325308
16-10-2021||---||Paddy purchase: Hoshiarpur DC orders to accelerate lifting||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 15Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Friday directed the officials of the Food Supplies Department and procurement agencies to further accelerate the pace of lifting of crop from mandis.While reviewing the procurement, payment and lifting in mandis in a meeting with officials/agencies concerned, the DC said besides lifting, timely purchase of crop and payment to farmers should also be ensured. The administration had made elaborate arrangements to ensure hassle-free procurement so that there should be no inconvenience to stakeholders, especially farmers.She said a sufficient number of gunny bags (bardana) was also made available at all procurement centres so that lifting could be ensured well in time. It was also informed in the meeting that so far, 95,475 metric tonne (MT) of paddy arrived in the mandis, of which 94,146 had already been procured vis-à-vis generating payment advice to the tune of Rs 135.52 crore. The District Food Supplies Controller also apprised that 13,441 MT paddy arrived in mandis and the procurement was taking place in a hassle-free manner. She said 4.48 lakh of MT paddy arrival was expected in this season and nearly 50 rice shellers had already been linked with the respective mandis across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paddy-purchase-hoshiarpur-dc-orders-to-accelerate-lifting-325311
16-10-2021||---||Victory of good over evil: Students celebrate Dasehra with fervour in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 15Devotional dances, bhajans, speeches and PowerPoint presentations marked the Dasehra celebrations in schools of the city. Special assemblies were held and children danced to the beats of dandiya.St Soldier groupThe festival of Dasehra was celebrated by the students of St Soldier Group of Institutions in which students played the role of Lord Rama, Lakshmana, Sita, Goddess Durga and Hanuman. The UKG students presented ‘Ram ji ki nikli swari’ and played dandiya. They also performed short drama and poetry based on Dasehra while burning the Ravana. While congratulating everyone on the occasion, Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra told the children that the festival signifies the victory of good over evil and one should always follow the path of truth like Lord Rama.State Public SchoolState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt celebrated Dasehra with the kindergarten students. They were shown the dummies of Ravan, Meghnath and Kumbhkaran. The students were also informed about the significance of this pious celebration. They were narrated with the story which demonstrated how the good won over the evil. President and Vice-President of Group of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur along with Principal Savina Bahl, congratulated the students for the celebration and wished the entire school and society Happy Dasehra.CT World SchoolKeeping the festive spirit alive, Dasehra was celebrated at CT World School with great fervour. Students presented the epic “Ramayana” via a play followed by the burning of the effigy of Ravana. The participants mesmerised the students, guests and the digital audience with their charming smiles and presentation. They were adorned in attractive outfits. The guests for the day remained Charanjit Singh Channi, chairman CT Group, and Parminder Kaur Channi, Co-Chairperson, who were amazed to see the confidence and the energy level of the performers and were throughout immersed in the act. Madhu Sharma, Principal, CT World School, appreciated the efforts of educators and students for the programme.Ivy World SchoolTo keep the festive spirit alive, young Ivyians took part in a variety of activities to mark the festival of Dasehra. Children spoke about the festival’s significance. They dressed up as any character from the Ramayan and played his role in the backdrop related to the festival. The day’s highlights were Dasehra speeches, a literary Ramayana, and dance to the Hanuman Chalisa. S. Chauhan, Principal of Ivy World School, addressed the kids, explaining that the objective of the celebration was to remind the pupils of the oft-repeated lesson that virtue triumphed over vice. President of Vasal Educational Society KK Vasal wished the teachers and students luck for the festival season ahead.Police DAV Public SchoolYashasvi House of Police DAV Public School Jalandhar organised Dasehra celebration in the morning Assembly. A short skit was presented by students, which was based on how Corona can be defeated. Ravana was characterised as Corona, whereas Lord Rama was presented as vaccination who killed Ravana with the help of his army of masks, sanitisers and social distancing. Principal Rashmi Vij highly praised the efforts of Gurpreet Johal, the club incharge, and other teachers and students of Yashasvi House and motivated the students to follow Covid safety norms and those above 18 years to get vaccinated.Delhi Public SchoolVijayadashami, commonly known as Dasehra, was observed at the end of Navratri by the students and staff of Delhi Public School. A special assembly was organised under the guidance of Incharge Principal, Ritu Kaul for the children which began with a prayer followed by pledge and a video based on the theme - Clear your mind of can’t. The high-spirited DPSites of pre-primary celebrated Navratri festivities by decorating a Pooja thali and dancing to dandiya beats. The celebrations cascaded into Dasehra merriment and enthralled the little ones who created effigies for good and evil. The highlight of the assembly was interpretation about the festival by the students, signifying not only winning of good over evil but to raise awareness about the mental and physical disabilities in the hope of creating a better life for those with disabilities. Children participated in the discussion about the significance of this festival and gave their opinions. The essence of the Dasehra celebrations brought forth an understanding among the students to enlighten their minds with knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/victory-of-good-over-evil-students-celebrate-dasehra-with-fervour-in-jalandhar-325313
16-10-2021||Jalandhar||79th EME Corps Day observed||The Vajra Eagle celebrated 79th Electronics and Mechanical Engineers’ (EME) Corps Day at Jalandhar Cantt here today. In a solemn ceremony, Brigadier Atulya Bamzai, Brigadier EME Vajra Corps paid homage to the gallant craftsmen of corps of the EME.Vajra Eagles were in the forefront of fight against Covid pandemic. During the second wave, EME technicians of Vajra Corps repaired medical equipment of civil hospitals. They also ensuring medical equipment serviceability at the Military Hospital. The Corps of EME are also maintaining high equipment readiness pan Indian Army specially along challenging terrain in northern and eastern borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/79th-eme-corps-day-observed-325314
16-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar reports 3 new cases||Three new Covid cases were reported in the district on Friday taking the district tally to 63,352 cases.The death toll remains at 1,495. As many as 61,836 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while there are 21 active cases. Of the 17,02,317 samples collected in the district so far, 15,67,936 samples tested negative. The results of as many as 1,529 tests are still awaited. At present, seven persons are in home isolation in the district.No case, no death in KapurthalaNo Covid case was reported in Kapurthala on Friday and the tally remained at 17,842. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala either.No fresh case in HoshiarpurThe district reported no new case of Covid, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,799 cases on Firday. Also, no death was recorded today. The death toll stood at 982. There are 13 active cases in the district while 29,804 have recovered. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-3-new-cases-325317
16-10-2021||Jalandhar||Eye check-up camps mark World Sight Day||Various eye check-up camps were held on the occasion of World Sight Day on Thursday. On the occasion of the World Sight Day, patients were examined by Dr Jagdeep Singh, MS (eye surgeon) and his wife Manveen Kaur at the Apahaj Ashram.In the memory of Prof Late Sant Singh, an Eye Department started functioning at the Lala Ram Kishore Kapur Viklang Sahita Trust Building inside the Apahaj Ashram.Tarsem Kapur founder Chairman of the Apahaj Ashram said all patients with any type of eye ailments will be checked up and treated for free, including operations up to October 31. The timing for the camps at the venue will be from 10 am to 2 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eye-check-up-camps-mark-world-sight-day-325319
16-10-2021||Jalandhar||Lok Adalat: Registrar directed to remove father’s name from minor’s birth certificate||On an appeal of a single mother, the District Permanent Lok Adalat (Public utility services) in its recent order has directed the local registrar, birth and death, Municipal Corporation, to remove father’s name from the birth certificate of her minor daughter. The petitioner, Harjinder Kaur (38), a resident of Mann Nagar, near Wadala Chowk, had filed an application in this regard with Permanent Lok Adalat (PLA), under Section 22C, Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, on February 15 this year.Court’s orderAfter considering all arguments, the PLA counsel concluded that the petition was maintainable as the notice under Section 80, CPC, was required to be given for the purpose of filing a suit in the civil court. “The present petition cannot be equated with the civil suit. Hence, provision of the Section 80, CPC, is not applicable to the present case. There could be no hitch in deleting Narinder and his father’s name from minor Gursharan Mann’s birth certificate,” reads the order.Harjinder married to Narinder Kumar in February 2009. After marriage, she lived with her husband at Khurla Kingra village in the district. The couple had a girl child, Gursharan Mann, who was born on April 22, 2010. However, in her application, she reported that Narinder neglected and deserted her and their minor daughter. He also subjected her to cruelty, which resulted in filing a divorce petition. After separating from her husband, the petitioner moved an application under Section 25, Guardian and Wards Act, for the custody of minor Gursharan while declaring herself as her legal guardian. Based on the application, she was declared sole guardian of Gursharan on August 2016.After obtaining the decree of divorce, the petitioner became a single mother. Later, the petitioner applied for deletion of Narinder and his father Mohinder Pal’s name from minor daughter’s birth certificate, which was registered with the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. The petitioner’s application for the deletion of names was not accepted by the Suvidha Centre, Khurla Kingra village, Jalandhar, and later, by the office of local registrar, births and deaths.Despite repeated request of the petitioner her application was not accepted by officials concerned and they refused to delete Narinder and his father’s name from minor’s birth certificate.It was submitted that the minor child was studying in Class V and would be appearing for board examinations. In case Narinder and his father’s name were not deleted from minor’s birth certificate, it would be incorporated in her educational testimonials, which would create further complication and multiplicity of litigations, the petitioner pleaded.Whereas the MC and the local authorities denied to make changes in the birth certificate citing the provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969. The authorities also maintained that the petition was not maintainable for want of legal notice under Section 80, CPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lok-adalat-registrar-directed-to-remove-fathers-name-from-minors-birth-certificate-325320
16-10-2021||PG Department of Physics of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (Autonomous) stresses upon innovations in science education for enabling smart and inclusive growth of students. Six students participated in INNOVESTA- 2021 organised by Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology. Dr Dipan Sahu||INNOVESTA-2021||Expert talk on SVEEPDAV Institute of Engineering and Technology organised an expert talk on Electoral Literacy as a part of during the Student Induction Programme. The expert talk was delivered by Ashima Saini, Head, Department of Political Sciences. The chief guest of the function was Anupam Kler, deputy director Urban Local Bodies Jalandhar. The basic aim of the talk was to spread electoral awareness among the budding engineers so that they should become responsible and conscientious citizens of the nation. Ashima Saini, while speaking on the importance of electoral literacy stated that in India every citizen has the power to run the country by selecting the right representatives. She highlighted the fact that the voters should select the candidates wisely as a small error in judgment can send the wrong leader at the top. The programme was organised as a part of Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/innovesta-2021-325321
16-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Webinar dwells on cloud computing||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-dwells-on-cloud-computing-325322
16-10-2021||Garhshankar||Woman robbed in broad daylight||Desecration: one person booked Hoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a case against a person for allegedly desecrating religious figures in a fair here on Thursday. Nirmal Kumar, president of Reem Leela Club, Bullowal, told the police that a Bullowal resident Heera Lal, alias Bobby, allegedly created a ruckus in the fair and damaged figures of Shri Ram and Lakshman. The accused was under the influence of liquor at the time of the crime, he added. The police have started investigation after registering case against accused. OCMan booked for demanding dowry Hoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have booked Pardeep Singh, a resident of Nizampura village in Amritsar district, for harassing his wife for more dowry. According to the information, Reena Kumari, a resident of Moila Wahidpur village, told the police on Wednesday that she was married to Pradeep Singh, a resident of Nizampura village in Amritsar district. After marriage, Pradeep allegedly started harassing Reena for not bringing enough dowry. As Reena could not fulfil his demands, he threw her out of the house. OCYouth booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police on Thursday have booked a person on the charge of luring a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. According to information, a resident of Randhawa village, told the police that Karemjeet Singh, a resident of village Mangarh, lured his minor daughter on the pretext of marriage. The Dasuya police have launched search for the girl after registering a case against the accused in this regard. OCtheft of power cable: four held  Hoshiarpur: The Dasuya police arrested four accused on Thursday and recovered stolen power cable of tubewells from them. The accused have been identified as Dharminder Kumar and Ajay Kumar, alias Sonu, residents of Dharamkot, Raju, a resident of Kahirwali, and Pramod Kumar, alias Mota, a resident of Langarpur. An FIR has been lodged against the accused in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-robbed-in-broad-daylight-325323
