17-10-2021||---||Farm unions burn effigy of Modi govt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16A day after the city witnessed celebrations of Dasehra, various farm unions in the district on Saturday burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders. A group of farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also left for Singhu border to join their protesting counterparts.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, Jalandhar district, burnt an effigy of the Modi government in front of the Shahkot police station today. A large number of farmers and their supporters gathered on the occasion.Headed by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee treasurer Gurlal Singh Pandori, effigies burnt around 4 pm. Speaking on the occasion Pandori and other leaders said, “The BJP-led Centre government has resorted to hooliganism and is hurting sentiments of the farming community.”“Even after the heartbreaking incident at Lakhimpur Kheri (UP), the Centre government has remained mute. It’s depressing that the Centre is not even an inch close to repealing the controversial agriculture laws,” they added.Paddy straw was used in effigies. Pictures of Amit Shah and corporates like Ambani and Adani were pasted on effigies and had garlands of shoes. Senior leaders present on the occasion include Nirmal Singh Dhandowal, Satnam Singh Raiwal, district press secretary Harpreet Singh Kotli Gajran, press secretary Sarabjit Singh Dhandowal, Paramjit Singh Mann, Gurmukh Singh Kotla, Lakhvir Singh Sindh, Nirmal Singh, Bhajan Singh Rajewal, Gurjinder Singh Bahmanian, Gurnam Singh Kotla and others.Following call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan and Bhartiya Kisan Union also burnt effigies of the Modi government today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-unions-burn-effigy-of-modi-govt-325732
17-10-2021||---||Condemn gruesome murder of Tarn Taran-based man||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has condemned the gruesome murder of a Tarn Taran-based man by a Nihang at the Singhu border. The incident has sent shockwaves among farmers.A huge group of members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee set out for Singhu on Friday, their arrival was greeted with the shocking news. Farmer groups expressed solidarity with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha calling for a thorough probe into the incident. Some also raised questions on repeated disruptions by anti-social elements at the morcha.Salwinder Singh Jania, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, who was part of the jatha which reached Singhu this morning, said, “It was shocking for us to know about the incident. The farmers unions are there to protest against the three black laws. We don’t have anything to do with this incident nor is our protest religious. We are agricultural groups not religious groups. We are concerned only with protests for our demands. Those responsible for the crime should be brought to book. We hope the law takes it logical course and the guilty are punished.”Manjit Singh Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba), said, “For the past so many times, anyone caught disrupting the farmers’ protests and the peaceful agitation at Singhu who has been caught by the police, is written down as mentally upset or not in the right mind. The question is from where do disruptive elements keep penetrating the andolan time and again. No one should be allowed to take law into their own hands and strong action should be taken against those responsible for the heinous act. However, the fault also lies with governments for not heeding to people’s anger in long pending cases of injustice.There is growing ire against lack of justice in beadbi issues in Punjab which has again become a talking point after the recent murder at Singhu. The incident took place early in the morning when volunteers at the dharna on night watch usually leave and new ones come in place for them for morning duty. Had volunteers been around, they wouldn’t have allowed it.”Amarjot Singh Jandiala, youth wing leader of the BKU (Rajewal), said, “The kisan andolan has been going on peacefully for the past many months. Farmers have been holding peaceful protests. The recent incident has caused a huge shock. There have been repeated attempts to bring bad name to farmers as witnessed in various incidents.“We resolutely stand by the stance of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on the incident. Farm groups or unions weren’t involved with the incident. This incident should be probed thoroughly by the government and the guilty should be brought to book.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/condemn-gruesome-murder-of-tarn-taran-based-man-325733
17-10-2021||---||Citing low margin, owner shuts petrol station||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, October 16The increasing fuel prices have started bringing an adverse impact on the sale of petrol pumps. Owners have begun to announce closure of their respective petrol pumps.The Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association spokesman, Gurmeet Singh Monty Sehgal, today closed his petrol pump situated at Adampur. Sehgal said he had shut down his petrol pump keeping in view the increasing fuel prices and no hike in the margin since the past four years.“I am helpless. Sixteen employees of the petrol pump will lose jobs as the pump has been closed. Fuel sale has fallen by 30 to 40 per cent as the prices have increased by 50 per cent,” Sehgal added. Claiming that he had lost Rs75 lakh in the past 18 months, Sehgal said the margin in the sale of fuel was just three per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/citing-low-margin-owner-shuts-petrol-station-325734
17-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Revenue of government  buses up by 30 per cent||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16The ‘big action’ taken against private bus operators has led to increase in revenue of Punjab Roadways and PRTC buses.In the past two weeks, the gross revenue of roadways buses has almost doubled. Considering the figures provided by roadways officials, there is an average hike of 30 per cent in daily revenue.As per Punjab Roadways depot officials no new buses have been inducted in their fleet. To accommodate more passengers, Punjab Roadways has repaired damaged buses parked inside workshop. Renovated buses of both roadways depots of the district are now plying on roads, taking the fleet count to 210. Earlier, only 150 to 160 government buses were operating.Mandeep Manchanda, an official of Jalandhar roadways depot No. 2 and in-charge of bus stand said, following stern action against private buses plying sans permits there was a hike of nearly 30 per cent in revenue of Roadways buses.“At present, buses are running to full capacity. Not only routes of buses have increased, but also passenger flow has doubled. Compared to previous months, roadways buses are at present earning a profit of Rs11 to Rs12 lakh per day. Excluding free tickets of woman passengers, roadways buses are generating revenue of nearly Rs7 lakh daily from male passengers,” Manchanda added.“Earlier, in the corresponding months, daily revenue of buses hardly used to cross Rs4 lakh. After directions of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, the monopoly of private buses on time tables has also been curtailed, which is directly benefiting Punbus and PRTC buses,” added Manchanda.On Saturday too, the Roadways staff removed the time table chart of Orbit buses, which was illegally pasted inside bus stand for the past few years. The removal of the banner of Orbit Mercedes and Volvo AC buses with mobile phone numbers of bus operators was being considered as a warning to private buses operators.The bus stand in-charge also informed that a limit had been fixed on routes of private buses and their presence inside bus stand.Surprisingly, it was only after Warring’s action that hoardings of many private operators installed in vicinity of the bus stand are now missing.The Jalandhar Roadways depot No. 1 General Manager, Paramvir Singh, said depot buses were generating daily revenue of nearly Rs7 lakh. In a joint operation, along with Regional Transport Authority (RTA), around 20 buses without road permits were challaned and two impounded, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revenue-of-government-buses-up-by-30-per-cent-325735
17-10-2021||---||Mini-bus operators seek exemption from taxes||Phagwara, October 16Seventy mini-bus operators, who gathered at a resort here today, have demanded that the state government should exempt them from all taxes in view of the losses they had suffered owing to the Covid pandemic.The mini-bus operators led by Jarnail Singh Garhdiwala had also written to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi stating that owing to the financial crunch, they were unable to pay taxes to the state government.The mini-bus operators said on October 6 when they met Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring to discuss the issue, he had assured them of relief, but transport officials were acting against them and stopping their buses. The mini bus operators said they were upset over action taken against them by officials concerned.Garhdiwala said, “Diesel price in the pre-lockdown period was Rs74 per litre. It has now increased to Rs96 per litre. Earlier, a bus, which covered a distance of 100 km, incurred an expenditure of Rs5,400 on fuel, which has now increased to Rs10,000. Even rates of lubricants have increased manifold. There has been no corresponding hike in bus fares, due to which mini bus operators are bearing losses.”“Even insurance companies have not offered any relief. Instead, there has been a steady increase in insurance premium. An owner pays Rs80,000 towards annual insurance of 52-seater bus,” mini-bus operators added. For political gains, the state government had announced free travel for women, which had further reduced their income, said mini-bus operators.“To add to our woes, various private companies maintaining bus stands have started levying a higher adda fee. The adda fee at some bus stands is even higher than the motor vehicle tax deposited in the state exchequer,” lamented Garhdiwala.Quoting an instance Garhdiwala said, “Earlier, the adda fee levied on a bus was Rs50, which has now increased to Rs95. No adda fee is levied on Punjab Roadways buses and their burden is also shifted on private bus operators.”“Mini bus operators are even ignored while setting time tables. Companies with political affiliations are preferred,” said Garhdiwala.The mini-bus operators demanded that they be exempted from taxes due from March 2020 to March 2022, the time table be revised without giving any preferences, writing permit numbers on all private and government buses should be mandatory and fuel subsidy of Rs30 per litre be given to them.Buses impounded by the Transport Department be released at the earliest or else they would have to lodge a protest, mini-bus operators added. Mini-bus operators have also demanded that the motor vehicle tax should be reduced to 50 paise per km as they are already paying a huge amount as VAT on diesel.Among those, who attended the meeting, include Shubhkarman Singh Brar, Harinder Singh, Narpinder Singh, Paramjit Singh Deol and Jasvir Singh Raja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mini-bus-operators-seek-exemption-from-taxes-325736
17-10-2021||---||‘Ensure timely payment to farmers for crop’||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, October 16Taking stock of the ongoing procurement, the Secretary, Food Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, today said no laxity in procurement and payment to farmers after lifting their crop would be tolerated.The secretary was reviewing procurement in the district at a meeting with officials concerned. He directed officials to expedite lifting in mandis. He asked them to be vigilant so that procurement was seamless in mandis and ensure timely payment to farmers after purchasing their crop. He also directed Deputy Commissioner to regularly monitor paddy procurement by agencies and take appropriate action in case of any lapse.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait informed that so far, 1,08,551 metric tonnes of paddy had arrived at mandis in the district out of which 1,07,605 metric tonnes had been procured after paying Rs158.56 crore to farmers.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Aashika Jain and other officials of departments concerned were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-timely-payment-to-farmers-for-crop-325737
17-10-2021||---||Three fresh Covid cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16While the district Covid tally had come down to zero in the past few months, right before Diwali a marginal increase in positive cases is again being witnessed in the district. In October so far, 36 Covid cases have been reported in the district. While on September 30 the district had 63,319 cases, the tally has currently reached 63,355.More than two cases per day are being reported on an average in October. There was only one day in October (October 12) when no Covid case was reported in the district. Barring that, there has been a steady increase in positive cases. Even four to five cases are being reported on some days. The Covid tally began to rise from September end.Meanwhile, three new Covid cases were reported today in Jalandhar district. In Jalandhar, with no new Covid death, the district deceased tally remained at 1,495 today. As many as 61,837 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 23. Of the 17,03,893 samples collected in the district so far, 1,57,0733 samples have tested negative. Results of 297 samples collected recently are awaited. At present, nine people are in home isolation in the district.One case in KapurthalaOne Covid case was reported in Kapurthala district today. The Covid tally has reached 17,843 in the district. No death from Covid was reported in the district today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-fresh-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-325738
17-10-2021||Jalandhar||Resident alleges unfair practices in Covid testing||A city-based businessman has alleged harassment during RT-PCR tests at the Amritsar airport while he was flying back from Sharjah with his family recently.Businessman Gaurav Sood said he, along with his wife and son, was standing in queue for undertaking the Covid tests when he noticed some foul play. “I followed a guy, whom I suspected to be taking money from the people underhand for helping them jump the queue. Since all people who fly down are often in a hurry to quickly get their tests done and rush homewards, he perhaps was taking advantage of the situation to mint extra money,” alleged Gaurav.He said he even clicked his pictures while indulging in malpractices for proof and when he did that, he was threatened by the accused of being victimised. Gaurav said after giving the samples, he approached the duty manager of the Airport Authority of India and got a formal complaint lodged on the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resident-alleges-unfair-practices-in-covid-testing-325739
17-10-2021||---||Over 100 take part in webinar to celebrate World Food Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16The Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated World Food Day by organising a webinar on “Slow Food: Science and Sustainability”. More than 100 students and teachers participated in the programme. Dr. Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City during her introductory remarks, informed that this day marks the anniversary of founding of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, which strives to eradicate global hunger and believes that every human has the right to be free from hunger and malnutrition in order to develop their physical and mental faculties. She said the day is celebrated to promote awareness and action to highlight the need to ensure healthy diets.She said the theme of 2021 is ‘Our actions are our future – better production, better nutrition, better environment and a better life’. it is very important to understand what one eats because the right food choices lead to a healthy mind, body and soul. In recent decades our eating habits and diets have changed due to lifestyle changes, increased availability of non-seasonal food and ‘fast food’ due to urbanization and globalisation. In contrast ‘slow food’ refers to traditional cuisine and local foods which are healthier and have minimal impact on the ecosystems and climate and, hence, lead to environmental sustainability and social justice.Chef Gunjan Goela, a Celebrity Chef, Food Consultant, researcher and historian on Indian Gastronomy was the key speaker on the occasion. She said the slow food movement campaign was started in 1989 aimed to prevent the disappearance of local food cultures and traditions, counteract the rise of fast food and fast life and inculcate a sense of responsibility and pride for culinary heritage. She informed that slow food movement in our country is not a new concept and since ages people believed in taking only what is enough to satisfy needs and giving back to the environment. Further, a growing awareness about the positive environmental impacts of vegetarianism is providing a much needed boost to the slow food movement, she added.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science city said slow food is healthy food having real ingredients that help to fuel our body as most of these food products are organic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-100-take-part-in-webinar-to-celebrate-world-food-day-325740
17-10-2021||Jalandhar||Eatables given to kids, needy||On the occassion of World Food Day, EduYouth Foundation on Saturday organised a contribution drive for special children and elderly people at the Guru Nanak Mission Netarheen Birdh Ashram in Phagwara.A team of the foundation distributed snacks, medicines, juice, tea, vegetables, fruits and other necessary items among more than 100 children and elderly people.The Jalandhar-based NGO has been consistently working towards the welfare of society and observing such programmes since it came into existence. NGO president Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh informed that many major events would be held in the coming days to serve society.Parampreet Gill, Gurkirat Sandhu, Jaskirat Sandhu, late Gyan Singh Surjit, late Rajinder Singh Bhatti, Seetal Singh Sitara, Avtar Singh Maan and Mukhtiar Singh (manager) and others also contributed towards the noble cause. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eatables-given-to-kids-needy-325741
17-10-2021||---||Swarnim Vijay Varsh Torch returns; bike stunts, cycle rally mark occasion||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16A Swarnim Vijay Varsh Torch, commemorating the victory of Indian Armed Forces in the 1971 Indo-Pak War, which started its journey on December 20, 2020, from New Delhi, returned to Jalandhar Military Station on Saturday after travelling across several states.The Utsav began with Lieut Gen RP Singh, GOC, Western Command, accompanied by Lieut Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC 11 Corps, laying a wreath at the Vajra Shaurya Sthal to pay homage to the fallen heroes in remembrance of their sacrifices in the defence of the motherland.The day was also marked with the flagging in of the Vajra Cycle Rally, which commenced from the Attari border and covered a total of 888 km over a period of 16 days. The cycle rally passed through historical battle sites in the states of Punjab, Haryana and J&K as a pilgrimage bearing testimony to the grit, valour and sacrifices of the fallen heroes which continues to inspire the future generations in the Indian Army. The cycle rally was flagged in at the Katoch stadium by Lt Gen RP Singh. The GOC complimented the team members for their motivation and spirit in undertaking the ride as a tribute to those who sacrificed their lives in the defence of the nation.To mark the occasion, certain welfare initiatives for veterans and their families to include Sainik Aramgrah, Nari Awas and Vajra Nature Park were inaugurated by Lt Gen RP Singh and Alka Singh, president, AWWA Western Command. The day also witnessed a painting competition and an equipment display organised to enhance the spirit of patriotism among the youth and children of Jalandhar.Lt Gen RP Singh was also the Chief Guest at the Martial Art and Cultural displays, which included malkhamb, khukri dance, kalari payattu, fire lezim, bhangra and gatka. A spellbound motorcycle display by renowned daredevils’ team from the Corps of Signals, followed by a live depiction of the famous Battles of Dera Baba Nanak and Sehjra highlighting the valour and supreme sacrifice of our Armed Forces in the 1971 Indo-Pak War raised the spirits of all. The high point of the event was a musical extravaganza by the pipe bands of the Indian Army and the Naval Symphony Band.Lt Gen RP Singh interacted and felicitated veterans and veer naris hailing from Jalandhar, Amritsar, Beas, Ludhiana and nearby areas, who played a major role in the 1971 Indo-Pak War. Senior officials of the civil administration, police, other agencies and civil society were also present. Veterans, soldiers with their families and school children attended in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swarnim-vijay-varsh-torch-returns-bike-stunts-cycle-rally-mark-occasion-325742
17-10-2021||Jalandhar||Apeejay Institute holds Utsav-2021||JEE rank holder felicitatedMayor World School organised a felicitation ceremony to acknowledge the achievement of Aditya Gupta, who got All-India Rank of 1220 in JEE Advanced examination for IITs. The school endowed him with a letter of appreciation and a planter in the presence of his parents and teachers. Aditya Gupta thanked the school for its constant support and expressed his gratitude to his teachers and mentors for preparing him over the years and guiding him towards the right path. Vice Chairperson Neerza Mayor, Director Sarita Madhok, Deputy Vice Principal Charu Trehan and the Headmistress Aarti Gulati along with all the teachers congratulated and encouraged him to reach the pinnacle of success.photography competition organisedLensking and photography competition was organised by the Department of Animation and Multimedia. The event was inaugurated by the chief guest Sameer Rana (photographer, cinematographer, educator), Pushpinder Kumar and Jasvir Singh from Panasonic team, Loveena Bagga (working on short films and ad films, doing films for PTC Punjab and writer in Punjabi film), Partap Rajput (graphic designer), Richa Ahuja (Celebrity photographer), Manu bBowani (writer), Raj Kumar Saqi (Producer in Fidaa TV), Sachleen Bedi (Vice president PCBT) with lamp lighting ceremony. The photographs of the participants were showcased on the wall of art on the theme of nature, reflection and shadow which was judged by the chief guests. Taranpreet Singh (1st position) won ring light, Kawaljit Singh (2nd position) won tripod and Raghav (3rd position) won a back pack. Over 43 students including students from other colleges participated and showcased their art skills and creativity.Global Handwashing Day observedGlobal Handwashing Day was observed at Delhi Public School to raise awareness among students on the importance of handwashing with soap. The little ones of the pre-primary wing commemorated the day by participating in a germ experiment that showed them how germs stick to our hands and that regular hand washing is a must. Children also crafted a germ puppet and did some talking with it. Informative videos on the significance of the day were shared with the students of the primary wing. A special assembly, planned by Class VI students, was conducted in Classes VI-VIII in which students attended a special prayer, pledge, thought and talk on the theme of the day. Principal Ritu Kaul shared that the observance of the day serves as a reminder to the students of the need to build on the current momentum to ensure hand hygiene to control diseases including the current Covid-19 pandemic.Geetika Ist in MSc (Physics)Geetika, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged Ist position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MSc (Physics) Sem II by getting 567 marks out of 600 whereas Jasdeep Kaur of the same class secured 3rd position by getting 560 marks. Principal of the college Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra added that the college has a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics sports and other co-curricular activities. Balbir Kaur President, College Governing Council, also congratulated the student and reiterated the commitment of the college to quality education and productive research.DIPS College students excelDIPS College (co-educational), Dhilwan, students excelled in examination of BCom 2nd year and BA final year conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University. All students perform superbly in first division thereby bringing laurels to DIPS Chain. College coordinator Harpreet Kaur gave the information and told that in BCom 2nd year Gurleen secured 89 per cent marks and got the first position in college. Anjali secured 88 per cent marks and secured second position and Nisha got 87 per cent marks at got the 3rd position. In BA final year examination, Sonu Sahota, Sukhjinder Kaur and other students done well. The achievers were awarded certificates of appreciation. DIPS chain MD Tarwinder Singh, CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated the achievers.School holds Motivational sessionPratibha Kakkar, a motivational speaker, gave a motivational speech to students at Eklavya School, regarding good manners and being helpful. She told the students that they should always greet their elders with respect. They should fold their hands and wish ‘Namaskar’ to everyone at home every day. Chairman JK Gupta said, “Values are good qualities that shape the life of a person.” Children took part in the session by interacting and telling how they greet their parents and grandparents every day. Pratibha told children that they should all lend a helping hand to others. She gave activity to all the student that everyone has to write about one good deed they do in their daily life. Principal Komal Arora and Administrator Dimple Malhotra also encouraged the students to be helpful and good. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apeejay-institute-holds-utsav-2021-325743
