18-10-2021||---||Farmers to observe ‘rail roko’ for six hours in district today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Following the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, various farmers’ outfits will block railway tracks tomorrow (on Monday) in the district. The ‘Rail Roko Andolan’ would be observed between 10am and 4pm.Mandeep Singh Samra, district president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), stated that apart from the Dakoha railway crossing, the railway tracks and stations would be blocked at Dhanno Walin Pahatak, Lohian Khas, Phagwara, Phillaur, Kartarpur, Dadwindi Phatak between Panjian and Sultanpur Lodhi, Nakodar and others.While around 100 farmers under the banner of the BKU (Rajewal) would be present at the Dakoha crossing, a large number of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee are also expected to be present at the Lohian Khas railway crossing.Amarjot Singh Jandiala, district youth president, BKU (Rajewal), said the ‘rail roko’ agitation was being organised against the Centre’s three controversial farm laws and the continuous rise in the fuel prices.Samra further added that the farm unions, including the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, also condemned the lynching of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border and told that the farmers has nothing to do with the killings. “The protest will remain peaceful for six hours and no movement of trains, either passenger or goods, will be allowed in the district. Besides, the announcement related to the protest has already been done in advance to caution the railways and the government,” added Samra.Harpreet Singh, district secretary, Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Union, said the union members from across the state were expected to participate in the agitation. Several groups of farmers had also arrived here from the Singhu and Tikri borders to double the strength of the agitation.Meanwhile, as around two dozens of trains are scheduled to have been cancelled, short-terminated and diverted. The Ferozpur Division on Sunday released an order confirming enough security arrangements at the railway stations and tracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-observe-rail-roko-for-six-hours-in-district-today-326123
18-10-2021||---||Nawanshahr-based philanthropist comes to the rescue of special kids||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, October 17Coming to the rescue of 31 children studying at S Tara Singh Kahma Red Cross Special School, Nawanshahr-based philanthropist and social activist Barjinder Singh Hussainpur on Friday announced to bear the whole expenditure of the school from now onwards.The school was in a complete financial crisis as the staff here had not been paid salaries for almost a year. The school was on the verge of closure which could have badly affected the prospects of 31 special children studying here.The authorities approached Hussainpur, who had been engaged in various social works. He offered a mini-bus to school for ferrying all children from home to the school, besides committing to provide full expenses of the school in future.Son of SGPC member Mahinder S Hussainpur, he announced that he would ensure that counsellors and psychologists also visit the school on a regular basis. “We are also planning to start vocational courses for the children to help them develop skills to set up some avenues,” he said, adding that he was feeling fortunate to have come to the children’s rescue.Hailing from Hussainpur village, just 7 km from the town, the activist said he had been running a school in his village, which was providing all amenities to the students, who were being charged minimal fee. He has also been engaged in plantation drives and got over 25,000 trees planted in various villages of Nawanshahr. He has also been organising sports events in the town.Laxmi Devi, principal of the school, said, “Hussainpur is no less than a God-send saviour for all of us. The Almighty perhaps has sent him to not just bail out the school from the financial crisis but also save the future of the 31 special kids studying with us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-based-philanthropist-comes-to-the-rescue-of-special-kids-326124
18-10-2021||---||J&K killings rubbing salt into Kashmiri Pandits’ wounds||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17A recent spurt in killings of civilians in Jammu & Kashmir has rubbed salt into the wounds of Kashmiri Pandits.Sunita Kak (52), a city-based Kashmiri Pandit, whose, uncle was assassinated by militants in 1990, said, “A day after two teachers were shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar, we could not sleep for days. My nephew had gone to Kashmir for some important work on October 8. The day the innocent teachers, including a woman were killed, he left from Jammu. Until he returned safely, we started experiencing flashbacks of horrifying tragedies of 1990. The entire family was restless.”In a trembling voice, Sunita said frequent attacks on minority communities in Kashmir, has triggered a sense of fear among them.“Its disheartening that no political leader raised their voice against the killing of two teachers, vendors, a chemist and others. We do not want our community to suffer anymore. After establishing communication with locals in Srinagar, we were told that the attacks have started due to resettlement initiated by Kashmiri Pandits. The government also started allocating land to migrated people, which provoked militant attacks,” she said.Rajinder Kaul (62), who was only 25, when he escaped Kashmir in 1990 said to keep the existence of Kashmiri Pandits alive, we want the government to provide safe zones to our community. “Our younger generation is working at various government posts in J&K. The government must ensure their safety. After the recent attacks, they are living under constant threat and psychological trauma,” said Kaul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jk-killings-rubbing-salt-into-kashmiri-pandits-wounds-326125
18-10-2021||---||CM Channi meets MLAs, interacts with their families||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 17During his visit to Hoshiarpur on Sunday, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi met MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal at his residence where he had the blessings of the MLA’s parents.Speaking on the occasion, Charanjit Singh Channi said the Punjab Government would leave no stone unturned for the welfare of all sections of society. He said the state was working on various welfare programmes to be implemented shortly.While thanking Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the MLA said the ‘Mera Ghar, Mere Naam’ scheme would help people give property rights to dwellers of houses within the ‘lal dora’.The Chief Minister also went to the residences of MLAs Arun Dogra and Pawan Kumar Adia, where he met the families of both the MLAs and interacted with them. At Pawan Kumar Adia’s residence, the Chief Minister handed over sports kits to the youth club of Bhikhowal village.Prominent among those present during his visits included Forests and Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian, MLA Mukerian Indu Bala, Mayor Surinder Kumar, District Congress Committee president Dr Kuldeep Nanda, Member, NRI Commission, Punjab, Daljit Singh Sahota and market committee chairman Rajesh Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-channi-meets-mlas-interacts-with-their-families-326126
18-10-2021||---||1,200 lecturers to be recruited by end of next month: Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, October 17Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh today said the Education Department would recruit 1,200 lecturers by the end of November this year as process was underway on fast-track mode.Addressing a gathering during an event to distribute cheques to landless farmers under debt waiver scheme, the minister said both Education and Sports Departments were working in a synchronised manner for the overall development of children. He said the department was going to launch a mammoth drive to distribute sports kits among all 3.5 lakh school going children.Speaking on the power purchase agreements made by previous SAD-BJP government, the minister said the government was working hard to reduce power tariff in the state.He added that the government was in process to recruit more physical education teachers in schools. The minister also announced government schools in Kukkar Pind and Pholriwal villages as a proposal in this regard is being put up before the next Cabinet meeting adding that a hockey and football academy would also be set up at Pholriwal. He said a model sports park worth Rs 65 lakh was under construction in Dhina village which would further accelerate sports activities in rural areas.Meanwhile, the minister distributed cheques worth Rs 3.59 crore to landless farmers and labourers giving relief to as many as 1,466 beneficiaries belonging to seven cooperative societies. The minister added that debt waiver of Rs 6.75 crore would benefit over 3,177 beneficiaries in the Jalandhar Cantt constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-200-lecturers-to-be-recruited-by-end-of-next-month-pargat-singh-326127
18-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||They are leading by example in managing stubble||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Many leaders of farmers’ unions are leading by example and setting a precedent in environment conservation by choosing not to burn paddy stubble. They are doing this despite the clear stance by farmers unions to back all farmers who cannot afford stubble management (and hence choose to burn paddy stubble).Jaswinder Singh is the circle president of the Kirti Kisan Union in Kapurthala district. Hailing from Mangupur village in Kapurthala, he has not set fire to stubble for the past six to seven years. His passion for a clean environment has exhorted his neighbours and union members to follow suit.Paramjit Singh, state leader of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Vadda), has not burnt paddy stubble for the past 10 to 15 years. It has now become a trend in this village (Baupur) where many have followed suit.While there are escalating diesel and equipment costs with paddy management, these union leaders have been following the practice not to burn stubble for years to conserve the environment.At Baupur village, which is called the little Sri Lanka (due to being one of the 16 island villages which have rivers on both their sides), a majority of the farmers don’t burn paddy stubble. The trend began with Paramjit Singh, a union leader and progressive farmer, who hasn’t set fire to his fields for the past 15 years.His brother is sarpanch of the same village. Their bountiful produce and healthy crop has caused many others to follow suit over the years.Ten years ago, when his wife was pregnant, Paramjit and his wife had a close shave in a field which was on fire. That incident proved a turning point.Ten years ago, my wife and I were caught in a field on fire. Thankfully we were able to escape on a bike. Our son Pritpal is now 10 years old. We call him a miracle child. Both of us took a decision that day that we would not set fire to our fields. I grow paddy on some of my land and on a lot of it we grow maize and vegetables. Every harvest, that scary vision of fire reminds me of the dangers of stubble burning. We have the river on both sides. But we don’t want to put pressure on the state’s water table. I run a Mulcher and plough all my crops. The impact is such that some farmers are now ashamed to set theirs on fire as they see their neighbour, who manage stubble, are getting a good crop yield. The excellent results have caused many to stop setting fire to their fields.”Paramjit’s decision has influenced not just his village but also many union members scattered across the district. Jaswinder Singh from Mangupur also leads by example.Jaswinder says, “I haven’t set fire to fields in the past seven years. I have run mulcher and ploughed my paddy fields. I will now sow a potato crop. I will be ready with my potato sowing before those who burn stubble. It is a myth that stubble management is more time consuming. The fad is yet to catch up in the village. A few people have followed but a majority still burn stubble. But in my union many have been impacted by my decisions and I also share with them the better results. Everyone knows the environment is my first priority. Despite marginal farmers’ problems, stubble burning has reduced much this year.”Both farmers agree that poor farmers cannot afford to manage stubble with escalating diesel costs. “There should be a subsidy of about Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 for poor farmers and then they can happily manage stubble. Diesel costs are not affordable for many,” Jaswinder added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/they-are-leading-by-example-in-managing-stubble-326128
18-10-2021||Leaders must refrain from giving freebies||Open House:  Should sops or good governance be a priority for political parties to seek votes?||Freebies and sops upset the economy. In order to woo voters, ruling party announce such offers to retain power and the Opposition to grab power. Due to free electricity to the agriculture sector and closures of thermal power plants, Punjab is facing acute electricity shortage with long power cuts. AAP had announced 300 units of free electricity to every household. In response, SAD-BSP alliance also announced 400 free units to every household, going ahead the CM announced to waive power bills of those having electricity connection of up to 2 kW. If it goes on like this, how will the PSPCL carry out maintenance work, fault repair, pay salaries and pensions to its employees? The announcements of freebies and sops can brighten the prospects of political parties but at the same time upsets the economy of the state. It is now up to the Election Commission of India to take a serious note of these practices. Political parties and their leaders are not aware of the current financial conditions of the state while making such announcements. All this is done by taking overdrafts and loans from various institutions to run the government. It will certainly create turmoil in the economy, rise in prices of essential commodities. The middle class is always the biggest sufferer of inflation and if such practices continue in future, the day is not far when the value of rupee will decline to its lowest level. The political parties and leaders should refrain from announcing freebies and sops in the interest of the economy. They should give priority to good governance rather than sops. People should vote for leaders, who have kept their poll promises.Rajat Kumar MohindruReal issues remain buried under dustTo strengthen the roots of democracy, good governance is the most essential factor. It helps in establishing harmonious relations while setting up a clear road map in resurgence of a vibrant society. Thus, in view of its vitality in public order, fair governance needs to be accorded top priority during elections, but unfortunately it is not so. We have to consequently pay heavily for casual approach, momentary temptation of money, liquor or a few sops. Therefore, the electorates ought to carefully evaluate the capability of candidates and ideology of political parties before exercising voting right to elect their representatives. As the parties now gear up for next Assembly elections, the ruling as well as the Opposition have started alluring the electorate with freebies. Assuring free power, healthcare and a flurry of sops like increase in wages, pensions and other pecuniary benefits are being announced to influence voters while the real issues remain buried under dust. It is worrisome that instead of debating seriously on the regional and nationals concerns, people are misled by false promises and the talk on prudent governance is unusually at the lowest ebb. Sectoral permutations and combinations of voters on the basis of caste, creed etc. rather get prominence to polarise them for political mileage. Regardless of the fact that it is extremely dangerous to create these fault lines for petty electoral gains above national interests, yet the entire focus is to win elections by hook or crook and the intent to improve the plight of common man remains a mere rhetoric. Indeed, it is the solemn responsibility of all political parties and the ECI to ensure that the dispensation of good governance does not loose centre stage while campaigning for seeking people’s franchise. Obviously, an effective and prudent administration can boost public morale, provide justice and warranty sustainable progress, peace and prosperity in society.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathLatest malediction to list of political evilsThe trend of announcing freebies by almost all political parties before the elections has added latest malediction to the long list of political evils our society is badly inflicted with. The sole purpose of this practice is to win elections through influencing the voters. This amounts to bribing the voters at the cost of public money for narrow political interests. The voters are advised to abstain from favouring such political parties instead they should demand free, universal education and affordable technical education to all eligible persons. Instead of promising free electricity, the emphasis should be on developing power infrastructure to ensure affordable round-the-clock power supply. Large scale job opportunities need to be generated so that every unemployed eligible person get the job to maintain minimum standards of honourable living without expecting any freebies or subsidies in any form. Ifthe farm sector is developed into an economically-viable business, the need of free power and subsidising other farming inputs will become redundant. As the General Elections are round the corner, it is high time for voters to remain vigilant and fully prepped to shun every kind of freebies to be offered by the political parties for larger interests of the state.JAGDISH CHANDERThis has corrupted sanctity of electionsIdeally, democracy thrives on active participation of the people in the electoral process to choose a government for themselves. But since Independence, the people-government interaction has been gradually waning due to constant decline in good governance. Instead of improving their functioning to remove the prevailing trust deficit, political parties hide their failure to deliver development and vie with one another in offering freebies to various sections of society in the garb of welfare schemes to garner votes. It has become a regular obligatory exercise in election campaigns. While awakened citizens wish to live a decent, dignified life in a developing country, a large majority of the gullible poor, uneducated and unemployed fall an easy prey to the trap. They voluntarily compromise their right to make a rational choice of candidates. This political gimmick has vitiated the sanctity of elections. It puts an extra burden on the state exchequer, entails a huge wastage of public resources and clears the way for criminals to enter the state assemblies and Parliament only to adversely impact the democratic functioning of the governments. At present, India is faced with multiple problems such as burgeoning population, rampant corruption, food and energy insecurity, scarcity portable water, deteriorating law and order situation, terrorism and threat to territorial integrity and sovereignty. It is time to make the country self-sufficient and economically and militarily stronger to play a vital role on the international stage. Instead of being engaged in short-term measures to grab power, parties should improve governance and focus on policies and programmes to attain higher Human Development Index (HDI).DS KangParties, voters are equally responsibleA multi-party popular democracy depends on public participation in the choice of a government that looks after the interests of people. Unfortunately, India’s mainstream political parties that head the governments at the Centre and in the states have lost their credibility over the years. As people lack faith in the current political system, they do not exercise their franchise at the time of elections which they deem are often rigged. In the absence of good governance characterised by transparency, responsibility and accountability, parties lack vision and usually make liberal offers of sops/freebies such as free water, electricity and ration, waivers of pending arrears and bank loans, free cycles, laptops, scholarships and free coaching for entrance tests for students from lower income groups, midday meals in schools, etc. to bribe voters for winning elections. This is a corrupt practice that goes on unabated despite the EC’s model code of conduct and the SC ruling against it. Parties and the people are equally blameworthy for it. The culture of distributing numerous freebies from the state exchequer involves moral, ethical, financial, legal and administrative issues. It poses a potent challenge to Indian democracy because it gives too many rights to the illiterate people and compromises the integrity of free and fair elections as provided in the constitution. Also, it inculcates in them the habit of indolence and dependence, affects their work efficiency and kills the spirit of competition. Parties in power should stop fooling people with populist schemes to gratify their ulterior motives and sincerely endeavour to usher in true empowerment of all citizens. It is time to choose visionary, dedicated, hardworking and conscientious leaders for guiding the destiny of the nation.Tajpreet S KangA huge burden on state exchequerFreebies, sops are always a burden on the state exchequer. To implement the freebies loans are taken for from World Bank, NABARD and other financial institutions which are to be repaid with interest. Parties should seek votes on the basis of good governance and past performance. Increase in pension of old women is appreciable but they face great difficulty in availing the service and visiting the bank. A new mechanism is needed so that they can get pension directly on doorstep. Recently, the state government had taken decisive decision of facilities to the women for free bus travel but this step has been appreciated as the old buses needs repair and introduction of new buses in the fleet but how can be it possible without income. As the Punjab Assembly elections are due in February 2022, it is expected that the political parties will announce freebies and sops to woo voters to seek their votes but how will the next government run its state exchequer is really a serious issue. It will be interesting to see that after implementation of new freebies and sops where will the economy stand.Simmi MohindruCitizens should ask for good governanceInstead of providing sincere, efficient and hard working governance, the whole concept of election is now confined to announcements of freebies to voters. Politicians do provide freebies from the taxpayer’s money and get a bigger cut for themselves in form of many perks. In addition to numerous facilities our representatives do get pension after retirement for the services they render as MP, MLA or MLC. Strangely ex-MP get pension even if he is getting pension as MLA or MLC. Further their pension amount depends upon the number of terms they served in state legislature or Parliament. So they do announce freebie for the voters openly but do get many benefits for themselves. To have enhanced pension for number of terms or representing in different houses also fall in the category of freebie. But voters can’t oppose it because they are also attracted to these benefits of freebie. So, instead of asking for freebies, we as responsible citizens should ask for good governance. People must cast vote for an honest leader and not for those, who lures them with sops and freebies.Harsh JoharFreebies, good administration can co-exist QUESTIONEvery year, we pledge to celebrate cracker-free Diwali, but it somehow vanishes into thin air. What steps the district administration must take to make eco-friendly Diwali a success? Do you think it is the sole responsibility of the administration only to curb pollution?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 21)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-should-sops-or-good-governance-be-a-priority-for-political-parties-to-seek-votes-326129
18-10-2021||---||Exam for stamp vendors’ licences on October 31||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori appealed to aspiring candidates to apply for stamp vendors’ licences till October 25.He said licences would be issued to eligible candidates following a competitive exam conducted by Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala.The Deputy Commissioner said the administration has invited applications from interested persons for issuing 157 licences of stamp vendors (Ashtam Farosh).He said the licences would be given in Jalandhar-1, Jalandhar-2, Nakodar, Phillaur and Shahkot subdivisions.He said a written exam would be held on October 31 and aspirants can apply on http://www.af.ptuexam.com/ for the stamp vendors’ licences between October 11 and 25.Thori said 300 aspirants have registered so far. He said the written exam would be followed by an interview and added that aspirants should be residents of Jalandhar district.Notably, a committee headed by ADC (General) would supervise the entire recruitment process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/exam-for-stamp-vendors-licences-on-october-31-326130
18-10-2021||---||Beds added to cope with anticipated 3rd wave||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17With anticipated third Covid-19 wave to hit during winter, preparations are afoot to add more beds and provide better medical facilities to cope with emergency. The administration has added 14 beds to level 3 and 100 beds to level 2 Covid care facilities in Jalandhar.October has witnessed a marginal increase in Covid-19 cases. While much fewer deaths have been being reported, the daily Covid case count has picked up as compared to September. As many as 37 positive cases have been been reported till October 17 this month.Moreover, the community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs), would be equipped with more beds.The administration has been working to have adequate oxygen supply ahead of another wave. Private hospitals have also set up PSA oxygen plants.Notably, ahead of Diwali, markets have been witnessing an unprecedented rush of people. District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta said, “There has been a very marginal increase in positive cases so far. At present, there is no prediction of third wave. However, bed count at level 3 facilities at the Civil Hospital, has been increased from 56 to 70. There is also going to be an addition of 100 beds at level 2 facilities. Rural PHCs and CHCs are being equipped with six beds and urban CHCs are also being equipped with 15 to 20 beds.”The health authorities said there has also been an increase in beds equipped with oxygen supply. The tally has reached 63,356 till October 17. More than two cases per day have been reported on an average in October.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beds-added-to-cope-with-anticipated-3rd-wave-326131
18-10-2021||---||1 case, no death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17One fresh Covid case was reported from the district on Sunday, taking the total district tally to 63,356 cases. In Jalandhar, with no new Covid death, the deceased tally remained at 1,495. As many as 61,838 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 23. Of the 17,06,653 samples collected in the district so far, 15,72,313 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 297 tests are yet awaited. There are 12 people in home isolation in the district currently.3 cases in KapurthalaThree cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala today, taking the Covid tally to 17,846. One death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today. The three Covid positive people include a 62-year-old man from Begowal, a 51-year-old man from Khajurla and a 60-year-old woman from Phagwara. The deceased was under treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar.1 new case in HoshiarpurOne new Covid case was reported from the district today, taking the Covid tally to 30,801 in the district. No death from Covid was reported in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-case-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-326132
18-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Expedite paddy lifting: Secretary||In Kapurthala, 33% paddy procuredJalandhar: As many as 33% of paddy had been procured in Kapurthala district till October 16, out of an estimated target of 8 lakh metric tonnes (MT) across the district. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the procurement work in all permanent 42 and 21 temporary mandis in Kapurthala was going on a war footing. She said the probable target of procurement in the district was 8 lakh metric tonnes out of which 2,68,281 metric tonnes had been procured till October 16. TNS4 mobile phones seized from jailHoshiarpur: The Hoshiarpur Central Jail authorities recovered four mobile phones from different barracks. On the complaint of the jail officials, the police have booked three persons. The jail’s assistant superintendent Sarabjit Singh said a mobile phone was recovered from an envelope lying near a bathroom of barrack number 14 and 15 on Friday. Apart from this, one cell phone (each) was recovered from undertrial Sandeep Singh, Rakesh Kumar alias Gaurav and Satnam Singh alias Satta, from Barrack No 15 and 16, respectively. OCTwo arrested with stolen bikeHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have recovered a stolen bike from the possession of two persons at a naka. According to the police, the accused have been identified as Satnam Singh alias Satta, a resident of Tapriyan, and Nirjan Singh alias Nanjo, a resident of Sadarpur. Police said the accused were going to purchase intoxicants on the stolen bike when they were apprehended. OCCountry-made pistol seizedHoshiarpur: Acting on a tip-off, the Dasuya police raided a house of Abhishek Singh Rana alias Shaktiman, a resident of Pasi Kandi village, on Saturday. The raiding party recovered a country-made pistol hidden under a sofa. Police said a case has been registered under the Arms Act against Shaktiman. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expedite-paddy-lifting-secretary-326133
